AGREEMENT
Between
DOMTAR INC.
FOREST RESOURCES
ESPANOLA
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
LOCAL 2693, IWA Canada (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
i SEPTEMBER 1,1998 TO AUGUST 31,2001
00035 (05)
ARTICLE
INDEX
Adjustment of Grievance...........
Bereavement Pay....................
Board and Lodging.................
Bulletin Boards...................
Commuters.........................
Cookery Schedule..................
Working - Living Conditions.......
Dental Care Plan..................
Educational Leave.................
Holidays with Pay.................
Hourly Rates......................
Job Description
Mechanics........................
Welders..........................
Jury Duty.........................
Life Insurance....................
Long Term Disability.............
Medical, Surgical, Drag and
Hospital Care Plans..............
Metric Rates.....................
No Strike-No Lockout.............
Pension Plan.....................
Period...........................
Scaling..........................
Silvicultural Agreement..........
Seniority........................
Trade Apprentice Program.........
Travel Allowance.................
Union Membership.................
Vacation with Pay................
Vision Care Plan.................
Walking Distance and Riding Time
Weekly Indemnity.................
Working-Living Conditions........
J
11
,19
,13
.10
.20
,22
...7
IS
15
.16
.14
.9
12
...5
...6
.21
.16
TO
8
28
29
26
38
(X) 41 II 29 31
6
(A) 32
43
45
28
27
28,93 to 96
26
36 & 37 II 47
38
II to 54 23 42
(L) 41
3
30
(F) 38 27,28-86 io 92 II
Addendum:
To The Agreement Silvicultural Work
INDEX
PAGE
51,52,53,54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Silviculture -Hours of Work...................
Air Transportation............................
Camp Cookeries Weekends.......................
Climatic Controls.............................
Disability Plan...............................
Disability Plan C.P.P.........................
Early Start -Fire Season......................
Holidays with Pay.............................
Hours of Work.................................
Layoffs and Recalls...........................
Seniority on Layoff...........................
Major Medical.................................
Piecework-Tree Length.........................
Addendum Piecework-Crew Size..................
Posting Work Schedule.........................
Privately Owned Equipment.....................
Recognition-Jurisdiction......................
Recognition - Jurisdiction (Volume)...........
Third Party Operator..........................
Recognition-Jurisdiction (Allocated Fibre) ... .
Truck and Bus Drivers’ Licence................
Washing Facilities Cookery Personnel ........ ....
Amendment to Article VI (Vacation Pay).......
camp costs ..................................
Inter Camp Transfers.........................
Training ....................................
Cookery Personnel................. ..........
Mobile Camp-Camp 605 -Camp Costs.............
Restricted Operations........................
Ontario Woodworkers Disability Benefit Plan. Long Term Disability Benefit Plan............
55
56
57
58
59
60 61 62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70	& 71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80 81 82
83 & 84
85
86	to 92 93 to 96
ARTICLE 1- PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect 10 hours, wages, working conditions, and living conditions as specified in Article X of the Agreement and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement moreover, seeks 10 provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties heretoand of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively forthe advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE H- PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1.1998 to August 31. 2001 inclusive, and horn year to year thereafter unless either party desire to change or terminate the Agreement in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior toSepiemberlsUof the particular yearthat such is its desire Eilherparty openingtheAgreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in wiring as to the changes desired
All other provisions of this Collective Agreement taking effect on September 1,1998, ill remain effective up to and including August 31,2001.
ARTICLE III ■ RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a). The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in Woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company. For purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement including those who are employed on job classifications
which may be established and become part of the attached wage schedule during the term of this Agreement.
3.01	(b). The employees of Contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees ofContraciors andfortheConrtaclOTSwho are engagedioperformoccasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such acontractor is bound by an Agreement, witha Union or Unionsaffiliatedwiih acentrallabour body,covering suchwork.
-1-
ARTICLE HI - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION - Continued
3.01	(c). The Company arid the Union agree that an operator who enters into a Third Party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the six negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.01	(d). This section is subject to the provision of Letter of Understanding Recognition. Jurisdiction.
3.02	Supervisory personnel which includes contractors whose employees are considered lo k employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and incases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or dangerto property.
3.03	ll is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdiciionaidispuieihaimay arisebetuveiuhell nion and any other UnionQuestionsof jurisdiction shallconform to the regulations covering suchmatters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLED-RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto, and forms pan of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure io reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the grievanceProcedure.
4.03	When changer are io be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least 30 days advance notice in wiling.
Diringthe 30 day period priorto the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union, and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will k based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the wage
schedule.
Followingtheimplementationof such changer, negotiations forrates coveringthe new job classiftcaiionsresuliingfrom suchchanges shallcommencewithoutdelay.
-2-
ARTICLE IV • RATESANDCLASS1FICAT10NS. Continued
Alter agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached wage schedule.
In the event that the parties do not reachagreementontheratesforthenewclassificationswithinJO days of the effective date of the change or alterations the matter may be referred to Stage III of the grievanceprocedurc. The 30-day period maybe extended bymutual consent oflhe parties.
New rales when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new
classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached wage schedule, the Company will not change (he method of payment for such job classification from day work 10 piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average eamingsoflheemployeescor.cemed.
ARTICLE V. UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becommgmembers of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitations as hereinafter
provided.
5.02(a). Subject to the provision of the Labour Relations Act and the regulations made thereunder, any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employ menl, maintain such membership in good standinglhroughoutthetermof this Agreement. Inlhe
event of the Union intending 10 suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02	(b). The Compaq shall, after complying with Article XII Seniority, advise the Union from time to lime of the Company's labour requirements. When hiring additional employees the Company will give preference to Union members who apply and who are capable of doing wok required of them. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week,
5.02	(c). New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached lo do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall, upon hiring, advise all new employees by letter io report io the Union Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall k cause for immediate termination of employment.
5.03	An individual employee, who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, the Company agrees that it will deduct Union initiation fees, assessment and/or
-3-
ARTICLE V UWONMEMBERSHIP-Continued
monthly membership dees from monies dm him. The deduction authorization shall be twfemd from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5 C4 Remittance of all deductions shall be sent to the Union; said remittances to be accompaniedbyitemizedlistsinalphabeticalorder, in duplicate.of nameswilhChrisliannamesas payrolled, stated date of birth, and amount by camps. The Company sill endeavour 10 deliver these lists as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the following month.
Eachempioyee'sll'tslip T-l shallshowthe amount ofttniondues deducted in the
calendar year
5.05	Representativescarryingproptr credentials shallhavelherightto visit alloperationsin connection with Union business and shall report to camp supervisor or clerk on arrival at Camp. Credentials carried by the Union Representatives shall consist of a certificate of authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Union; and aid representatives to to provided board and lodging if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.06	We Urrion shall furnish the Company with a list of U nion Officers and Representatives and shall amend these lists as changer occur. The Company ill furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, ii required, at the end of eachmonfh.’nteamendedlistwillshowthe effective daleof
thechanges. Failure 10 advise the Union of such changer will Ml in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI- VACATION WITH PAY
6.01(a). Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of termination of employment, or at the employee's option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken, it time vacation with pay credits are paid, amounts and income tax deductions will be set out separately on the pay stub.
SkLetter of Understanding. Vacation Pay
6 01 lb). Each! ii increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee 10 one (I) week of time off.
An employee who has worked continuously for one (1) year, must take his full entitlement io lime off. at a time or limes satisfactory to himself and his supervisor.
-a-
ARTICLE VI. VACATION WITH PAY. Continued
An employee has the right to lake his full entitlement to time off, whether or not he has worked continuously for one (I) year at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his supervisor.
Effective date of ratification, employees will receive an additional 520,0(1 per week for each week of regular radon taken, excluding supplemental vacation.
Effective September 1,1999, increase the $20.00 per week to 540.00 per week.
Effective September 1,2000, increase the 540.00per week to $60.00 perweek.
6,02	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
(a,) 4% of gross earnings lor employees who have worked less than 500 days.
(b.) 6% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more
but less than 2,000 days.
(c.) 8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 2,000 daysor more but less than 4,000 days.
(d.) 10% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5,400 days.
(e.)l2% of gross earnings for employees whohaveworkedmorethan5,400days (f.) Supplementary Vacation with Pay
Employees who have wotked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following addiional vacation in thecalendar year in which they attain:
Age 601 Week (2 % of gross earnings)
Age 61 • 2 Weeks (4 % of gross earnings)
Age 62 - J Weeks (6 % of gross earnings)
Age 61 • 4Weeks( 8%of gtosseamings)
Age 64 ■ 5 Weeks (10 % of gross earnings)
-5-
ARTICLE VI ■ VACATION WITH PAY - Conlinued
li is agreed that employees with vacation entitlement will be encouraged to utilize a sche duled vacation periodshutdovvn as part oftheir vacation time entitlement.
6.03	Days worked lot purposes of this Article shall mean ail days worked, plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lostasarestillof sickness orinjuiy certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor, plus the total number of days on Union busintss, off-the-jobtraining, vacation, holidays ssithpay, jury duty and bereavementleave in any calendar year. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of service for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
ARTICLE MI • HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01 Employeeswho qualify underSeclionl2.02 shall be paidwithouttheperformanceof work forthe following holidays: New Years Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
Whenany of the aboveholidaysfalls on Saturday.it shallbe observedonthe preceding Friday and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employeesuhohaveaccumulated one hundred andlwenty (120)days seniority illbe granted two (2) floating holidays per year Such holidays still be taken at a time satisfactory io he employee and his supervisor.
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in leu of such holidays.
The holidays. Dominion Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on any such other day as may be mutually agreed to by the parties to this agreement.
On April 284 of each year, the company flag shallbe flowat half-mast in recognition of thoseworkersfaially injured.
7.02	In the case of Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day,Remembrance Dayholidays.qualified employeesto be eligible for holidaypay.mustworktheir last svork day or shift preceding the holiday and be in camp ready for stork at the start of their first stork day or shift following the holiday.
-6-
ARTICLE VK. HOLIDAYS WITH PAY - continued
1.03	In the case of Labour Day, Christmas, Boxing Day and New Years Day, there will be a schedule dshuidownexcl u d i n gessentiakervices.
It is agreed that dares will be arranged by the parties. Either party may initiate discussions at least two (2) weeks prior to the holiday. See Letter of Understanding. Christmas Shutdown.
Qualified employees to be eligible for holiday paymust work theirlast day or shift preceding the holiday shutdown and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shiftfollowing the holiday shutdown.
7.04	Notwithstanding the preceding it is further agreed that qualified employees shall receive pay for the holidays.
(a) .	Where they have been laid off for lack of work in the thirty' (30) days
immediately preceding the holiday.
(b) .	Where an employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 is obliged to cease
work due to sickness or accident certified by alicensed practitioner during the thirty (10) day period immediately prior to the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 30 day period.
(c) .	Were a holiday or holidays occur during their absence from work on an
authorized vacation provided they letumlo work onlime.
The employee shall be entitled io additional time oft for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
(d) .	Mere for reasons beyond an employee’s control he has no: been able to
report to work on time he shall receive pay for the holidays.
(e)	See Letter of Understanding re: early departure.
(f) .	Where an employee qualifies under Section 12.02 and is recalled and works
any time during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday,
7.05	In the special case of Christmas, Boxing Day or New Years holiday, a qualified employee who has requested and who has been granted a leave of absence nor -7-
ARTICLE Vlf • HOLIDAYS WITH PAY - continued
morethan ten (10) days More the holiday and who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready
to work on he. will be paid forthe holidays. Mere an employee is prevented
by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
Wherein accordance with7.03the scheduled Christmas, Boxing Day, New Year’s shutdown includes the three (3) holidays, the employee who returns to work from leave ofabsenceand is ready for work on lime will be e ligible for pay for the three (3) holidays.
Where an employee isprevented bycircumstances beyond hiscontrol from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.06(a). If qualified, a day worker shall be paid a days pay at his or her regular rare, and a piecewoiker a day’s pay at the Feller Limber rate, for each holiday.
7.06(b). If qualified, a day workerw'noisrequestedloworkon any holiday shallbe paidatthe rate of time and one-half his regular rale; double lime for all hours worked after hating worked eight (8) hours on the holiday. In addition he shall receive one day's pay at such regularraleinlieu of the holiday.
7.06	(c), Pieceworkers shall not work on holidays
ARTICLE Mil ■ ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the patties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to hisforeman an opportunity toadjusthis complaint.
8.02	(a). The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act as spokesman for that committee. In the absence of the Steward the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as io the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in wiling the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
802(b). n is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towardtheStewards orL’nionGrievanceCommitteemenoroiherUnionmembers.
-8-
ARTICLE VIII’ ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES - continued
8.02(c). To be eligible for election as Union Steward an employee must have established seniority under Section 12.02 of Article XII.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined lo be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman in accordance with this procedure, in writing will ix disposed of by the foreman, in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then.
STAGE 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or the Union Representative with the District Logging Superintendent within ninety-six (96) hours in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The District Logging Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 Within ten (10) days the matter shall be taken up by officers of the Union and/or their representatives with the Manager - Logging Operations of the Company or his representative. The one exception to this procedure shall be in the special case provided under Section 8.08 of this Article. In this case the matter may be taken up by the employee himself, or with the knowledge and consent of the employee, by Union representatives by presenting the case to the Manager. Logging Operations or his representative in writing.
In either Ot the above cases the Manager Logging Operations or his representative shall make a reply in writing within sew (7) days. Fading a satisfactory adjustment, then.
STAGE 4 . The matter shall be referred within fifteen (15) calendar days to the General Manager . Forestry Division or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union President or his representative. Either party may request the presence of the President of the Northern Ontario District Council of I. W. A. Canada, or his representative Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days then, prior to proceeding to Arbilralion, either parry may request the use of a mutually agreed to Mediator, the cost of whom will be shared equally between the parlies. The Company and the Union will adopt a mechanism to provide an agreed upon list of preselected arbitrators to he used on a rotational basis for all arbitration cases.
-9-
ARTICLE VIII. ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES - continued
STAGE 5. Either party may, within the following fifteen (I 5) days refer the
matter to Arbitration.
8.05	In Arbitration the Company and de Union shall each select one man; these two shall select a third parry who shall act as Chairman Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than tire (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of he failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Ministry of Labour to appoint a third party
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out ofdiscipline or discharge.
8.06	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4,03 and to revise the rates thereof. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.07	Saturdays, Sundays. Statutory and legal holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
8.08	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in wiring by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee’s grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have ken unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.09	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Qoaid selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8.10	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Stage 1 of this grievance procedure.
-10-
ARTICLE VIH ■ ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES - continued
8.11	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the Manager Logging Operations or his representative presenting the matter in wiring to the officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within sewn (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager Forestry Division, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (1 5) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.12	Notwithstanding the above, the time limits established in this Article may be extended if mutually agreed upon by both parties.
ARTICLE TX- NO STRIKE ■ NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING ■ LIVING CONDITIONS
1. GENERAL CONDITIONS
10.01	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.02	It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, and recreation. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.03	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at IcasL two (2) meetings of die Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of Chairman shall alternate between a Company Chairman and a Union Chairman The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate with copies going to the Company office, the Union office and the Camp bulletin board.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as IS necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at the regular or premium rate as may be proper.
10.04	The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will be maintained by his supervisor on a scheduled basis.
11
ARTICLED - WORKING. LIVING CONDITIONS continued
10.05	It is agreed that there shall be properly equipped first aid kits sufficient for normal requirements, located at or near all worksites and in all vehicles regularly used for the transportation of men.
Two (2) employees from each district safety committee will be trained as required under Bill 208.
2.	TRANSPORTATION
10.06	Only factor) built vehicles shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated wailing places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safely of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places.
The Company will provide radio communications on the bus used to transport the employees from the marshalling paint 10 the worksite on tie West Branch commuter operation.
In respect to the Ramsey operation, a Company Supervisor will escort the buses travelling to and from the camp and worksites. In circumstances where this may not be practical, any irregularity from normal bus arrival will be immediately investigated.
HELICOPTERS. AIR TRANSPORTATION
Refer to Letter of Understanding 3. CAMP CONDITIONS
10.07	It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, Including recreational rooms with a T.V. sel wlierc T.V. programmes are receivable and will provide separate drying rooms, wash rooms, inside toilets and showers. A lock up storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
10.08	All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36" in width spaced 38" apart. All mattresses shall be either air foam, plaslifoam or spring filled. In construction of
-12-
3, CAMP CONDITIONS -continued
new camps, the Companyagre^s to construct all living quarters into suitableroomshavingno more than two (2) employees per room,
10.09	The Company agrees that pest control measures will be carried out in the camps and in the camp areas as and when required.
The Company will look into possible remedial measures to alleviate the sandfly problem at all camps. All lunch shack screening will be maintained in good repair and pest control equipment made available.
10.10	All night shift workers shall have separate sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical.
The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.11	All main bunkhouses will be provided with drinking fountains and paper drill&cups.
The Company will install ice machines in the camp at Ramsey and Camp 12,
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employee’s cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps. Air conditioning units willbe installed in cookeries.
10.12	At each operating camp, a separate suitable and heated building shall be provided for the repair and storage of power saws. Said building also to contain sufficient lock-up type lockers for storage, work bench, vise and chain breaker. Compressed air ill be provided in the power saw and repair building. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quartets
4. KITCHENS
10.13	Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
-13-
I KITCHENS. continued
10.14	Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable food stuffs shall be handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all times.
10.15	The Company will continue to supply butter at meals to employees
10.16	Fruit juicer shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers, allowing self service for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall ix supplied at all meals and coffee times in thecookery
10.17	Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangement have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.18	There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon, and in the evening; coffee, c&es and lunch to be provided by de Company and served in the cookery. During work hours coffee breaks shall be on Company lime.
10.19	The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons, on loan and other suitable uniform appaxel at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
5, INSURANCE
10.20	The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees personal belongings end loss by tire or theft of employee owned power saws at full replacement value io a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars($2,500.00) and will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools while on Company property or work sites, It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage io employee owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire wilfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee owed power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
■14-
6.	PAY CONDITIONS
10.21	Company will agree to implement a weekly pay commencing first week in January, 1989. Discussions ill be held with the local union grievance committee to review the procedure we will follow. Pay will be distributed after 4:00 p.m. Thursday.
10.22	Interim advances will lx made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on a Friday payday, payment will be made on Thursday of that week.
10.23	In instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employee’s payroll credit.
10.24	A Tie and Earnings statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings accrued, vacation pay credit and deductions covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp
10.25	Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.26	The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (I) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips will be given to each pieceworker at least 48 hours prior to the wood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information where applicable . butt size and species as outlined on page 37/38, or number of pieces (tree length), riding andtor walking bonus, footage of strip or main road cut, and poor bush bonus.
7.	COMPANY SUPPLIED EQUIPMENT
10.27	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment, as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
10.28	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw tiles in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a
worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (I) safety type gasoline container
-15-
7.	COMPANY SUPPLIED EQUIPMENT ■ continued
3.	One (I) Tire extinguisher (chemical type).
The Company agrees to Stock safety type power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at the invoiced cost to Company.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
8.	SAFETY EQUIPMENT
10.29 The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and personal safely apparel save and except safely pants, safety boots, and safely gloves and mitts.
The Company further agrees to sell lo employees safety pants at twelve dollars ($12.00) below COSt price 10 the Company and safety boots at forty ($40.00) below the cost price to the Company, effective September I, 2000 increase safety boots subsidy to forty-five dollars ($45.00) per pair, maximum two (2) pairs per year, below cost price to the Company and safety gloves and mitts to power saw operators and to persons handling cable, at seven dollars ($7.00) below cost price to the Company.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed lo by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
9. TRANSFERS CAMP TO CAMP
10.30	The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are
transferred from camp to camp at the Company’s request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII Seniority.
Effective dale of ratification the employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intentions to do so and shall be paid 25 cents per km. for using own vehicle.
Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding rate per day for pieceworkers and normal travel lime, outside an employees scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of 8 hours at the regular straight time rate for dayworkers and the above rate for pieceworkers.
Refer to Letter of Understanding. Re: Hours of Work.
-16-
10. MECHANIC FIELD PAY
10.3}	(a). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bush garage shall receive 50£ per
hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate.
(b), Tradesmen and helpers assigned 10 a main camp garage required to perform work of their trade away from a main camp garage will be paid 50ft per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main camp garage.
(c), Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paid 50f! per how in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
11.	COVERALLS
10.32	The Company will supply mechanics, welders, and machinists suitable coveralls and provide for laundering the same, two per week, free of charge.
12.	CLIMATIC CONTROL
10.33	See Letter oflntent attached (re: Climatic Controls).
ARTICLE XI -HOURS OF WORK
I 1.01 (a). The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive or for ten (10) hour shifts Monday to Thursday or Tuesday to Friday.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday (0 Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in day work jobs on the day shift Monday to Friday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift Work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section I 1.05 [a) for such lime worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably Withheld.
11.01 (b). For the purpose of this agreement Sunday, a paid holiday and the “sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
-17-
ARTICLE Xl. HOURS OF WORK -continued
11.02	(a). The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a m. and 5:00 p.m,, mealtime excepted.
11.02	(b). The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of7:0Op.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted.
However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement be scheduled io commence prior to 7:00 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of 11.03 (b).
11.02(c). During the period of May I to September 30. two shift scarification operaiionsmay commence at6:00a.m.
11.03	(a). A night shift differential of fifty-five cents (S.55) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work effective dare of ratification, increases to fifty-six ($.56) per hour
11.03	(b). On other two-shift operations the first shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after, the second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m., and shall cany a shift differential of fifty-five cents (S.55) per hour. Effective date of ratification, increases to fifty-six cents (S.56) per how.
11.03(c). On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours The starring and stopping limes for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows
1st shift 2nd shift 3rd shift
Shift Differential
Starting Time (between the hours of)
7 a.m. - 8 a.m. 3 p.m. 4.p.m. I 1 p.m. 12 a.m.
1st Shift, Nil:	2nd Shift. $.55 per hour
Effective date of ratification 1st Shift. Nil:
2ndShift,$.56 per hour: -18-
Stopping Time (betweenihe hours of)
3 p.m. . 4 p.m. II p.m. 12 a.m. 7 a.m. 8 a.m.
3rd Shift $.65 per hour.
3rd Shift, $.68 per hour.
11,03	(d), The hours of work and the "sixth day” far dayworkers and shift workers shall be posted an Thursday of the previous week. The starting and slopping limes shall remun constant and fixed during the weekly period subjeettothe fallowing: (see Letter of Understanding).
1. An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift scheduleis changed bylhe Company .W^eaan employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half limes his regular rare far the first shift worked tier the change. Men the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2, ‘he Company and the Union agree to extend the starting lime interval from the present one hour to a maximum of two hours. The extended interval will only be used where it is beneficial to the operations and the Company will endeavour to keep the starting time interval to one hour or less
11.03	(e), If an employee, who hascompleted his scheduled workweek is required for work an his "sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted an the preceding Thursday. If he is available far the posted overtime work at the regular starting lie and is unable to commence work far reasons beyond his control, he shall receive 4 hours’ pay at the applicable overtime rate asspecified inSectionll.05(a) provided heremains available farthe four hour period if so requested by the Company.
11.04	(a). A day or shift worker, who is unable ta work the full day or shift for reasons beyond hisconirol, shall be paid farone-halfday if he works less than four (4) hours, and far a full day if he works mare than four (4) hours
A tree length pieceworker who will lose more than one hour work far reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of one (1) how at the feller, limber, tree length skidding rate, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate work if so requested by the Company.
RAINY DAYS. The company agrees that a decision will be made at the work site upon arrival for work an rainy days.
In the care of time lost in excess of one (I) hour for reason of lack of assignment to a cutting area and/or lime required in excess of one (I) how to travel from one assigned cutting area to another, payment shall be made far all hours lost.
-19-
11.04	(b). A day or shift worker who reports for work at his scheduled starting lime and is unable ta commence work due ta reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he remains available far two (2) hours from his scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditionspermit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift an the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section
11.04	(a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift he shell receive four (4) hours pay far such hours. The Company will commence regularworkassoon as conditionspermit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shift, the time and one-half provisions of Section 11.03 (d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts. Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment at’ four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made far the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his seniority' within the camp unit end displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be lid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted ta exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to lake a leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be permitted ta exercise his seniority an his return ta work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established locally.
11.05	(a). Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift end all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, an his designated “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on an employees designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and Sunday.
-20-
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as pan of an employee’s applicable hourly rate,
11.05	(b). Employees in the classifications specified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
(a) . Cook	(d). Cookee
(b) . Baker	(e). Chore boy
(c) , Second Cook	(f). Watchman
For employees in thejobclassifications listed above the hours ofworkper day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1.	The regular work day or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. H owever. the work day or shift of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than 2 parts provided there is a break of at leasteight(8) hours between shiftsworked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2,	Tie worked in excess of outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his “sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
1. An employee in the above listed classifications who is unable io work the Full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-halfday if he is available at the start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day ifhe remains available for the start of the second half of his scheduled shift,
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day or shift for the "sixth day” or Sunday shall be
-21-
posted on the precedhg Thursday. The starting end stoppiig tines shell remsh fixed dnring the weekly period subject to the followhg:
. an employee msy not chsnge shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. Men an employee's shift schedule Is changed by the Company, he til be paid at one and one-half tines his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be pail at his regular straight time rate provided that there h i Ireik if it hist ilglt (8) lure between slifts wirkid.
5.	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, he shall be provided a miiimum of eight (8) hours work and be pail at tine and one-half provided he remans available if so reguested by the Company.
6.	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of fifty-five cents (551) per hour for each second shift worked. Effective date of ratification, increased to fifty-six cents (56ff).
7.	The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
11.06	Walking Distance and/or Riding Time shah not be considered as tine worked. Waking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated ii the Walking Distance and Ridiig Time section of the wage schedule of this agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (I) hour before the start of the day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid time and one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of the day or shift. Mere the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05 (el shal apply after he has completed eight (8) heirs if werk exclieive if the tin wirkid prior te lie eterieg time.
An employee who is called out for work on his “sixth day" (Saturday or Monday] or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (b) from the starting tine of the call out. but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours at the rite if tin aid one-half.
-22-
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.0!	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern
subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promolions. transfers, layoffs and recalls alter layofis.
The present seniority list is frozen as of July 1,1988 and in future date of hire shall be the basis of calculating seniority.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority' while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (ll) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (JO) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12.01 shall apply, and the employee shallbe credited with thirty(30) days ofaccrued seniority.
12.03(a). Subject to the memorandum of understanding seniority will be applied on a company-wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
WhcnlayofFs are required due lothe completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer to a job for which he is qualified, provided that having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he adviser the Company, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are occasioned by the completion of seasonal activities, company-wide seniority ill be applied only when operations continue in other camps for more than (I) week, otherwise the camp will be the unit of application of seniority on seasonal layoffs.
12.03	(b). In transfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rare for the job to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification. For determining the rate of
-23-
pay for pieceworkers transferred 10 day work, the rate specified the Feller-Limber. Tree Length Skidding shall apply, or the rate of the job classification which ever is higher.
Employees accepting a job posting shall remain in that job for a minimum of three (3) months from the date he is qualified unless displaced from the job because of layoff or bumping procedure. An employee may post from a camp to a commuter operation during the three (3) month period.
12.03(c) The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
It is agreed, however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for tilling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs slating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this agreement. Employers accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five(S) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed if additional training is required). Failure of any employee to qualify shah entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and the newly created jobs.
A job duration posting of up to three months may be posted as a temporary vacancy. This pasting may be extended upon the mutual agreement of the parties. Once the project is complete, the employee will return to this previousposilion.
12.03	id). Ajob that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit it shall be filled on a company-wide basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided -24-
However, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of notice of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particular job
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee, The Company agrees that all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of layoff as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent io an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will b-e required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union office by April 30th of each year, an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees cowed by this agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority and the Company seniority in days as specified in Section 12.01, as at March 31st, of the same year. The list will show, in addition, each employee’s occupation and address.
12.07	A list shall be prepared for and be posted in each camp and its contents shall be available to all employees in camps, showing their seniority standing. The list shall be brought up 10 date at the end of each month.
12.08	An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of this article shall retain such seniority for twenty-tour (24) months during layoff. Employees with five (5) years or more of continuous service will retain recall rights for a period of thirty-six (36) months following dale of lay-oil". An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report io work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this article shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails 10 return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lone his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferred lO a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accrue seniority for a period nor exceeding thirty (30) days in any calendar year and will retain the total accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (I I) months from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of this article upon proof of Union membership in good standing. Supervisor)’ personnel who are generally employed on seasonal operations and who have nol acquired seniority, in accordance with this article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit during the oil season, provided that this does not interfere with the application of seniority of any
-25-
employee. Such personnel shall apply for Union membership prior to being placed on the job and maintain their Unionmembership in good standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment in accordance with Section 12.01 of Article XII to meet the Company’s labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company
When jobs are discontinued, due to curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII. If an employee requires training to perform the alternate job effectively, he will be trained by the Company, provided the job he has applied to be trained for, is expected to last for a period of three (3) months or more.
It is understood that this does not apply to seasonal layoff.
12.11	Severance Pay. Effective date of ratification an employee with three (3) or more years of service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one week's pay for each year of completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of forty (JO) hours at the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment.
It is understood that an employee who chooses io receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee’s name will be removed from the seniority list.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs
upon the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of the camp foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV- MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	(a).	Effective first of month following date of ratification, for each employee
who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII the Company agrees to pay the premium for Blue Cross or its equivalent and semi-private hospital care plans. The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Workplace Safety & Insurance Board claim or a short term disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
■26-
If the Company’s contribution exceeds the premiums required for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care places, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending arrangement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required, such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
The Company will continue coverage for the laid-off employee to the end of the month following month of lay-off.
The Company will compensate an employee when a fee is charged by a physician for completion of medical certificate required to support a claim for benefits pursuant to the Weekly or Long Term Disability Plans. Such payment shall be to a maximum amount of $25.00 per certificate and will be initiated upon presentation of a receipt from the attending physician
14:01 (b) Effective September l, 1999, the Company will cover the cost of chiropractic service to maximum of $15.00 per visit io a yearly maximum of $90.00 per familymember.
ARTICLE XV. LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	The Company will provide $50,000 of Life Insurance for each employee while actively employed. Effective first of the month following date of ratification $50,000 will increase to $55,000. The cost to the employee will not exceed .30£ per $1,000 per month. For employees not actively at work on that date the increase in insurance will become effective on the date he returns to active employment.
ARTICLE XVI -WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan The Plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of Weekly earnings forty (40) hours times an employee’s regular rate and pieceworkers forty (40) hours times the feller, limber and tree length skidding hourly rate) up to a maximum of five hundred and forty ($540.00) per week, for an employee who commences weekly indemnity on or after the first of the month following date of ratification. Weekly Indemnity will commence on the first day in case of a noncompensable accident and after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness or on the dare when admitted to a hospital within the first three (3) days of illness and will continue for the period ofdisability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
•27-
Effective the first of the month following ratification, lor all new clains employees actively at work, amend. The Plan to provide maximum weekly benefit to S550.00 per week.
Effective September 1.1999. for el new clains Icreaae maximum tn S560.OO per week
Effective September 1.2000, for all new claime mcreaae maximum to $570.00 per week
16.02	The Company will prnvide a Long Term Dieability Plan The Plan
forms part of the agreement and in attached hereto an Appendix 1i". The premium coat of the Plan will i-x borne by the Company. Remnve maximum benefit.
ARTICLE XVII -BEREA1EMEHT PAT
17.01	When death occure to a member of an employee's immediate famiy,
that in an employee's father, mother, wife, husband, brother, sinter, children, grandparents, mother-in-law, fatherClaw, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and grandchild, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and ehal be paid for eight (8) houre at hie regular straight tine rate [pieceworkers eight (8) times the feller, linber, tree length skidding hnurly rate] lor time loot up to a maxenum of three (3) daye. The intent of this cluee in to allow the employee to attend the hineral without lee of earnings. Pay will be granted for the echeduled work daye loot during this period. In the cane of death of epouee or children the employee wil be granted five (5) daye leave with pay.
Any clains for bereavement pay wil be submitted by the employee io the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It in understood that for purposes of thin Article step relatives wil be considered the same as blood relatives.
ARTICLE Xiflll JURY PITY OR WITNESS
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, or subpoenaed
in a conn of law the Company ehall pay, for each day of ouch eervice, an alowance egual to the difference between eight (8) houre of pay baaed on hie regular straight tine hourly rate [Pieceworkers eight (8) houre pay baaed on the feller, linber, tree length skidding hourly rate] and the payment he received for jury eervice. The employee wil present proof of eervle and of pay received therefore when maklg hi claim for ouch allowance.
-28-
ARTICLE XIX- BOARD AND LODGING
ARTICLE XX-DENTAL CARE PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with participation compulsory
for all employee on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
2.	Plan Design
(a.) Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. Basic Plan and Rider No. 1. Maximum SI,500 per calendar year per person.
(b) Service and benellts as provide in Blue Cross Rider No. 2
(50%).
Effective September i, 1997, provide for 1996 O.D.A. schedule fees.
Effective on the first of the month following ratification, amend the Plan to provide for the application of 1997 O.D.A. schedule of fees
Effective September I, 1999 provide for 1998 O.D.A. schedule fees
Effective September i, 2000 provide for 1999 O.D.A. schedule fees
Company will pay increase premium for this coverage.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
-29-
3 Administration
The Plan will be administered in accnrdance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflectiig the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle ftom among service carriers insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the ife of this agreement federal or provmcial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to elhninate said benefits.
ARTICLE XXI- VISION CARE PLAN
The Company will provide a vision care plan which wll provide for expenses meurred by an amount and/or his covered dependents when prescribed by a physician or optometrist as
follows:
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glass mchidmg contact lenses up to a total payment of one hundred and (went) -five dolars (S125.00) per femiy member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years.
Increase to one hundred and forty dollars ($140.00) per femily member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years.
Effective September 1.2000. the benefit amount will be increased to one hundred and fifty dollars (SI 50.00) per insured femiy member in any two (2) consecutive calendar year period.
-30-
ARTICLE XXII -PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
22:01	Effective date of ratification, one cent $0.01 per regular hours worked for
each employee shall be paid to the Union office in order to pay for educational needs of the employees.
Effective September I. 1999, increase to $0,02 per regular hour. Effective September 1,2000, increase to S0.03 per regular hour.
-31
WAGE SCHEDULE A HOURLY RATES
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Pomi Saw
FeJier Limber T/l. Skklder Feller. Limber, T/L - Non Production Mechanical Skidder Wheeled MechamtaSkidderGrapple Feller Buncher Operator Mechanical Delimber Operalor Truck Driver ■ Rock Truck Driver -T/l TruckDriver -Float Truck Driver T/L Sell Leader Truck Driver Gravel Front End Loader Operators TTSOiscTrencherOperator Bulldozer Operator ’A"
Bo idozer Operator B' Treeteng’.hLoader Backhoe Operator -Rd Construction Car Man
Prentice Operator GradeiOperatcr Bull Cook Cook (20*)
Cook (1-20)
Ccokee Handyman Labourer Watchman Camp Mechanic Lead Mechanic Class “A"
Mechanic Class "A-V Mechanic Class 1"
Mechanic Class "2 Welder Class "A’
Welder Class r2 Welder Class T WelderLead Pj Prod-Cut & Limb Pj Prod ■ FuUree Pvr Prod-Cut A Limb Pr Prod-Cut A Limb F freighter StudentCarp.
Crew Leader - $.35 per hour plus regi
$eot,1. 1998 Sept.
11.000 22 530
22.530
22.530
22.530
22.950
22.950
22	Add 22745 22.673 22.550 22.417 22776
22.530
23	760
23.032
23.462
23.462 22.027 22 704 22776 21.976 23780 23.391 21.548 22.140 21505 21720
26.445 25 663 26.322 24.149
23.033 25.963 23.093 24149
26.445 4 260 3215 3215 3215
15100 15.0CO far daily rale
-32-
11.000
23	093
23.093
23.093
23.093
23.523
23.523 23.030 23.313 23.240
23.523 22.977
23.345
23.093
24	353 23.608 24.049 24 049 22.578 23.271
23.345 22.525 24 375 23.975 22.189 22.694 22.042 22 263 27 106 26612 26.980 24 753 23.660 26.612 23.671 24.763 27.106
4 280 3215
3.215
3.215 15.100 15.000
[.1,2000
11.000
23	786 23786
23.786
23.786
24.229
24.229 23.721
24	013 23.937
24.229 23.656
24.045 23786 25.084
24	316
24.770
24.770 23 255 23.969
24.045 23.201 25.106 24.695 22.855 23.374 22.703 22.931
27.919 27 411 27.789 25.495 24.370 27.411 24.381
25	495
27.919 4 280
3.215
3.215
3.215 15.100 15.000
Hourly Rates - Adjustments-Reflected in wage schedule
An employee who is assigned to train another employee shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty cents (300) per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the feller-limber rate plus thirty cents (300) per hour.
It is agreed that incentives may be applied in conjunction with the above daily rates which pertain to mechanicalopetauons.
A day worker using power saw at Company request will be paid a power
saw rental of -
Effective date of ratification, $11.00 per 8 hour day or shift when felling
and limbing.
Effective date of ratification, $12,00 per 8 hour day or shift bucking at a landing on a skidding operations.
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for when he works less than four (4) hours and a full day’s rental when he works more than four (4) hours.
Wage Schedule
General Wage Increase
Effective	September I, 1998	2,5%
Effective	September 1,1999	2.5%
Effective	September 1, 2000	3.0%
Reforestation Win Schedule
Increase all hourly rates
Effective September I, 1998.	2.5%
Effective September 1.1999	2.5%
Effective	September I. 2000 -	3.0%
B. COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
Effective September 1.1978 a supplement of seventy-three cents ($.73) per hourwillbe paidto pieceworkers.
•33-
C. PIECEWORK RATES-Cutting and Piling
RATES PER SINGLE CORD
100” Rough Spruce & Balsam 100" Peeled Spruce & Balsam 100” Rough Poplar 100" Peeled Poplar 100” Rough Jack Pine
If ihe cutter is required (0 pile two species separately, an additional twelve cents (12£) per cord will be paid on all wood separated. For Strip cutters, a bonus of SI.64 per cord will be paid on each consecutive 660 feet of Strip running under I! cords per acre, and on such portions of strip less than 660 feet in length.
For strip cutters, a bonus of S2.73 per cord will be paid on each consecutive 660 feet of Stnp running under 7 cords per acre, and on such portion of Strips less than 660 feet in length.
PIECEWORK CUT AND SKID TREE LENGTH
40.20 61.87 30.89 45.02
38.20
1.	Cut and Skid Tree Length
Rates: per tree length piece, bun diameter measure as per attached schedule
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
No poor bush bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
Supplement of seventy-three cents (.73i) per hour will be paid in accordance with Article Xll-B.
2.	Measurement
Butt diameter measure 10 be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be clearly marked on each butt by the scaler.
3.	Crew Size
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed 2 employees at any
time
•34-
4, Skidding Distance
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 ft. for a three (3) man crew skidding tree length,
Skidding distance shall not exceed 900 ft, for a two (2) man crew skidding uee length or full tree when skidway placement not adjacent to a road.
Skidding distance shall not exceed 1,200 feet for a two (2) man crew skidding tree length or whole tree io a road.
5,	Sorting Bonus
When at Company request the crew is required to sort wood 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
6,	Walking and Riding Time
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Section F of the Wage Schedule (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
7,	Skidway Preparation
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew. 5% of base earnings will be paid.
-35-
BUTT
1AMETER
CM
12
14
16
13
20
22
24
26
28
20
32
34
35 38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64 66
65
70
72
74
76
76
80
82
SPR & BALSAM SEPT.1/98
0.464
0.704 0 923 1.268 1.596
CUTiSKID
FULL TREE RATES PER TREE METRIC SPR &	SPR.&
BALSAM BALSAM JACKPJNE SEPT.1/99	SEPT.1/00	SEPT.1/98
0.475	0.469	0.356
0.721	0.74 3	0.606
0 946	0 974	0.877
1.300	1.339	1.228
1.636	1.685	1.562
1.963 2.392 2.882 3 394
2012
2.452
2.954
3.479
2.072 2 525 3.043 3.583
1.915
2.304
2.734
3.249
3.835 4161 4 450 5.101 5.752
3.931 4 265 4,561 5229 5.896
4 049
4.393
4.698
5.366
6.073
3.630 3.870 4.057 4 521 5.028
6.504
7.294
3.078
9136
10.373
6 667 7.477 8.280 9.364 10.632
6 667 7.701 8528 9.645 10951
5.540
5.982
6.569
7.117
7.676
11.467
12.428
13451
15.694
17.080
11.754
12.739
13.786
16.086
17.507
12106
13.121
14.201
16.569
18.032
8.238
6.803
9.380
9.943
10.510
18.110
19.122
20.287
21.352
22.335
18.563
19.600
20.794
21.886
22893
19.120 20.188 21.418 22.542 23 580
11.078 11.648 12.215 12 807 13.381
23296
24.271
25247
26.225
27.191
23.876
24.878
25	879
26	881 27.871
24.594
25.624
26.655
27.687
28.707
13.946
13.914
15.111
15.687
16257
28.164
29.299
28.869
30.032
29.735
30.933
16.831
17.447
-36-
JACKPINE JACKPINE SEPT.1/99 SEPT.1/00 0.365	0.376
0.621	0.640
0,898	0.925
1.259	1.296
1.601	1.649
I.	963	2.021
2.362	2.433
2.802	2.886
3.330	3.430
3.720	3.832
3.967	4.086
4 159	4.284
4634	4,773
5.154	5.308
5.678	5.849
6.132	6.316
6.733	6.935
7.295	7.514
7.868	8.104
8.444	8.697
9.028	9.299
9,614	9.902
10 192	10.497
10.773	11.096
II.	355	11.695
11.939	12.297
12.520	12.896
13.127	13.521
13.715	14.127
14.295	14 724
14.262	14690
15.489	15.954
15.079	16.562
16.664	17.164
17252	17.769
17.883	18.420
BUTT SPR. & DIAMETER BALSAM CM. SEPT. 1/98 12	0.617
14	0.938
16	1.228
18	1.639
20	2.131
CUT a SKID
TREELENGTH RATES PER TREE METRIC
SPR. & SPR. &
BALSAM BALSAM	JACKPINE
SEPT.1/99	SEPT.1/00	SEPT.1/99
0.633	0.652	1.606
0.962	0.991	2.763
1.259	1.296	3 990
1.731	1.783	5.592
2.185	2.250	7.102
JACKPINE
1.646
2.832
4089
5.731
7.279
22
24
26
28
2.621
3.191
3.838
4.528
2.686
3.271
3.934
4.641
2.767
3.369
4.052
4.780
8.703
10.493
12.463
14.789
8.921
10.756
12,775
15.159
30
32
34
36
38
5115
5.546
5.933
6.800
7.671
5.242
5.684
6.081
6.970
7.863
5.400
5.855
6.264
7.179
8.099
16522
17.614
18.465
20.584
22.887
16.935
18.054
18926
21.099
23.460
40
42
44
46
48
8.675
9.720
10.774
12.181
13.929
8.892
9.963
11.043
12.485
14.174
9.158
10.262
11.374
12.860
14.600
25.229
27.559
29.912
32.400
34.933
25.860
28.248
30.660
33.210
35.806
50
52
54
56
58
15290
16.572
17.935
20.926
22.775
15.672
16.986
18384
21.450
23.344
16.142
17.496
24.045
37.504
40.107
42.693
45.265
47.848
38.442
41.109
43.761
46.397
49.044
60
62
64
66
68
24.150
25.496
27.052
28.470
29.783
24 754 26.133 27.729 29.182 30.528
25.496
26.917
28.560
30.057
31.443
50.427
53030
55.609
58.315
60.886
51.688
54.355
56.999
59.772
62.408
70
72
74
76
78
31.060
32.360
33.663
34.966
36.265
31.837
33.169
34.505
35.840
37.171
32.792 34 164 35.540 36.915 38 286
63.492
66.110
68.796
71.414
74.012
65.079
67.762
70.516
73.199
75.863
80
82
37.552
39.063
38.491
40.039
39.645
41.240
-37-
76.622
79.439
78.538
81.425
JACKPINE
SEPT.1/00
I.	695 2.917 4.212 5.903 7.497
9.189
II.	078 13.158 15.614
17.443
18.596
19.494
21.732
24.163
26.636
29.096
31.580
34.206
36.880
39.595
42.343
45.074
47.789
50.516
53.239 55.986 58 709 61.566 64.281
67.032
69.795
72.632
75.395
78.138
80 894 83.868
F.	WALKING DISTANCE AND RIDING TIME
(I.) Where a dav workers travelling lime from camp to working place is comprised of riding and'Or walking rime, he shall be paid for all travelling lime in excess of one* half hour each way at his regular rate of pay.
(2.) Where a pieceworker's travelling lime from camp to working place is comprised of riding and/or w alking time, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at the feller, limber rate.
(3.) For the purpose ol this agreement, it is agreed that pieceworkers and day workers will walk atlhe rare of 3 miles per how.
G.	SCALING
For the purpose Ot this agreement a Slacked cord of eight foot (S') rough pulpvvood shall be
50" x 100" a 4'; a stacked cord ofpeeled pulpwood shall be 100" x 48" x 4'.
H.	SALVAGING PULPWOOD ON ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY
Rate per cord	46,02
J, COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree lhai commuter operations shall be carried oul by the
Company on the following terms and conditions:
(l.) Commuters are employees who:
(a.)	Are resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of the area
ofcperations.and
(b.)	Who are nor provided board and lodging by the Company.
(2.) (a.)	An employee who is nor a resident within reasonable riding and/or
walking distance on a commuter operation, who exercises his seniority in accordance with Article XII on this operation, shall receive: S10.47 per da). In lieu of being provided board and lodging in a camp for each da) that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days). He shall continue to receive the commuter allowance for the term of the agreement or unlil such rime that:
(i.) He returns in accordance with the provision of .Article XII, Seniority, to employment in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
-38-
If an employee, who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of a commuter operation, elects not to till a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident, and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commuter allowance as per Article 2 (a) above, for the remaining period he continues to be employed on this commuter operation.
(ii.)	He has established himself as a resident of the particular
commuter operation.
(iii.) He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII. Seniority.
(b.)	A new employee who is not a resident and who is hired to work in a
commuting operation, shall receive $10.47 per day in lieu of providing board and lodging in camp for each day that he is available for woik as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days) up to 100 days or until such rime that:
(c.)
(i.) He is employed in accordance with the provision of Article XII, Seniority, in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
If an employee, who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of a commuter operation, elects not to fill a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commuter allowance as per Article 2 (a.) above, for the remaining period he continues to be employed on this commuter operation.
(ii.) He has established himself as a resident of that particular commuting area of operations.
(iii.) He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
An employee from a camp operation, or from a commuter operation which he is a resident, exercising his seniority to a job of equal status in accordance with Article XII on a job posting and by so doing becomes a nonresident of a commuter operation, will not be eligible for the commuter allowance as pet Article 2 (a.) above.
-39-
3. (a.)	The Company will arrange 10 provide free transportation from a
designated marshalling paint or points, to and from the parking site or sites in the operating areas.
(b.)	Time spent by pieceworkers or davworkers travelling on the Company
transportation vehicle from a marshalling point to a parking site plus lime spent walking from the parking site to place of work, m excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
(a.) Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay
(b.) Pieceworkers at the teller-limber rare.
(c.) Pieceworkers shall be paid in accordance with subsections 1.2 and 1 of III Walking Distance and Riding Time.
Walking time based on the rate of one-C|uarier of a mile equals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding lime. Travelling time SO computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
4. Marshalling Points
West Branch Commuter - will be the 26 mile (junction of the Charcoal and West Branch roads) on the West Branch Road
Sultan Commuter . Marshalling point will be at present location . Company gale south of Sultan. The Company will arrange 10 provide free transportation from Sultan A central departure point in the town of Sultan will be established locally.
Gogama Commuter Marshalling point to be the junction of Highways 144 and 560, The Company ill arrange io provide free transportation from Gogama. A central departure point in the town of Gogama will be established locally.
Cartier Commuter
(a,) For operations North of Benny the Marshalling point will be Benny. The Company will anange to provide transportation from Cartier. A central departure point in the town of Cartier will be established locally.
(b.) For operations South of Benny, the Marshalling point will be the central departure point established in (a). The Company will arrange i o provide transportation from Benny i o the marshalling point
-40-
(I.)
(2.)
0)
(4.)
K. COOKERY SCHEDULE
Number o f Persons Eating	Cook Second Cook	Cookee
1-15	i -	
16-30	i	I
31-55	I	2
56-80	I I	2
81-110 111-140	II I I	3 4
For ever)' 25-man increase in camp, one extra person will be provided. Il is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced.
1.	The Company agrees that shift workers shall be sewed at least two (2) hot meals per day in addition to any hot lunches.
2.	Three-shift operation: where more than 10 men and less than 20 men are fed in the cooker)’ at night, a cookee will be assigned. Where 20 men or more are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be added to the cookery schedule, and assigned with the cookee at night.
L. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
A travel allowance of $15.08 will be paid for each week of active employment for all employees who have established seniority.
Allowances will not be paid to any employee where transportation is provided from a designated marshalling paint to a recognized commuter operation.
The allowance will not be paid for any full reek that the employee is not at work. Where any employee is at work for only part of the week, he ill receive the full allowance.
Allowances for new camps shall be relative to (he foregoing when such camps become operational.
-41
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME
1 Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.03(c) (Job Postings). Employees who meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act sill qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement during which time the employee may return, or failing to display the necessary' mechanical aptitude be returned to his former job without lossof seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the Ontario Apprentice Programme may be retained in his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
<1. Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfil the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The apprentice may receive a weekly training allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Cow. The Company will supplement this Allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40) times his regular hourly rate of Pay. Calculation of the Company’s portion ill be based on the govemmentaliowance for an apprentice who is able io live at home while attending the Trade School
If the apprentice is required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attending school.
6.	An apprentice’s entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
7.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A11 rate immediately following his coiuse of studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
•42-
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME -Continued
8.	If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
MECHANICS:
Helper
Required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. Shall be upgraded prior to or ai the end of a one year period to Helper Class “A”. A helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Hel er Class "A"
He shall under the direction of mechanics of a higher classification work on all types of equipment used on woods operations; shall be capable of performing the following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence 10 accumulate common mechanical tools,
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II
In the event that he Tails to display the necessary aptitude for further training he map at any timeduring this period be placed in other suitable employment,
MECHANIC II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel pawed equipment generally used in woods operations. Ii is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate,
■43-
MECHANIC I:
H e shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him m an efficient manner on gasolineand'oidieselpoweredequipment generallyused in woodsoperations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has special uainingand'Or is assigned on only one type of equipment he will automatically be rated as a Mechanic I.
MECHANIC CLASS "A”:
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and'or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility’ for all work performed byhimself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate. MECHANIC CLASS "A"-1:
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class ‘A” and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have an advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment subsystems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
MECHANIC LEAD.
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic Class “A” and in addition shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
.44.
WELDER:
Helper:
Required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period 10 Helper Class “A’. In the event that he fails to display the necessary' aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in, othersuitableemploymem.
Hel er Class “A”:
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1,	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunityof working in other positions.
2,	Cutting, soldering and brazing
He shall be upgraded prior 10 or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails 10 display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
WELDER II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned 10 him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types off\amestoxidizing andcarbonizing.
WELDER I:
Shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
H e shall be capable of performing b oth types ofwelding in all positionswith all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
WELDER CLASS “A”:
He shall be capable without direction of performing alljobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types ofwelding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
•45-
WELDER CLASS "A" Continued He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary trade certificate
Welders presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a trade certificate.
WELDER LEAD:
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualification set out under Welder Class “A” and in addition shall be capable of leading other welders
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a trade certificate
TRADESMEN'S TOOLS
Tradesmen including welders will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish Spanners up 101-1/2” opening, rockets sets up to and including 3/«" drive, Vi' drive set to include sockets from Vi' to 2”, ratchet, power bar, and extensions; adjustable wenches up to 18" in length, hammers, chisels, punches, screw drivers and tool boxes. Metric tools io include spanners from 6mm to 24mm and '//’and'/i" drive sockets from 6mm to 24mm and Allen UTenchesfrombmmto 19mm. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, puller, sockets over Vi” drive, spanners over 1-1/2" opening.
As a one time offer, the Company willsubsidize the purchase of ihe necessary metric tooling for the existing working mechanics on the seniority list. This fifty percent subsidy of the cost of purchase to be applied against mutually agreed to tool purchases. The Company agrees that it will provide coverage against loss by fire, theft or breaking of tradesmen’s tools, while on authorized Company property or worksites. The Company reserves the right to limit or deny the replacement of tools where negligence by tradesmen are found. In order to receive this coverage tradesmen shall be required to supply to the Company an up-to-date inventory of such tools, so that proper coverage can be provided.
Upon proof of replacement purchase, the Company shall pay up to a maximum of $300,00 per year as tool and tool box allowance to all tradespersons.
-46-
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
Once each peatduringthe month ofNovember, a group which iscomprised of the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent, Mechanical Supervisors and two qualified representatives of de Union will determine by review whether helpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent and Mechanical Supervisor.
PENSION PLAN
The Company will provide and administer a non contributory pension plan for all hourly ratedForestry employe eswith I year continuous service(l65days).
Normal retirement will be the first day of month following attainment of age 65. An employee with 10 years of Company service can elect lo retire at age 55 however the monthly payments will be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
BENEFIT
Effective January 1,1994 amend current pension plan to provide for a monthly benefit equal to Twenty (S20.00) dollars times years of continuous sendee for all past and future service.
EarlyRetirementReduction Factors
Effective January 1994, those employees with ten (10) years of Company service can retire between the age of 60 and 65 with a 5% reduction in their pension for each year they retire prior io age 65 as noted in the table below:
Age	% or Pension Payable
65	100%
64	05%
63	90%
62	85%
61	80%
60	75%
Guaranteed Payments
[f a relied employee’s death occurs before he ha received 60 monthly payments of retirement income under theplan, his retirement income payments will conlinue io be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the 60 monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
-47-
Surviving Spouse Pension
If a married employee with 10 years of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee’s surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month follovring dale of death, If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be actuarially reduced.
Disability Benefit
An employee with at least 10 y ears of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under Be CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
Supplemental Plan
. For each employee who contributes $55.00 pet month, the Company will contribute an equal amount of$55.00 per month.
Effective first of month following ratification increase $55.00 to $60.00 Effective Septemberl,1999 increase $60,00 to$65.00 Effective September 1.2000 increase $65.00 lo $70.00
Vesting tights, alter I year.
•	Minimum I year continuous service,
•	Cost of administering of the plan will be the responsibility of the Company.
Employees who are off work due to a Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or a Weekly Indemnity claim for a period of up to twelve (12) months can continue to contribute towards the Supplementary Pension Plan
Effective January' 1.1995, the current supplemental plan as outlined in the current Collective Agreement will become compulsory' for all employees on the seniority list at that time provided they have one (I) year of continuous service.
The obligation lojoin the Supplement Plan will remain voluntary for those employees who are 55 years ofage and over as of July 18,1999
-48-
SpecialRetirementAllowance
For those employees retiring between the age of 58 and 65, a special one (I) time retirement allowance will be paid based onthefollowingformula.
SI,000 per year of service up to a maximum of S15,000. This special Retirement Allowance will end with those employees retiring in 2001.
RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM
The Company agrees to review it’s present return to work program through a committee of 4 people (2 Management, 2 Union) with due regard to the Union’s submission.
•49-
Signed a! Sudbury, Ontario this I6lh. day of July. 1999
M Litchfield
/
J. Hanlon
PoulitT
Mov
R. Boyuk
M. Collin
-50
ADDENDUM: TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. (Hereinafter referred to as the “Company") AND
1WA • CANADA
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Union")
Signed on the 18th day of January. 1979
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force ofemployees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (relorestalion) the Company may hire additional employees lo perform season silviculture work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
I. RE:	Article V Union Membership
(al. The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall nor be required to make an application to became a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
(b). The Company shall put these employees on check-off at the lime of hire and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit same 10 the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
RE:	Article VI Vacations with Pay
For each aforesaid employees. Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and (he total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque io each employee at the lime of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
-51-
3. RE:	Article VII. Holidays with Pay
(a.)	For such aforesaid employees who qualify under section 12.02 shall be
paid without the performance of work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a continued illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid. Employees absent due to a continued illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the Start of such absence.
(b.) The provisions set out in Sections 7.04 (b), 7 04 (c), 7.04 (d), 7.04 (e), 7.04 (f) ad 7 05 are not applicable.
4 RE: Article X - Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is io be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said employees while so engaged.
5. RE: Article XII. Seniority
(a) .	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid
employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b) .	Employment of any new employee shall be considered probationary until
he has worked thirty (30) days within a 6 month period.
(c)	A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list
(d)	An employee, on the silvicultural seniority list, hired on other production operations will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
•52'
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred 10 the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII ofihe Collective Agreement.
6. ‘The provisions set OUt under:
Article XIV Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XV11I Article XIX Appendix A
. Medical. Surgical, Drug and Hospital Case Plans.
Lite Insurance.
. Weekly Indemnity,
Bereavement Pay,
Jury Duty Allowance.
Dental Care Plan and
- Long Term Disability Plan-are not applicable for the aforesaid Employees.
7. RE:	Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture commuter operalion, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior (0 commencement of such operations.
8. RE: Wage Schedule
SILVICULTURAL WAGESCHEDULE
PIECEWORK RATES MANUAL PLANTING
Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock
Tube Seedlings (Paper Pots)
Sire Unprepared
Bare Root stock
Tube Seedlings (Paper Pols)
•53-
(employees on the regular Seniority listing will 1101 be assigned lo manual planting on piecework rates).
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
I. B. ATHERTON, General Manager ■ Fores@ Division.	F. MIRON, President.
Signed for the Union:	W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for ihe Company:	E, C. McManus. Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
	-54-
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
FORESTRY DIVISION (Hereinafter referred (oas the “Company ’)
AND
IWA-CANADA
(Hereinafterreferredloasthe ‘Union”!
RE: SILVICULTURE OPERATIONS (TREE PLANTING)
U is understood and agreed that in the application of the Addendum to the Collective Agreement, the following will apply.
ARTICLE XI- Hours of Work 11.01 (a.)
The week for operations shall be six(6) days per week. Monday to Saturday inclusive
The workweek far pieceworkers shall be forty {*10) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Mondaylo Fr idayinclusive, or Tuesday toSaturdayinclusive.
Iiis agreed that pieceworkers maybe requested n work in excess oftheir regular work day or work wk. andwill be paid in accordance with theovertime provision following
The regular work day shall beeight (8) consecutive hours mealtime excepted. However, at the request of the employees or the Company and by mutual agreement, the work day of eighl (8) hours may bescheduled in any twelvef 12)hour period, dividedintonotmore than two (2) parts, prov ided there is a break a lat least e ight(S) hours between days worked.
Overtime:
Employees who are requested to work inexcess of their scheduled eight (8) hours per day will, in addition to their pieceworkrates, receive premium pay forall such overtime hours worked based on one-half ('/i) of the rid calculated by d iv id ing the lotahrces planted in the scheduled five (S) days by (he (oral hours worked
All trees planted by employees an their designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and/or on Sunday .shall be pa id forai one andone*half(l,5) limestherate.
S igned at Sudbury, Ontario, this 22nd day of February, 1991.
Signed for the Union:____________________________________
WMcfntyre,President Local 2693
S ignetfor the Company:__________________________________
E.C.McManus.V ice Pres ident Forestry & Wood Products
•55-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 . 1WA CANADA
RE: AIR TRANSPORTATION
Whereas the Company intends 10 use air transportation when il is practical and economical to do so.
Employees presently on the work force who are not able 10 fly will be given an opportunity to transfer to a position that they can occupy in accordance with Ihe provision of the collective agreement.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 14th day of June, 1988. Original signed by:
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J.B. ATHERTON	fred MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	President. Local 2693
Supply-
Signed for the Union: ______________________________
W, McIntyre. President. Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_____________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President,
Forestry & Wood Products
•56-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Camp cookeries will close on non operational weekends.
Original Letter Signed April 14,1983
For the Union: F. Miron, President. Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton. General Manager Forestry Division.
Signed for the Union: ______________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_____________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Wood Products
•57-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE: EQUIPMENT CABS AND CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company will provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls or air conditioning (where practical) on the purchase or lease (excess ot 12 months) on new bulldozers, graders, buses and harvesters.
Signed for the Union: _________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:____________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President. Forestry & Wood Products
-58-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. 8. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ONTARIO WOODWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
This will confirm the Company’s interpretation ofdisability as defined in Section(b) of the Ontario Woodworkers Disability Benefit Plan.
It is our understanding and interpretation that an employee is entitled to benefits, for which he maybe eligible under the provisions of the Plan as a result of non-occupational injury or illness when unable IO perform his regular duties and the Company is unable to offer him alternative suitable employment. It is understood the employee will be expected to accept the alternative employment. if it is available, If an employee voluntarily accepts employment with another employer, the employee will not be eligible for benefits under this Plan.
Original Letter signed January 18,1973
For the Company: E, F. Boswell, Vice-President
For the Union:	T. Mior, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Union:	________________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:	_________________________________________________
E. C. McManus. Vice President Forestry & Wood
Products
■59-
letter OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE; ONTARIO WOODWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN SECTION 7 (a)
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability BenetitS under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so. and when the employee’s disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee’s physician. If the application is approved, benehtS under this Plan will then be offset by the amount of CPP/QPP primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan
Original Signed December 16, 1980:
For the Union: T. Mior. President. Local 2693
For the Company: J B, Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union: _______________________________________
W. McIntyre. President. Local 2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________________
E, C. McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Wood Products
•60-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. eddy FOREST products ltd.
AND
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
RE: EARLY STARTTIME DUE TO FIRE HAZARD SHUT DOWN
It is understood that operations may commence up to 2 hours early when the Ministry of Natural Resources directs operations to be shut down Arrangements will be discussed with local union steward and the employees involved at the Start of each fire season.
Original Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June, 1988 FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J.B. ATHERTON	FRED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	President. Local 2693
Supply
Signed for the Union: ______________________________
W. McIntyre, President. Local 2693
Signed for the Company:____________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President,
Forestry & Wood Products
•61
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING Reached Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ARTICLE VII -HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
Covering employees departing before completion of last shift prior to a holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the end of his last shift before a holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Company sufficiently in advance of his leaving to provide for rescheduling or replacement, unless other arrangements have ken agreed to between the Company and the Union, either at camp level or management level. Under these circumstances the employee will not be penalized for Holiday Pay where early departure is necessary due to transportation problems either by rail or other means.
Permission for these requests will not be unreasonably refused.
Original Memorandum signed:
For the Union: D. W. Labelle For the Company: L. F. Lounder
Signed for the Union: ________________________________
W. McIntyre. President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:.
E. C. McManus. Vice President,
Forestry & Wood Products
-62-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693- I\YA CANADA
RE: ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
Notwithstanding the specific terms of Article xi - Hours of work, it is understood that the work-week and hours of work may be amended to provide alternative scheduling.
Such alternative scheduling shall not include provision for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a operating unit basis, and all terms will be subject to agreement between the Union, the Company and (he employees involved.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, (his 14th day of June 1988 FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
FRED MIRON	J.B. ATHERTON
President, Local 2693 General Manager of Fibre Supply
Signed for the Union: __________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Wood Products
•63-
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD,
FORESTRY DIVISION
ESPANOLA. ONTARIO
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 12.03 (a)
It is agreed that in the administration of 12.03 (a) (layoffs and recalls), at lime of layoff employees will indicate whether they wish to be recalled (I) on Company-wide basis, or (2) to their regular camp when it opens. It is understood that where an employee elects option (1) and is recalled to a camp other than his regular camp, he will return to his regular job when it becomes available. If in the event that his regular job is abolished he will be transferred to the job in his regular classification to which he is entitled by seniority
Original Memorandum signed: For the Union: D. W Labelle For the Company: L. F. Founder
Signed for the Union: _________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President. Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President.
Forestry & Wood Products
•64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: SENIORITY RIGHT OF AN EMPLOYEE IN THE EXERCISE OF HIS SENIORITY UNDER 12.03 (a) UPON NOTICE OF LAYOFF
An employee, who has been notified that heis to be laid off, may accept layoff or exercise his seniority' right, and occupy a job that is continuing and which he has thequalificalions on the basis of 12.01 to occupy, and which is either vacant or tilled by an employee with less seniority.
The jobs, that he is penitted to exercise his seniority to occupy, shall be in the following preferential order.
(a)	. Camp
(1) .	on ajobwilh a comparable rate to the job hewas laid off.
(2) .	on a job with a higher rate.
(3) .	on a job with a lower rate in comparison to the rate of the job be was laid off
In the event that the employee does not have sufficient seniority to occupy a job as setoul under
(a)	- (I) and (2), and he does not prefer to exercise his seniority on a job as set out in (I), he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority at a camp where board and lodging areprovided, or a commuter operation, either at his election:
(b)	. Company Wide
(1).	on a jab similar, or a job w'ilh a comparable rate to the job he was laid off,
(2).	on a job w ith a h igher rate,
(3).	an a job with a lower rate in comparison to the rateofthe job hewas laid off.
Original Signed February	3.1927:
For the Union: T. Mior,President, Local 2693 For the Company: J.B. Atherton. General Manager ForestryDivision
Signed for the Union:________________________________
W,McIntyre, Pres ident,Local2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________
E.C. McManus. Vice Pres ident Forestry & Wood Products
•65-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
and
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ARTICLE XIV- MEDICAL. SURGICAL. DRUG AND HOSPITAL CABEA N S
If due 10 legislative action, any type of corporate assessment is levied to fund any of the above plans. the agreed lo amounts will be used first lo offset direct costs to the Company and in no case will the Company’s contributions exceed the agreed to amounts.
Original Letter signed January 18. 1979:
For the Union: T. Mior, President. Local 2693
For the Company: J.B.Atherton. General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union: ______________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed tor the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President.
Forestry & Wood Products
-66-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA PIECEWORK -TREE LENGTH
1.	Implementation
(a)	. Piecework will be implemented in the cut and skid operations by September
l,	1985.
(b)	. When piecework and mechanical harvesting equipment are operating out of the same camp, the Company will designate separate operating areas for each group.
(c)	. When clean up is required behind mechanical harvesting operations, it will be done on a daywork basis.
2.	Transportation
Transportation separate Irom dayworkecs will be supplied for pieceworkers.
3.	Layout
Boundaries ofindividual blocks will be marked in the field.
4.	Skidder operators will not be required to grease their machines.
Original Letter Signed July 24, 1985'.
For the Union: F. Miron, President. Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_______________________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President,
Forestry & Wood Products
•67-
ADDENDUM TO PIECEWORK
memorandum OF AGREEMENT -JULY 24,1985
1.	The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed two employees at any time.
2.	Add to memorandum Article #8
When a mate is absent. the remaining employee will be treated as a day worker in accordance with 11.04 (a) and I 1.04 (b). However he may be assigned work in another two man crew io form a three man crew if mutually agreed by the crew.
3.	Skidway Preparation: Skidways will be prepared by the Company when
required. This will be determined by the Supervisor in consultation with the crew.
Original Signed:
Signed for the Union: F. Miron. President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company: J. B. Atherton. General Manager of Fibre Supply
Signed for the Union: ___________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President. Local 2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President,
Forestry’ & Wood Products
•68-
letter OF UNDERSTANDING Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. and
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
The Company will agree to condition of 11.03 (d) (posting of work schedule on previous Thursday).
However it is understood that should employee absenteeism increase as a result of the posting on Thursday affecting operations on Friday, the Company will meet and discuss the problem with local union representative and posting will revert to Friday.
Original Letter signed February 3, 1977:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J.B,Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:______________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:____________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
•69-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
E, B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 ■ IWA CANADA
Subject:	Owner Operator Equipment
Opportunities for employees to operate self-owned equipment on the operations will be phased in and accomplished in accordance with the following principles.
1. )	Privately owned equipment will be on a voluntary basis. No employee shall be required to own or lease any equipment as acondition of employment.
2. )	The Company will ensure that all terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement are followed.
3. )	Repairs shall be carried out by Company tradesmen employed in the job classifications while this equipment is on limits and work sites of the Company.
It is understood that operators scheduled on such equipment may be required io do minor repairs during their scheduled shift.
4. )	The Company agrees that any incentive bonus plans will be paid through the Company payroll.
5. )	The number of employees owing or leasing equipment will not exceed twenty (20%) percent of the number of employees on the seniority list 35 of January I, 1998. The 20% number will not include the wood haul trucks.
6. )	Senior employees will be given first opportunity to lease or purchase such equipment subject to Article Xll Seniority 12,01, paragraph 1.
7. )	The Company will provide financial assistance to purchase equipment and 10 provide for business training to employees who are contracting IO become owner-operators.
•70-
Subject: Owner Operator Equipment (Continued)
8. )	The Company will review and Set the rales and conditions annually after which the owner operator may request a meeting to discuss the rates and conditions.
The Union President will attend this meeting
Should the owner operator be in disagreement with the rates, the matter will be referred to a non binding mediator.
9. )	The Company is prepared 10 offer work to the owner operator’s equipment ahead of Company owned or leased equipment.
10. )	Owners’ contract will establish seniority as of the dare it becomes operator on the limited and worksites of the Company.
Signed this 1 SlVi day of July. 1999 at Sudbury, Ontario.
Signed for the Union: (/L$j/i/f!C/______________
wLNtdntvreiMastident. La a
Martin Litchfield. Regional Woodlands Manager Central Ontario Region
•71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RECOGNITION. JURISDICTION
During the term of the Collective Agreement effective September l, 1982 to August 31. 1984 the Company does not expect any reduction in its present employees (i.e. all employees on the work sites April 14, 1983 and the revised seniority list April 14, 1983) as a result of changes in wood fibre supply to the Espanola Mill. (Normal seasonal layoffs excepted).
The increased production of sawlog material on E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd , timber licence substantiates this expectation.
In the event circumstances dictate a change in the sources of the wood fibre supply to the Espanola mill which affects employment security to such employees then the Company agrees:
(1) .	To give as much advance notice as is possible.
(2) .	To discuss with the Union, job opportunities for displaced employees and
other work in accordance with Article XII so as to minimize the adverse effect on employees displaced by such changes.
Original Letter Signed:
For the Union: T. Mior, President. Local 2693 For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:_____________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:___________________________________________
E, C. McManus. Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
•72-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - l.W.A. CANADA RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
This will confirm our understanding that during the term of the Collective Agreement from September I, 1987 to August 31,1990, it is not the Company’s intent to reduce its production of wood fibre from Company operations to less that 230,000 ClinitS of the requirements to the Naim Sawmill.
However, if circumstances arise which were beyond the control of the Company, resulting in the Company altering this volume and which could affect the employment opportunities of our employees, we will undertake to advise the union as early as possible and discuss ways and means of providing job opportunities for our employees in accordance with Article XII.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June. 1988
FORTHE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J.B. ATHERTON	FRED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre President, Local 2693 Supply
Signed for the Union:_________________________________________
W. McIntyre. President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
73-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REACHED BETWEEN E, B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Covering the application and administration of Section 3.01(c) of Article III* of their
Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period commencing September I, 1966,
1,	Any third party operator who was not established on the Company’s limits as of August 31.1966 shall be bound by the provisions of Section 3.01 (c).
2.	The operation of each of the third party operators who was established on the Company’s limits as of August 3 1,1966 shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a) .	They shall, as of April, 1968, be subject to the provisions of Section
3.01 (c).
(b) .	They shall, in season 1967-68 (April 1, 1967 March 31,1968), limit the
production of forest products for the company’s account, to volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 production levels.
(c) .	As of April I, 1968, they may continue to deliver to the Company,
chips manufactured from sawmill residues in volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 chip production levels. The delivery to and the Company’s purchase of such chips shall not be construed to be contrary to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c),
Original Letter signed:
For the Union • D. W. Labelle For the Company. D. W. Gra\
Signed for the Union:_________________________________
\V. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_______________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry&Wood Products
-74-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
E, B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject: Recognition/Jurisdiction
In conjunction with the resolution of the owner operator. the Company will endeavour (0 harvest all allocated fibre from its limits and work sites.
Prior to any third party agreements being issued, the parties will meet to determine whether or not the fibre can be economically harvested by equipment owned and operated by Company employees.
Signed this 17lh day of April. 1994, at Sudbury, Ontario
Signed for the Union:_________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
•75-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE; LICENCES -TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
Original Letter Signed December 16. 1980
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: /. B. Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:______________________________________
W. McIntyre. President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:____________________________________
E. C. McManus. Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
•76-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
E. B. EDDY FORESTPRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
local 2693
1WA CANADA
The Company will provide washing and drying facilities tor ihe use of the Camp 12 cookery personnel.
Camp 500 cookery personnel have their laundry provided for by the central laundry located in that camp.
Original Letter signed February 3, 1977
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J.B.Athcrton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:__________________________________________
W. McIntyre. President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:__________________________________
E. C. McManus. Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
•77-
AN AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE VI VACATIONPAY
The Company and the Union agree to amend Article VI of the Collective Agreement as follows:
I, Vacation Pay accrual will be paid 10 employee upon request
2,	Request for vacation pay must be submitted at least two weeks in
advance of payment dare.
Signed: For the Union ______________________________________________
Wilfred McIntyre, President, Local 2693
For the Compaq ______________________________
E, C, McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
Signed: January 28,1993
78-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
E. 15. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject:	CAMP COSTS
Recognizing the excessive costs involved in providing the present contractual obligation covering camp operating and living conditions, it is understood that should operations be carried out in the future in areas which are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis or where the costs of transporting personnel from existing camps is excessive, other suitable arrangement for living accommodations, etc., will be arranged with the Union
The parties agree to work together during the term of the Collective Agreement to identify and recommend to their principles measures that will help reduce camp costs thereby justifying the continuation of camp life.
A committee of 2 Union representatives and 2 Management representatives will be established within one (1) month following the ratification of the Agreement. More people may be assigned to this Committee if required.
The panics further agree that the scope of this Committee's work will not be limited in any way by what already exists in the Collective Agreement
Signed this I7lh day of April. 1994 at Sudbury. Ontario
Signed for the Union:___________________________________
W, McIntyre, President. Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_________________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President
-79-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
E, B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Subject:	inter camp Transfers
This is tO Confirm the discussions that were held during the
1993 round of bargaining.
As a result of these discussions, ii has been agreed to between the parties that limit wide postings can be made for both a mobile harvesting camp and a portion of the truck haul.
Signed this 17lh day of April, 1994 at Sudbury, Ontario
Signed for the Union:
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:.
E, C, McManus, Vice President Forestry' & Wood Products
•80-
April 17,1994
Mr. W. McIntyre
President, 1WA Canada
Dear Wilf:
As discussed during the 199) negotiations, the Company supports the concept of setting up a process to monitor training.
To this end, we are prepared to set up a procedure whereby an hourly rated employee at the camp level will be kept up to date as to how an employee is progressing in qualifying for a specific job.
U is further understood that a decision will be made within two (2) months from the commencement of training as to whether or not an individual qualifies for the job for which he is being trained.
Yours truly,
E, B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.,
R. G. ARMSTRONG,
Manager Logging Operations
:<C
•81
April 17, 1994
Mr. W. McIntyre President, Local 2693
Dear Wilf:
1.	All cookery personnel will ix given the Sudbury Health Unit Course in Food handling.
2.	All cookery personnel will be required to have an annual medical consistent with theirjob.
3.	All cooks hired from date of ratification must be qualified and be in possession Provincial certificate.
Yours truly,
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.,
R.G. ARMSTRONG.
Manager Logging Operations
•82-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. and
LOCAL 2693 1WA CANADA
RE: Mobile Camp-Camp 605 Operations
In reference to the Letter of Understanding contained in the current Collective Agreement . (Page 8$ Paragraph I):
"Recognizing the excessive costs involved in providing the present contractual obligation covering camp operating and living conditions, it is understood that should operations be carried out in the future in areas which are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis or where the costs of transporting personnel from existing camps is excessive, other suitable arrangement for living accommodations, etc., will be arranged with the Union.”
It is understood and agreed that the Camp conditions at the Mobile Camp are of a different standard than those as described in the Collective Agreement.
It is also understood and agreed that the Mobile Camp positions ill not be posted. Due (0 the remote location of many future harvest blocks, the Mobile Camp setup will now serve as the housing quarters for the Camp 605 operations which are presently based at camp 12.
Capacity
40 to 70 employees
Staffing 2 Cooks I Cookee 1/2 time Bullcook
@ Cook’s wage rate @ Cookee's wage rate
@ Bullcook's wage rale (handled by “additional work" postings)
Extended Operations from the Camp 12 Site
If a portion of the Camp 60S operations will continue to operate from the existing Camp 12 sire for an extended period of time, the senior employees will be given first option to remain there. This does nor refer to that period required for a normal move where parts of the operation are required to stay behind in order to complete the job.
-83-
This Camp will meet the CU1TCIU Government requirements for an industrial camp.
It is agreed that if certain conditions surrounding the operation of the Mobile Camp are not satisfactory to either the Union of the Company, both parties will meet 10 resolve the issue.
Dared this 27lh day of February 1997.
Signed for the Union:	Signed for the Company:
W. McIntyre. President.	E.C.McManus, Vice President.
Local 2693	Forestry&Wood Products
-84-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
E, B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
And
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Restricted Operations Due [p Fire Hazards Conditions and Application of Seniority High fire hazard conditions often results in partial or restricted hour operations. In that event, and for the duration of the hazardous period, operations and assignment of work will be carried out in accordance with the following:
If all operations continue on restricted hours, the employee filling each job on a regular basis will continue to do so. Should such employee be a member of a regular designated fire-crew, and his crew is called or assigned for duty, a more junior qualified fire-crew member may take his place on the fire crew if available.
If Partial operations only continue on a restricted basis, the employee filling each job on a regular basis will continue lo do so.
Each employee, prior to leaving, will be asked whether or not they wish to bump within their own camp, and this information will be communicated to the Human Resources Department without delay.
After an absence of five (5) working days, employees who have indicated their desire to do so shall be permitted to bump to a job for which they are qualified, as per past practice.
When operations previously shut down resume on a partial or restricted basis employees will be called to fill available work on the basis ofcompany seniority (Such employee shall have the option ofdeclining such call without loss of seniority rights if it is not his regular position and location).
When operations resume on a normal basis each employee will, when advised to do so. automatically return to the location and job which he held prior to the emergency situation.
If other circumstances arise which have not been addressed in this memorandum, the Company and the Union will meet to resolve an) problems identified,
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 8th day of April. 1997
SIGNED FOR THE UNION	SIGNED FOR THE COMPANY
W.McIntyre, President, Local 2693	E.C.McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products.
•85-
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
I Definitions
In this plan, unless otherwise specifically provided.
(a) .	“Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external violent means:
(b) .	"Disability" is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing
any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan:
(c) .	“Employee" means an employee in (he active employment of (he
Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between;
Domtar Inc. and Local 2693 . I. W A Canada:
(d) .	"Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier appointed by
the company:
(e) .	“Plan" means ihe Ontario Woodworkers Disability Benefit Plan:
(0.	“Company" means Domtar Inc.;
(g) .	"Weekly Earrings" means, in the case of'a day or shift worker, 40
hours X his regular rare:
(h) ,	“Medical Practitioner" means registered physician or surgeon.
registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
Participation
(a) .	All employees of the company shall be eligible to participate in
this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b) .	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have
accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company
-86-
3. Amount of Disability Benefits
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee’s weekly earnings, as defined in Section I (g) immediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $550.00 effective first of month following date of ratification,
The Weekly Indemnity maximum will be increased by $15.00 per week or each subsequent September I, for those employees actively at work as outlined below.
September 1, 1999	.	$560.00 per week
September I, 2000	$570.00 per week
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount payable for such week under the Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 and its regulation as amended.
4.	Eligibility for Payment
(a).	(i).	Except in the case of a disability arising out of an
accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 1 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
(ii).	In the case of a disability arising out of an accident,
an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(b). An employee absent from Work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
■87-
4. Eligibility for Payment continued...
(C). An employee shall not be eligible lOr 941 amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he IS actively employed by the company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claim for an .amount of disability benefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his layoff or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
(e) .	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for
benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days Otter the date Ot layoll and IS unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting trom the date he is required to return to work.
(0- Successive periods Ot disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
(g). An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not k paid in the event the absence is a result ot,
(0-
(ii)
Any injury arising out ot or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment tor remuneration or profit, or
Disability or loss (I) while the protected person is on or could be placed on pregnancy/mntemily leave, or (2) if a protected person tails to qual ify tor pregnancy/maternity leave because of taiiure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of pregnancy/maternity leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statues, or...
-88-
Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or similar legislation, or
self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
for a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractor, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the we and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addition, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
(h). An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day’s regular pay, from the Company.
(i).	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable
following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the company pension plan.
(j) .	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the
early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset ofdisability.
(k) .	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced
by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent, disability provision for the
-89-
(g). (ii
(iv).
(V).
(vi)
(vii;
company pension plan.
Disputed \V S.l.B. Claim
If an employee covered by the W.I. Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute or delayed with WSIB, Wl. payment will be made retroactively, if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one month due to the disability without the WSIB having accepted the clam and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the W.I. plan, If the WSIB claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the W.I. payment(s) received to the appropnate fund or insurance company.
5.	Payment of Benefits
(a) .	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be
considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days ofdisability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b) .	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that
qualifies for payment shall be onc-sevcnth the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(c) .	The amount ofdisability payments will be paid every week. Such
benefits an account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	Miscellaneous Provisions
(a) ,	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the
dote he was to become eligible under this Plan, as set out in Section 4. shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the dale he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
•90-
(g). (iii).	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to
compensation under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or similar legislation, or
(iv).	self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while
sane or insane, or
(v).	any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or
war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
(vi) .	disability for which the employee is not under the
treatment of a medical practitioner, or
(vii) .	for a period of disability in excess of four weeks
where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor.
6.	Miscellaneous Provisions - Continued...
(c). The 5/12 of the U.I.C. premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
7.	Government Disability Plans
(a) .	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced
by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit- provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workplace Safety and Insurance Board disability pensions.
(b) .	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or
verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
(c) .	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which
should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the company and/or insurer, as the case may be. through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8, Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-ofpocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9. Administration
(a). It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the company of his absence due to disability, following which the company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
•91
9. Administration . Continued
(b) .	Completed claim forms will be checked by the company 10
determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
(c) .	The Company will meet with representatives of the Union from
time to lime, for purposes of discussing the administration of the Plan and any problems which may arise.
(d) .	Should any employee or the Union have any complaint
concerning entitlements to benefits under the Plan, tie matter may b e taken u p as a grievance and processed t o arbitration a s provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
•92-
APPENDIX “A”
DOMTAR inc.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan
The Long Term Disability Benellt Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the efteclive date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled 10 the Long Ten Disability Benefit Plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the Plan
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two Weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
-93-
4.	Definition of Disability
“Disability” shall mea” a” insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education. training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
(a) .	The disability benefit shall be 55% of monthly earnings effective
first of month following date of ratification for those employees actively at work
(b) .	"Monthly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker.
173 X his regular hourly rate, in the case of a pieceworker. 173 X the Feller Limber hourly rate.
(c) ,	“Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective
immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, WSIB Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
(e) .	While receiving benefits under this Plan, the employee will
continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working at no cost to the employee based on earnings equal to the rate of pay for the job on which he was employed immediately prior to disability, in the case of a pieceworker, the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
6. Duration of Benefit
(a) .	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of
service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b) .	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the present
calculation ofpension service since January I, 1951.
(c) .	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
-94-
7. Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a) .	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. If there is a recurrence of the
same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b) .	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c) .	Up to normal retirement age. or
fd).	On death
8, Exclusion
(a) .	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be
eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b) .	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable
for claims resulting horn:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii) .	any injury or illness entitling the
employee to compensation under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or similar legislation. or
(b). (iii). self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv). disability for which the employee is no! under the treatment of a physician, or
fv).	alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is
undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the case and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
-95-
(vi).	Disability of loss (I) while the employee is on. or
could be placed on Pregnancy/Matemity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
19.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee’s doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits,
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost Of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable OUt-of-pOCket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J.B.ATHERTON.	T.MIOR.
General Manager. Forestry President.
Division
Signed for the Union:	__________________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus. Vice President Forestry 8t Wood Products
•96-