AGREEMENT
between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, JWA - CANADA
SEPTEMBER I, 1990 TO AUGUST 31, 1993
00033 (03)
U)
INDEX
Page
Apprentice Program..................................................4	1
Arbitration........................................................ 9
Bereavenent Pay.................................................    2	5
Bulletin Boards.....................................................2	4
Call-Oat............................................................2	1
Commuters..........................................................40
Cookery Manning Schedule............................................3	9
Dental Care PI an.................................................  2	6
Floating Holidays.................................................. 9
Grievance Procedure................................................ 7
Holidays With Pay (Statutory Holidays) ............................ 6
Hours of Work......................................................16
Insurance Personal Belongings......................................12
Job Descriptions - Mechanic.......................................4 2
Job Descriptions - Welder.........................................4 3
Job Postings.......................................................22
Jurisdiction....................................................... 1
Jury Duty - Subpoenaed Witness Allowance............................2	6
Lay-Off Procedure...................................................2	2
Licenses (Letter of Understanding)..................................5	7
Life Insurance - General............................................2	4
Plan.............................................65
Long Tern Disability » General.....................................2 5
Plan.......................................74
Drug & Hospital Care..............................................2 4
No Strike - No Lockout...........................................  10
Overtime...........................................................19
Period of Agreenent................................................ 1
Piecework Rates • Full Tree.........................................3	4
Tree Length....................................3 0
Planting..................,.....................38
Power Saw Rental..................................................-.3	8
Purpose ........................................................... 1
Rates and Classifications (New).................................... 2
Recognition • Jurisdiction......................................... 1
Reporting Pay......................................................17
Retireuent Incone Plan - General....................................2	7
Plan.....................................79
Safety Apparel - Subsidies.........................................14
Safety Committees..................................................10
Scaling and Settlement.............................................13
Seniority........................................................  21
Severance Pay.......................................................2	4
Shift Differential.................................................17
Shift Scheduling * General.........................................17
Cookery........................................19
<b)
Silviculture - Addenda to Agreement................................47
Rates, Hourly.......................................3	0
Rates, Piecework....................................3	8
Statutory Holidays (Holidays with Pay)...........................   6
Tools and Equipment.............................................   ..13
Tradesmen' s Tools..................................................4	5
Transportation.....................................................14
Travel Allowance...................................................40
Union Membership................................................... 3
Vacation with Pay . Entitlement ................................... 4
Vision Care Plan...................................................27
Wage Schedule.....................................................  2	8
Walking and Riding Tine.............................................3	8
Weekly Indeanity - General ........................................2	5
Plan............................................6	8
Working and Living Conditions......................................10
1
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations) (hereinafter referred to as the "Coapany")
and
LOCAL 2693, IUA - CANADA (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.0}	The purpose of this Agreenent is to secure for the Coapany and
the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in Article X of this agreenent, and to ensure to the utnost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the enployees, econoay of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreenent, aoreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of disputes. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all enployees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advanceaent of the conditions set forth herein.
The use of nasculine gender in this Agreenent shall be considered also to include the feninine.
ARTICLE II PERIOD
2.01	The Coapany and the Union agree one with the other that they
will abide by the Articles of this Agreenent froa Septeaber 1, 1990 to August 31, 1993.- inclusive, and froa year to "year iTiereaTter ' unless either partydesires to change or terninate the Agreenent, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to Septeaber 1st* of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreenent in the nanner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION- JURISDICTION
3.01	(a) The Coapany recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its enployees who are engaged in woods operations on the linits, and on the work sites, of the Coapany. For purposes of this article, Coapany enployees shall be all those eaployed in the job classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and
forcing a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on job classifications which nay be established and becone part of the attached wage schedule during the tern of this Agreement.
3.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terns of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a union or unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
3.0] (c) The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a third party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involves physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such natters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV * RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreenent a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement the matter nay be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods, including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establish-nent of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least thirty (30) days advance notice in writing.
During the 30-day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union
3
For the new job classifications the Conpany shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on conparison with prevailing rates for sinilar and/or related occupations in the wage schedule of the negotiating companies.
Following the implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the chance or alteration, the natter mav be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The 30-day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
New rates, when established, shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new classifications.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached Wage Schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from daywork to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Conpany agrees that it is in favour of its employees
covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02(a) Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who 1 becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the tern of this Agreement. In the event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02(b) Non-union persons hired by the Company after notifying the Union Office of the requirements and no Union members are available who are qualified, shall not be bumped by Union members when they become available.
5.02(c) When hiring employees the Conpany will give preference to Union members who apply and who are capable of doing the work required of them. The Conpany shall, after complying with Article XII, advise the Union from tine to time of the Company's labour requirements. The Company shall furnish the Union Office and the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week. The Union agrees to reinstate an employee who has been suspended only for non-payment of
Union dues during a layoff upon such an eaployee being recalled in accordance with Article XII.
5.02(d) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. 'The Company shall upon hiring advise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, to report to the Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of enploynent.
5.02(e) The Company shall put employees on check-off at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due bin.
5.03	The Conpany agrees for an individual employee who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, to deduct upon his written request union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due hia. The deduction author!zation shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his enploynent.
5.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order (first letter only) in duplicate, of nanes, with at least one Christian name and amounts by camps. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month. The Company shall include on each employee's incone tax slip (T-4) the amount of Union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Company's operations and shall report to the Camp Foreran or clerk on arrival at camp. Credentials carried by the Union representatives shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union. Said representative to be provided board and lodging, if available, on the Conpany premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.06	The Loral Union shall furnish the Conpany with a list of Local Officers and Representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.07	The Conpany will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union Office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI • VACATION WITH PAY
6.01(a) Vacation Pay shall be paid to each eaployee by cheque to be issued at the tine of termination of employment or, at the employee's option, at the tine of lay-off, or when vacation is taken.
5
6.01(b) Each 2% increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time-off.
An eaployee who has worked continuously for one (1) year, mist take his full entitleaent to tiae off, at a tine or tines satisfactory to hinself and his Supervisor.
An eaployee has the right to take his full entitleaent to tiae-off, whether or not he has worked continuously for one (1) year, at a tiae or tiaes satisfactory to hiaself and his Supervisor.
Vacation vyith Pay credits shall be paid on the following
A% of gross earnings for eaployees who have worked less than 800 days.
6% of gross earnings for eaployees who have worked 800 days or sore but less than 2,000 days.
8% of gross earnings for eaployees who have worked 2,000 days or nore but less than 4,000 days.
10% of gross earnings for eaployees who have worked 4,000 days or aore but less than 5,400 days.
12% of gross earnings for eaployees who have worked more than 5,400 days.
Suppleaentary Vacation with Pay -
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60-1 week ( 2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks( 4% of gross earnings)
Age 62-3 weeks ( 6% of gross earnings)
Age 63-4 weeks ( 8% of gross earnings)
Age 64-5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
Days worked for the purposes of this Article shall mean all days worked, pins working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor, and all days on temporary leave of absence on Union business, or on off-the-job training, vacation, Holidays with pay, jury duty, subpoenaed witness and bereavement leave. An eaployee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of days for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
6.02
basis:
(a)
O I
(b)
, J ) ‘ -'■(c)
' (d)
„ I ,1
' (e)
(f)
)
A / i
/ \
6.03
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees who qualify under Section 32.02 shall be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Beaeabrance Day, Christaas Day and Boxing Day.
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred 3nd twenty (120J days worked, as specified in Section 6.03, will be granted two *(2] floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
-An employee who by reason of lay-off is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
7.02(a) An employee, who qualifies under Section 32.02, who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday and does not leave work sooner than two (2) days before the holiday and is ready for work on the morning of the second (2nd) day after the holiday, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holiday unless he quits during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the holiday and is ready for work for the second clay following the holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Company prior to 1 leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and Union either at Camp level or at Management level.
7.02(b) If an employee, who qualifies under Section 32.02 and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence other than as provided in 7.03 when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, provided he returns to work on time, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
7.02(c) An employee, who qualifies under Section 32.02, who is obliged to cease work due to a lay-off during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 30 day period.
7.02(d) An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 21 day period.
• 7 -
7.02(e) If an eaployee who qualifies under Section 12.02 is recalled and works any tine during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.02(f) An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
7.03	A special leave of absence shall be granted to a qualified employee who must travel a long distance to be hone for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive pay for the holidays provided he returns on tine. Any request for such leave of absence must be made to the Camp Foreman no later than December 1st. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control fron returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.04(a) If qualified, a pieceworker will be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding) for the holiday, and a dayworker shall be paid a day's pay at his or her regular rate for the holiday.
7.04(b) A day worker who is requested to work on any holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for the first eight (8) hours of work and at the-rate of double time after eight (8) hours of work, and, if qualified, in addition, shall receive one day's pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday.
7.04(c) A pieceworker who is requested to work on a holiday shall receive his earnings plus one-half day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a
holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01(a) It is the nutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible. To this end it is agreed that periodic meetings will be held between the Company and the Union to discuss the interpretation and administration of this Agreement.	,
8.01(b) It is agreed that no grievance shall be processed which usurps the rights of Management.
8.01(c) It is generally understood that an eaployee has no grievance until he has given his Foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint. This may be done during working hours.
8.02(a) The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act as
• $ •
spokesman for the Committee. In the absence of the Steward the Company will recognize a delegated neither of the Grievance Committee* as spokesaan. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be airy differences between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the foreman in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
STAGE Z • The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or Union Representative with the Division Manager within ninety-six (96) hours, in writing, on forms 'to be supplied by the Union. The Division Manager shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 - The matter shall be taken up by the Officers of the Local Union and/or their representatives with the Woods Manager of the Company or his representatives. Failing a settlement within seVen (7) days, then,
STAGE 4 - The matter shall be referred to the Vice-President, Woodlands of the Company or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union's President or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then,
STAGE 5 * Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to arbitration.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. When such an employee’s
grievance is not processed fron the first stage before he leaves the camp, it mst be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Conpany, the Conpany will immediately notify the enployee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be subuitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. la the event that an enployee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Conpany, the Conpany agrees that the enployee will be reinstated on his Job under terns and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.06	Grievances which involve Conpany policy in respect to interpretation, application, adninistration, or alleged violation of the Agreenent, nay be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this Grievance Procedure.
8.07	If the Conpany has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03 it shall commence at Stage 3 of this Grievance Procedure by the Woods Manager or his representative presenting the natter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlenent within seven (7) days, then the natter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the Vice-President, Woodlands of the Company or his representative. Failing a settlenent within fifteen (35) days, then either party nay within the following fifteen (15) days refer the natter to Arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one (I) nan; these two shall select a third nan who shall act as Chairnan. Either party shall appoint its noninee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nonination. ’This Arbitration Board shall convene and render a decision promptly and such decision shall be final and binding on both parties of this Agreenent. In the event of the failure of the two (2) nen selected by the respective parties to select a third nan as provided above, they shall ask the provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third nan.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties fron mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.09	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreenent and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as subnitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or anend this Agreenent. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power 'to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreenent shall pay all expenses of the nenber of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third nenber of the board.
10
8J]	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be
included in any tine Units in this Article of the Agreeuent,
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE • NO LOCKOUT
9.0)	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the
Union or its aenbers, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X ■ WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall co-operate collectively in inproving safety and first-aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set op and naintain a joint . safety commi ttee in each canp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There-will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-Chairman and a Union Co-Chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate * copies going to the Company Office, the Union Office, and the Canp Bulletin Board.	/
^ *
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his ' work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work tine, for which he shall be paid by [ the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
The Company agrees that it will maintain good work trails, and will also naintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid Man in each canp, such First Aid Man to have proper visible identification.
It is the intention of the Company to maintain its canp access roads in good condition when in use.
10.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency First Aid Kits and 2-way radios at or near work sites and in all vehicles regularly used for the transportation of men.
10.03(a) All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattresses shall be either airfoam, plastifoam, or spring filled mattresses. In construction of new camps, the Conpany agrees to construct all living quarters into suitable rooms housing not more than one (1) employee per roon.
The Company agrees to supply two (?) clean sheets and one (I) clean pillow case per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived at canp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month, and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in a serviceable condition at all tines.
n
10.03(b) It is agreed that the Company will aaintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a TV set where TV programs are receivable, and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets, showers and laundry washing and diying machines. A T.V. Satellite Dish will be installed at all year-round live-in camps. A lockup storage type locker will be provided for each nan in his btutkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employees' cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps.
10.03(c) All bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups, except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10.03(d) The Company agrees that fly control measures shall be carried out at regular intervals during the summer operating season and camp pest control as required.
10.03(e) Night watchmen shall be employed in all major operating camps during the heating season unless an Underwriter approved fire detection and fire warning systen is 'installed.
10.03(f) All night shift workers shall have separate sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical and as arranged on a f /c|mp basis by majority vote.
’"//‘gamp FEEDING
/v'10.04(a) Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable foods shall be handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all tines. Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include, fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
10.04(b) Butter shall be supplied on the tables at all meals and on coffee tables and shall not be mixed with any substitute. Margarine will be made available to employees on request.
10.04(c) Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers allowing self service, for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.04(d) Each nan shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches.
. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked neats and fresh fruit.
A0.04(e) At the request of the Camp Grievance Committee, suitable lunch / buildings will be provided where there are concentrations of men, Such (buildings to be heated during the period October 1st to April 30th and
I?
during the suner nonths shall have protective screens. Hot lunches will be supplied where practical upon request of the Canp Grievance Committee. Only theraos-type containers will be used to transport hot lunches. The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch building for year-round use.
10.04(f) There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
10.04(g) The charge for board and lodging shall be One Dollar and Seventy-Five Cents ($1.75) per calendar day.
10.05(d) It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, recreation and motion pictures. It is understood that the showing of moving pictures will be discontinued where coloured TV is available. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charge for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.05(b) The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons, and smocks, on loan, and other suitable uniform apparel, at cost, and provide, for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing and drying machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
10.05(c) The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee-owned power sans to a maximum of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars (52,500.00). Additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesman's tools normally required by tradesmen will be provided to the full value of such tools while on company property or work sites and as documented by the tool inventory list maintained on file. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employee-owned power S^WS due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their full replacement value. An employee who causes a fire willfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee-owned power saws will be made at canp level between the Company and the Union.
SCALING AND SETTLEMENT
10.06(a) Employees shall be paid every second Thursday.
10.06(b) Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on Thursday pay day or Friday, payment will be made on Wednesday of that week.
13
10.06(c) In instances Of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employees' payroll credit.
10.06(d) A Tine and Earnings Stateaent will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This stateaent will carry coaplete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued Vacation Pay credit, and deductions, covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each caap.
10.06(e) Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of ternination of enplpy-nent by the Conpany or the enployee is rendered the Conpany agrees that every reasonable effort will be aade to make a full settleaent within twenty-four (24) hours after such ternination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.06(f) The Conpany will provide each pieceworker with a nininun of one (1) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips shall be given to each pieceworker at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the wood being noved. Scale slips will provide the following infornation, where applicable: Nunber of cords or nunber of pieces (Tree Length), Riding and/or Walking Bums, Footage of strip or Main Road Cut; and Poor Bush Bonus.
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
10.07	All hand tools and equipnent required on the job will be uade available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operator of equipnent is required by the Conpany to do a ninor mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipnent not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipnent, unless otherwise specified in this Agreenent.
No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipnent owned or leased by himself or by another enployee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.08	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipnent required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1.	Light netal power saw wedges, sane to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (I) fire extinguisher (chenical type)
The Conpany agrees to stock two types of power saw chains, and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the canps and sell then to the enployees at the invoiced cost to the Conpany.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
10.09(a) At each operating canp, a separate building will be provided for the storage of power sows. Said building shall contain sufficient lockers for storage.' In addition, a suitable; separate heated building with work bench, vise and conpressed air will be provided for the repair of power saws. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters. Each employee shall cooperate in maintaining the building in a clean and safe (condition.
10.09(b) The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and nitts.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety pants at twelve dollars ($12), safety boots at twenty dollars ($20), and ballistic nylon type boots at twenty five dollars ($25) below invoice price to the Conpany. and safety gloves and nitts to power saw operators and to persons handling cable at seven dollars ($7) below invoice price to the Company.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Conpany and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
10.09(c) Lunch boxes and thermos bottles shall be issued on loan, to all employees and shall have been sterilized before issue.
CAMP TRANSPORTATION
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of men. Sane to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, equip all buses transporting men with two-way radio, and will have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places. - Factory built buses shall be deemed to include cars, half-tons, and crew cabs. In acquisition of commuter buses, the Company will continue to work on improved features such as seating arrangement, suspension for better ride, storage racks, etc.
10.11	(a) The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred from canp to camp at the Company's request or in the exercise of seniority under the terns of Article XII -Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intention to do so and shall be paid 20c per kilometre.
15
10.11(b) Scheduled working tine lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight tiue rates for dayworkers and the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate per day for pieceworkers, and nornal travel tine, outside an employee's scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight tine rates for dayworkers and the above rates for pieceworkers.
GENERAL
10.12(a) The Company, consistent with its Policy to promote and ensure the safety of its enployees, will not require an enployee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent connunication with such enployee will be maintained by his Supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.12(b) The Company agrees that there will be no shacking or batching by enployees covered by this Agreement, who are eno,ao,ed in producing and delivering operations on its linits and/or work sites, unless mutually agreed to-by the Union and the Conpany.
10.12(c) The Conpany shall provide the Union Steward in each operating canp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.12(d) The Company will supply mechanics, welders, machinists, and electricians with suitable coveralls on loan, and provide for the laundering of sane two (2) per week, free of charge.
10.12(e) Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bush garage shall receive 50( per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate.
Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a main camp or central garage required to perform work of their trade away from a main canp or central garage will be paid 500 per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main canp or central garage.
Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp or central garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paid 500 per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
10.12(f) Town Haul and Town Garage Employees:
(i)	When an employee is required to work more than two (2) hours
overtine, and is in the course of his work at a canp at a regularly scheduled neal tine, such enployee will be provided a meal in the canp cookery.
(ii)	When an enployee at the Town Garage is required to work more than two (2) hours overtime without prior notification, such employee will be provided with a lunch, or arrangements will be made for sane.
10.12(9) The Company agrees to provide Town Haul employees with adequate shower facilities and lock-up type storage lockers at the Woods Garage.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01(a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday \ to Saturday inclusive.	'y' '
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) ^ hoars, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
"The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in daywork jobs on the day shift Monday to Friday
inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees nay be'/ requested to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will .be paid in accordance with Section 11.05(a) for such tine worked. If an eaployee requests to be excused fron working overtime, pemission will not be unreasonably withheld.
11.01(b) for the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a Paid Holiday and the "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.n. that day and end at 7:00 a.n. the day following.
11.02(a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hour:; between the hours of 7:00 a.n. and 5:00 p.n., nealtine excepted.
11.02(b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.n. and 5:00 a.n., nealtine excepted. However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift nay, at the request of the enployees or the Company, and by nutual agreement, be scheduled to connence prior to 7:00 p.n. in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.08(b).
Where by nutual agreement on any operation, it is agreed tfiat Friday night shift connences prior to 7:00 p.n., it shall renain constant and fixed and scheduled accordingly until such tine that it has been nutually agreed to alter or terminate the Agreement.
11.03(a) A night shift differential of forty-five cents (45c) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work. Effective September 1, 1891, shift differential shall be fifty five cents (55c) per nour.
11.03(b) On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of 8 consecutive hours, nealtine exempted, and shall connence at 7:00 a.n. or after. The second shift shall consist of 6 consecutive hours, nealtine excepted, and shall connence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of forty-five cents (45c) per hour. Effective
17
September I, 1991, shift differential shall be fifty five cents (551) per hour.	‘-------
11.03(c) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping tines for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid shall be as follows:
1st Shift 2nd Shift 3rd Shift
Starting Tine (between hours of)
7 a.m.-8 a.n.
3 p.ra.-4 p.n.
11 p.m.-12 p.n.
Stopping Tine (between hours of)
Shift
Diff.
Sept 1/91
3 ,p.m.-4 p.m, 4.
11 p.m.-12 p.m.\' x , 7 a.m.-8 a.m.
NIL
/55d V(
65i
bJ

V
11.03(d) The hours of work for day workers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping tines shall reaain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
1. An enployee nay not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Conpany. Vfhen an enployee's shift schedule is changed by the Conpany during the week, he will be paid at one and one-half tines his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change.
When the enployee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight tine rate provided that there is a break of at least 8 hours between shifts worked.
2. Where starting tines must be staggered due to operational requiresents,	such starting tines for enployees within any
given job classification shall be confined to a one-hour
period.
\ 3. On all operations which are carried out on a two (2) or three (3) shift basis, all such enployees will be scheduled on > K	rotating weekly schedule basis.
11.03(e) If an enployee. who has conpleted his scheduled work week, is required for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, such overtine shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtine work at the regular starting tine and is unable to connence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtine rate as specified in Section 11.05(a) provided he renains available for the four-hour period if so requested by the Conpany., This shall not apply if the enployee is advised of .cancellation prior to the end of his last scheduled shift for that week.
l):03(f) During the period of Hay to August, two shift scarification operations nay connence at 6:00 A.M.
11:03(9) During the fire season, scheduled hours nay be altered to provide for early start up when necessitated by fire hazard ratings, as determined by the M.N.R. guidelines.
It is understood the starting tine nay be advanced by up to two (*) hours except where travel tine is aore than one (1) hour, the uaxiaua advance will be one (1) hour.
11.04(d) A day or Shift worker, who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control shall be paid for one-half day if he Works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if he works more than four (4) hours. ^ ^'a**
A pieceworker who will lose more than one (1) hour of work If or reason of failure of the Conpany to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of the one (1)hour at the rate of feller, Liaber, Tree Length Skidding, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate daywork if so requested by the Company.
In the case of tine lost in excess of one (I) hour for reason of lack of assignment of area to cat, and/or tine required in excess of one (1) hoar to travel to area assigned, payment shall be made for all hours
1ost-	i|	,
11.04(b) A day or shift worker who reports for work at his scheduledJ starting tine and is unable to connence work due to reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting tine, accepts alternate work if so assigned and conaences work when conditions pernit.
If regular or alternate work conaences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be nade and the provisions of Section 11.04(a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift, he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Conpany will connence regular work as soon as conditions pernit.
W'nen the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shift, the tine and one-half provisions of Section 11.03(d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between
shifts. '
Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hoars, such payment shall not be nade for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Conpany gives notice that no work is available a ainiaua of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting tine on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee, he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another enployee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp unit and displaces another enployee, the displaced-eaployee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case nay any such enployee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the
19
canp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be pernitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established locally.
11.05(a) Tine worked by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours per jJay or shift, all hours outside his regular shift, and the first eight | (8) hours or portion thereof on his designated "sixth day" day (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of tine-and-one-half.
Double tine will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on his designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) and on a Sunday.
Overtine work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who nornally [perform the work in the classification requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtine pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
11.05(b) Employees in the classifications specified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
For employees in the job classifications listed above, the hours of
work per day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1)	The regular work day or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shift of eight J8) hours nay be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than two (2) parts provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2)	Tine worked in excess or outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his "sixth" day (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of tine-and-one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3)	An employee in the above listed classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be
(a)	Cook
(b)	Baker
(c)	Second Cook
(d)	Cookee
(e)	Choreboy
(f)	Watchman
20
paid for one-half day if he is available at the start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day if he renains available for the start of the second half of his scheduled shift.
4)	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the orevious week. Scheduled overtine dav or shift for the "sixth day 'or Sunday shall be posted on the "preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping tines shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An enployee nay not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Coupany. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Conpany, he will be paid at one-and-one-half tines his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an enployee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at his regular straight tine rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5)	if an enployee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his "sixth" day or Sunday, he shall be provided a nininun of 8 hours work and be paid at tine-and-one-half provided he renains available if so requested by the Conpany.
6)	When a second shift is scheduled for enployees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of 45£ per hour for each second shift worked. Effective Septenber 1, 1991, shift differential shall be fifty-five cents (55C) per hour.
7)	The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchnen shall be naintained.
11.06	Walking Distance and/or Riding Tine shall not be considered as tine worked. Walking Distance and Riding Tine shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distance and Riding Tine section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.
11.07	An enployee, who is called out for work after completing *hi$ day or shift, or nore than one {1} hour before the start of his day or shift shall receive tine and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight tine. When the call-out for work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid tine and one-half fron the starting tine of the call-out to the scheduled starting tine of bis day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05(a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours work exclusive of the tine worked prior to his starting tine.
An employee who is called out for work on his "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtine rate as set out in 11.05(a), fron the starting tine of the call-out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at the rate of tiae-and-one-half.
21
ARTICLE XII * SENIORITY
12.01(a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in pronotions, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay-off.
12.01(b) An employee who is employed on a full tine basis by the Union shall retain his seniority fot a period not exceeding twelve, (12) nonths. It is agreed, however, that the twelve (12) month period shall be extended for a Farther twelve (12) nonth period if requested in writing by the enployee affected.
: 12.02 Employment of any new employee shall be considered as
probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six-month period. At the end of this period, his seniority shall be established, and he shall be placed on the seniority list in the order of hire.
12.03(a) Seniority will be applied on a Coapany wide basis in recalls, pronotions, transfers fron camp to canp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the conpletion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer to a job, within the same Zone, for which be is qualified, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Coapany, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled in the Zone by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are occasioned by the conpletion of seasonal activities, Company-wide seniority will be applied only when operations continue in other Zones for more than one (1) week, and subject to the following procedure:	otherwise the
zone will be the unit of application of seniority on seasonal layoffs.
An employee wishing to exercise his seniority rights in another zone oust nake application to the Company's Employment Office within the three (3) consecutive work days immediately following the date of layoff, either in person or by letter postmarked during that period, otherwise he forfeits his right to bump on that occasion.
12.03(b) In transfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the enployee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work, the rate specified for Feller-timber (Tree Length Skidding) shall apply, or the rate of the job classification, whichever is higher.
12.03(c) The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII.
Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
It is agreed however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs, unless they apply in writing within the five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this Agreement. Employees accepting the J' posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify, (or further tine as nay be mutually agreed, if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.	\
Once qualified, an employee shall remain in that job for a minimum of three months, unless displaced from that job because of lay-off or the bumping procedure.	;> '
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
12.03(d) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03(c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that a vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit it shall be filled on a Zone basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of notice of lay-off* from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
12.04	In case of lay-off which is to exceed two (2) days, the1 Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company agrees that all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of lay-off as possible.
It is understood, -however, this shall not apply in cases of whole or partial cessation of operations due to forest fires.
12.05	When the approxinate tine of recall is known at the tine of layoff, enployees leaving canp will be inforned of such approxinate date at that time, bat in any case, notice in writing, will be sent to an enployee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required 'to report for work. Enployees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangenents have been nade, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by January 31st of each year an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement. The list will also show each employee's occupation, address, and Company service in days as specified in Section 6.03, as at December 31st of the prior year.
12.07	A list shall be prepared and posted monthly in each camp showing the seniority order of the enployees.
12.08	An employee's seniority shall be broken and his name will be removed from the Seniority list if he:
3.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Quits voluntarily.
Is discharged and not reinstated.
Fails to report for work following recall, as provided in Section 12.05 of this Article.
Fails to return fron a leave of absence on the date specified, unless his return to work is prevented by circumstances beyond
his control.
Retires.	n M .
Is laid off for 'twenty-four (24) months or more. J j "■ \
12.09	An employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date of promotion or transfer, and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of this Article upon proof of Union membership in good standing.
It is agreed, however, that the twelve (12) nonth period shall be /extended for a further twelve (12) nonth period if requested in writing 1 by the employee affected.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment or due to curtailnent of operations, affected enployees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs, in accordance with Article..X1J, to meet the Company's labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company,.
. <V It is understood this does not apply to seasonal lay-offs.
A r ' -
0 '
24 •
12.11 Severance Pav	3V-"
An eaployee with three {3) or more years of service for whoa no job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one weeks pay for each year of completed service since the last date of hire.	-Vt v* •
V-'	'[ ’
Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours at the employee's regular straight tine hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment.
It is understood that an eaployee who chooses to receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee's name will be removed from the seniority list.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have approval of the camp foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS', April 1, 1991)
14.01	For each employee on the payroll who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, tike Company will provide appropriate single or family coverage in/accordance with Blue Cross Drug Plan or its equivalent, and Semi-private Hospital Care Plan.
The Company Will maintain coverage to employees who are off work due to a Workers Compensation claim or a Short Term Disability claim for op to a period of twelve months.
The Company will continue coverage for a laid off employee to the end of the month in which he was laid off. Coverage will resume on the date the employee returns to work from lay-off.
_ r~ ' *
/
ARTICLE XV - LIFE INSURANCE ' '	l , ’
15.01	The Company will maintain a Group Life Insurance Plan to provide $40,000.00 of Life Insurance for each employee while actively employed. The Company will pay 50% of the premium cost and the cost to the employee will not exceed 30d per $1,000.00.
Effective April 1. 1991, Life Insurance coverage will be increased
to $50,000.00.	'
'ARTICLE XVI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY AND LONG TERM DISABILITY
16.01	The Coapany will maintain and pay the preaiun cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy percent (70%)
of weekly earnings (forty (40) hoars tines an eaployee's regular rate) and pieceworkers, forty (40) tines the Feller/Linber hourly rate up to a
I naxinam of four hundred dollars |J400^00) weekly, to commence on the | first day in case of a non-compenSffTP^ccident and after three (3)
•	continuous days froa the commencement of a disability due to a sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a naxinum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
' The naxinun will be increased to four hundred and twenty-five ' dollars S (S425J2^ekly For any employee who commenced Weekly Indemnity
on or afUVApril i; 1991.
*	Effective Septenber I, 1991, the naxinun will be increased to four ,’ hundred and forty five dollars j^^OO^Weekly, and effective Septenber
1 , 1992, the naxinun will be ikftfreSdOto four hundred and sixty five ^ weekly.
16.02	LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN"1 ■'
.	o>&,v-7 ;■<
the Company will maintain and pay the full' cost of a Long Tern | Disability Benefit Plan providing for benefits of 50% of weekly i earnings, (55% effective April I, 1991) payable to age 65 or termination of the disability, whichever occurs first.
ARTICLE XVII - BEREAVEMENT PAY	/ 7	^	'
^ \
17.01	When death occurs to an employee's spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (6) hours at his regular straight tine rate (pieceworkers -eight (6) tines the Feller-Linber Tree Length Skidding hourly rate) for tine lost up to a naxinun of five (5) days. The day of the funeral nust be one of the five (5) days.
When death occurs to an enployee's father, nother, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-raw, son-in-law, daughter-in-law and grandparents, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (6) hours at his regular straight tine rate (pieceworkers - eight (8) tines the Feller/Linber Tree Length Skidding hourly rate) for tine lost up to a naxinun of three (3) days. The day of the funeral nust be one of the three (3) days.
The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the eaployee's scheduled work days lost during this period.
Any clain for bereavenent pay nust be subaitted by the eaployee to the Conpany in writing, along with proof of bereavenent in the enployee's ianediate family.
20
It is understood for purposes of tbis Article, step relatives will be considered the sane as blood relatives.
ARTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY/SUBPOEHAED WITNESS ALLOWANCE	G G *
18.01	In the case of an enployee who is called for jury service or -subpoenaed by the Crown, the Conpany shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight 'tine hourly rate (pieceworkers eight (8) hours based on the Feller-Linber Tree Length Skidding hourly rate) and the payoent he received for jury service. 'The enployee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when asking his clain for such allowance.	,
ARTICLE XIX - DENTAL CARE PLAN	"	,
\ x
19.01	The Conpany will aaintain a dental plan, with participation coapulsory for all enployees, on the following basis:
1.	ELIGIBILITY
Participation in this plan is United to enployees who have accunulated sixty-five (65) days of service with the Conpany. ^
2.	PLAN DESIGN	'
(a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
(b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No.2
(&0S).
Maxinun $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
Effective April I, 1991, the Plan will be anended to provide for the application of the 1989 Schedule of Fees.
Effective Septewber 1, 1991, the Plan will be anended to provide for the application of the 1990 Schedule of Fees.
Effective Septenber 1, 1992, the Plan will be anended to provide for the application of the 1991 Schedule of Fees.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an enployee is off work due to lay-off or Leave of Absence, but in no case beyond the end of the nonth following the nonth in which such absence counenced.
3.	ADMINISTRATION
The Plan will be adninistered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined
in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle fron among service carriers, insurance companies or self administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	PREMIUMS
| The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company. >./
5.	INTEGRATION
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XX * RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN
The Retirement Income Plan (1985) forms part of this Agreement. A description of the Plan is attached hereto for information purposes. Any questions of administration or interpretation of the Plan will be decided based on the full Plan text.
ARTICLE XXI VISION CARE PLAN (Effective April I, 1991)
The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan which will provide for expenses incurred by an employee and/or the employee's covered dependents when recommended by a physician or optometrist as follows:
- frames, lenses, and the fitting of prescription glasses including contact lenses, up to a total of $75.00 per family member, in any two consecutive calendar years.
2S •
•T‘>U	,
1 '
WAGE SCHEDULE
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1993
	Sept. 1/90	Sept 1/91	Sept. 1/92
(a) CAMP SERVICE: PERSONNEL BuiIcook	$17.55	$18.52	$19.54
Cook {1-20men)	18.79	Ip.82	20.91
Cock (20 ien and over)	19.10	20.15	21.26
Cook, Second	18.51	19.53	20.60
Cookee	17.32	18.27	19.27
Night Baker	18.51	19.53	20.60
Watchaan, Canp	17.37	18.33	19.34
Watchman, Night	17.37	18.33	19.34
(b) CLASSIFICATION Bodyman - Mechanic "A" Class	20.98	22.13	23.35
Bodyman - Mechanic "B" Class	19.40	20.47	21.60
Bus 0rivet Canp, Dan, Bridce Construction	17.60	18.57	19.59
Worker (experienced)	17.56	18.53	19.55
Carpenter (qualified)	20.98	22.13	23.35
Chipper Utility Man	18.31	19.32	20.38
Crew Leader, Standard Hourly Rate Plus	.35	.35	.35
Feller, Linb and Top, Tree Length	18.04	19.03	20.08
Fire Patrcl Men	17.16	18.10	19.10
Handyaan	17.65	18.52	19.64
Helper, Bulldozer, Loader, Forwarder	17.30	18.25	19.25
Jackhaaaer Driller y Labourer, General ^Vvv.	17.35	18.30	19.31
	1 17.16	18.10	19.10
Machinist "A" Class *	20.98	22.13	23.35
Machinist "B“ Class	19.40	20.47	21.60
Mechanic Lead,	21.38	22.56	23.80
Mechanic, "A"-)	21.28	22.45	23.68
Mechanic "A" Class	20.98	22.13	23.35
Mechanic, I	19.40	20.47	21.60
Mechanic, II	18.51	19.53	20.60
Mechanic helper "A11 Class	17.72	18.69	19.72
Mechanic Helper	17.32	18.27	19.27
Operator Brush San	17.55	18.52	19.64
Operator, Bulldozer "A"	19.09	20.14	21.25
Operator, Bulldozer "B"	18.47	19.49	20.56
Operator. Cable Skidder fron F.B	18.18	19.18	20.23
Operator, Chipper	18.69	19.72	20.80
Operator, Coupactor	17.60	18.67	19.59
Operator, Compressor	17.75	18.73	19.76
Operator, Crane (with certificate)	19.29	20.35	21.47
Operator, Crane (without certificate)	la. 56	19.58	20.66
Operator, Crane (under training)	18.16	19.16	20.21
Operator, Front End & Overhead Loader	18.25	19.25	20.31
Operator, Grapple Skidder	18.18	19.18	20.23
Operator, T/L Harvester	18.83	19.87	20.96
Operator, Machine Scarification	18.47	19.49	20.56
- 20 •
WAGE SCHEDULE
September I. 1990 to August 31. 1993
Operator, Hydraulic loader
0 I	mounted on slasher
o Operator, Short Wood Harvester k'?/ Operator, Feller Forwarder y/\ Operator, Del iirber
1	, Operator, Limber - Slasher ,j Operator, Machine (Trainee)
.	(far newly hired enployees)
I Operator, Mechanical Slasher
Operator, Outfeed, Processor Manual Operator, Outfeed, Processor Mechanical Operator, Petti bore Soper 30 Operator, Grader Operator, Power Saw, Non Prod.
Operator, Pulpwood Harvester (Under training)
Operator, Relief Operator, Scraper Operator. Screen Plant Operator Skidder (Tree Length)
Operator, Tractor, Crawler Tvoe General Use Operator, Tractor, Wheeled Operator, Mobile Knucltlebooa Loader Operator, Mechanical Feller Powdernan
Saw Tailer, Mechanical Slasher Slasheman, Loader Operator (Automated Slasher)
Top Loader
Tree Plantet
Truck Driver, Four Wheel Drive Truck Driver, Sand Truck Truck Driver, Self-Loader Truck Oriver, Single Axle Truck Driver? Snow Plowing Truck Driver, Steam Cleaner Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Truck Driver, Tandem Axle
Hauling Multiple Trailers Truck Driver, Tandem Axle
Hauling Trailers, Floats Welder, Lead Welder "A" Class Welder I Welder ! I
Welder, Helper Class "A"
Welder, Helper	3
Sept.	Sept.
1/90	1/91
18.25	19.25
18.83	19.87
18.69	19.72
18.69	19.72
18.69	19.72
17.78	18.76
18.25	19.25
18.04	19.03
18.25	19.25
18.25	19.25
18.25	19.25
17,55	18.52
18.44	19.45
18.44	19.45
18.34	19.35
18.04	19.03
18.04	19.03
17.60	18.57
17.16	18.10
18.40	19.41
18.40	19.41
17.52	18.48
17.95	18.94
18.71	19.74
17.60	18.57
18.04	19.03
18.06	19.05
18.06	19.05
18.40	19.41
17.60	18.57
17.95	18.94
17.72	18.69
17.94	18.93
18.31	19.32
18.16	19.16
21.38	22.56
20.98	22.13
19.40	20.47
18.51	19.53
17.72	18.69
17.32	18.27
Sept
1/92
20.31
20.96 20.80 20.80 20.80
19.79
20.31 20.08
20.31
20.31
20.31 19.54
20.52
20.52 20.4) 20.08 20.08
19.59
19.10
20.48
20.48 19.50
19.98
20.83
19.59 20.08
20.10 20.10
20.48
19.59
19.98
19.72
19.97
20.38
20.21
23.80 23.35
21.60 20.60
19.72 19.27
An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees snail be paid his regular Irate plus 30c per hour during the training assignnent.
It is agreed that incentives nay be applied in conjunction with the daily rates which pertain to nechanical operations.
SILVICULTURAL WAGE SCHEDULE HOURLY RATES
Operator, Brush Saw	Sept. 1/90 $17.55	Sept. 1/91 518.52	Sept. 519.54
Tree Planter	17.16	18.10	19.10
Labourer	17.16	18.10	19.10
Crew Leader regular rate plus	.35	.35	,35
PIECEWORK HATES:
CUTTING AITO SKIDDING TREE LENGTH "(Wheeled Skidders - Rubber Tired)
RATES
Rates per tree length piece, butt dianeter measure as per the following schedule:
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
SUPPLEMENT TO PIECEWORKERS	’
A supplement of seventy-three (73d) cents per hour will be' paid to pieceworkers.
MEASUREMENT
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter measurement shall be clearly marked on the butt of each tree length by the scaler.
BONUS
Wo Cutting Bonus in addition to Schedule Rates.
I)0 Poor Bush Bonus to be paid on pulpwood or by-products.
CREW SIZE
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed three (3) at any time.
SKIDDING DISTANCE
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in any strip or
block.
STRIP CUTTING
Every attenpt will be made to assign adjoining alternate strips. If these two strips yield less than thirty (30) cords, each crew member will be paid one hoar at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
The Company will not normally exceed 600 feet when cutting strips. Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in each strip. Exceptions will be dealt with on a local basis.
WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Subsection (c) (Walking Distance and Riding Tine).
SORTING BONUS
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood by species, 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
If further sorting is required, an additional 1,43% or a total of 4.29% of base earnings will be paid.
SKIDWAY PREPARA1 ION
Company will endeavour to clear skidway sites. Where this is done by the crew at Company request, 7.62% of base earnings will be paid.
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC)
SPRUCE AMD BALSAM
Butt
DUm.	Sept.	Sept	Sept.
{cm.)	1/90	1/91	im
JO	0.495	0.522	0.551
12	0.495	0.522	0.55)
14	0.751	0.792	0.836
16	0.984	1.038	1.095
18	1.352	1.426	1.504
20	1.706	1.800	1.899
22	2.098	2.213	2.335
24	2.554	2.694	2.842
26	3.073	3.242	3.420
28	3.624	3.823	4.033
30	4.093	4.318	4.555
32	4.439	4.683	4.941
34	4.753	5.014	5.290
36	5.444	5.743	6.059
38	6.141	6.479	6.835
40	6.944	7.326	7.729
42	7.786	8.214	8.666
44	8.624	9.098	9.598
46	9.751	10.287	10.853
48	11.072	11.681	12.323
50	12.240	12.913	13.623
52	13.266	13.996	14.766
54	14.358	15.148	15.981
56	16.753	17,674	18.646
58	18.232	19.235	20.293
60	19.332	20.395	21.517
62	20.405	21.531	22.7)5
64	21.655	22.846	24.103
66	22.751	24.045	25.387
68	23.840	25.151	26.534
70	24.865	26.233	27.676
72	25.905	27.330	28.833
74	26.948	28.430	29.994
76	27.990	29.529	31.153
78	29.029	30,626	32.310
80	30.062	31.715	33,459
82	31.270	32.990	34,804
84	32.090	33.855	35.717
86	33.110	34.931	36.852
88	33.994	35.864	37.837
90	34.811	36.726	38.746
92	35.625	37.584	39.651
94	36.470	38.476	40.592
96	37.395	39.452	41.622
98	38.277	40.382	42.603
33
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH BATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE - PULPWOOD
JACKPINE
Butt			
Oiam.	Sept.	Sept.	Sept.
(ca.	1/90	lm	im
10	0.375	0.396	0.418
12	0.375	0.396	0.418
14	0.647	0.683	0.721
16	0.936	0.987	1.041
18	1.3)5	1.387	1.463
20	1.666	1.758	1.855
22	2.040	2.152	2.270
24	2.458	2.593	2.736
26	2.920	3,081	3.250
28	3.466	3.657	3.858
30	3.873	4.086	4.311
32	4.129	4.356	4.596
34	4.329	4.567	4.818
36	4.826	5.091	5.371
38	5.368	5.663	5.974
40	5.859	6.181	6.521
42	6.384	6.735	7.105
44	7.012	7.398	7.805
46	7.593	8.0)1	8.452
48	8.189	8.639	9.114
50	8.792	9.276	9,786
52	9.403	9.920	10.466
54	10,011	10.562	11.143
56	10.612	11.196	11.812
58	11.217	11.834	12.485
60	11.823	12.473	13.159
62	12.432	13.116	13.837
64	13.038	13.755	14.512
66	13.671	14.423	15.216
68	14.283	15.069	15.898
70	14.885	15.704	16.568
72	15.500	16.353	17.252
74	16.128	17.015	17.951
76	16.742	17.663	18.634
78	17.352	18.306	19.313
80	17.963	18.951	19.993
82	18.623	19.647	20.728
34 .
	PIECEWORK TREE	LENGTH RATES (HFTRIC1	
	PRICE PER TREE	- ROUGH POPLAR Pill PWOOH	
Butt			
Diam.	Sept.	Sept.	Sept.
(ct.)	1/90	1/91	1/92
14	0.468	0.494	0.521
16	0.713	0.752	0.793
18	1.042	1.099	1.159
20	1.305	1.377	1.453
n	1.592	1.680	1.772
24	1.919	2.025	2.136
26	2.24]	2.364	2.494
28	2.688	2.836	2.992
30	3.172	3.346	3.530
32	3.504	3.697	3.900
34	3.686	3.889	4.103
36	4.107	4.333	4.571
38	4.579	4.831	6.097
40	5.033	5.310	5.602
42	5.496	5.798	6.117
44	5.994	6.324	6.672
46	6.469	6.825	7.200
48	6.987	7.371	7.776
50	7.495	7.907	8.342
52	7.989	8.428	8.892
54	8.489	8.956	9.449
56	9.014	9.510	10.033
58	9.520	10.044	10.596
60	10.031	10.583	11.165
62	10.554	11.134	11.746
64	11.076	11.685	12.328
66	11.605	12.243	12.916
68	12.184	12.354	13.561
70	12.794	13.498	14.240
72	13.433	14.172	14.951
CUTTING AND SKIDDING (FULL TREE)
(Wheeled Skidders - Robber Tired)
RATES
Rates per tree length piece, butt dianeter measure as per the following schedule:
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
SUPPLEMENT TO PIECEWORKERS
A supplenent of seventy-three (73c) cents per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
35 •
CREW SIZE
Crew will consist of a aaxiaua of two (?) nen.
SKIDDING DISTANCE
(1)	Maxima skidding distance 900 feet when skidway placeaent not
adjacent to gravel or brush nat road.
(ii)	Maximum skidding distance 1,200 feet when skidway placeaent
adjacent to gravel or brush nat road.
MEASUREMENT
• Butt diameter Measure to be aade in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diaaeter to be clearly aarked on each butt by the Scaler.
BONGS
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled
rates.
- No poor bush bonus to be paid on pulpwood or by-products.
SORTING BONUS
When, at Conpany request, the crew is required to sort wood, 2.06% of base earnings will be paid.
If further sorting is required, an additional 1.43% or a total of 4.29% of base earnings will be paid.
SKIDWAY PREPARATION
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 7.62% of base earnings will be paid.
WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Payaent for Walking and Riding Tine shall be coaputed in accordance with subsection (c) of the Wage Schedule (Walking Distance and Riding Tiirie).
Oil
i£l
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
CTTTIN6 AND SKI DO I Nr, F1H.I. TUFF EHTFiFn SKmnrm METRIC RATES PER TREE
SPRUCE AND BALSAM
Sept.	Sept.	Sept.
1/90	1/21	1/92
0.339	0.358	0.378
0.513	0.541	0.571
0.737	0.778	0.821
1.016	1.072	1.131
1.278	1.348	1.422
1.575	1.662	1.753
1.915	2.020	2.131
2.308	2.435	2.569
2.720	2.870	3.028
3.070	3.239	3.417
3.330	3.513	3.706
3.566	3.762	3.969
4.083	4.308	4.545
4.605	4.858	5.125
5.205	5.491	6.793
5.839	6.160	6.499
6.466	6.822	7.197
7.312	7.714	8.138
8.306	8.763	9.245
9.179	9.684	10.217
9.949	10.496	11.073
10.768	11.360	11.985
12.562	13.253	13.982
13.672	14.424	15.217
14.498	15.295	15.136
15.307	16.149	17.037
16.238	17.131	18.073
17.093	18.033	19.025
17.880	18.863	19.900
18.647	19.673	20.755
19.430	20.499	21.626
20.210	21.322	22.495
20.994	22.149	23.367
21.773	22.971	24.234
22.545	23.785	25.093
23.454	24.744	26.105
24.068	25.392	26.789
24,833	26.199	27.640
25.495	26.897	28.376
26.107	27.543	29.058
26.720	28.190	29.740
27.353	28.857	30.444
28.044	29.586	31.213
28.708	30.287	31.953
n
(WHEELED SKIPPER)
JACKPINE
Butt			
Diam.	Sept.	Sept.	Sept.
(cm.)	1/90	1/91	1/92
12	0.285	0.301	0.318
14	0.485	0.512	0.540
1$	0.701	0.740	0.781
18	0.985	1.039	1.096
2D	1.251	1.320	1.393
22	1.532	1.616	1.705
24	1.844	1.945	2.052
26	2.188	2.308	2.435
28	2.600	2.743	2.894
30	2.906	3.066	3.235
32	3.096	3.266	3.446
34	3.247	3.426	3.6)4
36	3.619	3.818	4.028
38	4.025	4.246	4.480
40	4.394	4.636	4.891
42	4.788	5.051	5.329
44	5.259	5.548	5.853
46	5.695	6.008	6.338
48	6.141	6.479	6.835
50	6.594	6.957	7.340
52	7.052	7.440	7.849
54	7.508	7.921	8.357
56	7.959	8.397	8.859
58	8.413	8.876	9.364
60	8.866	9.354	9.668
62	9.325	9.838	10.379
64	9.777	10.315	10.882
66	10.254	10.818	11.413
68	10.712	11.301	11.923
70	11.165	11.779	12.427
72	11.625	12.264	12.939
74	12.097	12.762	13.464
76	12.558	13.249	13.978
78	13.014	13.730	14,485
80	13.470	14.211	14.993
82	13.966	14.734	15.544
• 3$
PIECEWORK RATES - MANUAL
Site Prepared: Bare Root Stock
Tubed Seedlings (paper pots)
Sept. 1, 1990 10.5tf/tree 8.54/tree
Site Unprepared: Bare Root Stock Tubed Seedlings (paper pots)
11.5<f/tree 9.5C/tree
Employees on the regular seniority listing may e)ect to work on either the day or piecework wage schedule.^1	/
'	t
POWER SAW RENTAL	j
A day worker using his power saw at Conpany request will be paid a power saw rental of:	eleven dollars ($11.00) per 8 hour day or shift
when felling and 1 imbi 119 and twelve dollars ($12.00) per 8 hour day or shift when bucking at a landing on a skidding operation. The Bucking rate shall also apply to Brush Saw Rental.
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he will be paid one-half day's rental when he works less than four hours and full day's rental when he works uore than four boors.
(c) WALKING DISTANCE AND RIDING TIME
i)	Pieceworkers who walk to work from camp a distance in excess of one and one-half (U) miles shall be paid on the basis of the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate for the time required to walk the excess distance. For the purpose of this Agreement it is agreed that the pieceworker will walk at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
ii)	Where pieceworkers are transported to work from camp, they shall be paid for Riding Time in excess of one-half hour each way at the
rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
iii)	Where a dayworker's travelling tine from camp to working place is composed of riding and/or walking time he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half {h) hour each way at his regular rate of pay.
iv)	Where a pieceworker’s or a dayworker's travelling time from camp to working place is composed of riding and walking time, he shall be paid the rate of pay as per this Agreement for all codiined riding and walking time in excess of one-half (h) hour each way. The walking time based on the rate of one-quarter (^) of a mile equals
five (S) [nitrates shall be added to the riding tine. Travelling time so conpnted shall be credited not less than once each nonth.
(d) The following schedule of cookery personnel is agreed to:
Nimber of Persons
Eating	Cook	2nd Cook	Cookee	Night Baker Total
14 or less	1		_	1
15 - 25	1		1	2
25 • 45	1		2	3
45 - 65	1	1	2	4
65 - 85	1	I	3	5
85 - 105	1	1	4	6
105 125	1	1	5	7
125 145	1	2	6	- 9
OR	1	l	6	1 9
Over 145	1	2	6	1 10
It is agreed that this schedule nay be changed by nutual consent during the tern of this Agree*ent when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced.
SCHEDULE FOR CAFETERIA STYLE COOKERIES (with Mechanical Dishwasher)
Nunber of Persons
Eating	Cook
1-14	1
15	30	1
31-50	1
1
71 - 100	1
101 -	125	1
126 -	150	1
151 -	180	1
181 -	215	l
251 -	285	I
2nd Cook Cookee Night Baker 'Total
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
3
4
5
«
7
8
9
10	. 11
It is agreed that this Schedule nay be changed ny nutual consent during the tern of this Agreenent when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced.
THREE-SHIFT OPERATION:
Where nore than 10 nen and less than 20 nen are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned.
Where 20 or nore nen are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a Second Cook will be added to the cookery schedule and assigned with the cookee at night.
• 40
(e)	COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Coapany on the following terns and conditions:
I.	Coaaoters are eaployees who -
(a)	are resident within reasonable Riding and/or Walking Distance of the area of operations;
(b)	for whoa board and lodging are not nade available by the
Company.
II.	The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated narshalling point or points for each commuting area to the operating areas and return.
III.	Tine spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling on the vehicle provided fron a narshalling point or points to debarkation point or points pins tine spent walking fron debarkation point or points to place of work in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
a)	Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
b)	Pieceworkers on nechanical cat and skid operations shall be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
(f)	TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
A travel	allowance	for each	week of active employment	
eaployees who have		established	seniority shall	be paid as
following	schedule: Sept. 1/90	March	Sept.	Sept.
US IT		13/91	1/91	1/92
45	3.21	9.76	10.35	■ 10.97
134	12.17	12.90	13.67	14.49
234	9.21	9.76	10.35	10.97
329	18.43	19.54	20.71	21.95
418	14.79	15.68	16.62	17.62
515	16.65	17.65	18.71	19.83
517	11.50	12.19	12.92	13.70
601	18.43	19.54	20.71	21.95
603	32.69	34.65	36.73	38.93
Allowances will not be paid to any eaployee where transportation is provided fron a designated narshalling point to a recognized connater operation.
The allowance will not be paid for any fall week that the employee is not at work. Where an eaployee is at work for only part of the week, he will receive the full allowance.
The allowance will not be paid for any week in which an eaployee receives payment for transfer under Article 10.11 (a) and (b).
Allowances for new canps shall be relative to the foregoing and negotiated when such canps becone operational.
1
2 rv V\
TRADE AND APPRENTICE PROGRAM
Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.03(c) (job postings). Eaployees who meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreenent, during which tine the eaployee nay return, or failing to display the necessary aechanical aptitude be returned to his foruer job without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily coaplete the Ontario Apprentice program nay be retained in his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
4.	Once an eaployee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The apprentice nay receive a weekly training allowance fron the goveranent while attending a Trade School Course. The Conpany will supplement this allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly incone equal to forty (40) tines his regular hourly rate of pay. Calculation of the Company's portion will be based on the governnent allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at hone while attending the Trade School.
If the apprentice is required to live away fron hone in order to attend a Trade School, he will receive the Company pay sup-plenent referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the governnent to an apprentice living away fron hone Y/ftile attending School.
An apprentice's entitlenent to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected tv his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
6.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the tine in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he nay write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following his course of studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
• 42 •
7.	If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the tern of his apprenticeship because of acadenic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
MECHANIC
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
Helper
Required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. Shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class "A". A Helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical
tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable enploynent.
HELPER CLASS "A"
He shall under the direction of mechanics of higher classification work on all types of equipment used on woods operations; shall be capable of performing the Following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable enploynent.
MECHANIC M
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall (Hit forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
MECHANIC I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to bin in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
43
He will be required to direct assistants working under bin anil mst ass one full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired Ha« no certificate but has had special trainin9 and/or is assigned on only one type of equipment, he will automatically be rated as Mechanic I.
MECHANIC CLASS "A"
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
MECHANIC CLASS "A" - I
In addition to fulfilling ail of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class "A" and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have had advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment sub-systems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
MECHANIC LEAD
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic Class "A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
A Lead Mechanic works under the direction of his Mechanical Supervisor, and has no authority to discipline or discharge other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
WELDER
Helper
Required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class
'A' . In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.	/}
y * i
HELPER CLASS "A"	r y
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1.	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity of working in other positions.
2.	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any tine during this period be placed in other suitable euploynent.
WELDER II
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
WELDER I
Shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all netals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by hinself; or his assistants.
WELDER CLASS "A"
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with all netals used on woods operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He nist assume responsibility for all work performed by hinself or his assistants.
Heuust be in possession of the necessary trade certificate.
Welders presently employed in this classification will not be reauired to have a Trade Certificate.
WELDER LEAD
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, mist possess the qualifications set out under Welder Class "A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other welders.
Welders presently euployed in this category are not required to have a trade certificate.
TRADESMEN'S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools comum to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to IV1 opening, sockets up to and including V' drive and IV* opening, adjustable wrenches up to 16" in length, banners, chisels, launches and screw drivers. The Conpany agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service without delay, provided that such broken tools are returned. The Conpany agrees to provide tools to tradesaen at cost. The Conpany will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and neasuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over drive, spanners over IV opening.
In the event that the connon tools of tradesaen are required to be in netric neasurenents such tools shall be provided on loan by the Conpany.
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS
AND TRADESMEN
Once each year during the aonth of Novenber, a group which is conprised of the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent, Mechanical Fore-nan and two (2) qualified representatives If the Union will deternine by review whether helpers and tradesnen qualify for up-grading. If in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Divisional Mechanical Soperintendent and Mechanical Foreaan.
- 46
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario this 27th day of September. 199! For:
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED
l.ORHE CRAWFORD_____________ .
FRANK UIRTZ_______________.	.
D. ti, BURN
n. HASKER1NF .	
.1. TAYLOR	
LOCAL 2693, IWA . CANADA	
WCFINTYRE		
J. LORENOWICH	
EZKALEY .	
CHOJKO-BOLFC	
BRUCE FROST .	
JOHN KRAHN .	
KM C. FAVELL .	
CORDON WILLIAMS	
JAMES RYYNAK'EH	
C. L. SEGUIN	
T. ENGSTROM .	
a.A R R I S .	
G. W.. TURK	
BMHKOWSKI .	
VERNON ^.F. THOMPSON	
47
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT Between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations) hereinafter referred to as "The Conpany" and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA hereinafter referred to as "The Union"
The Conpany and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Conpany to increase its work force of employees listed mi the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation) the Conpany nay hire additional enployees to perforn seasonal silvicultural work tinder the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal enployees.
1. Re: Article V - Union Membership
a)	The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall not be required to sake an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
b)	The Conpany shall put these enployees on check-off at the tine of hire and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due then and remit same to the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2. Re:	Article VI Vacation With Pay
For such aforesaid enployees, Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to each enployee at the tine of termination or lay-off from such seasonal employment.
3.	Re: Article VII Holidays With Pay
a)For such aforesaid employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid without the performance of work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee most have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confined illness or accident, in which case the enployee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled ‘to one holiday after the start of such absence.
■JK •
b) The provisions set oat in Section 7.02(b). 7.02(c), 7.02(d), 7.02(e), 7.02(f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
4.	Re: Article X Working and living Conditions
Where Silvicultural work is to be carried oat in isolated areas fron canps and sach areas are not accessible fron communities on a daily rom uter basis, the Company nay set ap suitable tenporary caaps to accomodate such said employees while so engaged.
5.	lie: Article XI - Hoars of Work
[a)	The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week, Monday
to Saturday inclusive.
The Work week for peiceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
It is agreed that pieceworkers nay be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or work week, and will be paid in accordance with the overtine provision following.
The regular work day shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, nealtine excepted. However, at the request of the enployees or the Conpany and by nutual agreenent, the work day of eight (8) hours nay be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period, divided into not nore than two (2) parts, provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between days worked.
(b)	Overtime
Enployees who are requested to work in excess of their scheduled eight (8) hours per day will, in addition to their piecework rates, receive preniun pay for all such overtime hours worked based on one-half (1/2) of the rate calculated by dividing the total trees planted in the scheduled five days by the total hours worked.
fill trees planted by enployees on their designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and/or on Sunday, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1.5) tines the rate.
6,	Re: Article XII Seniority
a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid enployees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, lay-off and rehires. Seniority will govern on a canp basis.
49
b) Employment of any new employees shall be considered probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period, c) A separate seniority list shall be established and aaintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so eaployed. Ibis shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
d) An employee, on the silvicultural seniority list, hired on other production operations will be required ta coaplete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
7.	The provisions set under:
Article XIV - Drug and Hospital Care Plans.
Article XV - Life Insurance
Article XVI * Weekly Indemnity and Long Tern Disability Plan,
Article XVII - Bereavement Pay,
Article XVIII • Jury Duty Allowance
Article XIX - Dental Care Plan and
Article XX Retirement Income Plan
Article XXI - Vision Care Plan
are not applicable for the aforesaid employees
8.	Re:	Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture Commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior 'to commencement of such operations.
Signed this 27th day of September, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD W1LF C I N T V R E
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA * CANADA
Recognition - .Jurisdiction
It will be the Company's policy not to change the present source of supply of wood fibre for its mills, if by so doing it would deprive employees with seniority from gainful employment with the Company.
If, however, during the tern of this agreement dated September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1993, circumstances beyond the control of the Company were to arise and force the Company to alter its supply and affect the employment opportunities for its employees, that volume of supply produced on operations not covered by a Collective Agreement with the Union will be reduced on a proportional basis.
In moving back to former levels of operation, the volume of supply produced on the Company's Woods operations will be increased at least proportionately to the volume of increase of supply from other sources.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORO____________________UKF MCINTYRE
Dated at Thunder Bay, Ontario this 27th day of September, 1991.
Si
February 24, 1986
Mr. Fred Miron President
Local 2693, IWA Canada Dear Nr. Miron:
With reference to the Letter of Understanding pertaining to Recognition-Jurisdiction, it is understood that the purchase wood fibre supply will be United to thirty one percent (within one percent) of the total nill wood fibre supply requirements.
Yours very truly,
1,G. K. Seed”
GKS:dk
G.K. Seed
Vice President, Woodlands Operations Great Lakes Region
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA Re_: _Vocations .with Pay (6.01(b) )
Where problems arise as to period of vacation tine off at a given tine of the year, the natter shall be dealt with and resolved at the operational locations where it exists with the eaployees involved.
The guide which will be applied to resolve such problems, shall be that during the nonths of June, July and August, any employee who is entitled to three (3) weeks or nore vacation tine off, shall be pernitted to have a nininua of three (3) consecutive weeks vacation, if so requested. For the renaining nonths of the year, the employee shall be pernitted to have all of his vacation tine off on a consecutive basis, if so requested. Where scheduling is necessary in order to fulfill the aforesaid understanding, it shall be established with preference given on seniority basis, provided the request has been nade at least two (2) months in advance.
Re:	Working and I.ivino Conditions - 10.03(b)
Air conditioning will be installed in cookeries, and hunidifier systems in Ibunkhouses will be checked and maintained on a regular basis.
Dated at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of September, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD
W1LF MCINTYRE
February 28, 199 i
Local 2693, IWA - Canada P. 0. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario
P7B 5E9
Dear Sir:
Consistent with the Company's policy to ensure to the ntnost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees the Coupany will, provide for suitable cabs with air conditioning on the purchase or lease (excess of 12 nonths } of new bulldozers, loaders, graders, buses and harvesters.
Yours very truly,
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED
"L,G. Crawford"
L. G. Crawford
Manager, Woodlands Operations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693* IV.1 A CANADA
RE:	SENIORITY RIGHTS OF Mi EMPLOYEE IN THE
EXERCISING OF SENIORITY UNDER 12.03 (AY
An employee who has received notice of lay-off nay elect to
(a)	Accept lay-off
(b)	Exercise seniority and "bmp" to another job that is
continuing for which he is qualified, and which is either vacant or filled by an employee with less seniority.
The following conditions shall apply:
(a)	ACCEPTANCE OF LAY-OFF - An enployee is permitted to indicate his desire to be recalled to his regular classification on a coapany wide basis or alternatively be recalled to his former classification and location only, as seniority permits.
(b)	EXERCISE SENIORITY AND "BUMP" - An enployee nay exercise seniority in the following preferential order.
(a)	own classification
(b)	any classification for which the enployee is qualified
(a) Own Classification
If seniority permits, the enployee will bunp the nost junior enployee in his classification in his sane "zone". If none, the enployee will bunp the nost junior enployee in his
classification in a zone of his choice.
/bl Any Classification ffor which the enplovee is Qualified!
If seniority permits, the enployee will bunp the nost junior enployee in the classification selected in his camp. If none, the enployee will bunp tl|e nost junior enployee in his same "zone". If none, the enployee will bunp the nost junior enployee in a zone of his choice.
When an employee is laid off fron his regular position for less than )Z nonths, he has the option of:
(a)	Returning to his regular position, OR
(b)	Reaaining on the bunped position, or a position to which
he has been recalled. In such event that position is considered to be his regular position.
Dated at Thunder Bay, Ontario this 1st day of March, 199].
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR HE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD ._________________ WHF MCINTYRE
July 6, 1988
Local 2693, JWA - Canada P. 0, Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario
P7B 5E9
Dear Sir:
RE: Dental Plan
This letter will confira our understanding regarding the continuation of coverage for an enployee who is off work due to lay-off or Leave of Absence.
This Company's interpretation shall be to the effect that, provided a prescribed course of treatnent has couuenced prior to the end of the month following the month in which lay-off or Leave of Absence has occurred, services provided under the prescribed course of treatnent will be covered under the terns and benefits of the plan.
A course of treatnent is defined as a planned program of one or ■ore procedures or services, rendered by one or nore dentists, for the correction of a dental condition diagnosed by the attending dentist as the result of an oral examination. The course of treatnent begins, on the date a dentist first renders treatment to correct the diagnosed dental condition. (It should be reaenbered that whenever the charges of a dentist for a proposed course of treatnent are expected to be $200.00 or nore, the treatnent program nust be filed (through use of the normal clain form) with the Coapany prior to the connenceaent of the course of treatnent.)
Yours very truly,
J.S. Taylor
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693. IWA - CANADA
RE Licences - Truck and Bus Drivers
The Conpany will reimburse Track or Bos Drivers for tine lost, if necessary, when summed by the Ministry of Transportation and Comnications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of September, 199],
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR TEE UNION:
LORNF CRAWFORD .	_	_	WllF MCINTYRE
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
• between -
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
- and -
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA
Re* Honrs of Work. Cookery Staff
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Collective Agreement covering the above [Article 11:05(b)} employees nay arrange for tine off in lien of overtine pay on the following conditions:
Tine off in lien of overtine pay shall be solely at the option of the enployee.	<-
-	If tine off is taken, it mist be taken at a tine notnally agreeable to the Coupany and the enployee.
-	This provision shall apply only to overtine worked Monday to Friday inclusive, and tine off shall be taken in the week in which overtine has been accnnalated.
SIGNED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 27TH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1991. FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD
UILf MCINTYRE.
<9
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (nnmder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, JWA - CANADA
Re:	Ontario Woodsworkers Disability
Benefit Plan - Section 7(a)
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will nake an application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when the enployee1 s disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the enployee1s physician. If the application is approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the anount of CPP/QPP primary benefit received by the enployee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
Dated at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of Septeaber, ]991.
FOR TEE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
IQRNE CRAWFORD	WILF MCINTYRE
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA
RE: ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK
Not withstanding the specific terms of Article 11 * Honrs of Work, it is understood that the work-week and hours of work may be amended to provide alternative scheduling.
Such alternative scheduling shall not include provision for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a camp by camp basis, and all terns will be subject to agreement between the Union, the Company and the employees involved.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of September, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
IQRNEORD
WILF MCINTYRE
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA
RE: Early Starting Tine (Article XI)
Daring the period of May to August inclusive, two shift access road construction operations nay rnnurnrr at 6:00 a.a.
FOR TEE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LORME CRAWFORD____________________ MILE I N T Y R E
Dated at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of September, 1991.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Tbiijider Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA ■ CANADA
RE: FUEL TRUCK DRIVER [ARTICLE 11:02 -SHIFT SCHEDULE)
It is understood that for purposes of scheduling the Fuel Truck Driver Articles 11.02 (a), 11.02 (b), and 11.03 (b) to read 6:00 a.m instead of 7:00 a.n. and 6:00 p.n. instead of S:00 p.n.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of Septeaber, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD
k'l I FTYRE
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
EARLY STARTING TIMES FOR SITE PREPARATION AND TREE PLANTING
During the months of May, June, July, August and Septenber, tree planting and two-shift operations on site preparation nay coauence work at 6:00 a.a. if agreed to by the individual crews involved.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario this 27th day of Septenber, 1991.
FOR HE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD
J£ILF MCINTYRfr
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Day Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA
Re: Wood Haul Trucks
For purposes of scheduling the Wood Haul, it is understood and agreed that:
I Articles 11.02 (a), 11.02 (b) and 11.03 (b) shall read:
6:00 a.n. instead of 7:00 a.a.
6:00 p.n. instead of 7:00 p.n. and 6:00 a.n. instead of 7:00 a.n.
2. Article 11,03 (d) - 2. shall read: two hour period.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of Septeaber, 1991
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD
nilf minim
ts
ONTARIO VOODSWORKERS GROUP
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
AS AMENDED MARCH 1, 1991
1. DEFINITIONS
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	Employee" Beans a person in the active employment of the Company;
(b)	"Insurer” aeans the insurance conpan^or carrier appointed by the coapanies for the purpose of this Plan;
(c)	"Plan" neans the Ontario Woodsworkers Group Life Insurance Plan;
(d)	"Company" neans the enployer of an eaplpyee who is eligible to participate in the Plan;
(e)	"Insurance" aeans the anount of Life Insurance payable upon the death of the eiployee;
(f)	"Totally Disabled aeans wholly and continuously disabled by sickness or an accidental bodily injury which prevents one froa engaging in any occupation and fron perforaing any work for reauneration or profit;
(g)	"Effective Date" aeans June 1, 1971.
2.	ELIGIBILITY
(a)	All employees of the Coapany, who are neabers or are eligible to becone members of the Local 2693, 1WA - CANADA, shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with 'the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is United to eligible eaployees who have accumulated 6$ days of seniority with the Coapany.
(c)	Participation in this Plan is coapulsory.
3.	APPLICATION TO COMPANY
Eligible eaployees aust subnit a signed application card to their enployer authorizing deduction of the required preaiua. Ihis signed application card oust be returned to the Coapany within 30 days of the Coapany aaking this Plan available or before 65 days of seniority have been accumulated, whichever is later.
u.
4. REQUIRED PREMIUM
Each participating employee will contribute 50% of the preaitm cost or $.30 per thousand per nonth, whichever is the lesser.
5.	AMOUNT OF INSURANCE $40,000. per employee.
Effective April 1, 1991, $50,000 per employee.
6.	COMMENCEMENT OF INSURANCE
(a)	Insurance couuences on the first (1st) day of the nonth following accumulation of 65 days of seniority.
(b)	For a previously participating eaployee returning froa lay-off
or an authorized leave of absence, insurance couuences on the first (1st) day of full tine work.
(c)	Enployees mist be actively at work on the day this insurance
couuences, otherwise the insurance will counence on the date of return to work.
7.	TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
The insurance under this Plan shall terninate:
(a)	When the eaployee's employment terainates.
(b)	Up to the end of the month following the month in which the
eaployee is laid off.
(c)	Up to the end of the month following the month in which the
employee commences an authorized leave of absence.
(d)	The employee is no longer in receipt of disability benefits
under the terns of the Ontario V.'ood$worker$ Disability Benefit plan.
(e)	The employee retires.
8.	CONTINUATION FOR TOTAL IDISABILITY
The insurer of this plan will be required to provide for the continuation of insurance for any "totally disabled" employee whose disability commenced prior to his 65th birthday. This continuation of insurance will not require any premium payments by the employee. Proof of disability, satisfactory to the insurer, must be provided at the request of the insurer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, insurance under this provision will terninate at age 65.
C.7
9. CONTINUATION DURING TOTAL DISABILITY
While an employee is in receipt of benefits under the Ontario Woodsworkers Group Disability Plan he nay continue his group life insurance provided be continues to contribute his share of the preuiun as set out in Section 4.
)0. CLAIMS
At an enployee’s death froa any cause while insured, the anount of insurance shall be paid prouptly to his beneficiary. The paynent and the adjudication of clains are the responsibility of the insurer.
11.	BENEFICIARY
Any eaployee covered by this Plan, nay, subject to the provisions of any applicable law from tine to tine in force, designate a beneficiary to receive any benefits payable under this Plan on his death and nay alter or revoke such designation froa tine to tine.
12.	ASSIGNMENT
No assignment by any eaployee of any insurance to which he nay be entitled under this Plan shall be valid.
13.	INSURANCE CERTIFICATE
The insurer shall issue to the Company for delivery to each enployee covered under the Plan a certificate evidencing the coverage to which he is entitled under the Plan.
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED SHORT TERM DISABILITY PLAN FOR
THUNDER BAY WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
AS AMENDED KAY 38, 1988, JUNE 2, 1988 and MARCH 13, 1991 DEFINITIONS
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided,
(a)	"Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external violent means;
(b)	"Disability" is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer? and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c)	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the
Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Canadian Pacific Forest Products Limited, and local 2693, IV,'A - Canada;
(d)	"Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the Company;
(e)	"Plan" means the Canadian Pacific Forest Products Limited Short Term Disability Plan for Thunder Bay Woodlands Employees.
(f)	"Company" means the Canadian Pacific Forest Products Limited;
(9) "Weekly Earnings" mean, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hours x his regular rate; for a pieceworker "Weekly Earnings" mean 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
(h)	"Medical Practitioner" means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
PARTICIPATION
(a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate
in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have
accumulated 4$ days of seniority with the Company.
3. AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefit shall be 705i of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 (9) iMediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $425 ($445 September 1, 1991 and $465 September 1, 1992). The weekly maximum will not be less than the anount payable for such week under the Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 and its Regulations as amended.
4. ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT
(a)	(i) Except in the case of a disability arising out of an
accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an anount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of the disability, or beginning on the first day of hospital confinement as a bed patient, if earlier.
(ii)	In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an eiripfoyfee shall be elioible to receive an anount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(Hi) Disputed W.C.B. Clai«
If an employee covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B., Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity flan. if the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an anount if disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or Insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after lay-cff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual lay-off or termination.
{e) An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of lay-off and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date he is required to return to work.
(f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full tine.
(g)	An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, ot
(ii)	Disability or loss (!) while the protected person is on or could be on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if a protected person fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes, or
(iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee ' to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iv)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
{v) Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
(vi)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
(vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case
of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for paynent of benefit for op to a naximun of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
(viii)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by 'the insurer and a physician.
(h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or core than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, or other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company pension plan.
(j)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of the disability.
(k)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent disability provision for the Company pension plan.
5.	PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
(a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	A daily rate of paynent for each calendar day of absence that
qualifies for paynent shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(c)	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week.
Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
(a)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to become eligible under this Plan, as set out in
Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	If an employee who has been covered under the terns of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should lay-off occur during this period.
7. GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS
(a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives unde) the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan., or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workmen1s Compensation disability pensions.
(b)	The company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
(c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case nay be through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATION'S
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9.	ADMINISTRATION
(a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
(b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to
determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the Company nay then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
73
(c)	Hie Coapany will meet the representatives of the Union from
tine to tine, for purposes of discussing the administration of the plan and any problems which nay arise.
(d)	Should an enployee or the Union have any coaplaint concerning
entitlenents to benefits under the Plan, the natter nay be taken up as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreeaent, cormencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the nerits of the grievance.
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR THUNDER BAY WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES AS AMENDED MAY 18, 1986, JUNE 2, 1988, and MARCH 13, 1991
1.	DEFINITION
In this plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	"Disability" is a disability preventing an employee from performing any and every doty of any occupation for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience, arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this plan;
(b)	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Canadian Pacific Forest Products Limited, and Local 2693, JWA - CANADA;
(c)	"Insurer1 means the insurance company or carrier appointed
by the Company;
(d)	"Plan" means the Canadian Pacific Forest Products Limited Long Term Disability Benefit Plan for Thunder Bay Woodlands Employees;
(e)	"Weekly Earnings" mean, in the case of a day or shift worker 40 hours x his regular hourly rate; for a pieceworker "Weekly Earnings" mean 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
(f)	"Company" means Canadian Pacific Forest Products Limited.
2.	PARTICIPATION
(a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate
in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have
accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3. AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefits shall be 50% of an employee's weekly earnings (as defined in Section I (e)), innediately
preceding the date of disability (55% effective April 1, 1991)
payable until the earlier of recovery, or attainment of age 65.
ELIGIBILITY FOR PAVHEHl
(a)	An eaployee shall be eligible to receive an anount of disability benefit after 52 weeks of weekly indemnity entitlement for the sane' disability under the Company's Short Tern Disability Benefit Plan.
(b)	An eaployee absent fron work and in receipt of an anount of disability benefit, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the eaployee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Conpany and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(c)	An eaployee shall not be eligible for an anount of disability benefit under this plan unless he is actively eaployed by the Conpany at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active eaployaent.
(d) In the event of a lay-off, an employee who is insured under the terns of this plan shall be considered as still employed for purposes of this benefit up to the end of the policy month next following the policy month in which the employee was laid
off.
(e)	An eaployee making a claim for an anount of disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Conpany and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an anount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied ly a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual lay-off or termination.
(f)	Successive periods of disability separated ly less than six consecutive months shall be considered one period ‘ of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment cm full time.
(g)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
(i)	Any injuiy arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iii)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or froa participation in riot or civil commotion, 01
(iv)	Disability for which the enployee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholisn or Drug Addiction, unless the enployee is undergoing a recognized course of treatnent by a specialist in the care and treatnent of alcoholisn and drug addiction or the enployee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatnent approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
<h) An aaount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of any enployee, if early retirenent was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the enployee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(j)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be payable,
(i)	while the enployee is on or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or
(ii)	if an employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to neet the length of service requirenents, during the Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such Leave, in accordance with the Enploynent Standards Act 1974, Ontario, or any other relevant provincial statutes.
5.	PAYMENT CF BENEFITS
(a) The daily rate of paynent for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for paynent shall be one-seventh the weekly aaount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof. Paynent of such benefits will be aade in accordance with Section 5(b) below.
(d)	Disability benefits will be paid aonthly in arrears. Ihe aonthly benefit is equal to 4.33 tines the benefit under Section 3 hereof.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
(a) An enployee absent due to disability or on an authorized leave of absence, on the date he was to become eligible under this
plan, shall, upon the date of his return to active enploynent, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b) If an employee who has been covered tinder the terns of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered tinder the terns of this plan to a naxinon of 31 days.
7.	GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS,
INCLUDING WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION
(a)	The anonnt of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the anount of prinary benefits for which an enployee is eligible under the disability benefit provisions of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan or sinilar provisions in any other Govemnent plans for disability, including Workmen's Compensation benefits, for the sane disability which the enployee is receiving an anount of disability benefit under this plan, except for War Disability Pension, Workmen's Conpensation Disability Pension, and except for increases in government benefits occurring 12 aonths or nore from the date of the first benefit paynent;
(b)	The Conpany and/or insurer nay require certification or
verification of the anount of incone from the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans;
(c)	The anount of disability benefit in excess of the anount which
should have been paid nay be deducted froa the anount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the enployee to the Conpany and/or insurer, as the case nay be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
Hie Conpany and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence doe tc disability. Such exaninations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Conpany and/or insurer:
Cost of physical exaninations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Should the enployee so desire he nay seek the opinion of a doctor of his choice; should the diagnosis of his doctor not be in agreement with that of the physician designated by the insurer and/or Conpany, a physician, who is a practicing specialist of the disability in question, satisfactory 'to the parties, shall render a final and binding opinion.
It is understood that in the event an initial application for benefits is denied by the Insurer, the provisions of Section 8
78
pertaining to farther nedical opinions will be nade available to the employee.
9.	REHABILITATION
An employee receiving an anount of disability benefits under this Plan nay be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee1 s doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	ADMIIIISTRATIMr
(a) It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him;
(b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the plan, and the Company will forward the claim forms to the insurer for adjudication and processing.
(c) To assist the insurer in the proper adjudication and processing of claims, the Company and/or insurer nay establish claims control procedures.
(cf) Should an employee or the Union have any complaint concerning administration of the Plan, the natter may be taken as a Grievance as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN (1985) FOR THUNDER BAY WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES OF
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED As Amended May 18, 1988, June 2, 1988, and March 13, 1991
1.	Definitions
(a)	"Company" means Canadian Pacific Forest Products Linited
(b)	“One Year of Continuous Service" means service on the payroll of the Company totalling 200 work days or rare (as specified under Article 6.03 of the Collective Agreement) from the last date of hi re
(c)	"Employee11 means a person who
(i)	is (eaployed in a fall-tine regular position including pieceworkers but excluding employees hired under the Silvicultural Addenda;
(ii)	is on the Company's hourly payroll, and
(iii)	is a nenber of local 2693, IWA * Canada.
(d)	"Member-" Beans an Eaployee who has fulfilled the eligibility and
enrollment requirements of Section 4.
(e)	"Member's Account" aeans all contributions by the Meaber and the Conpany on behalf of the Meaber, plus investment earnings.
(f)	"Retirement Plan" aeans this Plan to provide retirement income benefits for Thunder Bay Woodlands Employees of the Coapany.
(g)	"Plan Trustee" ueans the trustee and/or insurance coapany appointed *>y the Coapany to be the administrator of the Plan and custodian of the Plan's assets.
2.	The parties of this Agreement agree that there will be no change, suspension or discontinuance of the Retirement Plan for the life of this Agreement, except through autual agreement by the parties to this Agreement or through government legislation. If, at any time, it shall be necessary or appropriate to sake any revisions in the Retirement Plan to obtain or retain any acceptance or approval by tax authorities or to comply with any applicable law, the Company will amend the Plan accordingly to comply.
3.	The conditions and provisions of this Retirement Plan will be embodied in the text of the Retirement Income Plan for Woodlands Enployees.
4. Eligibility and Enrollment
Each Employee in active service and each Enployee who is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement on September 17, 1985 , shall join Part A of the Retirement Plan on that date provided he is then at least 25 and has completed at least One Vear of Continuous Service.
Each other Enployee at Septenber 17, 1985, anc each Employee hired thereafter, shall join Part A of the Plan on the January 1st coincident with or next following the attainment of age 2o and completion of One Year of Continuous Service, provided he is then an active Enployee or is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement.
Effective May 18, 1988, an employee who is not yet a member of the Plan shall join Part A of the Plan on the January 1st coincident with or next following the completion of one year of continuous service, provided he is then an active Employee or is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement.
5,	Contributions	. .
(a)	Part A - Mandatory	*
The Company will contribute $45.00 for each calendar month, to a" maximum of $$4Q,GQ in a year, for which the Member receives pay for time worked, or is on weekly indemnity, long term disability, worker's compensation (first 12 months only), vacation, jury duty, bereavement, maternity or is on temporary leave of absence on Union business or off-the-job training. Contributions will commence for the pay period which ends the later of September 17, 1985 or the date the Employee becomes a Member.
Effective April 1, 1991, the Company contribution will be $55.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $660.00 in a year.
(b)	Part B - Voluntary
(i) Employee Contributions
A Member may elect to contribute to the Plan, at the rate of $45.00 for each^caTencTaT month, to a maximum of $540.00 in a year. The deduction will be Made only if the Member qualifies for the Company basic contribution under Part A for the pay period and has sufficient net earnings from the Company during such period from which the deduction nay be nade.
Once the Member begins to contribute, payroll deductions will automatically continue until the Member's Normal Retirement Date unless the Member files an election to stop contributions. Member contributions may be stopped or started on any January 1st. Employees who become Members at September 17, 1985 may elect to begin contributions on that date.
■ SI -
Effective April ], J991 the Employee voluntary contribution will be $55.00 for each calendar nonth, to a maximum of $660.00 in a year.
(ii) Company Match
The Company will contribute $45.00 for each calendar nonth that the Menber nakes a contribution under paragraph (b)(i) above.
Effective April 1, 1991, the Company will contribute $55.00 for each calendar nonth that the Menber nakes a contribution under paragraph (b)(i) above.
Conpany and Menber contributions nay not be withdrawn fron the Plan
the Member is eaployed with the Coupany.
fietirement Oates
Normal Retirement. - The Normal Retirement Date is the first day of the month following the Member's 65th birthday.
(b)	Early Retirement • Early Retirement will be permitted at the election Of the Member on or after the first day of any nonth following attainment of age 55.
7.	Retirement Benefits
At retirement, the Member's Account will be used to provide a pension payable monthly for life. The amount of annual retirement benefit payable to the Member will depend on the value of the Member's Account, the Member's age, the form of payment chosen, and the prevailing interest rates at retireuent. Prior to retirement, the Member may elect one of the following forms of pension depending on which one best suits his situation:
(a)	Life Only
(b)	Life guaranteed 5, 10 and 15 years
(c) Joint and 50% Survivor	^ C? V '
(d) Joint and ]00% Survivor	'
Pensions will normally be provided through the purchase of a life annuity fron a life insurance conpany licensed to transact business in Canada.
8.	Termination of Employment	/•
Company contributions are araagijjtely vested in each Member. Thus, when a Menber terminates employment the Menber remains entitled to the full value of the Member's Account.
The Member's Account is lock-in and must be used for the provision of retirement income. Upon termination of employment for reason
other than death or retirement, the Member's Account must be transferred from this Plan to one of the following, as elected by the Member:
(a)	the pension plan of a subsequent employer, provided that such employer accepts the transfer and agrees to administer it on a "locked-in" basis; or
(b)	a personal 11 locked-in" registered retirement savings plan.
"Locked-in" means that the funds and interest earnings thereon must eventually be used to purchase a pension, payable for life, from a life insurance company.
As anexception, the Member's Account will be paid in a lump sun cash settlement if such Member has less than 1 years participation in the Plan at the date of termination.
9. Transfers fn
A person who becomes an Employee of the Company nay elect to make a single lump sun transfer of monies to this Plan from a tax-sheltered pension plan of his prior employer. The amount transferred to this Plan will be administered in accordance with the rules of this Plan.
Such Employee will be considered a new hire for purposes of enrollment in the Plan and eligibility for Company contributions.
10.	Death ]n Service
Each Member will be required to designate a beneficiary at enrollment date. If the Member dies while employed by the Company, the Member's Account will be paid in a lump sun to his named beneficiary or, in the absence of a valid beneficiary designation, to his estate.	, ^
11. Administration	^ - j
The Company will be responsible for all aspects of the Plan administration and will pay the cost of adninistering the Plan. Individual employee statements will be prepared and distributed annually by the Plan Trustee showing the Member's position in the Plan.
S3
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thtmder Bay Woodlands Operations)
AND
LOCAL 2593, 1WA - CANADA
RE:	PIECEWORK OPERATIONS
The Conpany will naintain separate operating areas for daywork and piecework harvesting operations.
Transportation separate fron dayworkers will be supplied for pieceworkers.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 27th day of September, 1991.
FOR IRE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LORNE CRAWFORD	WI1F MCINTYRE
,SJ •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED (Thunder Bay Woodlands Operations)
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA
RE: ALTERNATE WORK-WEEK AND WORK-DAY SCHEDULING
It is understood that this Agreement is supplementary to the Collective Agreement between the parties, and is intended to cover the special conditions arising from the re*arrangement of work-week and work-day scheduling.
A.	GENERAL
1.	Alternative Work-Week and Work-Day Scheduling will be introduced as described herein on a trial basis at Camp 45, on a date mutually agreed to by the parties.
2.	There v.'ill be an initial trial period of three {3) months duration. During this time, either party nay request a meeting to discuss any problems that nay arise in the operation of this Agreement. At the end of the three (3) month trial period, the parties agree to review these arrangements for the purpose of either continuing or terminating the special Agreement.
3.	Once implemented on a continuing basis following the trial period, either party nay terminate this special agreement upon giving the other party at least fifteen (15) days written notice of th'eir desire to terninate the arrangement.
B.	ALTERNAJIVE WORKWEEK SCHEDULING
It is understood that alternative Viork-Woek Scheduling will apply only to operations being carried out on a regularly scheduled Z-shift basis, truck hauls excepted.
The following provisions of the Collective Agreement, and all other Letters of Understanding etc., between the parties, shall be amended as follows as applicable only to those employees assigned to the alternative schedule:
■
(a)	11.01(a)(2nd paragraph)
It is understood the Work Week for night shift workers assigned to the aodified work week schedule shall be forty (40) hours per week, ten hours per day, Monday to Thursday inclusive.
(b)	NiQht Shift Schedule m:03fbl)
It is understood the "Night Shift" or "Second Shift", for eaployees assigned to Modified shift scheduling, shall consist of ten (10) consecutive hours, nealtine excepted, and shall conence prior to
7:00p.n.
(c)	Shift Schedule.
Eaployees shall nornally be assigned to the following shift schedule and scheduled hours of work:
	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT	SUN
WEEK L DAY NIGHT	A- 8 B-]0	A- 8 BIO	A- 8 e-1 o	A- 8 B-10	A- 8 1	X I	X I
WEEK 2 DAY	B- 8	00	B- 8	00 CO	1 CO 00	V	s
NIGHT	A-10	A-I0	A-10	A-10	1	I	X
During any week in which a Paid Holiday falls, the shift schedule nay, at the option of the employees, be scheduled in the normal Banner (i.e. - five eight (8) - hour shifts).
(Re: 11:03(d), it is understood that Supervision shall ensure night shift eaployees are advised of any deviation froa usual shift schedule when schedule is posted in canp on Thursdays.)
{11.03 (a), 11.03 (b))
Shift Differential shall be paid in accordance with the Agreenent,
i.e., on "night" or "second" shift.
(e)	Reporting Pav (31:04(a) & 21:04(b)}
it is understood for employees scheduled on regular ten (]0) hour shift, 'one-half day" shall be interpreted as five (5) hours pay "full day' shall be interpreted as ten (10) hours pay and wherever "four (4)" appears, this shall be read to mean "five (5)".
(f)	Overtime {11:05(a)}
For employees scheduled on regular ten (10) hour shift, time-and-one-half shall apply for all time worked in excess of ten (10) hours per shift, and for all hours outside of his regular scheduled hours of work. Double time will be paid after ten (10) hours of work on an eaployee's designated day off and on a Sunday.
(9) Call-In (11:07)
For an employee who is on a regularly scheduled ten (IO) hour shift, who is called in, and who continues to work into his shift, 13:C5(a) shall apply after the employee has completed ten (10) hours work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
2.	VACATION WITH PAY ARTICLE VI
For purposes of this Article, an employee who is working the "night or second shift” on the modified shift schedule, shall be credited with five (S) days in any week in which the four (4) regular shifts are 'worked" in accordance with the provisions of Article 6:03. An employee who has worked three (3) or less days in the week shall be credited with actual days worked.
3.	HOLIDAYS WITH PAY - ARTICLE VII
(a)	Qualified employees not working on a Holiday shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay.
(b)	An employee requested to work the 'second shift" (10 Hours) on any
holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first ten (10) hours of work, at the rate of double tine after ten (10) hours of work, and if qualified, in addition shall receive eight (S) hours pay in lieu of the holiday.
(c)	Notwithstanding the scheduled shift hours, an employee granted a
floating holiday shall receive eight (8) hours pay.
4.	BEREAVEMENT PAY - ARTICLE XVI1
For Employees on modified shift scheduling, this clause will be administered on the basis of payment for each regular shift missed (either eight (8) hours or ten (10)hours), but in no event shall the total paid exceed forty (40) hours pay in the case of death of spouse or children, nor exceed twenty-four (24) hours pay in the case of death of other specified family members.
87
JURY DDTY/SUBPOENAED WITNESS ALLOWANCE - ARTICLE XVIII
Employees will be paid the difference between paynent received for snch duties and their regular pay they would have received for each scheduled shift lost, either eight (8) or ten (10) hours.
NOTE:	These special arrangeaents, where applicable, are subject to
approval of the Director appointed under the Eaploynent Standards Act of Ontario.
SIGNED AT THUNDER RAY, ONTARIO, THIS 27TH DAY OF SEPTEMBER,
1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LORNE-nmiD-
UILF MCINTYRE