DRYDEN WOODLANDS OPERATION
and
;OMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
October 1,1993 to September 30,1998
00034 (04)
1993-1998
AGREEMENT
between
AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
OCTOBER1, 1993 TO SEPTEMBER30,1998
2
INDEX
Page
Adjustment of Grievances Bereavement Pay Bulletin Boards Commuters Dental Plan
Drug and Hospital Care Plans Floating Holidays Handicapped Workers Holidays With Pay Hours of Work
Jury Duty- SubpoenaedWitness Allowance
Life Insurance
Long Term Disability
No Strike - No Lockout
Period of Agreement
Piecework Rates- Tree Length
Piecework Rates- Full Tree
Power Saw Rental
Purpose
Rates and Classifications
Recognition- Jurisdiction
Retirement Income Plan
Safety Apparel Subsidies
Scaling and Settlement
Seniority
Shift Differential
Short Term Disability
Silviculture- Addendum to Agreement
-	Rate Schedule - Hourly
-	Rate Schedule - Piecework Tools and Equipment
16
46 43
56, 96
47
43 13 56 13 30 47
44
45,10£
20
5
61
65
55
4 7
5
49,117
27
25
38,82
32
44,95
87
55
55
26
3
ransportation
nion Membership
acation With Pay
ision Care Plan
/age Schedule
/orking and Living Conditions
Letters of Understanding Re:
rotected List
oad Construction
lechanicai Breakdown
lepartmental Seniority
ob Security - TechnologicalChange
'iecework
lilvicuiture
equipment Cabs- Operator Comfort
icences - Truck and Bus Drivers
lours of Work - Cookery Staff
Short Term Disability Benefit Plan - Section 7(a)
iar Falls Commuters
Other:
Short Term Disability Benefit Plan .ong Term Disability Benefit Plan Retirement Income Plan
28
8
11
49
52
20
73
78
80
82
85
86
87
92
93
94
95
96
99
109
117
A
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
ARTICLE I- PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the
Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in this agreement, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustment of all disputes that may arise between the Parties. I is recognized as a duty of the Parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
The use of masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
5
RTICLE II - PERIOD
01	The Collective Agreement will be renewed for a
jriod of three (3) years, October 1, 1993 to September 30, 1996, ■Mowing which the Agreement will be re-opened for the sole jrpose of negotiating general wage increasesonly for a further two I) year period from October 1,1996 to September30,1998,
All other provisions of this Collective Agreement iking effect on October 1, 1993 will remain effective up to and eluding September 30, 1998, and from year to year thereafter nless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in hich case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify te other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days priorto October 1 st f the particularyearthat such is its desire. Either party opening the greement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, i writing, as to the changes desired.
iRTICLE III - RECOGNITION-JURISDICTION
.01	(a)	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole
ollective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are ngaged in woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of re Company. For purposes of this article, Company employees hall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the /age schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, icluding those who are employed on job classifications which may >e established and become part of the attached wage schedule luring the term of this Agreement.
1.01	(b)	The employees of contractors engaged by the
Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be :onsidered employeeswithin the terms of this Agreement; save and
6
except the employeesof contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged foi the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a union or unions affiliated with s central labour body covering such work.
3.01	(c)	The Company and the Union agree that an
operator who enters into a third party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and producesforest products for the Company or any of the negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.01	(d)	There shall be no change in the method by which
contractors maintain their equipment. Mechanical work shall be performed by members of Local 324. This shall not apply to specializedor warranty work.
Specialized work is work that the employees do not have the ability or facility to perform.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involves physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in
7
cordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of
■itario.
RTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
01	The wage schedule is attached hereto and forms a irt of this Agreement.
02	If during the life of this Agreement a significant lange in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the iached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by rgotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement e mattermay be referredto Stage3 of the Grievance Procedure.
03	When changes are to be made in operating ethods, including major alterations in established work patterns quiring the establishmentof new job classifications, the Company II give the Unionat least thirty (30) days advance notice in writing.
During the 30-day period prior to the iplementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the ompanywill meetwiththe Unionand discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications the Company shall >t temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison ith prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the /age Schedule.
Following the implementation of such changes, egotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting om such changes shall commence without delay.
8
After agreement is reached such rates sha become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
In the event that the parties do not read agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30 days of the effective date of the change or alteration, the matter ma' be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The SO-da* period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
New rates, when established, shall be retroactivi to the date of establishment of the new Classifications.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a jol
classification is or becomes part of the attached Wage Schedule the Company will not change the method of payment for such jol classification from daywork to piecework or vice versa if such i change adversely affects the average earnings of the employee: concerned.
ARTICLE V- UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its
employees covered by this Agreement becoming members of thf Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafte provided.
5.02(a)	Any employee who is now a member in gooc
standing or who becomes or is reinstatedas a member of the Unior shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain sucl membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union suspending a.member, th( Company shall be notified by the Union, in writing, of the date ofthi
9
jspension and the Company agrees to discharge the employee ithin seven (7) days of the date of notice of suspension.
02(b)	When hiring new employees the Company will,
ter complying with Article XII - Seniority, give preference to ommunication, Energy and Paperworkers Union members who jply and are capable of doing the work required of them. If Union embers are not available the Company will hire non-Union persons. he Company agrees to advise the Union from time to time of its bour requirements. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward ith a list of new employees arriving in camp each week.
02(c)	New employees shall make application to join the
nion when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union teward, Official or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring Wise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, I report to the Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. allure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be ause for immediate termination of employment.
•02(d)	The Company shall put employees on check-off at
le time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's monthly lembership dues from monies due him.
.03	Representatives of the Union carrying proper
redentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection /ith Union business as it pertains to Company operations. Credentials carried by the Union representative shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Jnion. Representatives shall present their credentials at the Woodlands Office in Dryden, Ontario, and will be issued Company •asses, On arrival at camp the Union representative will report to he Camp Supervisor. Said representatives to be provided board
10
and lodging, if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.04(a)	The Union shall furnish the Company with a list of
local officers and representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.04(b)	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory
personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
5.06	The Company agrees for an individual employee who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, to deduct upon his written request, union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5.06	Remittance of all deductions shall be sent to the local Union: said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order in duplicate of names with Christian names where available and amounts by camp. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month.
5.07	The Company agrees to include on each employee's income tax slip (T-4) the amount of Union Dues deducted in the calendar year.
11
RTICLE VI -VACATION WITH PAY
.01(a)	Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by
heque to be issued at the time of termination of employment or, at le employee's option, at the time of lay-off, or when vacation is iken.
•01(b)	Each 2% increment of Vacation Pay entitles an
mployee to one (1)week of time-off,
An employee who has been continuously employed sr one (I year, has the right, and is expected to take his full ntitlement to time off, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and lis Supervisor.
An employee has the right to take his full intitlement to time-off, whether or not he has worked continuously or one (1) year, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
>.02	Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid on the
ollowing basis:
(a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than 800 days.
(b)	6% of grosseamingsfor employees who have worked 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days.
(C)	8% of gross eamingsfor employees who have
worked 2,000 days or more but less than 4,000 days.
12
(d)	10% ofgrossearningsforemployeeswho	have
worked 4,000 days or more but lessthan 5,400 days.
(e)	12% ofgrossearningsforemployeeswho	have
worked 5,400 days or more but lessthan 6,500 days.
(f)	14% of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than 6,500 days.
(g)	Supplementary Vacation with Pay-
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 -1 week (2% of gross earnings)
Age 61 - 2 weeks(4% of gross earnings)
Age 62 - 3 weeks( 6% of gross earnings)
Age 63 - 4 weeks( 8% of gross earnings)
Age 64 - 5 weeks(10% of gross earnings)
6.03	Days worked for the purposes of this Article shall
mean all days worked, plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor, and all days on temporary leave of absence on Union business, or on off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty, subpoenaed witness and bereavement leave. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of days for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
13
RTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
.01	Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall
e paid without the performance of work for the following holidays: lew Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic loliday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, :hristmas Day and Boxing Day.
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it hall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred nd twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating olidays per year. Such holidayswiU be taken at a time satisfactory 3 the employee and h is supervisor.
An employee who by reason of lay-off is prevented rom taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such lolidays.
If an employee has any floating holidays remaining in Decemberlst, he may electto take pay in lieuoftime off.
'.02(a)	An employee, who qualifies under Article XII,
Section 12.02, who works any of the available work days within the hirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday and does not eave work sooner than two (2) days before the holiday, and is ready 'or work on the morning of the second (2nd) day after the holiday, jnless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances Deyond his control, shall receive pay for the holiday unless he quits juring the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday.
14
An employee, who desires to leave prior to thi holiday and is ready for work for the second day following th( holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Corhpan; prior to leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed t< between the Company and Union either at Camp level or a Management level.
7.02(b)	If an employee, who qualifies under Section 12.0;
and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30] days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave oi absence other than as provided in 7.03 when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during hie absence, provided he returns to work on time, unless his return tc work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
7.02(c)	An employee, who qualifies under Section 12,02,
who is obliged to cease work due to a lay-off during the thirty (30) day period immediately priorto the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 30 day period.
7.02(d)	An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02,
who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 21 day period.
7.02(e)	If an employee who qualifies under Section 12,02
is recalled and works any time during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
15
•02(f)	An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02
ind is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time 'ft for any holidaysoccurring within such vacation period.
'.03	A special leave of absence shall be granted to a
lualified employee who must travel a long distance to be home for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive pay for the lolidays provided he returns on time. Any request for such leave of ibsence must be made to the Camp Foreman no later than Jecember 1st. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances leyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid or the holidays.
'.04(a)	If qualified, a pieceworkerwill be paid at the rate of
:eller (Tree Length Skidding) for the holiday, and a dayworker shall >e paid a day's pay at his or her regular rate for the holiday.
r.04(b)	A day worker who is requested to work on any
loliday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-lalf his regular rate for the first eight (8) hours of work and at the ate of double time after eight (8) hours of work, and, if qualified, in iddition, shall receive one day's pay at such regular rate in lieu of the loliday.
f.04(c)	A pieceworker who is requested to work on a
loliday shall receive his earnings plus one-half day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
16
ARTICLE VIII -ADJUSTMENTOF GRIEVANCES
8.01(a)	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto the
complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible. Tothi end it is agreed that periodic meetings will be held between th Company and the Union to discuss the interpretation an< administrationof this Agreement.
8.01(b)	It is agreed that no grievance shall be processei
which usurps the rightsof Management.
8.01(c)	It is generally understoodthat an employee has ni
grievance until he has given his Foreman an opportunity to adjust hi complaint. This may be done during working hours.
8.02(a)	The Union shall arrange for the election from it
working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of r Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Unioi Steward who shall act as spokesman for the Committee. In thi absence of the Steward the Company will recognize a delegatee member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediate!' after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp wil notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Stewarr and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and thr foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. Thr Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either thr Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time a! this procedure is carried out.
8.02(b)	It is agreed that there shall be no discriminator
exercised in any mannertowards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men.
17
.03	A grievance under the provisions of this
greement is defined to be any differences between the parties or etween the Company and employees covered by this Agreement ivolving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged elation of any of the provisionsof this Agreement.
.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the
mployee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative having irisdiction directly to the employee's immediate supervisor for djustment outside of working hours. The grievance shall be resented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the jreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be isposed of by the foreman in writing. Where a grievance has been ubmitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages lereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) ours, then,
STAGE 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or the area Vice-president or his designate with the Division Superintendent or his designated representative within ninety-six (96) hours, in writing, on forms to be supplied by the Union. The Division Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 - The matter shall be taken up by the Executive Officers of the Local Union and/or their designates with the Production Manager, Woodlands Operations, of the Company, or his representative. Failing a settlement within seven (7) days, then,
STAGE 4 - The matter shall be referred to the Resident Manager, Woodlands Operations, of the Company, or his
18
representative and a Union Committee, accompanied byth Union's President and his National Representative. Failin' a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then,
STAGE 5 - Either party may, within the following fifteei (15) days, refer the matter to arbitration.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employei that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust o contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with inwritini by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not late than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension become effective. When such an employee's grievance is not processei from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processei starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case o discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company wi immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for sucl discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitter to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event tha an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfair!' discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms an; conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.06	Grievances which involve Company policy ir respect to interpretation, application, administration, or allege; violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stag; 3 of this Grievance Procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined ir Section 8,03 it shall commence at Stage 3 of this Grievancr Procedure by the Woods Manager or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referredtc
19
ettlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to ?e President of the Union or his representative by the Vice-'resident, Woodlands, of the Company or his representative. :ailing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may vithin the following fifteen (15) days referthe matterto Arbitration.
L08	In arbitration the Company and the Union shall
iach select one (1) man: these two shall select a third man who ihall act as Chairman. Either patty shall appoint its nominee not ater than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other lady's nomination. This Arbitration Board shall convene and render i decision promptly and such decision shall be final and binding on 10th parties of this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two 2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third man as irovided above, they shall ask the provincial Minister of Labour to ippoint a third man.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from nutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising >ut of discipline or discharge.
J.09	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration
3oard shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall leal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no sower to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the 'unction of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and ■ates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the •ates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no powerto decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
B.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all
expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by
20
the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees anc expenses of the third member of the board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holiday8
shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of th< Agreement.
ARTICLE IX-NO STRIKE- NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes caused, called oi
supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by th< Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X -WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shal
co-operate collectively in improving safety and first-aid practices The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a join! safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairmar shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union CoChairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report ir triplicate - copies going to the Company Office, the Union Office and the Camp Bulletin Board.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
21
The Company agrees that it Will maintain good jrk trails, and will also maintain good and safe transportation actices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid an in each camp, such First Aid Man to have proper visible entification.
ft is the intention of the Company to maintain its imp access roads in good condition when in use,
J.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency First Aid
its and 2-way radios at or near work sites and in all vehicles igularly used for the transportation of men,
).03(a)	All camps shall have one tier single beds at least
3 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattresses nail be either airfoam, plastifoam, or spring filled mattresses, /here these conditions require changes in present camps such hanges shall be effected within the term of this Agreement. In onstruction of new camps, the Company agrees to construct all /ing quarters into suitable rooms housing not more than two (2) mployees per room. In the case of cookery personnel, the ;ompany agrees to provide, in the construction of new camps, uitable living quarters housing not more than one (1) employee per Dom. Where such cookery staff accommodations are currently .vailable, they shall be so arrangedand provided.
The Company agrees to supply two (2) clean iheets and one (1) clean pillowcase per week and to supply a bed :over for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees lewly arrived at camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once >ach month, and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed ;lothing shall be of a good quality and in a serviceable condition at all imes.
22
10.03(b)	It is agreed that the Company will maintain good
conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees' living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a TV set where TV programs are receivable, and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets, showers and laundry washing and drying machines. During the first year of this agreement, a T.V. Satellite Dish will be installed at all year-round live-in camps. A lockup storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employees' cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps.
10.03(c)	All bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers
and paper drinking cups, except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10.03(d)	The Company agrees that fly control measures
shall be carried out at regular intervals during the summer operating season and camp pest control as required.
10.03(e)	Night watchmen shall be employed in all major
operating camps during the heating season unless an Underwriter approved fire detection and fire warning system is installed.
10.03(f)	All night shift workers shall have separate sleeping
quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical and as arranged on a camp basis by majority vote.
AMP FEEDING
23
9.04(a)	Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable
iod, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable foods shall 3 handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all times. ood sewed to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of gh quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include, fresh fruits, jgetables and greens.
9.04(b)	Butter shall be supplied on the tables at all meals
i d on coffee tables and shall not be mixed with any substitute. largarine will be made available to employees on request.
9.04(c)	Fruitjuices shall be supplied at all meals, served in
antainers allowing self service, for consumptionat the table. Fresh ii(k shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
0.04(d)	Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other
lutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches hall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for the 'rapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of ooked meats and fresh fruit.
0.04(e)	Suitable heated lunch shacks shall be provided on
II mechanical operations. Such shacks to have protective creening during the summer months. The Company will provide ach cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch building for year-round ise.
0.04(f)	There shall be coffee breaks in the morning,
ifternoon and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided iy the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours, :offee breaks shall be on Company time.
24
10.04(g)	The charge for board and lodging shall be On'
Dollarand Seventy-Five Cents ($1.75) per calendar day.
10.05(a)	It is agreed that present standards of service wi
be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service laundry, recreation and motion pictures. It is understood that th' showing of moving pictures will be discontinued where coloured T' is available. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities fo the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charge for sucl services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.05(b)	The Company agrees to supply kitchen personne
with white aprons, and smocks, on loan, and other suitable uniforn apparel, at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterio clothing without charge. Washing and drying machine facilities wi be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
10.05(c)	The Company will provide free insurance coverage
against loss by fire of employee's personal belongings and loss b; fire or theft of employee-owned power saws to a maximum of Tw< Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00). Additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools will be provided ts the full value of such tools while on Company property or worksite: and as documented by the tool inventory list maintained on file. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall onl; apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within ths control of the Company. Damage to employee-owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a firs willfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for an! resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft o employee-owned power saws will be made at camp level betweet the Company and the Union.
25
CALING AND SETTLEMENT
0.06(a)	Employees shall be paid every second Thursday.
0.06(b)	Interim advances will be made only in instances of
vident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on Thursday pay ay or Friday, payment will be made on Wednesday of that week.
0.06(c)	In instances of authorized extended leave of
bsence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the mployees' payroll credit.
0.06(d)	A Time and Earnings Statement will be provided to
aoh employee for each pay period. This statement will carry omplete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued 'acation Pay credit, and deductions, covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp.
0.06(e)	Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of terinination
f employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the lompany agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a j|| settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
0.06(f)	The Company will provide each pieceworker with a
ninimum of one (1) scale per week, and will provide each lieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips shall be liven to each pieceworker at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the rood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information, vhere applicable:	Number of cords or number of pieces (Tree
.ength), Riding and/or Walking Bonus, Footage of strip or Main *oad Cut; and Poor Bush Bonus.
26
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
10.07	All hand tools and equipment required on the jo will be madeavailableto pieceworkers and others on loan. When a operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mine mechanical repairjob, he will be furnished such tools as are require' on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for i full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tool free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools ar returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools c equipment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
No employee shall operate a tractor or Ilk equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in tb cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.08	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will bi provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools am equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, th< following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to bi replaced when returned in a worn out or brokei condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemicaltype).
The Company agrees to stock two types of powe saw chains, and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links an< rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at the invoice< cost to the Company.
27
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be ivided with free powersaw gas and oils.
.09(a)	At each operating camp, a separate building will be
ivided for the storage of power saws. Said building shall contain [ficient lockers for storage. In addition, a suitable, separate ated building with work bench, vise and compressed air will be ivided for the repair of power saws. No power saws shall be laired or stored in living and/or service quarters. Each employee all cooperate in maintaining the building in a clean and safe ndition.
.09(b)	The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all
fety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except fety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and mitts.
To subsidize the cost of required apparel such as fety pants, boots, gloves and mitts, the Company will make a one-te annual payment in the amount of $100.00 to each active iployee with a minimum of six (6) months seniority, and payable in icember of each year.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will t become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government gisiation.
1.09(c)	Lunch boxes and thermos bottles shall be issued
I loan, to all employees and shall have been sterilized before issue.
CAMP TRANSPORTATION
28
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used for the roac
transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks foi the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall b« provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, equip all busestransporting men with two-way radio, anc will have either communication or transportation available al designated waiting places.
10.11(a)	The Company agreesto provide free transportatior
to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company's request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms ol Article XII - Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their owr vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intention to do so and shall be paid 200 per kilometer.
10.11(b)	Scheduled working time lost as a result of such
transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates foi dayworkers and the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate per day foi pieceworkers, and normal travel time, outside an employee's scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the above rates for pieceworkers.
10.11(c)	Each employee required to travel from his/her
place of residence to another community will be paid $25.00 per week.
29
It is understood that in order to qualify for this ayment, the employee must have exercised his bumping rights nder Article XII.
It is further understood that such employee will 5ceive this payment for a period not exceeding 6 months.
1 is further understood that employees are not squired to each drive their own vehicles in order to qualify for travel llowance,
SENERAL
0.12(a)	The Company, consistent with its Policy to
iromote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an itnployee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is leemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will >e maintained by his Supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.12(b)	The Company agrees that there will be no
shacking or batching by employees covered by this Agreement, who ire engaged in producing and delivering operations on its limits and/or work sites, unless mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
10.12(c)	The Company shall provide the Union Steward in
aach operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.12(d) All tradesmen and helpers will be supplied with suitable coveralls. Where an employee performs alternate work assisting trades people, the Company will supply the same suitable coveralls, where required.
30
10.12(e)	Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bus
garage, or who are required to provide maintenance or reps services outside the town limits, will receive thirty-five cents(: cents) an hour premium for all such hours worked.
10.12(f)	Where employeesare normally scheduled for eig!
hours per day and when such an employee is required to work moi than 4 hours overtime, he will be provided an adequate lunch i arrangements will be made for same.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01(a)	The week for operations shall be six (6) days pi
week Mondayto Saturday inclusive.
The work week for day or shift workers shall b forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Mondayto Friday inclusiv or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (4C hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive Pieceworkers may be scheduledto work in daywork jobs on the da shift Mondayto Friday inclusive.
1 is agreed that day work or shift work employee may be requested to work in excessoftheir regularwork day or shi or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05(2 for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused fror working overtime, permissionwill not be unreasonably withheld.
31
l. 01(b)	Forthe purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a Paid oliday and the "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00
m,	that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
1.02(a)	The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8)
insecutive hours between the hours cf 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., ealtime excepted.
1.02(b)	The night shift shall consist of eight (8)
insecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., ealtime excepted. However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night lift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by utual agreement, be scheduledto commence prior to 7:00 p.m. in icordance with the provisionsof Section 11.03(b).
1.03(a)	A night shift differential of fifty-five cents (55$) per
our shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift ork.
1.03(b)	Cti other two-shift operations, the first shift shall
cnsist of 8 consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall eminence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of 8 onsecutlve hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to :00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of fifty-five cents (55$) er hour.
1.03(c)	On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight
3) Consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three 3) shifts and the shift differentialsto be paid shall be as follows:
Starting Time (between hours of)
1 st Shift 7 am • 8 am 2nd Shift 3 pm - 4 pm 3rd Shift 11 pm -12 pm
32
Stopping Time (between hours of)
3 pm - 4 pm 11 pm -12 pm 7 am - 8 am
Shift
Differential
55 cents 65 cents
11.03(d)	The hours of work and the "sixth day" for day
workers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
1.	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least 8 hours between shifts worked.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements, such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a one-hour period.
3.	On all operations which are carried out on a two (2) or three (3) shift basis, all such employees will be scheduled on rotating weekly schedule basis.
33
)3(e)
If an employee, who has completed his scheduled k week, is required for work on his day off, such overtime shall posted on the preceding Thursday, If he is available for the ted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to imence work for reasons beyond hiscontrol, he shall receive four hours pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section 35(a) provided he remainsavailableforthe four-hour period if so uested by the Company.
03(f)	During the period of May to August, two shift
irification operations may commence at 6:00 A.M.
03(g)	During the fire season, scheduled hours may be
ired to provide for early start up when necessitated by fire hazard ngs, as determined by the M.N.R. guidelines.
It is understood the starting time may be advanced up to two (2) hours except where travel time is more than one (1) jr, the maximum advance will be one (1) hour.
.04(a) A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full i or shift for reasons beyond his control shall be paid for one-half ir if he works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if he works ire than four (4) hours.
A pieceworkerwho will lose more than one (1) hour work for reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder shall paid for all hours lost in excess of the one (1)hour at the rate of Her, Limber, Tree Length Skidding, provided he reports to the pervisor, remains available and accepts alternate daywork if so quested by the Company.
34
In the case of time lost in excess of one (1) hot for reason of lack of assignment of area to cut, and/or time require in excess of one (1) hour to travel to area assigned, payment shall b made for all hours lost.
11.04(b)	A day or shift worker who reports for work at hi
scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work due t reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at hi regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from hi scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned ani commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the firs half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above paymer shall not be made and the provisionsof Section 11.04(a) will apply Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of thi shift, he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. Th< Company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitate: a change in shift, the time and one-half provisions of Sectiot 11.03(d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8 hours between shifts.
Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours ir advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee, he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employer does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu o:
35
/o days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp lit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall ? laidoffand paid eight (8) hours pay in lieuoftwo days notice. In either case may any such employee be permitted to exercise eniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day illowing the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence i lieuof exercisingseniorityunderthis Article, he shall be permitted i exercise his seniority on his returnto work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be stablished locally.
1.05(a)	Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day
r shift, and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on his esignated "sixth day" day (Saturday or Monday) or outside his sgular shift shall be paid for at the rate oftime-and-one-half.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of rork on an employee's designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) nd on Sunday.
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be istributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in ie camp unit who normally perform the work in the classification equiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall lot be consideredas part of an employee'sapplicable hourly rate.
11.05(b)	Employees in the classifications specified below
nay be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift
36
and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and < not subject to the other provisionsof Article XI.
(a) Cook	(b) Cookee	(c) Watchm*
For employees in the job classifications list above, the hours of work per day or shift and per week will scheduled as follows:
1)	The regular work day or shift shall be eight i consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the wc day or shift of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in a twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than two ( parts provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hoi between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist cf five ( consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday Saturday inclusive.
2)	Time worked in excess or outside of the scheduk eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in exces of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on h "sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall t paid for at the rate of time-and-one-half. If an employ* requeststo be excused from working overtime, permissic will not be unreasonably withheld.
3)	An employee in the above listed classifications wt is unable to work tine full day or shift for reasons beyond h control, shall be paid for one-halfday if he is available at tt start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day if t remains available for the start of the second half of h scheduled shift.
37
4)	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day or shift for the "sixth" day or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one-and-one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5)	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his "sixth day or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of 8 hours work and be paid at time-and-one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6)	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of 45?S per hour for each second shift worked.
7)	The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
06	Walking Distance and/or Riding Time shall not be
isidered as time worked. Walking Distance and Riding Time
38
shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distance and Riding Time section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work aftei completing his day or shift, or more than one (1) hour before the start of his day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (1) houi period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid time and one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of his day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05(a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
An employee who is called out for work on his "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05(a), from the starting time of the call-out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at the rate of time-and-one-half.
11.08	During spring break-up the hauling of wood fiber may commence early on Mondays. Hours to be defined by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority.
Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay-off.
39
,02	Employment of any new employee shall be
isidered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days hin a six-month period. Seniority of new employees shall be :ablished at the end of this period and shall be effective from the :e of employment.
.03(a)	Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis
•ecalls, promotions,transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the completion of asonal operations, or a part thereof, each of the employees so ected will be permittedto exercise his seniority and transfer to a i for which he is qualified, provided that, having received advance :ice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Company, or to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on ms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance immittee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by iployees with less seniority than those employeesgiven notice.
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are casioned by the completion of seasonal activities, Company-wide niority will be applied only when operations continue in other itricts for more than one (1) week, otherwise the district will be the it of application of seniority on seasonal layoffs.
.03(b)	The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so
im within the bargaining unit in accordancewith Article XII.
Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on ; camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
40
It is agreed however, that temporary appointmer may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than tv (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bullet boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirement Employees shall not be considered for such jobs, unless they app in writing within the five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualifu applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this Agreemer Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) wo days in which to qualify, (or a further time as may be mutua agreed, if further training time is required). Failure of an employee qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss seniority or benefits.
The Company shall post notices in camps showir the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies,ar newly created jobs.
12.03(c)	A job that becomes vacant because the incumbei
has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavemei leave, jury duty, subpoenaed witness, and/ora leave of absence ni exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporal vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Seotic 12.03(b) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary natun The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is th camp. In the event that a vacancy is not filled from within the cam unit it shall be filled on an area basis. When regular operators ai not available, spare operators will fill all temporary vacancies an third shifts when created for the stump to roadsideworkforce.
41
The employee who had occupied the job upon his turn to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, at the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee
10	for reasons of notice of lay-off from his former job has exercised s seniority on this particularjob.
!.04	In case of lay-off which is to exceed two (2)
orking days, the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to > laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of ich said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company
11	provide two weeks' notice of layoff in the case of shutdowns due market conditions or plant shutdowns.
!.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at
e time of layoff, employees leaving camp will be informed of such aproximate date at that time. But in all cases, notice in writing, will 3 sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) ays before he is required to report for work. Employees will be iquired to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work i the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, writing.
2.06(a)	An employee's seniority shall not be broken by
ickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, licensed dentist r licensed chiropractor.
2.06(b)	An employee's seniority shall be broken if he quits,
he is discharged and not re-instated, if he fails to report for work allowing recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this Agreement, if he ails to return from leave of absence on the date specified unless he as been prevented from returning on t ime by circumstances beyond is control and the Company has been so notified, and if he has een laid off for twelve (12) monthsor more, with the exception that
42
continuity of service will extend up to, but not more than twenty-foe (24) months if requested in writing by the employee before th elapse of twelve (12) full months or lay-off.
12.07	The Company agrees to submit to the Union ai alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by thi: Agreement as of April 1st, showing Company seniority dates. Th< Company will endeavour to have this list sent to the Union by the firs of May of each year thereafter.
12.08	A seniority list shall be prepared and poster monthly in each camp showing the seniority dates of each employer with the Company.
12.09	In transfers from one job classification to another senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, ar employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification. Foi determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work the rate specified for Feller-Limber (Tree Length Skidding) shal apply, or the rate of the job classification, whichever is higher.
12.10	An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding one (1) year.
12.11	An employee who is promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding one (1) year,
43
12	When Jobsare discontinueddueto the introduction
lew methods and equipment, or due to curtailment of operations, icted employees shall be offered alternate employment in :ordance with Section 12.01 to meet the Company's labour uirements, and if such employees require training to perform the irnate employment effectively, they shall be trained by the mpany, provided that the jobs they have applied to be trained for expected to last for a period of three (3) months or more
It is understood this does not apply to seasonal lay-offs.
ITICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
01	The Union shall have the right to post notices
iling with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company, ;h notices to have approval of the Company before such posting. ;opy of the notice is to be given to the Camp Supervisor for his :ords.
tTICLE XIV - DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
.01	Effective the first of the month following date of
ification for each employee on the payroll who has established niority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will provide propriate single or family coverage in accordance with Blue Cross ug Plan or its equivalent, and Semi-private Hospital Care Plan.
The Company will maintain coverage to employees io are off work due to a Workers Compensation claim or a Short !rm Disability claim for up to a period of twelve months.
44
The Company will continue coverage for a laid of employee to the end of the month in which he was laid off. Coverage will resumeon the date the employee returns to work from lay-off.
ARTICLEXV - GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	The life insurance coverage for an individua
employee will be forty-five thousand dollars ($45,000) fully paid b} the Company.
Each participating employee who is actively ai work, may elect to be insured for an additional amount of fifteer thousand dollars ($15,000) of term life insurance. An employee whc elects this additional coverage, will be required to contribute $4.5C per month. The Company agrees to maintain the contribution leve until the termination of this Agreement.
ARTICLEXVI -SHORTTERM AND LONGTERM DISABILITY
16.01	SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Short Term Disability Plan. The plan will provide seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings forty (40) hourstimes an employee's regular rate and pieceworkers, forty (40) times the Feller/Limber hourly rate, up to a maximum of four hundred ($400.00) weekly, to commence on the first day in case of a non-compensable accident and after three (3)continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to a sickness and Will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-WO (52) weeks.
Effective May 1, 1994 the maximum will be increasedto four hundred and eighty ($480.00) dollars weekly.
45
Effective October 1, 1994, the maximum will be icreased to four hundred and ninety-five ($495.00) dollars weekly.
Effective October 1, 1995, the maximum will be icreased to five hundredandten ($510.00) dollars weekly.
Effective October 1, 1996, the maximum will be icreased to five hundred and twenty-five ($525.00) dollars weekly.
Effective October 1, 1997, the maximum will be icreased to five hundred and forty ($540.00) dollarsweekly.
Effective April 9, 1994, the Company will ompensate an employee when a fee is charged by a physician for ompletion of a medical certificate required to support a claim for enefits pursuantto the Short Term Disability Plan. Ouch payment hall be to a maximum amount of $15.00 per certificate and will be litiated upon presentation of a receipt from the attending physician.
6.02	LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
The Company will maintain and pay the full cost of i Long Term Disability Benefit Plan providing for benefits of 50% of veekly earnings, payable to age 65 or termination of the disability, whichever occurs first.
Effective July 1, 1991, for all employees actively imployed, the Plan will provide for benefits of 55% of weekly sarnings, payable to age 65 or termination of the disability, whichever iccurs first.
46
ARTICLE XVII - BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to an employee's spouse
children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral ai shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time re (pieceworkers - eight (8) times the Feller-Limber Tree Leng Skidding hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) day The day of the funeral must be one of the five (5Jdays.
When death occurs to an employee's faths mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-la\ sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents ar grandchildren, the employee will be granted leave to attend tt funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straig time rate (pieceworkers - eight (8) times the Felier/Limber Tri Length Skidding hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of thr« (3) days. The day of the funeral must be one of the three (3) days.
The intent of this clause is to allow the employee! attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted f< the employee's scheduled work days lost during this period.
Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitte by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof i bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It is understood for purposes of this Article, ste relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
If an employee's family member dies while th employee is on vacation, his vacation shall be extended by th number of days of bereavement leave for which he would hav qualified.
47
RTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY/SUBPOENAED WITNESS LLOWANCE
1.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury
irvice or as a subpoenaed witness, the Company shall pay, for ich day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference !tween eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time >urly rate (pieceworkers eight (8) hours based on the Feller-Limber 'ee Length Skidding hourly rate) and the payment he received for ry service. The employee will present proof <f service and of pay ceived therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
RTICLE XIX ■ DENTAL PLAN
>,01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with
articipation compulsory for all employees, on the following basis:
ELIGIBILITY
Participation in this plan is limited lo employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
PLAN DESIGN
(a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
(b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No.2 (50%).
(c)
Plan to provide coverage for fissure seal treatment.
48
Maximum$1,000.00 per calendaryear per person.
Effective May 1, 1994, amend the Plan to provide for th< application of the 1992 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective October 1, 1994, amend the Plan to provide foi the application of the 1993 O.D.A, Schedule of Fees.
Effective October 1, 1995, amend the Plan to provide foi the application of the 1994 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective October 1, 1996, amend the Plan to provide foi the application of the 1995 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective October 1, 1997, amend the Plan to provide foi the application ofthe 1996 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is ofi work due to lay-off or Leave of Absence, but in no case beyond the end ofthe month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3 ADMINISTRATION
The Plan will be administered in accordance with ar appropriate contract or set of procedures reflectingthe plar design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self- administrationwill be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study ot these alternatives.
PREMIUMS
49
The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
INTEGRATION
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provinciallegislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
iRTICLE XX - RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN
The Retirement Income Plan (1985) forms part of lis Agreement. A description of the Plan is attached hereto for iformation purposes. Any questions of administration or iterpretation of the Plan will be decided based on the full Plan text.
ARTICLE XXI -VISION CARE PLAN
!1.01	The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan
vhich will provide for expenses incurred by an employee and/or the smployee's covered dependents when recommended by a physician >r optometrist as follows:
Effective May 1, 1994, frames, lenses and the itting of prescription glasses including contact lenses, up to a total
50
of $100.00 per insured family member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years.
Effective October 1, 1996, the benefit amount wi be increasedto $125.00.
51
SIGNED AT DRYDEN, ONTARIO, THIS 27TH DAY OF MARCH, 1994
AVENOR INC.
DrydenWoodlands Operations
Lome Crawford Don Maskerine FrankWirtz Roger Barber Graeme Olson
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
Rene Lindquist Joe Ruete Ritchie Mihalick George Smith RussellWhite Mary Meawasige
WAGE SCHEDULE
52
October 1,1993 to September 30,1996
Oct.
I. CLASSIFICATIONS	1/93
A.
Cook	21.25
Cookee	19.24
Watchman	19.32
B.
Bus Driver	19.60
Fellers and Buckers	20.07
Handyman	19.92
Helper Mechanical Equipment 19.60 Labourer, General	19,09
Operator, Backhoe 19.60	19.80
Operator, Tractor,
Wheel Skidders	20.07
Operator, Bulldozer "A"	21.22
Operator, Bulldozer"B"	20.55
Operator, Machine Scarificat. 20.55 Operator, Forwarder	20.30
Operator, Front-End Loader,
Drott, Hough	20.30
Operator, Crane,
with Certificate	21.46
Operator, Crane,
no Certificate	20.95
Operator, Pulpwood
Harvester	20.95
Operator, Pulpwood Harvester
(undertraining) 20.41
Oct.
1/94
21.46
19.43
19.51
19.80
20.27 20.12
19.80
19.28 20.10
20.27
21.43
20.76
20.76
20.50
20.50 21.67 21.16 21.16
20.61
Oct.
1/96
21.78
19.72
19.80
20.10
20.57 20.42 20.10
19.57
20.57
21.75
21.07
21.07 20.81
20.81
22.00
21.48
21.48
20.92
53
perator, Mechanical Piler 20.39 perator, MechanicalSlasher20.30 perator, Hydraulic Loader
Mounted on Slasher20.30 Operator, Hydraulic nloader Mounted on Slasher20.30
lasherman Loader Operator Automatic Slasher perator, Grapple Skidder perator, Flail iperator, Feller Buncher op Loader elief Operator ;rader Operator lechanic Class A lechanic Class B lechanic Class C ead
ielper A lelper E?
Welder Class A (/elder Class B (/elder Class C ead
lelper A lelper B
ruck Driver Hauling
Multiple Trailers ruck Driver Tandem Axle Hauling Trailers (in excess of 10 2 in Width)
20.81
20.22
20.22
20.47
19.60
20.18
21.02
23.34
21.58
20.59
23.79
19.71
19.27
23.34
21.58
20.59
23.79
19.71
19.27
20.37
20.27
20.59
20.50
20.50
20.50
21.02
20.42
20.42 20.67
19.80 20.38 21.23
23.57
21.80 20.80
24.03
19.91
19.46
23.57 21.80 20.80
24.03
19.91
19.46
20.57
20.47
20.90
20.81
20.81
20.81
21.34
20.73
20.73 20.98 20.10 20.69 21.55
23.92 22.13 21.11
24.39 20.21
19.75
23.92 22.18 21.11
24.39 20.21
19.75
20.88
20.78
54
Truck Driver Hauling
Multiple Trailers (in excess of
102'in Width)	20.46
Truck Driver, SingleAxle	19.60
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle	19.96
Truck Driver, Trailers
and Floats	20.20
Power Saw Operator
(non-productive)	19.52
Tree Planter	20.07
Trainee Machine Operator (for newly hired employees)	19.78
Applied for Maximum of 15 Shifts Operator, Koehring Feller-Forwarder	20.79
Operator, Rogers Delimber	20.79
20.66	20.97
19.80	20.10
20.16	20.46
20.40	20.71
19.72	20.02
20.27	20.57
19.98	20.28
21.00	21.32
21.00	21.32
SAWMILL (Contractor)
Operator Debarker Operator Chipper
20.22	20.42	20.73
19.92	20,12	20.42
C.
An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty cents (30$) per hour during the training assignment.
55
ILVICULTURAL WAGE SCHEDULE
ree Planter abourer rew leader, egular Rate Plus
19.09	19,28	19.57
19.09	19.28	19.57
0.35	0.35	0.35
iecework Rates - Manual Planting ite Prepared
are Root Stock	10.5 cents/tree
ubed Seedlings (paper pots) 8.5 cents/tree
ite Unprepared
are Root Stock	11.5 cents/tree
ubed Seedlings (paper pots) 9,5 cents/tree
imployees on the regular seniority listing may elect to work on Ither the day or piecework wage schedule.)
'. power Saw Rental
A day worker using his power saw at Company request will be aid a power saw rental of:
Per 8-hour day or shift when
felling and limbing	$11.00
Per 8-hour day or shift when
bucking at a landingon a
skidding operation	$12.00
56
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he will be paid one-half (14) day's rental when he works les! than four (4) hours and a full day's rental when he works morethar four (4) hours.
E. Handicapped Workers
A special rate may be established by agreement betweer the Company and the Union for aged and handicapped workers.
II. COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree that commute operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions:
1.	Commuters are employees who -
(a)	are resident within reasonable Riding and/or Walking Distance of the area of operations;
(b)	for whom board and lodging are not made available the Company.
2.	The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated marshalling point or points for each commuting area to the operating areas and return.
3.	Time spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling on the vehicle provided from a marshalling point or points to debarkation point or points plus time spent walking from debarkation point oi
57
ints to place of work in excess of one-half hour each way shall be id for on the following basis:
a)	Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
b)	Pieceworkers on mechanical cut and skid operations lall be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
. WALKING DISTANCE AND RIDING TIME
Pieceworkers who walk to work from camp a distance in cess of one and one-half (1%) miles shall be paid on the basis of e Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate for the time required to walk e excess distance, For the purpose of this Agreement it is agreed at the pieceworker will walk at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
Where pieceworkers are transported to work from camp, ey shall be paid for Riding Time in excess of one-half (%) hour ichway at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
) Where a dayworker's travelling time from camp to working ace is composed of riding and/or walking time he shall be paid for I travelling time in excess of one-half (%) hour each way at his igular rate of pay.
) Where a pieceworker's or a dayworker's travelling time from amp to working place is composed of riding and walking time, he hall be paid the rate of pay as per this Agreement for all combined ding and walking time in excess of one-half (%) hour each way. he walking time based on the rate of one-quarter (V«) of a mile quals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding time. Travelling me so computed shall be credited not lessthan once each month.
58
IV. COOKERY SCHEDULE
14	men or less
15	men to 25 men 26 men to 45 men 46 men to 65 men
1 cook
1 cook,1 cookee 1 cook, 2 cookees 1 cook, 3 cookees
V. PIECEWORK RATES
CUTTING ANDSKIDDING ■ TREE LFNOTH
(Wheeled Skidders - Rubber Tired)
Rates per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as pei the following schedule.
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder witt winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
SUPPLEMENT TO PIECEWORKERS
A supplement of seventy-three (730) cents per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
MEASUREMENT
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter measurement shall be clearly marked on the butt of each tree length by the scaler.
BONUS
No Cutting Bonus in addition to Schedule Rates,
59
No Poor Bush Bonus to be paid on pulpwood or byproducts.
CREW SIZE
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed three (3)at any time.
SKIDDING DISTANCE
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in any strip or block.
STRIP CUTTING
Every attempt will be made to assign adjoining alternate strips. If these two strips yield less than thirty (30) cords, each crew member will be paid one hour at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
The Company will not normally exceed 600 feet when cutting strips. Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in each strip. Exceptions will be dealt with on a local basis.
WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Paymentfor Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Subsection (III) (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
SORTING BONUS
60
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sor wood by species, 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
If further sorting is required, an additional 1.43% or a tota of 4.29% of baseearningswill be paid.
SKIDWAY PREPARATION
Company will endeavour to clear skidway sites. Where this is done by the crew at Company request, 7.62% of base earnings will be paid.
61
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PERTREE - PULPWOOD
SPRUCE - BALSAM - JACK PINE ■ ROUGH POPLAR
UTT
HAM.	SPRUCE/	ROUGH
m	BALSAM	JACKPINE POPLAR
o
2
4
6
8
0
2
'4
•6
!8
iO
12
14
16
18
10
12
14
16
18
50
52
54
56
0.551
0.551
0.836
1.095
1.504
1.899
2.335
2.842
3.420
4.033
4.555
4.941
5.290
6.059
6.835
7.729
8.666
9.598
10.853
12.323
13.623
14.766
15.981
18.646
0.418
0.418
0.721
1.041
1.463
I.	855 2.270 2.736 3.250 3.858 4.311 4.596 4.818 5.371 5.974 6.521 7.105 7.805 8.452 9.114 9.786 10.466
II.	143 11.812
0.521
0.793
1.159
1.453
1.772
2.136
2.494
2.992
3.530
3.900
4.103
4.571
5.097
5.602
6.117
6.672
7.200
7.776
8.342
8.892
9.449
10.033
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
62
20.293	12.485	10.596
21,517	13.159	11.165
22,715	13.837	11.746
24.103	14,512	12,328
25,367	15,216	12,916
26,534	15,898	13.561
27.676	16,568	14.240
28.833	17.252	14.951
29,994	17.951	
31.153	18.634	
32.310	19.313	
33.459	19.993	
34.804	20.728	
35.717 36,852 37,837 38,746 39,651 40.592 41,622 42.603
63
I.	PIECEWORK RATES
CUTTING AND SKIDDING (FULL TREE)
(Wheeled Skidders - Rubber Tired)
Rates per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule.
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
S________________________________
A supplement of seventy-three (730) cents per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
CREW-SIZE.
Crew will consist of a maximum of two (2) men.
SKI_________________
(i)	Maximum skidding distance 900 feet when
skidway placement not adjacent to gravel or brush mat road.
(jj)	Maximum skidding distance 1,200 feet when
skidway placement adjacent to gravel or brush mat road.
MEASUREMENT
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be clearly marked on each butt by the Scaler.
64
BONUS
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
No poor bush bonus to be paid on pulpwood or byproducts.
SORTING BONUS
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sori wood, 2.86% of base eamingswill be paid.
If further sorting is required, an additional 1.43% or a tota of 4.29% of base eamingswill be paid.
SKIPWAY PREPARATION
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 7.62% ol base eamingswill be paid.
WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Paymentfor Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with subsection (III) Walking Distance and Riding Time.
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
65
CUTTING AND SKIDDING FULLTREE (WHEELEDSKIDDER) METRIC RATES PERTREE
JACKPINE - SPRUCE - BALSAM
SPRUCE/BALSAM JACK PINE
0.378
0.571
0.821
1.131 1.422
I.	753
2.131 2.569 3.028 3.417 3.706 3.969 4.545 5.125 5.793 6.499 7.197 8.138 9.245
10.217
II.	073 11.985 13.982
15.217
0.318
0.540
0.781
1.096
1.393
1.705
2.052
2.435
2.894
3.235
3.446
3.614
4.028
4.480
4.891
5.329
5.853
6.338
6.835
7.340
7.849
8.357
8.859
9.364
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
66
16,136	9.868
17,037	10.379
18.073	10.882
19.025	11.413
19.900	11.923
20.755	12.427
21.626	12.939
22.495	13.464
23.367	13.978
24.234	14.485
25.093	14.993
26.105	15.544
26.789	
27.640	
28.376	
29.058	
29.740	
30.444	
31.213	
31.953	
67
ITEMS THAT ARE STILL IN EFFECT FROM MEMORANDUM SUPPLEMENTARYTO THE AGREEMENT SIGNEDAT DRYDEN ON OCTOBER23,1963
Between AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
A Certain understandings from the Memorandum of Agreement between the two parties dated 16th March 1969 were renewed as set forth hereunder:
1, Small Crews
It is agreed that where necessary, in the cutting of main roads beyond the normal camp cutting area, temporary small crews of not more than three crews (two men to a crew) may be required to batch. The Company agrees to supply such crews with adequate living quarters and living equipment.
It is agreed that all other small crews will be family units (such units to be grouped in threes or fours) in a good location near suitable water supply. The Company agrees to supply adequate living quarters and living equipment. Groceries will be
68
summertime, on request, twice per week; delivery free of charge.
2.	Cookery Schedule
It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced and that the persons eating may be varied 10% plus or minus for short periods.
It is also understood that the cookery staff is in addition to the numbers listed in the Cookery Schedule.
3.	Hiring
It is agreed that Union members who apply will be listed. Where a place of contact is given and the applicant states that he will be readily available, the applications will be kept on file providing the applicant reports weekly if requested by the Company.
It is agreed that the words "capable employee" in the hiring clause also are interpreted to mean a "suitable employee". In other words, a capable person is not always a suitable person.
69
4.	Company-wide Grievances
The Company interprets	"Company-wide
grievance" to mean a grievance that pertains to more than one camp.
6,	Seniority
Seniority lists will include employees' addresses where possible.
B.	ADDITIONAL UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED:
1. Concerning Transportation of Commuter
Employees
a)	Company management made a commitment that transportation by employees' automobiles will not exceed distances that require more than one-half (%) hour of driving time.
b)	11 was agreed by the two parties that time allowances from the designated starting point to the work disembarking point would be established by a Company representative and a Union representative and that such time allowance would remain in effect except for alterations mutually agreed to by representatives of the two parties.
70
C.	ADDITIONAL UNDERSTANDINGREACHEDDURING
NEGOTIATIONS OF NOVEMBER 30 AND DECEMBER 1,1964
1.	Concerning Cooks
a)	Company management agreed that where a ciew being fed by a cook dropped below ten (10) men in number, the cooks wages would be maintained at the cook rate.
71
Letter of Understanding Between
AVENOR INC.
(Dryden Woodlands Operations)
And
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
The parties have discussed and agreed to the following terms and conditions:
1)	The Letter of Understanding re:	"Recognition-
Jurisdiction" Page 76 is null and void effective immediatelyand will be deleted from the current Collective Agreement upon its renewal effective October 1,1993.
2)	The Company agrees that permanent employees at date of ratification, who are members of Local 324 Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada will be protected from further reductions except through normal attrition.
Attrition is defined as death, retirement, voluntary resignation, or discharge for cause.
The above protection is granted to employees who are partofthe Drydenand Ear Falls/Red Lake Cutting forces, Ear Falls Contracting - Mechanics and Road Construction.
72
The Company will endeavour to maintain cutting operations in Ear Falls while protected employees are available. However, it is understood that as openings occur in the Dryden Operation, Ear Falls employees will be expected to transfer to those openings.
An agreed list of protected employees will be compiled and attached to and form part of this Letter of Understanding.
The above does not preclude temporary cessation of operations caused by, market conditions, closure of production facilities, strikes or lock-outs, fire and other "Acts of God".
3)	Upon renewal of the Collective Agreement (Expiry Date -
September30, 1993) this letter of Understandingwill be included and form part of the renewed Collective Agreement and any subsequent renewals thereof and will not be the subject of further negotiations between the parties.
Dated at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FORTHE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford
D.	Maskerine
Rene Lindquist Joe Ruete
73
AVENOR INC.
DRYDEN WOODLANDS OPERATIONS I OCAL 324 . PROTECTED LIST
EMPLOYEE NAME
SENIORITY nATF		
20	MAR,	1954
10	NOV,	1955
08	MAY,	1956
28 APR,		1958
20	AUG,	1958
18	SEP,	1958
26	SEP,	1958
19	JAN,	1959
03	AUG,	1961
16	AUG,	1961
17 AUG,		1961
25	MAY,	1963
31	JUL,	1963
19	AUG,	1963
15	NOV,	1963
08	JAN,	1964
24	JAN,	1964
21	JUL,	1964
27	JUL,	1964
31	JUL,	1964
17	AUG,	1964
24	SEP,	1964
28	SEP,	1964
07	OCT,	1964
21	DEC,	1965
05	JAN,	1966
74
EMPLOYEE NAME
SENIORITY DATE		
10	FEB,	1966
20	JUN,	1966
12	JUL,	1966
18	JUL,	1966
24	JUL,	1967
14	SEP,	1967
06	MAY,	1969
09	SEP,	1969
26	OCT,	1970
26	JUL,	1972
08	AUG,	1972
19	OCT,	1972
08	NOV,	1972
22	NOV,	1972
06	DEC,	1972
12	FEB,	1973
03	APR,	1973
11	JUN,	1973
30	JUL,	1973
11	SEP,	1973
02	OCT,	1973
04	FEB,	1974
15	MAY,	1974
12	AUG,	1974
03	SEP,	1974
06	SEP,	1974
10	SEP,	1974
11	SEP,	1974
13	SEP,	1974
11	OCT,	1974
27	NOV,	1974
24	MAR,	1975
24	MAR,	1975
75
EMPLOYFFNAMR
SENIORITY DATE		
08	APR,	1975
12	MAY,	1975
13	MAY,	1975
05	AUG,	1975
06	AUG,	1975
10	NOV,	1975
15	JAN,	1976
29	MAR,	1976
06	APR,	1976
10	SEP,	1976
01	NOV,	1976
15	NOV,	1976
C0	DEC,	1976
11	JAN,	1977
07	FEB,	1977
07	FEB,	1977
25	MAY,	1977
26	MAY,	1977
21	JUN,	1978
11	JUL,	1978
13	JUL,	1978
08	SEP,	1978
25	SEP,	1978
06	NOV,	1978
07	NOV,	1978
13	DEC,	1978
30	MAR,	1979
16	APR,	1979
14	MAY,	1979
28	MAY,	1979
11	JUN,	1979
31	JUL,	1979
13	NOV,	1979
76
EMPLOYEE NAME	SENIORITY DATE
14	MAY,	1980
21	MAY,	1980
22	MAY,	1980
11	JUN,	1980
23	JUN,	1980
30	JUN,	1980
11	JUL,	1980
05	AUG,	1980
26	AUG,	1980
09	FEB,	1981
05	AUG,	1981
05	AUG,	1981
25	SEP,	1981
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
02	MAR,	1988
01	MAY,	1988
00	MAY,	1988
EMPLOYEE NAME
INACTIVE EMPLOYEES
77	
SENIORITY DATE	
22 FEB,	1990
28 MAY,	1990
16	SEP,	1960
17 AUG,		1961
11	DEC,	1962
09	DEC,	1965
15	DEC,	1969
21	SEP,	1972
16	AUG,	1974
14	MAY,	1980
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
DrydenWoodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
Where a contractor is engaged by the Company on road construction, employees who are hired to perform such jobs for the contractor shall be considered as new employees and shall not establish seniority under the provisions of Article XII of the Agreement. This letter excludes those employees and contractors named in the Letter of Understanding, Re: Departmental Seniority.
The contractor and his employees will work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this letter for such employees, and will establish and maintain their own seniority.
1.	Re: Article X-Working and Living Conditions
It is understood that the contractor will be responsible for the fueling of his equipment and for providing transportation to and from the work site in vehicles which provide adequate room and which meet MOT standards.
2.	Re: Article XI - Hours of Work
The provisions of 11.04(a) and 11.04(b) will not apply to owner operators when the lack of work is a result of mechanical downtime on the equipment he is operating.
79
3.	Re: Article XII - Seniority
a)	Employees in the mechanical road construction group (Ear Falls Contracting) who have established seniority under the provisionsof Article 12 of the agreement shall be permitted to exercise their seniority on road construction jobs in their particular area (Ear Falls Contracting), where work is not available in their normal job classifications or where normal alternate work is not available.
b)	The provisions of Article 12.04 will not apply to road construction workers, when the layoff is a result of mechanical problemson the equipment he is operating.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford	Rene Lindquist
D. Maskerine	Joe Ruete
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
RE: ARTICLE 11.03(d)
The parties agree that when re-scheduling and shift changes are required under conditions as outlined below, the time and one half provision of Article 11.03(d) will not apply.
(a)	Breakdown of mechanical harvesting equipment after the schedule has been posted as per 11.03(d).
(b)	Equipment which has been down for mechanical reasons and which cannot be returned to service as originally scheduled due to reasons beyond the Company's control.
(C) It is understoodthat this Letter shall not apply to an employee's "sixth day".
(d) It is understood that the terms of this Letter will only apply to the operator(s) of the piece of equipment which is down because of (a) or (b) above.
81
The Company shall provide alternate work and will notify the affected employees at least twelve (12) hours prior to their original shift or the newly scheduled shift, whichever is earlier.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario,this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford	Rene Lindquist
D. Maskerine	Joe Ruete
a2
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
____LOCAL324 SENIORITY AND DEPARTMENTAL
seniority
Effectivethe date of Certification Local 324 employees will be established in one of the following groups:
1.	Ear Falls Contracting- Mechanicsand Road Construction
2.	Ear Falls/Red Lake	- Cutting force
3.	Dryden	- Cutting force
4.	Kirouac Contracting	- Wood Haul
Kirouac Contracting employees will have their own seniority list and will be protected from bumping from other groups and will have no bumping rights to other groups.
Employees in Mechanical and Road Construction groups will accrue seniority behind all employees presently listed on the Avenor Inc. seniority list. New employees will accrue seniority behind these employees.
a3
Bidding
Job openings in groups 1 to 3 will be posted in all groups and will be filled by the senior qualified bidder.
However, existing employees (date of certification) in each department shall have preference on postings within that department.
Bumping
No bumping between present cutting force and group 1.
New hires can be bumped by any of the groups, subject to Article 12.
Bumping on Uaypff
On temporary layoffs, bumping with qualifications will be applied only when operations continue in other districts for more than one week. This would also apply between Ear Falls and Red Lake.
On permanent layoffs bumping into other groups may commence on the first day of layoff, subject to the bumping clause above.
Departmental Seniority
Seniority will be set up and maintained on a departmental basis. One department will be comprised of all employees engaged in the production of forest products (stump to roadside). Other departments, at Ear Falls Contracting, will be comprised of all employees engaged in the construction and maintenance of camp
a4
roads, landings and main roads, scarification and mechanical maintenance and repair.
For the purpose of departmental layoffs, any employee posting to a new department will begin to accrue seniority in that department on the date of his transfer.
Should such an employee be bumped or suffer a layoff he may bump to any position for which he is qualified within his original department, given he has the seniority. Should an employee forfeit his posting after the trial period, he may return to the junior position within his original department.
The provisions of the Collective Agreement will apply to all matters relating to Seniority that are not dealt with specifically by this document on Local 324 Seniority and Departmental Seniority.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford D. Maskerine
Rene Lindquist Joe Ruete
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
In the event the Company decides to introduce new operating methods and equipment in its Dryden Woodlands Operations, which will affect the employment status of its permanent .ocal 324 employees, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss, consider, and implementthe following:
-	Freeze on hiring of permanent employees -Transfers and bumping to other positions
-	Retrainingof employees
-	Special retirement provisions
-	Reduction through attrition (death, retirement,
voluntary resignation, discharge for cause).
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FORTHE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
L, G, Crawford D, Maskerine
Rene Lindquist Joe Ruete
86
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
DrydenWoodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
B£______PIECEWORK OPERATIONS
It is understood that piecework will be implemented on the Cut and Skid Treelength and Full Tree Operations effective May 1, 1983 on the Dryden Operations.
The Company will maintain separate operating areas for daywork and piecework harvesting operations.
Transportation separate from dayworkers will be supplied for pieceworkers.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
L. G, Crawford	Rene Lindquist
D. Maskerine	Joe Ruete
87
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations (hereinafter referred to as "The Company")
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324 (hereinafter referred to as "The Union")
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation) the Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silvicultural work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	Re:	Article V - Union Membership
a)	The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
b)	The Company shall put these employees on check-off at the time of hire and deductthe Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them
88
and remit same to the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees,
2.	Re:	Article VI -Vacation With Pay
For such aforesaid employees, Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to each employee at the time of termination or lay-off from such seasonal employment.
3.	Re:	Article VII - Holidays With Pay
a) For such aforesaid employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid without the performanceof work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence.
p\ The provisions set out in Section 7.02(b), 7.02(c), 7.02(d), 7.02(e), 7.02(f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
89
Re:	Article X -Working and LivingConditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said employees while so engaged.
Re:	Article XI - HoursofWork -Silviculture
The hours of work for temporary employees hired specifically for the purpose of tree planting will provide for flexible daily hours and weekend work (excluding Sundays). Agreement on starting and stopping times shall be reached on a location by location basis in conjunction with Union and Company representatives. Weekend work will be on a voluntary basis only.
Permanent employees working on the planting shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement, including Hours of Work.
Re:	Article XII - Seniority
a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
90
Employment of any new employees shall be considered probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
An employee, on the silvicultural seniority list, hired on other production operations will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02. Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
7. The provisions set under:
Article XIV	- Drug and Hospital Care Plans,
Article XV	- Life Insurance,
Article XVI	- Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans,
Article XVII	- Bereavement Pay,
Article XVIII	- JuryDuty Allowance/Subpoenaed Witness Allowance,
Article XIX	- Dental Care Plan,
Article XX	- Pension Plan,
Article XXI	- Vision Care Plan,
are not applicable for the aforesaid employees.	
b)
o)
d)
91
Re:	Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture Commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
igned at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
OR THE COMPANY
. G, Crawford i. Maskerine
FOR THE UNION
Rene Lindquist Joe Ruete
92
March 27, 1994
Dear Sir:
Consistent with the Company's policy to ensure to the utmost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees the Company will, on purchase of new mobile equipment, provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls. This will include the installation of air-conditioning in new buses.
The Company further agrees to continue the work of the joint committee in studying ways and means to generally improve operator comfort on current equipment.
Yours very truly,
Signed: L. G. Crawford Regional Vice-president Woodlands Operations Avenor Inc.
93
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
RE: IICENCES ■ TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transpoitation to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford D, Maskerine
Rene Lindquist Joe Ruete
94
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations AND'
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
RE: HOURS OF WORK. COOKERY STAFF
Notwithstandingthe provisionsof the Collective Agreement covering the above [Article 11.05(b)] employees may arrange foi time off in lieu of overtime pay on the following conditions:
Time off in lieu of overtime pay shall be solely at the option of the employee.
If time off is taken, it must be taken at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
This provision shall apply only to overtime worked Monday to Friday, inclusive, and time off shall be taken in the week in which overtime has been accumulated.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford	Rene Lindquist
D. Maskerine	Joe Ruete
95
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
Dryden Woodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL324
El_______RT TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PI AN ■ SECTION 7(a)
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under lis Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits under the anada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when le employee's disability has been determined as being severe and rolonged by the employee's physician. If the application is pproved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the amount fCPP/QPP primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to le date of eligibilityas approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Ian.
igned at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
OR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
. G. Crawford	Rene Lindquist
i. Maskerine	Joe Ruete
96
MEMORANDUM CF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN AVENOR INC.
DrydenWoodlands Operations AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
COMMUTERS
a)	An employee who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of the Ear Falls district commuting operation, who exercises his seniority in accordance with Article XII on this operation, shall receive $11.00 per day in lieu of being provided board and lodging in a camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days). He shall continue to receive the $11.00 per day allowance for the term of the agreement, or until such time that:
i)	He returns in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority, to employment in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
If an employee who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of the Ear Falls district commuter operation, elects not to fill a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident and which he is qualified in
97
accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the $11.00 per day allowance as per Article a) above of the remaining period he continues to be employed on this commuter operation.
jj) He has established himself as a resident of that particular commuter operation.
iii) He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
b)	A new employee who has established seniority in accordancewith Article XII and is not a resident when hired to work in the Ear Falls district commuting operations, shall receive $11.00 per day in lieu of providing board and lodging in camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days) up to 100 days or until such time that:
0 He is employed in accordancewith the provisions of Article XII, Seniority, in a camp where board and lodging ismadeavailableto him.
If an employee who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of the Ear Falls district commuter operation elects not to fill a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the $11.00 per day allowance as per a) above for the remaining period he continued to be employed on this commuter operation.
98
ii)	He has established himself as a resident of that particular commuting area of operations.
iii)	He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
Notwithstanding the provisions in b) above, if a new employee is released or laid off prior to establishing seniority, he will be paid $11.00 per day for each day he was available for work in that period (including overtime days).
c)	An employee from a camp operation or from a commuter operation which he is a resident, exercising his seniority to a job of equal status in accordance with Article XII on a job posting, and by so doing becomes a non-resident at the Ear Falls district commuter operation, will not be eligible for the $11.00 per day allowance as per a) above.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 27th day of March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
L. G. Crawford	Rene Lindquist
D. Maskerine	Joe Ruete
99
SHORTTERM DISABILITYBENEFIT PLAN
1.	DEFINITIONS
Inthis Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided,
a)	"Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external violent means:
b)	"Disability" is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan. However, if an employee is so disabled as a result of a non-occupational injury or illness, that he is unable to perform his regular duties and the Company is unable to offer him alternative suitable employment he shall be considered disabled for the purposes of this Plan.
c)	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Avenor Inc. and COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA.
b) "Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the Company;
e)	"Plan" meansthe Short Term Disability Benefit Plan;
100
f)	"Company" meansthe Avenor Inc.;
g)	"Weekly Earnings" mean, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hours x his regular rate; for a pieceworker "Weekly Earnings" mean 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
h)	"Medical Practitioner" means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2.	PARTICIPATION
a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3.	AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 g) immediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $400, ($425 July 1, 1991, $445 October 1,1991, and $465 October 1,1992).
101
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount ayable for such week under The Unemploymentlnsurance Act 1971 and its Regulationsas amended.
4.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT
a)	i) Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligibleto receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning afterthree (3)continuousdaysfrom the commencement of the disability, or beginning on the first day of hospital confinement as a bed patient, if earlier.
ii) In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
102
iii) Disputed W.C.B. Claim If an employee covered by the Short Term Disability Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B., weekly indemnity paymentwill be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having acceptedthe claim and providingthe employee is subject to the rulesand regulationscoveringthe Short Term Disability Plan. Ifthe W.C.B, claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the weekly indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or Insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment, for disability established to the
103
satisfaction of the Company and/or Insurer as having occurred prior to his lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual lay-off or termination.
e)	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of lay-off and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date he is required to return to work.
f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
gj An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of:
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Disability or loss (1) while the protected person is on or could be on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if a protected person fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to
104
meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes, or
iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
|V)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury,
while sane or insane, or
v)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participations a riot, or civil commotion, or
vi)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner,or
vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
viii)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
105
An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, or other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company pension plan.
An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of the disability.
The amount of disability benefit under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent disability provision for the Company pension plan.
5.	PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
h)
i)
j)
k)
106
b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
c)	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
d)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to become eligible underthis Plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his returnto active employment, be eligible to participatein this plan.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
a)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to become eligible underthis Plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participated this plan.
b)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should lay-off occur during this period.
107
GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS
a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workmen's Compensation disability pensions.
b)	The Company and/or Insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or Insurer, as the case may be through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
The Company and/or Insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated bythe Companyand/or Insurer.
108
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation, and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the Insurer.
9. ADMINISTRATION
a)	1 shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Companyto determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the Company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
c)	The Company will meet the representatives of the Union from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the Plan and any problemswhich may arise.
d)	Should an employee or the Union have any complaint concerning entitlements to benefits under the Plan, the matter may be taken up as a grievance and processedto arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have the powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
109
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
DEFINITION
In this plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
a)	"Disability" shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty two (52) weeks of benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan and who for up to the next ensuing twelve (12) months is unable, because of disease or injury, to work at his regular occupation, and thereafter is unable to perform any and every duty of every occupation within the jurisdiction of COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training, or experience.
р)	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Avenor Inc. and COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA;
с)	"Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the Company;
b)	"Plan" meansthe Avenor Inc. Long Term Disability Benefit Plan for Woodlands Employees;
110
e)	"Weekly Earnings" mean, in the case of a day oi shift worker 40 hours x his regular hourly rate; foi a pieceworker "Weekly Earnings" mean 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
f\ "The Company" meansAvenor Inc.
2 PARTICIPATION
a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible tc participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employee? who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3. AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefits shall be 50% of an employee's weekly earnings (as defined in Section 1 e)), immediately precedingthe date of disability payable until the earlier of recovery, or attainment of age 65.
4. ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT
a)	An employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit after 52 weeks of weekly indemnity entitlement for the same disability under the Company's Short Term Disability Benefit Plan.
111
b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
d)	In the event of a lay-off, an employee who is insured under the terms of this plan shall be considered as still employed for purposes of this benefit up to the end of the policy month next following the policy month in which the employee was laid off.
e)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual lay-off or termination.
112
f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than six consecutive months shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after returnto active employment on full time.
g)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Self-destructionor any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
iii)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in riot or civil commotion, or
iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician,or
v)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
h)
An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of any employee,
113
if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
j)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be payable,
i)	while the employee is on or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or
ii)	if an employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such Leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario, or any other relevant provincial statutes.
5.	PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
a) The daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof. Payment of such benefits will be made in accordance with Section 5 b) below.
114
b) Disability benefits will be paid monthly in arrears. The monthly benefit is equal to 4.33 times the benefit under Section 3 hereof.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
a)	An employee absent due to disability or on an authorized leave of absence, on the date he was to become eligible under this plan, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
b)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan to a maximum of 31 days.
7.	GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS, INCLUDING
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION
a) The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount of primary benefits for which an employee is eligible under the disability benefit provisions of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan or similar provisions in any other Government plans for disability, including Workmen's Compensation benefits, for the same disability which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this plan, except for War Disability Pension, Workmen's Compensation Disability Pension, and except for increases in government benefits occurring 12
115
months or more from the date of the first benefit payment;
b)	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans;
c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually Satisfactory arrangement.
8.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physiciansdesignated bythe Companyan/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Should the employee so desire he may seek the opinion of a doctor of his choice; should the diagnosis of his doctor not be in agreement with that of the physician designated by the insurer and/or Company, a physician, who is a practicing specialist of the disability in question, satisfactory to the parties, shall render a final and binding opinion.
REHABILITATION
116
9.
An employee receiving an amount of disability benefits under this Plan may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measureswhich have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10. ADMINISTRATION
a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him;
b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the plan, and the Company will forward the claim forms to the insurer for adjudicationand processing.
C) To assist the insurer in the properadjudication and processing of claims, the Company and/or insurer may establish claims control procedures.
117
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN (19851
I.	DEFINITIONS
a)	"Company" meansAvenor Inc..
b)	"One Year of Continuous Service" means service on the payroll of the Company totalling 200 work days or more (as specified under Article 6.03 of the Collective Agreement) from the last date of hire.
c)
"Employee" means a person who
I) is employed in a full-time regular position including pieceworkers but excluding employees hired under the Silvicultural Addendum;
jj) is on the Company's hourly payroll, and
ill) is a member of Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 324.
"Member" means an Employee who has fulfilled the eligibility and enrollment requirements of Section 4.
"Member's Account" means all contributions by the Member and the Company on behalf of the Member, plus investment earnings.
118
f)	"Retirement Plan" means this Plan to provide retirement income benefits for Dryden Woodlands Employees of the Company.
g)	"Plan Trustee" meansthe trustee and/or insurance company appointed by the Company to be the administrator of the Plan and custodian of the Plan's assets.
2.	The parties of this Agreement agree that there will be no change, suspension or discontinuance of the Retirement Plan for the life of this Agreement, except through mutual agreement by the parties to this Agreement or through government legislation. If, at any time, it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revisions in the Retirement Plan to obtain or retain any acceptance or approval by tax authorities or to comply with any applicable law, the Company will amend the Plan accordingly to comply.
3.	The conditions and provisions of this Retirement plan will be embodied in the text of the Retirement Income Plan for Woodlands Employees.
4.	ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT
Each Employee in active service and each Employeewho is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement on October 26, 1985, shall join Pari A of the Retirement Plan on that date provided he has completed at least one year of continuous service.
CONTRIBUTIONS
119
a) Part A - Mandatory
The Company will contribute $45.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $540.00 ina year, for which the Member receives pay for time worked, or is on short term disability, longterm disability, worker's compensation (first 12 months only), vacation, jury duty, bereavement, maternity or is on temporary leave of absence on Union business or off-the-job training. Contributions will commence for the pay period which ends the later of October 26,1985 or the date the employee becomes a member.
Effective July 1,1991, the Company contribution will be $55.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $660.00 in a year.
Effective May 1,1994, increasecontributionto $65,00 per month.
120
b)	Part B ■ Voluntary
0 Employee Contributions
A Member may elect to contribute to the Plan, at the rate of $45.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $540.00 in a year. The deductionwill be made only if the Member qualifies for the Company basic contribution under Plan A for the pay period and has sufficient net earnings from the Company during such period from which the deduction may be made.
Once the member begins to contribute, payroll deductionswill automatically continue until the member's normal retirement date unless the member files an election to stop contributions. Member contributionsmay be stopped or started on any January 1st,
EffectiveJuly 1,1991 the employee voluntary contributionwill be $55.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $660.00 in a year.
Effective May 1,1994, increase contributionto $65.00 per month.
121
ii) Company Match
The company will contribute $45.00 for each calendar month that the member makes a contribution under paragraph (b) i) above.
Effective July 1, 1991, the Company will contribute $55.00 for each calendar month that the member makes a contribution under paragraph (b) i) above.
Effective May 1,	1994, increase
contributionto $65.00 per month.
Company and Member contributions may not be withdrawn from the Plan while the Member is	employed with the Company.
5.	RETIREMENT DATES
a)	Normal Retirement	-	the	Normal	Retirement Date
is the first day of the month following the member's 65th birthday.
b)	Early Retirement - Early Retirement will be permitted at the election of the member on or after the first day of any month following attainment of age 55.
7.	RETIREMENT BENEFITS
At retirement, the Member's Account will be used to provide a pension payable monthly for life. The amount of annual
122
retirement benefit payableto the Member will depend on the value <£ the Member's Account, the Member's age, the form of payment chosen, and the prevailing interest rates at retirement. Prior to retirement, the Member may elect one of the following forms of pension depending on which one best suits his situation:
a)	Life Only
b)	Life guaranteed 5, 10 and 15 years
c)	Joint and 50% Survivor
d)	Joint and 100% Survivor
Pensions will normally be provided through the purchase of a life annuity from a life insurance company licensed to transact business in Canada.
8.	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Company contributions are immediately vested in each Member. Thus, when a Member terminates employment the Member remains entitled to the full value of the Member's Account.
The Member's Account is locked in and must be used for the provision of retirement income. Upon termination of employment lor reason other than death or retirement, the Member's Account must be transferred from this Plan to one of the following, as elected by the Member:
a) the pension plan of a subsequent employer, provided that such employer accepts the transfer and agrees to administer it on a "locked-in" basis; or
123
b)	a personal "locked-in" registered retirement
savings plan.
"Locked-in" means that the funds and interest earnings thereon must eventually be used to purchase a pension, payable for life, from a life insurance company.
As an exception, the Member's Account will be paid in a lumpsum case settlement if such Member has less than 2 years participation in the Plan at the date of termination.
TRANSFERS IN
A person who becomes an Employee of the Company may elect to make a single lump sum transfer of monies to this Plan from a tax-sheltered pension plan of his prior employer. The amount transferred to this Plan will be administeredin accordance with the rule of this Plan.
Such employee will be considered a new hire for purposes of enrollment in the Plan and eligibility for company contributions.
). DEATH IN SERVICE
Each Member will be required to designate a beneficiary at enrollment date. If the Member dies while employed by the Company, the Member's Account will be paid in a lump sum to his named beneficiary or, in the absence of a valid beneficiary designation, to his estate.
ADMINISTRATION
11
124
The Company will be responsible for all aspects of the Plar administration and will pay the cost of administering the Plan. Individual employee statements will be prepared anc distributed annually by the Plan Trustee showing the Member's position in the Plan.