1
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
- between -
“insert Weyerhaeuser logo here ”
Weyerhaeuser Dryden Operations
- and -
“insert CEP logo here”
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
Effective:
September 1, 2004 to August 31, 2009
2
2004 - 2009 AGREEMENT
between
A Weyerhaeuser
DRYDEN FORESTLANDS
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
SEPTEMBER 1, 2004 TO AUGUST 31, 2009
Adjustment of Grievances Bereavement Pay Bulletin Boards Commuters Dental Plan
Drug and Hospital Care Plans
Floating Holidays
Handicapped Workers
Holidays With Pay
Hours of Work - Shift Differential
Jury Duty - Subpoenaed Witness Allowance
Life Insurance
Long Term Disability
No Strike - No Lockout
Period of Agreement
Piecework Rates - Tree Length
Piecework Rates - Full Tree
Power Saw Rental
Purpose
Rates and Classifications Recognition - Jurisdiction Retirement Income Plan Safety Apparel Subsidies Scaling and Settlement
Seniority
Shift Differential
Short Term Disability
Silviculture - Addendum to Agreement
Silviculture - Rate Schedule - Hourly
Silviculture - Rate Schedule - Piecework
Tools and Equipment
Transportation
Union Membership
Vacation With Pay
Vision Care Plan
Wage Schedule
Working and Living Conditions
3
I N D E X Page
Page
Letters of Understanding Re:
Protected List
Road Construction
Mechanical Breakdown
Department Seniority
Job Security - Technological Change
Piecework
Silviculture
Equipment Cabs - Operator Comfort Licences - Truck and Bus Drivers Hours of Work - Cookery Staff
4
Page
Short Term Disability Benefit Plan - Section 7 (a)
Ear Falls Commuters Other:
Short Term Disability Benefit Plan Long Term Disability Benefit Plan Retirement Income Plan
5
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands
(hereinafter referred to as the Company") and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits
of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in this agreement, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustment of all disputes that may arise between the Parties. It is recognized as a duty of the Parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions as set forth herein.
There shall be no discrimination, harassment or intimidation against anyone. Nothing in the Collective Agreement shall conflict with any Provincial or Federal legislation.
The use of masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the
feminine.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2.01	The Collective Agreement will be renewed for a period of five (5) years, September 1,2004 to August 31,2009.
All other provisions of this Collective Agreement taking effect on September 1, 2004 will remain effective up to and including August 31, 2009, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall
6
notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September 1st of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION- JURISDICTION
3.01(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company. For purposes of this article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on job classifications which may be established and become part of the attached wage schedule during the term of this Agreement.
3.01(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a union or unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
3.01(c) The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a third party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.01(d) There shall be no change in the method by which contractors maintain their equipment. Mechanical work shall be performed by members of Local 324. This shall not apply to specialized or warranty work.
Specialized work is work that the employees do not have the ability or facility to perform.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involves physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01
The wage schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
7
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods, including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least thirty (30) days advance notice in writing.
During the 30-day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the Wage Schedule.
Following the implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the change or alteration, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The 30-day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
New rates, when established, shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new
classifications.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached
Wage Schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from daywork to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement
becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02(a) Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union suspending a member, the
8
Company shall be notified by the Union, in writing, of the date of the suspension and the Company agrees to discharge the employee within seven (7) days of the date of notice of suspension
5.02(b) When hiring new employees the Company will, after complying with Article XlI - Seniority, give preference to Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union members who apply and are capable of doing the work required of them. If Union members are not available the Company will hire non-Union persons. The Company agrees to advise the Union from time to time of its labour requirements. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week.
5.02(c) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring advise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, to report to the Steward within five (5) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5.02(d) The Company shall put employees on check-off at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due the employee.
5.03	Representatives of the Union carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all
operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to Company operations. Credentials carried by the Union representative shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Union. Representatives shall present their credentials at the Forestlands Office in Dryden, Ontario, and will be issued Company passes. On arrival at camp the Union representative will report to the Camp Supervisor. Said representatives to be provided board and lodging, if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
9
5.04(a) The Union shall furnish the Company with a list of local officers and representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.04(b) The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
5.05	The Company agrees for an individual employee who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, to deduct upon the employee’s written request, union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due the employee. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his or her employment.
5.06	Remittance of all deductions shall be sent to the local Union: said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order in duplicate of names with Christian names where available and amounts by camp. The Company will ensure these lists will be forwarded no later than the fifteenth (15th) of the following month.
5.07	The Company agrees to include on each employee's income tax slip (T-4) the amount of Union Dues deducted in the calendar year.
10
ARTICLE VI -VACATION WITH PAY
6.01(a)	Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of
termination of employment or, at the employee’s option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken.
6.01(b) Each 2% increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time-off.
An employee who has been continuously employed for one (1) year, has the right, and is expected to take their full entitlement to time off, at a time or times satisfactory to the employee and their Supervisor.
An employee has the right to take their full entitlement to time-off, whether or not the employee has worked continuously for one (1) year, at a time or times satisfactory to the employee and the Supervisor.
6.02	Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
a) 4% of gross earnings for employees who have	worked less than 800 days.
b) 6% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 2,000 days or more but less than 4,000 days.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5,400 days.
e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 5,400 days or more but less than 6,500 days
f)	14% of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than 6,500 day.
g)	Supplementary Vacation with Pay
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 - 1 week ( 2% of gross earnings)
Age 61 - 2 weeks ( 4% of gross earnings)
Age 62 - 3 weeks ( 6% of gross earnings)
Age 63 - 4 weeks ( 8% of gross earnings)
11
Age 64 - 5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
6.03	Days worked for the purposes of this Article shall mean all days worked, plus working days
which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor, and all days on temporary leave of absence on Union business, or on off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty, subpoenaed witness and bereavement leave. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XlI shall retain their accumulation of days for their rate of vacation pay for as long as the employee retains seniority rights with the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid without the performance of work for
the following holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and the supervisor.
An employee who by reason of lay-off is prevented from taking their floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
If an employee has any floating holidays remaining on December 1st, the employee may elect to take pay in lieu of time off.
7.02(a) An employee, who qualifies under Article XII, Section 12.02, who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday and does not leave work sooner than two (2) days before the holiday, and is ready for work on the morning of the second (2nd) day after the holiday, unless their return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond the employee’s control, shall receive pay for the holiday unless the employee quits during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the holiday and is ready for work for the second day following the holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Company prior to leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and Union either at Camp level or at Management level.
12
7.02(b) If an employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02 and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence other than as provided in 7.03 when the holiday occurs, the employee shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during their absence, provided the employee returns to work on time, unless their return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond the employee’s control.
7.02(c) An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to a layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 30 day period.
7.02(d)	An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to
sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 21 day period.
7.02(e) If an employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 is recalled and works any time during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the holiday, the employee shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.02(f) An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
7.03	A special leave of absence shall be granted to a qualified employee who must travel a long
distance to be home for Christmas, n which event such an employee will receive pay for the holidays provided the employee returns on time. Any request for such leave of absence must be made to the Camp Foreman no later than December 1st. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond their control from returning to work on time, the employee shall be paid for the holidays.
7.04(a)	If qualified, a pieceworker will be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding) for the
holiday, and a dayworker shall be paid a day's pay at his or her regular rate for the holiday.
7.04(b) A day worker who is requested to work on any holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular rate for the first eight (8) hours of work and at the rate of double time after eight (8) hours of work, and, if qualified, in addition, shall receive one day's pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday.
7.04(c) A pieceworker who is requested to work on a holiday shall receive their earnings plus one-half day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
13
8.01(a) It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible. To this end it is agreed that periodic meetings will be held between the Company and the Union to discuss the interpretation and administration of this Agreement.
8.01(b) It is agreed that no grievance shall be processed which usurps the rights of Management.
8.01(c) It is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until they have given their Foreman an opportunity to adjust the complaint. This may be done during working hours.
8.02(a) The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act as spokesperson for the Committee. In the absence of the Steward the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesperson. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any differences between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the foreman in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
STAGE 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or the area Vice-President or their designate with the Division Superintendent or their designated representative within ninety-six (96) hours, in writing, on forms to be supplied by the Union. The Division Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 - The matter shall be taken up by the Executive Officers of the Local Union and/or their designates with the Production Manager, Forestlands, of the Company, or their representative. Failing a settlement within seven (7) days, then,
14
STAGE 4 - The matter shall be referred to the Resident Manager, Forestlands, of the Company, or their representative and a Union Committee, accompanied by the Union’s President and the National Representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then,
STAGE 5 - Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to arbitration.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that their discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. When such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first stage before the employee leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his or her job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.06	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this Grievance Procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03 it shall commence at Stage 3 of this Grievance Procedure by the Forestlands Manager or their representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the president of the Union or their representative by the Vice President Forestlands, of the Company or their representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one (1) person; these two shall select a third person who shall act as Chairperson. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. This Arbitration Board shall convene and render a decision promptly and such decision shall be final and binding on both parties of this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) persons selected by the respective parties to select a third person as provided above, they shall ask the provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third person.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.09	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this
Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the
15
power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members, nor
lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first-aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairperson shall alternate between a Company Co-Chairperson and a Union Co-Chairperson. The Chairperson of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate - copies going to the Company Office, the Union Office, and the Camp Bulletin Board. There will be central Safety committee meetings held each quarter.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his or her work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which the employee shall be paid by the Company at their regular or premium rate as may be proper.
The Company agrees that it will maintain good work trails, and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid Person in each camp, such First Aid Person to have proper visible identification.
It is the intention of the Company to maintain its camp access roads in good condition when
in use.
10.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency First Aid Kits and 2-way radios at or near work sites and in all vehicles regularly used for the transportation of employees.
16
10.03(a) All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattresses shall be either airfoam, plastifoam, or spring filled mattresses. Where these conditions require changes in present camps such changes shall be effected within the term of this Agreement. In construction of new camps, the Company agrees to construct all living quarters into suitable rooms housing not more than two (2) employees per room. In the case of cookery personnel, the Company agrees to provide, in the construction of new camps suitable living quarters housing not more than one (1) employee per room. Where such cookery staff accommodations are currently available, they shall be so arranged and provided.
The Company agrees to supply two (2) clean sheets and one (1) clean pillow case per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived at camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month, and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in a serviceable condition at all times
10.03(b) It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees' living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a TV set where TV programs are receivable, and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets, showers and laundry washing and drying machines. During the first year of this agreement, a T.V. Satellite Dish will be installed at all year-round live-in camps. A lockup storage type locker will be provided for each person in his or her bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employees' cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps.
10.03(c) All bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups, except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10.03(d) The Company agrees that fly control measures shall be carried out at regular intervals during the summer operating season and camp pest control as required.
10.03(e) Night watch shall be employed in all major operating camps during the heating season unless an Underwriter approved fire detection and fire warning system is installed.
10.03(f) All night shift workers shall have separate sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical and as arranged on a camp basis by majority vote.
CAMP FEEDING
10.04(a) Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable foods shall be handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all times. Food served to
17
the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include, fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
10.04(b) Butter shall be supplied on the tables at all meals and on coffee tables and shall not be mixed with any substitute. Margarine will be made available to employees on request.
10.04(c) Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers allowing self service, for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.04(d) Each employee shall pack their own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.04(e) Suitable heated lunch shacks shall be provided on all mechanical operations. Such shacks to have protective screening during the summer months. The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch building for year-round use.
10.04(f) There shall be coffee breaks in the morning afternoon and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
10.04(g) The charge for board and lodging shall be One Dollar and seventy-five Cents ($1.75) per calendar day.
10.05(a) It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service. laundry, recreation and motion pictures. It is understood that the showing of moving pictures will be discontinued where coloured TV is available. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charge for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.05(b) The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons, and smocks, on loan, and other suitable uniform apparel, at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing and drying machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
10.05(c) The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employee's personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee-owned power saws to a maximum of Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00). Additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools will be provided to the full value of such tools while on Company property or worksites and as documented by the tool inventory list maintained on file. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employee-owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire willfully or
18
through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee-owned power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
SCALING AND SETTLEMENT
10.06(a) Employees shall be paid every second Thursday.
10.06(b) Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on Thursday pay day or Friday, payment will be made on Wednesday of that week.
10.06(c) In instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employees' payroll credit.
10.06(d) A Time and Earnings Statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued Vacation Pay credit, and deductions, covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp.
10.06(e) Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.06(f) The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (1) scale per week. and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips shall be given to each pieceworker at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the wood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information, where applicable: Number of cords or number of pieces (Tree Length), Riding and/or Walking Bonus, Footage of strip or Main Road Cut; and Poor Bush Bonus.
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
10.07	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a minor mechanical repair job, he or she will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by themselves or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.08	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following.
19
a)	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
b)	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
c)	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
The Company agrees to stock two types of power saw chains, and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at the invoiced cost to the Company.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
10.09(a) At each operating camp, a separate building will be provided for the storage of power saws. Said building shall contain sufficient lockers for storage. In addition, a suitable, separate heated building with work bench, vise and compressed air will be provided for the repair of power saws. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters. Each employee shall cooperate in maintaining the building in a clean and safe condition.
10.09(b) The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and mitts.
To subsidize the cost of required apparel such as safety pants, boots, gloves and mitts, the Company will make a one-time annual payment in the amount of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) to each active employee with a minimum of six (6) months seniority, and payable in December of each year.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
10.09(c) Lunch boxes and thermos bottles shall be issued on loan, to all employees and shall have been sterilized before issue.
CAMP TRANSPORTATION
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of employees. Same to
have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, equip
20
all buses transporting employees with two-way radios, and will have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places.
10.11(a) The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company's request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII -Seniority
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of their intention to do so and shall be paid 30 cents per kilometer.
10.11(b) Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate per day for pieceworkers, and normal travel time, outside an employee's scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the above rates for pieceworkers.
10.11(c) Each employee required to travel from his/her place of residence to another community will be paid $50.00 per week.
It is understood that in order to qualify for this payment, the employee must have exercised their bumping rights under Article XII.
It is further understood that such employee will receive this payment for a period not exceeding 6 months.
It is further understood that employees are not required to each drive their own vehicles in order to qualify for travel allowance.
GENERAL
10.12(a) The Company, consistent with its Policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will be maintained by the Supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.12(b) The Company agrees that there will be no shacking or batching by employees covered by this Agreement, who are engaged in producing and delivering operations on its limits and/or work sites, unless mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
10.12(c) The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
21
10.12(d) All tradesmen and helpers will be supplied with suitable coveralls. Where an employee performs alternate work assisting trades people, the Company will supply the same suitable coveralls, where required.
10.12(e) Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bush garage, or who are required to provide maintenance or repair services outside the town limits, will receive fifty cents (50 cents) an hour premium for all such hours worked.
10.12(f) Where employees are normally scheduled for eight hours per day and when such an employee is required to work more than 4 hours overtime, he or she will be provided an adequate lunch or arrangements will be made for same.
10.12(g) Maternity/Parental Leave - In the case of maternity leave and parental leave, the eligible employee will be granted a leave of absence in accordance with the Federal and/or Provincial laws.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01(a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in daywork jobs on the day shift Monday to Friday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05(a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
11.01(b) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a Paid Holiday and the "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.02(a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m.,, mealtime excepted.
11.02(b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours commencing between the hours of 3:30 P.M. and 5:00 P.M., meal time excepted. However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement, be scheduled to commence prior to 3:30 P.M. in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.03(b).
22
11.03(a) A night shift differential of sixty cents (60 cents) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work.
11.03(b) On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of 8 consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of 8 consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of sixty cents (60cents) per hour.
11.03(c) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid shall be as follows:
Starting Time Stopping Time	Shift
(between hours of) (between hours of) Differential 1st Shift 7 am - 8 am	3 pm - 4 pm	Nil
2nd Shift	3 pm - 4 pm	11 pm - 12 pm	60 cents
3rd Shift	11 pm - 12 pm	7 am - 8 am	70 cents
11.03(d) The hours of work and the “sixth day” for day workers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following.
1.	An employee may not change shifts during the	week except when their shift schedule is
changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, the employee will be paid at one and one-half times their regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his or her original shift, they shall be paid at their regular straight time rate provided that there is a break or at least 8 hours between shifts worked.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements, such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a one-hour period.
3.	On all operations which are carried out on a two (2) or three (3) shift basis, all such employees will be	scheduled on rotating weekly schedule basis.
11.03(e) If an employee, who has completed his or her scheduled work week, is required for work on their day off, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If the employee is available for the posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond their control, the employee shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section 11.05(a) provided they remain available for the four-hour period if so requested by the Company.
23
11.03(f) During the period of May to August, two shift scarification operations may commence at 6:00 A.M.
11.03(g) During the fire season, scheduled hours may be altered to provide for early start up when necessitated by fire hazard ratings, as determined by the M.N.R. guidelines.
It is understood the starting time may be advanced by up to two (2) hours except where travel time is more than one (1) hour, the maximum advance will be one (1) hour.
11.04(a) A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond their control shall be paid for one-half day if the employee works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if the employee works more than four (4) hours.
A pieceworker who will lose more than one (1) hour of work for reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of the one (1) hour at the rate of Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding, provided the employee reports to the supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate daywork if so requested by the Company.
In the case of time lost in excess of one (1) hour for reason of lack of assignment of area to cut, and/or time required in excess of one (1) hour to travel to area assigned, payment shall be made for all hours lost.
11.04(b) A day or shift worker who reports for work at their scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work due to reasons beyond their control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at their regular rate provided the employee remains available for two (2) hours from the scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditions permit. It is understood however that this shall not apply in cases of full or partial cessation of operations due to weather or an act of God.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section 11.04(a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift, the employee shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates
a change in shift, the time and one-half provisions of Section 11.03(d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts.
Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
24
Should such notice be given to an employee, they may exercise their seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, the employee shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If the employee does exercise their seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, they shall be permitted to exercise their seniority on return to work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established locally.
11.05(a) Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on their designated "sixth day” day (Saturday or Monday) or outside the employee’s regular shift shall be paid for at the rate of time-and-one-half.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on an employee's designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday.
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classification requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay, shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
11.05(b) Employees in the classifications specified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article Xl.
(a) Cook	(b) Cookee	(c) Watchman
For employees in the job classifications listed above, the hours of work per day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1)	The regular work day or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shift of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than two (2) parts provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
25
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2)	Time worked in excess or outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of the employee’s scheduled work week, and all hours worked on the employee’s "sixth" day (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time-and-one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3)	An employee in the above listed classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond their control, shall be paid for one-half day if the employee is available at the start of their scheduled shift, and for one full day if the employee remains available for the start of the second half of their scheduled shift.
4)	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day or shift for the "sixth" day or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the	week except when the shift schedule
is changed	by the Company. When an employee's shift	schedule is changed
by the Company, the employee will be paid at one-and-one-half times their regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to their original shift they will be paid at regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5)	If an employee who has completed their scheduled work week is called back for work on their "sixth" day or Sunday, the employee shall be provided a minimum of 8 hours work and be paid at time-and-one-half provided they remain available if so requested by the Company.
6)	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of 45 cents per hour for each second shift worked.
7)	The present standard of service by chorepersons and night watch shall be maintained.
11.06	Walking Distance and/or Riding Time shall not be considered as time worked. Walking Distance and Riding Time shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distance and Riding Time section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after completing their day or shift, or more than one (1) hour before the start of their day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall the employee receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of their day or shift the employee will be paid time and
26
one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of their day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into their day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05(a) shall apply after the employee has completed eight (8) hours work exclusive of the time worked prior to their starting time.
An employee who is called out for work on their “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05(a), from the starting time of the call-out, but in no case shall the employee receive less than four (4) hours pay at the rate of time-and-one-half.
11.08	During spring break-up the hauling of wood fiber may commence early on Mondays. Hours to be defined by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay-off
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until they have worked thirty (30) days within a six-month period. Seniority of new employees shall be established at the end of this period and shall be effective from the date of employment.
12.03(a) Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise their seniority and transfer to a job for which they are qualified, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance with section 12.04, the employee advises the Company, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of their desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are occasioned by the completion of seasonal activities, Company-wide seniority will be applied only when operations continue in other districts for more than one (1) week, otherwise the district will be the unit of application of seniority on seasonal layoffs.
12.03(b)	The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in
accordance with Article XII.
27
Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five(5)
working days.
It is agreed however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than thirty (30) calendar days duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs, unless they apply in writing within the five(5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this Agreement. Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify, (or a further time as may be mutually agreed, if further training time is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle them to return to their former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
In the event there are no successful bidders, the junior employee in the transition contractor will be awarded the posting.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
All postings, internal and external, permanent or temporary will be forwarded to the Union office. Once the successful applicant has been appointed, the Company will forward to the Union a list of all applicants and identify the successful applicant.
12.03(c) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, subpoenaed witness, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03(b) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that a vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit it shall be filled on an area basis. When regular operators are not available, spare operators will fill all temporary vacancies and third shifts when created for the stump to roadside workforce.
The employee who had occupied the job upon their return to work shall once again occupy the job that they had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of notice of lay-off from their former job has exercised their seniority on this particular job.
12.04 In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days, the Company will notify, in writing, the employees intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company will provide two weeks' notice of layoff in the
28
case of shutdowns due to market conditions or plant shutdowns. It is understood however that this shall not apply in cases of full or partial cessation of operations due to weather or an act of God.
12.05 When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of layoff, employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in all cases notice in writing, will be sent to an employee at their given address at least fourteen (14) days before they are required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, in writing.
12.06(a) An employee's seniority shall not be broken by sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, licensed dentist or licensed chiropractor.
12.06(b) An employee's seniority shall be broken if the employee quits, or is discharged and not reinstated, if the employee fails to report for work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this Agreement, if the employee fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified unless theyhave been prevented from returning on time by circumstances beyond the employee’s control and the Company has been so notified, and if they have been laid off for twelve (12) months or more, with the exception that continuity
of service will extend up to, but not more than twenty-four (24) months if requested in writing by the employee before the elapse of twelve (12) full months or lay-off.
12.07	The Company agrees to submit to the Union an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement as of April 1st, showing Company seniority dates. The Company will endeavour to have this list sent to the Union by the first of May of each year thereafter.
12.08	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly in each camp and forwarded to the Union office showing the seniority date and posting/position held of each employee with the Company.
12.09	In transfers from one job classification to another senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which the employee is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of their previous job classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work, the rate specified for Feller-Limber (Tree Length Skidding) shall apply, or the rate of the job classification, whichever is higher.
12.10	(a) An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding one (1) year.
(b) An employee who has accrued seniority and is employed by Local 324 shall be granted Leave of Absence from the Company. The employee will go back to the position they held prior to their leave upon returning from said leave.
29
12.11	An employee who is promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding one (1) year.
12.12	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment, or due to curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment in accordance with Section 12.01 to meet the Company's labour requirements, and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company, provided that the jobs they have applied to be trained for are expected to last for a period of three (3) months or more.
It is understood this does not apply to seasonal lay-offs.
12.13	Severance
In the event that Employment Standards Act severance pay is owing to employees, the payment will be calculated at 1.5 weeks pay per year of continuous service.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have approval of the Company before such posting. A copy of the notice is to be given to the Camp Supervisor for their records.
4
ARTICLE XIV - DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	Effective the first of the month following date of ratification for each employee on the payroll who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will provide appropriate single or family coverage in accordance with Blue Cross Drug Plan or its equivalent, and Semi-private Hospital Care Plan.
The Company will maintain coverage to employees who are off work due to a Workplace Safety Insurance Board claim or a Short Term Disability claim for up to a period of twelve months.
The Company will continue coverage for a laid off employee to the end of the month in which they were laid off. Coverage will resume on the date the employee returns to work from lay-off.
A Pay Direct Drug Card will be provided for all participating plan members.
Children with Disabilities - Insured children suffering from a mental or physical disability will continue to be covered beyond the maximum age as long as they are dependents of the employee.
14.02	Chiropractic and Physiotherapy Coverage
Effective April 19, 2005, the Company will cover 50% of the cost of Chiropractic and Physiotherapy services to a combined maximum of $20 per visit to a yearly maximum of $300 per family member.
30
14.03	Retiree surviving spouse health care coverage
In the event of the death of a retiree covered under the health care benefit plan, the surviving spouse will have the option to continue to be covered by the plan provided the spouse pays the total cost of the premiums.
If there is no pension payment from which to deduct the premiums, the spouse will have to supply to the Company postdated cheques covering the coming year’s premium payments. To maintain the coverage, the spouse will have to submit required information and payment as stipulated by the Company’s procedures.
The coverage will cease effective the date this benefit plan coverage would have expired for the retiree, or earlier if there is a change to the surviving spouse’s marital status.
ARTICLE XV - GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	Effective May 1, 2005, life insurance coverage for an individual employee will be seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000) fully paid by the Company.	Each participating employee who is
actively at work, may elect to be insured for an additional amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) of term life insurance. An employee who elects this additional coverage, will be required to contribute $4.50 per month. The Company agrees to maintain the contribution level until the termination of this Agreement.
Supplemental Life Insurance
Effective January 1, 2005, optional life insurance, fully paid by the employee, will be made available to employees less than 65 years old. This optional life insurance will be available to a maximum of $200,000 in increments of $25,000. With notification to contractor administrator for this plan, employees will be permitted once a year to amend their level of coverage. Formal notification of such change must be made by November 30th of the preceding year to be effective January 1st of the following year or later, upon acceptance from the insurance carrier following proof of good health.
Coverage premiums will be based on sex, age and smoker or non-smoker status; restrictions and exclusions will be subject to the insurance provider’s plan policies. Associated premium costs will be administered through payroll deductions. Coverage will end at termination or upon retirement.
1.	Effective May 1, 2005, life insurance for dependents will be:
(a)	Spouse - $15,000
(b)	Each unmarried child:
i) 14 days but less than 1 year - $7,500
31
ii) 1 year but less than 19 years (25 years when a student full time wholly dependent on the employee for support, $7,500)
Life insurance for dependents will be at Company’s cost and will terminate upon the employee’s retirement or death.
2.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment
The employer will provide a twenty-four (24) hour fully paid accidental death and dismemberment insurance with a maximum insured amount of $50,000. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will terminate upon the employee’s retirement.
3.	Retiree Life Insurance
For employees retiring after May 1, 2005, the death benefit coverage will be $1,000.
ARTICLE XVI - SHORT TERM AND LONG TERM DISABILITY
16.01	SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Short Term Disability Plan. The plan will provide seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings forty (40) hours times an employee’s regular rate and pieceworkers, forty (40) times the Feller/Limber hourly rate, up to a maximum of five hundred forty ($540.00) weekly, to commence on the first day in case of a non-compensable accident and after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to a sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
Effective September 1, 2005, the maximum will be increased to six hundred and forty ($640.00) dollars weekly.
Effective September 1, 2005, the Company will compensate an employee when a fee is charged by a physician for completion of a medical certificate required to support a claim for benefits pursuant to the Short Term Disability Plan. Such payment shall be to a maximum amount of forty ($40.00) dollars per certificate and will be initiated upon presentation of a receipt from the attending physician
16.02	LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
The Company will maintain and pay the full cost of a Long Term Disability Benefit Plan providing for benefits of 50% of weekly earnings, payable to age 65 or termination of the disability, whichever occurs first.
32
Effective July 1, 1991, for all employees actively employed, the Plan will provide for benefits of 55% of weekly earnings, payable to age 65 or termination of the disability, whichever occurs first.
ARTICLE XVII - BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to an employee’s spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate (pieceworkers - eight (8) times the Feller-Limber Tree Length Skidding hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days. The day of the funeral must be one of the five (5) days.
When death occurs to an employee's father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren, the employee will be granted leave and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate (pieceworkers - eight (8) times the Feller/Limber Tree Length Skidding hours rate) for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. The day of the funeral must be one of the three (3) days.
Pay will be granted for the employee's scheduled work days lost during this period.
Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It is understood for purposes of this Article, step relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
If an employee's family member dies while the employee is on vacation, their vacation shall be extended by the number of days of bereavement leave for which they would have qualified.
ARTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY/SUBPOENAED WITNESS ALLOWANCE
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service or as a subpoenaed witness, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate (pieceworkers eight (8) hours based on the Feller-Limber Tree Length Skidding hourly rate) and the payment the employee received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XIX DENTAL PLAN
19.01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis.
33
1.	ELIGIBILITY
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
2.	PLAN DESIGN
(a)	Effective April 19, 2005, services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross	No.7 Basic
Plan and Rider No. 1, based on the 2004 Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees.
(b)	Effective April 19, 2005, services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross	Rider No.2
(50%), based on the 2004 Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees.
(c)	Plan to provide coverage for fissure seal treatment.
(d)	Maximum $1,500.00 per calendar year per person.
(e)	Effective September 1, 2006, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 2005 ODA Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 2007, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 2006 ODA Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 2008, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 2007 Schedule of Fees.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or Leave of Absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	ADMINISTRATION
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self- administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	PREMIUMS
The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
34
5.	INTEGRATION
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XX - RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN
The Retirement Income Plan (1985) forms part of this Agreement. A description of the Plan is attached hereto for information purposes. Any questions of administration or interpretation of the Plan will be decided based on the full Plan test.
ARTICLE XXI - VISION CARE PLAN
21.01	The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan which will provide for expenses incurred by an employee and/or the employee's covered dependents when recommended by a physician or optometrist as follows:
Effective May 1, 2005, frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses including contact lenses, up to a total of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per insured family member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years.
ARTICLE XXII - LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATIONS
22.01	The Union and Company will meet once every two months to deal with issues other than grievances. The company will cover wages lost for up to two employees of the contractors that are representing Local 324.
35
SIGNED AT DRYDEN, ONTARIO,
THIS 31st DAY OF MARCH, 2005
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands
Dan Dedo Jan Park
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
John Mclnnes Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
WAGE SCHEDULE
September 1, 2004 to August 31, 2009
Cook	26.36	27.02	27.62	28.17	28.77
Cookee	24.17	24.77	25.37	25.88	26.48
Watchman B. Bus Driver	24.26	24.87	25.47	25.98	26.58
	24.58	25.19	25.79	26.31	26.91
Fellers and Buckers	25.08	25.71	26.31	26.83	27.43
Handyman	24.92	25.54	26.14	26.67	27.27
Helper Mechanical Equipment	24.58	25.19	25.79	26.31	26.91
Labourer, General	24.01	24.61	25.21	25.71	26.31
Operator, Backhoe	24.58	25.19	25.79	26.31	26.91
Operator, Tractor, Wheel Skidders	25.08	25.71	26.31	26.83	27.43
Operator, Bulldozer “A”	26.33	26.99	27.59	28.14	28.74
Operator Bulldozers “B”	25.61	26.25	26.85	27.39	27.99
Operator, Machine Scarification	25.61	26.25	26.85	27.39	27.99
Operator, Forwarder	25.33	25.96	26.56	27.09	27.69
Operator, Front-End Loader, Drott/Hough	25.33	25.96	26.56	27.09	27.69
Operator, Crane with Certificate	26.59	27.25	27.85	28.41	29.01
Operator, Crane, no Certificate	26.04	26.69	27.29	27.84	28.44
36
Operator, Pulpwood Harvester	26.
Operator, Pulpwood Harvester
(under training)	25.
Operator, Mechanical Piler	25.
Operator, Mechanical Slasher	25.
Operator, Hydraulic Loader Mounted on Slasher	25.
Operator, Hydraulic Unloader Mounted on Slasher	25.
Slasherman Loader Operator Automatic Slasher	25.
Operator, Grapple Skidder	25.
Operator, Flail	25.
Operator, Feller Buncher	25.
Top Loader	24.
Relief Operator	25.
Grader Operator	26.
Mechanic Class A	28.
Mechanic Class B	26.
Mechanic Class C	25.
Lead	29.
Helper A	24.
Helper B	24.
Welder Class A	28.
Welder Class B	26.
Welder class C	25.
Lead	29.
Helper A	24.
Helper B	24.
Truck Driver Hauling Multiple Trailers	25.
Truck Driver Tandem Axle Hauling Trailers (in excess of 102” in width)	25.
Truck Driver Hauling Multiple Trailers (in excess of 102” in width)	25.
Truck Driver, Single Axle	24.
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle	24.
Truck Driver, Trailers and Floats	25.
Power Saw Operator (non-productive	24.
Tree Planter	25.
Trainee Machine Operator (for newly hired employees) 24. Applied for Maximum of 15 Shifts
Operator, Koehring Feller Forwarder	25.
Operator, Rogers Delimber	25.
04	26.69	27.29	27.84	28.44
45	26.09	26.69	27.22	27.82
43	26.07	26.67	27.20	27.80
33	25.96	26.56	27.09	27.69
33	25.96	26.56	27.09	27.69
33	25.96	26.56	27.09	27.69
89	26.54	27.14	27.68	28.28
25	25.88	26.48	27.01	27.61
25	25.88	26.48	27.01	27.61
51	26.15	26.75	27.28	27.88
58	25.19	25.79	26.31	26.91
20	25.83	26.43	26.96	27.56
12	26.77	27.37	27.92	28.52
63	29.35	29.95	30.54	31.14
73	27.40	28.00	28.56	29.16
65	26.29	26.89	27.43	28.03
13	29.86	30.46	31.07	31.67
69	25.31	25.91	26.43	27.03
21	24.82	25.42	25.92	26.52
63	29.35	29.95	30.54	31.14
78	27.45	28.05	28.61	29.21
65	26.29	26.89	27.43	28.03
13	29.86	30.46	31.07	31.67
69	25.31	25.91	26.43	27.03
21	24.82	25.42	25.92	26.52
40	26.04	26.64	27.17	27.77
30	25.93	26.53	27.06	27.66
50	26.14	26.74	27.27	27.87
58	25.19	25.79	26.31	26.91
96	25.58	26.18	26.71	27.31
22	25.85	26.45	26.98	27.58
49	25.10	25.70	26.22	26.82
08	25.71	26.31	26.83	27.43
77	25.39	25.99	26.51	27.11
87	26.52	27.12	27.66	28.26
87	26.52	27.12	27.66	28.26
	37				
Backhoe / Float	25.54	26.18	26.78	27.31	27.91
Processor	25.97	26.62	27.22	27.76	28.36
Forwarder	25.33	25.96	26.56	27.09	27.69
Cherry Picker	25.74	26.38	26.98	27.52	28.12
Rock Truck	25.64	26.28	26.88	27.42	28.02
Chipper	26.23	26.89	27.49	28.04	28.64
SAWMILL (Contractor) Operator Debarker	25.25	25.88	26.48	27.01	27.61
Operator Chipper	24.92	25.54	26.14	26.67	27.27
C.	An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees shall be paid his or her regular rate plus thirty cents (30 cents) per hour during the training assignment.
SILVICULTURAL WAGE SCALE	Sept. 1/04	Sept. 1/05	Sept. 1/06	Sept. 1/07	Sept. 1/08
Tree Planter	24.01	24.61	25.21	25.71	26.31
Labourer	24.01	24.61	25.21	25.71	26.31
Crew Leader, Regular Rate Plus	.35	.35	.35	.35	.35
Piecework Rates - Manual Planting
Upon Ratification Effective Sept. 1, 2008
11.5	cents/tree	12.0 cents/tree
9.5cents/tree	10.0 cents/tree
Site Unprepared
Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock Container Seedlings
Bare Root Stock Container Seedlings
12.5	cents/tree
10.5	cents/tree
13.0	cents/tree
11.0	cents/tree
38
(Employees on the regular seniority listing may elect to work on either the day or piecework wage schedule.)
D.	Power Saw Rental
A day worker using their power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw rental of:
Per 8-hour day or shift when felling and	$11.00
limbing
Per 8-hour day or shift when bucking at a $12.00 landing on a skidding operation
If the employee is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his their control the employee will be paid one-half (1/2) days rental when the employee works less than four (4) hours and a full days rental when the employee works more than four (4) hours.
E.	Handicapped Workers
A special rate may be established by agreement between the Company and the Union for aged and handicapped workers.
II.	COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions:
1.	Commuters are employees who -
(a)	are resident within reasonable Riding and/or Walking Distance of the area of operations;
(b)	for whom board and lodging are not made available by the Company.
2.	The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated marshalling point or points for each commuting area to the operating areas and return.
3.	Time spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling on the vehicle provided from a marshalling point or points to debarkation point or points plus time spent walking from debarkation point or points to place of work in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis;
(a)	Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
(b)	Pieceworkers on mechanical cut and skid operations shall be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
39
III.	WALKING DISTANCE AND RIDING TIME
1.	Pieceworkers who walk to work from camp a distance in excess of one and one-half (1-1/2) miles shall be paid on the basis of the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate for the time required to walk the excess distance. For the purpose of this Agreement it is agreed that the pieceworker will walk at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
2.	Where pieceworkers are transported to work from camp, they shall be paid for Riding Time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
3.	Where a dayworker’s travelling time from camp to working place is composed of riding and/or walking time the employee shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way at their regular rate of pay.
4.	Where a pieceworker’s or a dayworker's travelling time from camp to working place is composed of riding and walking time, the employee shall be paid the rate of pay as per this Agreement for all combined riding and walking time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way. The walking time based on the rate of one-quarter (1/4) of a mile equals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
IV.	COOKERY SCHEDULE
14	employees or less
15	employees to 25 employees
26 employees to 45 employees 46 employees to 65 employees
1 cook
1 cook, 1 cookee 1 cook, 2 cookees 1 cook, 3 cookees
V.	PIECEWORK RATES
CUTTING AND SKIDDING - TREE LENGTH
(Wheeled Skidders- Rubber Tired)
Rates per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule.
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
SUPPLEMENT TO PIECEWORKERS
40
A supplement of seventy-three (73) cents per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
MEASUREMENT
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter measurement shall be clearly marked on the butt of each tree length by the scaler.
BONUS
No Cutting Bonus in addition to Schedule Rates. No Poor Bush Bonus to be paid on pulpwood or byproducts.
CREW SIZE
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed three (3) at any time.
SKIDDING DISTANCE
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in any strip or block.
STRIP CUTTING
Every attempt will be made to assign adjoining alternate strips. If these two strips yield less than thirty (30) cords, each crew member will be paid one hour at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
The Company will not normally exceed 600 feet when cutting strips. Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in each strip. Exceptions will be dealt with on a local basis
WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Subsection (III) (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
SORTING BONUS
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood by species, 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
If further sorting is required, an additional 1.43% or a total of 4.29% of base earnings will be paid.
SKIDWAY PREPARATION
41
Company will endeavour to clear skidway sites. Where this is done by the crew at Company request, 7.62% of base earnings will be paid.
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE - PULPWOOD
Current rates listed in Letter of Understanding titled the same.
VI.	PIECEWORK RATES
CUTTING AND SKIDDING (FULL TREE)
(Wheeled Skidders - Rubber Tired)
Rates per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule.
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
SUPPLEMENT TO PIECEWORKERS
A supplement of seventy-three (73) cents per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
CREW SIZE
Crew will consist of a maximum of two (2) employees.
SKIDDING DISTANCE
(a)	Maximum skidding distance 900 feet when skidway placement not adjacent to gravel or brush mat road.
(b)	Maximum skidding distance 1,200 feet when skidway placement adjacent to gravel or brush mat road.
MEASUREMENT
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be clearly marked on each butt by the Scaler.
BONUS
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates. No poor bush bonus to be paid on pulpwood or by-products. SORTING BONUS
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood, 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
42
If further sorting is required, an additional 1.43% or a total of 4.29% of base earnings will be paid. SKIDWAY PREPARATION
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 7.62% of base earnings will be paid. WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with subsection (III) Walking Distance and Riding Time.
CUTTING AND SKIDDING FULL TREE (WHEELED SKIDDER)
METRIC RATES PER TREE
Current rates listed in Letter of Understanding titled the same.
43
ITEMS THAT ARE STILL IN EFFECT FROM MEMORANDUM SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE AGREEMENT SIGNED AT DRYDEN ON OCTOBER 23, 1963
Between
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
A.	Certain understandings from the Memorandum of Agreement between the two parties dated 16th March 1969 were renewed as set forth hereunder:
1.	Small Crews
It is agreed that where necessary, in the cutting of main roads beyond the normal camp cutting area, temporary small crews of not more than three crews (two men to a crew) may be required to batch. The Company agrees to supply such crews with adequate living quarters and living equipment.
It is agreed that all other small crews will be family units (such units to be grouped in threes or fours) in a good location near suitable water supply. The Company agrees to supply adequate living quarters and living equipment. Groceries will be supplied, on request, twice per week; delivery free of charge.
2.	Cookery Schedule
It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced and that the persons eating may be varied 10% plus or minus for short periods.
It is also understood that the cookery staff is in addition to the numbers listed in the Cookery Schedule.
3.	Hiring
It is agreed that Union members who apply will be listed. Where a place of contact is given and the applicant states that he will be readily available, the applications will be kept on file providing the applicant reports weekly if requested by the Company.
44
It is agreed that the words "capable employee" in the hiring clause also are interpreted to mean a "suitable employee". In other words, a capable person is not always a suitable person.
4.	Company-wide Grievances
The Company interprets “Company-wide grievance" to mean a grievance that pertains to more than one camp.
5.	Seniority
Seniority lists will include employees' addresses where possible.
B.	ADDITIONAL UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED:
1.	Concerning Transportation of Commuter Employees
a)	Company management made a commitment that transportation by employees' automobiles will not exceed distances that require more than one-half (1/2) hour of driving time.
b)	It was agreed by the two parties that time allowances from the designated starting point to the work disembarking point would be established by a Company representative and a Union representative and that such time allowance would remain in effect except for alterations mutually agreed to by representatives of the two parties.
C.	ADDITIONAL UNDERSTANDING REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS OF NOVEMBER 30 AND DECEMBER 1,1964
1.	Concerning Cooks
a)	Company management agreed that where a crew being fed by a cook dropped below ten (10) employees in number, the cooks wages would be maintained at the cook rate.
45
Letter of Understanding Between
WEYERHAEUSER (Dryden Forestlands Operations) and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
The parties have discussed and agreed to the following terms and conditions:
1)	The Letter of Understanding re: "Recognition-Jurisdiction" Page 76 is null and void effective immediately and will be deleted from the current Collective Agreement upon its renewal effective October 1, 1993.
2) The Company agrees that permanent employees at date of ratification, who are members of Local 324 Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada will be protected from further reductions except through normal attrition.
Attrition is defined as death, retirement, voluntary resignation, or discharge for cause.
The above protection is granted to employees who are part of the Dryden and Ear Falls/Red Lake Cutting forces, Ear Falls Contracting - Mechanics and Road Construction.
The Company will endeavour to maintain cutting operations in Ear Falls while protected employees are available. However, it is understood that as openings occur in the Dryden Operation, Ear Falls employees will be expected to transfer to those openings.
An agreed list of protected employees will be compiled and attached to and form part of this Letter of Understanding.
The above does not preclude temporary cessation of operations caused by market conditions, closure of production facilities, strikes or lockouts, fire and other "Acts of God".
3)	Upon renewal of the Collective Agreement (Expiry Date - September 30, 1993) this letter of Understanding will be included and form part of the renewed Collective Agreement and any subsequent renewals thereof and will not be the subject of further negotiations between the parties.
Dated at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Dan Dedo	Ritchie Mihalick
Jan Park	Shelley Kiewning
46
WEYERHAEUSER DRYDEN FORESTLANDS
LOCAL 324 PROTECTED LIST
EMPLOYEE NAME
DESAUTELS, RICHARD FISHER, ALEXANDER KELLAR, ARNOLD BENJAMIN, DEAN HOEY, JOHN GROVES, DANIEL BYE, HARLEY WHITE, RUSSELL MONTY, GORDON CALVERT, JAMES ANDERSON, ROY SMITH, VERNON ST. GODDARD, ARCHIE HASTINGS, GREGORY ELLIS, LARRY CULLEN, PATRICK RUETE, JOSEPH MIHALICK, RITCHIE SAUNDERS, DAVID CABRAL, CARLOS SELMAN, GLEN WILLIAMSON, JERROLD FISHER, JAMES KLASSEN, RANDOLPH LANGLAIS, DANIEL MEAWASIGE, FRANK AIRTH, CAMERON FOSTER, BARRY CARRIER, FERNAND THAIN, LARRY LAROCQUE, GERALD DESAUTELS, MARCEL HARFORD, LLOYD HEITHOFF, RANDALL MUDRYK, BRENT LANGLAIS, CLAUDE SWIATKEVICH, ANTHONY JEWETT, PAUL
SENIORITY DATE
17	AUGUST 1961
25	MAY 1963
08 JANUARY 1964
20	JUNE 1966 12 JULY 1966
18	JULY 1966
14	SEPTEMBER 1967
26	JULY 1972
19	OCTOBER 1972 22 NOVEMBER 1972 12 FEBRUARY 1973
11	JUNE 1973 30 JULY 1973
02	OCTOBER 1973 04 FEBRUARY 1974
15	MAY 1974
12	AUGUST 1974
03	SEP, 1974
10	SEP, 1974
11	SEP, 1974
27	NOVEMBER 1974 24 MARCH 1975
08 APRIL 1975
12	MAY 1975
06 AUGUST 1975 10 NOVEMBER 1975 15 JANUARY 1976 29 MARCH 1976
06	APRIL 1976
10	SEPTEMBER 1976 01 NOVEMBER 1976 15 NOVEMBER 1976
07	FEBRUARY 1977 26 MAY 1977
21	JUNE 1978
11	JULY 1978
13	JULY 1978
08	SEPTEMBER 1978
DEKEYSER, ROBERT COVELL, WILLIAM BRIGNALL, THOMAS ROY, NORMAN LANGLAIS, RICHARD SINCLAIR, MARCEL ROMANIUK, LLOYD WISE, GLENN STONE, RAYMOND BRAZAO, ARLINDO POLLARD, TERRY CHAMPAGNE, HAROLD LECKNER, JOHN SILANDER, LARRY HALVERSON, THOMAS SMITH, GEORGE MALTAIS, ADRIEN FRANK, EDWARD LAROCQUE, ROGER KUHLMAN, ROBERT RAY, FRANK BERGMAN, RONALD GARTNER, CHARLES PEARSON, CARL WIEBE, DONALD BIGELOW, GERALD SEGUIN, MICHAEL WILLIAMSON, WAYNE BOURGEOIS, ROBERT WATSON, WAYNE WILLIAMSON, BRYAN
INACTIVE EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE NAME
SHARPE, MURRAY THOMAS, TED MEAWASIGE, MARY KORZINSKI, RAYMOND MACDONALD, GEORGE
47
25	SEPTEMBER 1978
06	NOVEMBER 1978
07	NOVEMBER 1978 30 MARCH 1979
16 APRIL 1979 28 MAY 1979 14 MAY 1980
21	MAY 1980
22	MAY 1980 11 JUNE 1980
23	JUNE 1980 11 JULY 1980
05 AUGUST 1980
26	AUGUST 1980 09 FEBRUARY 1981 05 AUGUST, 1981
25 SEPTEMBER 1981 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 02 MARCH 1988 01 MAY 1988 22 FEBRUARY 1990
SENIORITY DATE
06 MAY 1969 06 DECEMBER 1972 11 JAN, 1977 13 DEC,1978 02 MARCH 1988
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
Where a contractor is engaged by the Company on road construction, employees who are hired to perform such jobs for the contractor shall be considered as new employees and shall not establish seniority under the provisions of Article XII of the Agreement. This letter excludes those employees and contractors named in the Letter of Understanding, Re: Departmental Seniority.
The contractor and his employees will work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement as amended by this letter for such employees, and will establish and maintain their own seniority.
1.	Re: Article X - Working and Living Conditions
It is understood that the contractor will be responsible for the fueling of his equipment and for providing transportation to and from the work site in vehicles which provide adequate room and which meet MTO standards.
2.	Re: Article XI - Hours of Work
The provisions of 11.04(a) and 11.04(b) will not apply to owner operators when the lack of work is a result of mechanical downtime on the equipment he is operating.
3.	Re: Article XII - Seniority
a)	Employees in the mechanical road construction group (Ear Falls Contracting) who have established seniority under the provisions of Article 12 of the agreement shall be permitted to exercise their seniority on road construction jobs in their particular area (Ear Falls Contracting), where work is not available in their normal job classifications or where normal alternate work is not available.
b)	The provisions of Article 12.04 will not apply to road construction workers, when the layoff is a result of mechanical problems on the equipment he is operating.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
49
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Dan Dedo	Ritchie Mihalick
Jan Park	Shelley Kiewning
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
RE: ARTICLE 11.03(d)
The parties agree that when re-scheduling and shift changes are required under conditions as outlined below the time and one half provision of Article 11.03(d) will not apply.
a)	Breakdown of mechanical harvesting equipment after the schedule has been posted as per 11.03(d).
b)	Equipment which has been down for mechanical reasons and which cannot be returned to service as originally scheduled due to reasons beyond the Company's control.
c)	It is understood that this Letter shall not apply to an employees "sixth day"'.
d)	It is understood that the terms of this Letter will only apply to the operator(s) of the piece of equipment which is down because of a) or b) above.
The Company shall provide alternate work and will notify the affected employees at least twelve (12) hours prior to their original shift or the newly scheduled shift, whichever is earlier.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Dan Dedo	Ritchie Mihalick
Jan Park	Shelley Kiewning
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324 RE: LOCAL 324 SENIORITY AND DEPARTMENTAL SENIORITY
Effective the date of Certification Local 324 employees will be established in one of the following groups:
1	Ear Falls Contracting	Mechanics and Road
		Construction
2	Ear Falls/Red Lake	Cutting force
3	Dryden	Cutting force
4	Full Book Trucking	Wood Haul
Full Book Trucking employees will have their own seniority list and will be protected from bumping from other groups and will have no bumping rights to other groups. For bumping within Full Book Trucking see Letter of Understanding Trucking Principles.
Employees in Mechanical and Road Construction groups will accrue seniority behind all employees presently listed on the Weyerhaeuser seniority list. New employees will accrue seniority behind these employees.
Bidding
Job openings in groups 1 to 3 will be posted in all groups and will be filled by the senior qualified bidder.
However, existing employees (date of certification) in each department shall have preference on postings within that department.
In the event there are no successful bidders, the junior employee in the transition contractor will be awarded the posting.
Bumping
No bumping between present cutting force and group 1.
52
New hires can be bumped by any of the groups, subject to Article 12.
Bumping On Layoff
On temporary layoffs, bumping with qualifications will be applied only when operations continue in other districts for more than one week. This would also apply between Ear Falls and Red Lake.
On permanent layoffs bumping into other groups may commence on the first day of layoff, subject to the bumping clause above.
Departmental Seniority
Seniority will be set up and maintained on a departmental basis. One department will be comprised of all employees engaged in the production of forest products (stump to roadside). Other departments, at Ear Falls Contracting, will be comprised of all employees engaged in the construction and maintenance of camp roads, landings and main roads, scarification and mechanical maintenance and repair.
For the purpose of departmental layoffs, any employee posting to a new department will begin to accrue seniority in that department on the date of his transfer.
Should such an employee be bumped or suffer a layoff he may bump to any position for which he is qualified within his original department, given he has the seniority. Should an employee forfeit his posting after the trial period, he may return to the junior position within his original department.
The provisions of the Collective Agreement will apply to all matters relating to Seniority that are not dealt with specifically by this document on Local 324 Seniority and Departmental Seniority.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
In the event the Company decides to introduce new operating methods and equipment in its Dryden Forestlands Operations, which will affect the employment status of its permanent Local 324 employees, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss, consider, and implement the following.
-	Freeze on hiring of permanent employees
-	Transfers and bumping to other positions
-	Retraining of employees
-	Special retirement provisions
-	Reduction through attrition (death, retirement, voluntary resignation, discharge for cause).
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY
Dan Dedo
Jan Park
FOR THE UNION
Ritchie Mihalick
Shelley Kiewning
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
RE: PIECEWORK OPERATIONS
It is understood that piecework will be implemented on the Cut and Skid Treelength and Full Tree Operations effective May 1, 1983 on the Dryden Operations.
The Company will maintain separate operating areas for daywork and piecework harvesting operations. Transportation separate from dayworkers will be supplied for pieceworkers.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY
Dan Dedo
Jan Park
FOR THE UNION
Ritchie Mihalick
Shelley Kiewning
55
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations (hereinafter referred to as "The Company”) and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324
(hereinafter referred to as "The Union")
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation) the Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silvicultural work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	Re: Article V-Union Membership
a)	The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
b)	The Company shall put these employees on check-off at the time of hire and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit same to the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2.	Re: Article VI - Vacation With Pay
For such aforesaid employees. Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to each employee at the time of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
3.	Re: Article VII - Holidays With Pay
a) For such aforesaid employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid without the performance of work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence.
56
b) The provisions set out in Section 7.02(b), 7.02(c), 7.02(d). 7.02(e), 7.02(f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
4.	Re: Article X - Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas that are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the contractor may set up suitable temporary camps on the license, to accommodate employees so engaged. The charge for board and lodging will be $10.00 per day to offset the costs incurred by the contractor to provide such services.
5.	Re: Article XI - Hours of Work - Silviculture
The hours of work for temporary employees hired specifically for the purpose of tree planting will provide for flexible daily hours and weekend work (excluding Sundays). Agreement on starting and stopping times shall be reached on a location by location basis in conjunction with Union and Company representatives. Weekend work will be on a voluntary basis only.
Permanent employees working on the planting shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement, including Hours of Work.
6.	Re: Article XII - Seniority
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, lay-off and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
b)	Employment of any new employees shall be considered probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
c)	A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
d)	An employee, on the silvicultural seniority list, hired on other production operations will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02. Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
7.	The provisions set under:
Article XIV	Drug and Hospital Care Plans
Article XV	Life Insurance
Article XVI	57 Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans
Article XVII Article XVIII	Bereavement Pay Jury Duty - Allowance / Subpoenaed -Witness Allowance
Article XIX Article XX Article XXI	Dental Care Plan Pension Plan Vision Care Plan
are not applicable for the aforesaid employees.
8.	Re: Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture Commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY
Dan Dedo
Jan Park
FOR THE UNION
Ritchie Mihalick
Shelley Kiewning
58
March 31, 2005
Dear Sir:
Consistent with the Company's policy to ensure to the utmost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees the Company will, on purchase of new mobile equipment, provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls. This will include the installation of air-conditioning in new buses.
The Company further agrees to continue the work of the joint committee in studying ways and means to generally improve operator comfort on current equipment.
Yours very truly,
Dan Dedo
Forestlands Manager Forestlands Operations Weyerhaeuser
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324 RE: LICENCES - TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY
Dan Dedo
Jan Park
FOR THE UNION
Ritchie Mihalick
Shelley Kiewning
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN WEYERHAEUSER Dryden Forestlands Operations and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 324 RE: HOURS OF WORK. COOKERY STAFF
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Collective Agreement covering the above [Article 11.05(b)] employees may arrange for time off in lieu of overtime pay on the following conditions:
-	Time off in lieu of overtime pay shall be solely at the option of the employee.
-	If time off is taken, it must be taken at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
-	This provision shall apply only to overtime worked Monday to Friday, inclusive, and time off shall be taken in the week in which overtime has been accumulated.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
61
62
63
SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1.	DEFINITIONS
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided,
a)	"Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external violent means;
b)	"Disability" is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan. However, if an employee is so disabled as a result of a non-occupational injury or illness, that he or she is unable to perform their regular duties and the Company is unable to offer alternative suitable employment the employee shall be considered disabled for the purposes of this Plan.
c)	“Employee" means an employee in the active	employment of the Company, who comes
under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and	between Weyerhaeuser and
COMMUNICATIONS,	ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF	CANADA, Local
324.
d)	“Insured' means the insurance company or carrier	appointed by the Company;
e)	"Plan" means the Short Term Disability Benefit Plan;
f)	"Company” means the Weyerhaeuser;
g)	"Weekly Earnings" mean, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hours x the employee’s regular rate; for a pieceworker "Weekly Earnings" mean 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
h)	“Medical Practitioner” means registered physician or surgeon. registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2.	PARTICIPATION
a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
64
3.	AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 g) immediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $540. ($640 September 1, 2005).
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount payable for such week under The Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 and its Regulations as amended.
4.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT
a)	i) Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive
an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of the disability, or beginning on the first day of hospital confinement as a bed patient, if earlier.
ii)	In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
iii)	Disputed W.S.I.B. Claim
If an employee covered by the Short Term Disability Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.S.I.B., weekly indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided they have been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.S.I.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Short Term Disability Plan. If the W.S.I.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the weekly indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in the employee being laid off had they been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or Insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless they are actively employed by the Company at the date that the employee becomes eligible or until they subsequently return to active employment
d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or Insurer as having occurred prior to their lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit
65
provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
e)	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if the employee is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of layoff and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date the employee is required to return to work.
f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
g)	An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of:
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Disability or loss (1) while the protected person is on or could be on Maternity/Parental Leave, or (2) if a protected person fails to qualify for Maternity/Parental Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Maternity/Parental Leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes, or
iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workplace Safety Insurance Board or similar legislation, or
iv)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
v)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
vi)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
viii)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician
66
h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half days regular pay, from the Company.
i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee,
or other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company pension plan.
j)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of an employee, if
early retirement was approved prior to the onset of the disability.
k)	The amount of disability benefit under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent disability provision for the Company pension plan.
5.	PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
c)	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
d)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date the employee was to become
eligible under this Plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
a)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date the employee was to become eligible under this plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
b)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date the employee would have been laid off should lay-off occur during this period.
67
7.	GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS
a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workplace Safety Insurance Board disability pensions.
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when the employee's disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee's physician. If the application is approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the amount of CPP/QPP primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
b)	The Company and/or Insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be
deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or Insurer, as the case may be through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
The Company and/or Insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the Company and/or Insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation, and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the Insurer.
9.	ADMINISTRATION
a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of their absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to the employee.
b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a
participant in the Plan and the Company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
c)	The Company will meet the representatives of the Union from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the Plan and any problems which may arise.
68
d)	Should an employee or the Union have any complaint concerning entitlements to benefits under the Plan, the matter may be taken up as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have the powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
10.	WEEKLY INDEMNITY RESOLUTION PROCESS
For all contractors, the following weekly indemnity dispute mechanism will apply conditional to:
-	The insurer has received the required claim forms fully completed; and
-	The employee has given authorization to the insurer to access the information they require to adjudicate the claim.
a)	If requested by the employee, the Contractor will make advance payments at normal pay intervals until the claim is processed. The employee will sign a promissory note stating that they have submitted the claim as required above and will reimburse the Contractor for any advance payments received.
b)	The insurer may request additional medical information throughout the duration of the employee’s absence to support eligibility.
c)	Regardless of b) above, if there is a medical dispute as to the validity of a claim and/or the continuance of a claim and if the physicians of the employee fail to provide sufficient medical information to support the claim, the employee will undergo an IME (Independent Medical Exam) by a mutually agreed to medical specialist and the results of the IME will be binding on the insurer. A list of appropriate physicians/specialist can be obtained from the Insurer. Payments will continue until the results of IME are received.
69
Letter of Understanding Between
Weyerhaeuser Company Ltd.
Dryden Forestlands
And
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union Local 324
Subject: Disability Management
What is a Disability management program?
•	A program that helps employees return to the workplace as soon as possible following any injury, accident or sickness
•	A program with co -operation and interaction between the Company, contractors, the Union, benefit providers, physicians and WSIB.
Article I._______Disability Management Policy
The Contractors in consultation with the union will make every reasonable effort to provide meaningful and productive work to disabled employees who, because of any injury or sickness, are unable to perform their regular job duties. The parties will jointly assist disabled employees.
Article II. Program Goal
To return disabled workers to their pre-accident earnings profile in meaningful and sustainable employment. Article III. Program Principles
•	Effective management ofworkers rehabilitation through a knowledgeable cooperative approach
•	Ensure the injured worker receives prompt, effective, timely, access to services required to enhance and facilitate their rehabilitation
•	Each contractor will make every reasonable effort to identify meaningful and productive modified work for employees unable to perform their regular duties.
70
Disability Management (continued)
Article IV. The Objective of our Disability Management Program
•	Return injured workers to their pre-injury position quickly, safely and successfully
•	Ensure excellent communication between all parties
•	Ensure employees are treatedfairly and consistently
•	Promote improved health and safety
•	Promote productivity
-	Through the use of experienced trained workers
-	By more effective management of compensation costs
Article V.____Return to Work Agreement
Should an employee become unable to perform their regular job duties due to any injury, every reasonable effort will be made to place the employee in another job which they are capable of performing.
The parties acknowledge the benefits of early rehabilitation planning to facilitate the medical and vocational recovery of an injured worker; thereby restoring the worker as close to their pre-accident earnings profile as possible
Work will be modified to accommodate the injured workers needs and duties will be progressively restored as the worker recovers.
The injured workers regular position may be temporarily filled.
All employees, as per WSIB regulations, will be required to participate in the Modified Work Program and sign the Workers Claim/Consent Form and present such form to the physician.
It is agreed, that a Disability Management Committee comprised of one Management and one employee/union representative be formed in each contractor operation.
Disability Management Committee Roles:
They are to promote the program to all employees.
Representatives may be called on:
•	to assist in reviewing individual cases and opportunities to return to the work place
•	to make recommendations in development of Recovery Plans for the affected employee
71
Disability Management (continued)
•	to assist in the follow-up and monitoring of an individuals recovery plan.
• to make recommendations to jobs, tasks, or even the process which mayfacilitate accommodation of the affected employee temporarily, long term or permanently.
The Committee will take into account:
•	the type of work the individual is normally capable of performing (physical, mental, emotional, skill, educational qualifications, etc.)
•	the present level of the individuals physical and occupational abilities
•	the medical and physical restrictions recommended by a legally qualified medical Practitioner. (usually the treating physician)
•	the present level of educational capabilities possessed
•	reasonable task progressions to help facilitate recovery
Signed at Dryden, Ontario this 31st day of March, 2005.
For the Company: Dan Dedo Jan Park
For the Union: John McInnes Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
72
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1.	DEFINITION
In this plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
a)	"Disability" shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits under
the Short Term Disability Plan and who for up to the next ensuing twelve (12) months is unable, because of disease or injury, to work at their regular occupation, and thereafter is unable to perform any and every duty of every occupation within the jurisdiction of COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA AND ITS LOCAL 324 for which the employee is reasonably fitted by education, training, or experience.
b)	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Weyerhaeuser and COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA AND ITS LOCAL 324;
c)	“Insurer means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the Company;
d)	"Plan" means the Weyerhaeuser Long Term Disability Benefit Plan for Forestlands Employees;
e)	"Weekly Earnings" mean, in the case of a day or shift worker 40 hours x the employee’s regular hourly rate; for a pieceworker "Weekly Earnings" mean 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
f)	"The Company” means Weyerhaeuser.
2.	PARTICIPATION
a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3.	AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefits shall be 55% of an employee's weekly earnings (as defined in Section 1
e)), immediately preceding the date of disability payable until the earlier of recovery, or attainment of age
65.
73
4.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT
a)	An employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit after 52 weeks of weekly indemnity entitlement for the same disability under the Company's Short Term Disability Benefit Plan.
b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit, shall continue to receive such benefits, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in the employee being laid off had they been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this plan unless the employee is actively employed by the Company at the date that the employee becomes eligible or until the employee subsequently returns to active employment.
d)	In the event of a lay-off, an employee who is insured under the terms of this plan shall be considered as still employed for purposes of this benefit up to the end of the policy month next following the policy month in which the employee was laid off.
e)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to the employee’s lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual lay-off or termination.
f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than six consecutive months shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
g)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
iii)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in riot or civil commotion, or
iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
74
v)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of any employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half days regular pay, from the Company.
j)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be payable,
i)	while the employee is on or could be placed on Maternity/Parental Leave, or
ii)	if an employee fails to quality for Maternity/Parental Leave because of failure to meet the length of
service requirements, during the Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such Leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario, or any other relevant provincial statutes.
5.	PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
a)	The daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof. Payment of such benefits will be made in accordance with Section 5 b) below.
b)	Disability benefits will be paid monthly in arrears. The monthly benefit is equal to 4.33 times the benefit under Section 3 hereof.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
a)	An employee absent due to disability or on an authorized leave of absence, on the date the employee was to become eligible under this plan, shall, upon the date of return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
b)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan to a maximum of 31 days.
75
7.	GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS, INCLUDING WORKPLACE SAFETY INSURANCE BOARD
a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount of primary benefits for which an employee is eligible under the disability benefit provisions of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan or similar provisions in any other Government plans for disability, including W.S.I.B. benefits, for the same disability which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this plan, except for War Disability Pension, W.S.I.B. Disability Pension, and except for increase in government benefits occurring 12 months or more from the date of the first benefit payment;
b)	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans;
c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employees absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company an/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Should the employee so desire they may seek the opinion of a doctor of their choice; should the diagnosis of the employee’s doctor not be in agreement with that of the physician designated by the insurer and/or Company, a physician, who is a practicing specialist of the disability in question, satisfactory to the parties, shall render a final and binding opinion.
9.	REHABILITATION
An employee receiving an amount of disability benefits under this Plan may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, the employee may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	ADMINISTRATION
a) It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of their absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to the employee;
76
b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the plan, and the Company will forward the claim forms to the insurer for adjudication and processing.
c)	To assist the insurer in the proper adjudication and processing of claims, the Company and/or insurer may establish claims control procedures.
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN (1985)
1.	DEFINITIONS
a)	"Company” means Weyerhaeuser.
b)	"One Year of Continuous Service" means service on the payroll of the Company totalling 200 work days or more (as specified under Article 6.03 of the Collective Agreement) from the last date of hire.
c)	"Employee" means a person who
i)	is employed in a full-time regular position including pieceworkers but excluding employees hired under the silvicultural Addendum;
ii)	is on the Company's hourly payroll, and
iii)	is a member of Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 324.
d)	"Member" means an Employee who has fulfilled the eligibility and enrollment requirements of Section
4.
e)	"Member’s Account" means all contributions by the Member and the Company on behalf of the Member, plus investment earnings.
f)	“Retirement Plan" means this Plan to provide retirement income benefits for Dryden Forestlands Employees of the Company.
g)	"Plan Trustee" means the trustee and/or insurance company appointed by the Company to be the administrator of the Plan and custodian of the Plan's assets.
2 The parties of this Agreement agree that there will be no change, suspension or discontinuance of the Retirement Plan for the life of this Agreement, except through mutual agreement by the parties to this Agreement or through government legislation. If, at any time, it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revisions in the Retirement Plan to obtain or retain any acceptance or approval by tax authorities or to comply with any applicable law, the Company will amend the Plan accordingly to comply.
77
3.	The conditions and provisions of this Retirement Plan will be embodied in the text of the Retirement income Plan for Forestlands Employees.
4.	ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT
Each Employee in active service and each Employee who is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement on October 26, 1985, shall join Part A of the Retirement Plan on that date provided the employee has completed at least one year of continuous service.
5.	CONTRIBUTIONS
a)	Part A - Mandatory
The Company will contribute $90.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $1080.00 per year, for which the Member receives pay for time worked, or is on short term disability, long term disability, workers compensation (first 12 months only), vacation, jury duty, bereavement, maternity or is on temporary leave of absence on Uhion business or off-the-job training. Contributions will commence for the pay period which ends the later of September 1, 2004 or the date the employee becomes a member.
Effective September 1, 2006, the Company contribution will be $100.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $1200.00 in a year.
Effective September 1, 2008, increase contribution to $102.50 per month to a maximum of $1230.00 per year.
b)	Part B - Voluntary
i)	Employee Contributions
Effective Sept. 1, 2004, a Member may elect to voluntarily contribute to the Plan, at the rate of $90.00 for each calendar month. . The deduction will be made only if the Member qualifies for the Company basic contribution under Plan A for the pay period and has sufficient net earnings from the Company during such period from which the deduction may be made.
Once the member begins to contribute, payroll deductions will automatically continue until the members normal retirement date unless the member files an election to stop contributions. Member contributions may be stopped or started on any January 1st.
Effective September 1, 2006 the employee voluntary contribution will be $100.00.
Effective September 1, 2008, the employee voluntary contribution will be $102.50.
78
The employee voluntary contribution may be greater than the above rate. A greater contribution by an employee will not change the Company Match.
ii) Company Match
Effective September 1, 2004, The company will contribute $90.00 for each calendar month that the member makes a contribution under paragraph (b) i) above.
Effective September 1, 2006, the Company will contribute $100.00 for each calendar month that the member makes a contribution under paragraph (b) i) above.
Effective September 1, 2008, the Company will contribution $102.50 for each calendar month that the member makes contribution under paragraph (b) i) above.
Company and Member contributions may not be withdrawn from the Plan while the Member is employed with the Company.
6.	RETIREMENT DATES
a)	Normal Retirement - the Normal Retirement Date is the first day of the month following the members 65th birthday.
b)	Early Retirement - Early Retirement will be permitted at the election of the member on or after the first day of any month following attainment of age 55.
7.	RETIREMENT BENEFITS
At retirement, the Members Account will be used to provide a pension payable monthly for life. The amount of annual retirement benefit payable to the Me mber will depend on the value of the Members Account, the Members age, the form of payment chosen, and the prevailing interest rates at retirement. Prior to retirement, the Member may elect one of the following forms of pension depending on which one best suits their situation:
a)	Life Only
b)	Life guaranteed 5, 10 and 15 years
c) Joint and 50% Survivor
d)	Joint and 100% Survivor
Pensions will normally be provided through the purchase of a life annuity from a life insurance company licensed to transact business in Canada.
79
8.	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Company contributions are immediately vested in each Member. Thus, when a Member terminates employment the Member remains entitled to the full value of the Member’s Account.
The Member’s Account is locked in and must be used for the provision of retirement income. Upon termination of employment for reason other than death or retirement, the Member's Account must be transferred from this Plan to one of the following, as elected by the Member:
a)	the pension plan of a subsequent employer, provided that such employer accepts the transfer and agrees to administer it on a "locked-in" basis; or
b)	a personal "locked-in" registered retirement savings plan.
"Locked-in" means that the funds and interest earnings hereon must eventually be used to purchase a pension, payable for life, from a life insurance company.
As an exception, the Member's Account will be paid in a lump sum cash settlement if such Member has less than 2 years participation in the Plan at the date of termination.
9.	TRANSFERS IN
A person who becomes an Employee of the Company may elect to make a single lump sum transfer of monies to this Plan from a tax-sheltered pension plan of their prior employer. The amount transferred to this Plan will be administered in accordance with the rule of this Plan.
Such employee will be considered a new hire for purposes of enrollment in the Plan and eligibility for company contributions.
10.	DEATH IN SERVICE
Each Member will be required to designate a beneficiary at enrollment date. If the Member dies while employed by the Company, the Members Account will be paid in a lump sum to their named beneficiary or, in the absence of a valid beneficiary designation, to their estate.
11.	ADMINISTRATION
The Company will be responsible for all aspects of the Plan administration and will pay the cost of administering the Plan. Individual employee statements will be prepared and distributed annually by the Plan Trustee showing the Member's position in the Plan.
12.	RETIREMENT BRIDGE
80
Effective September 1, 2005 a bridging supplement will be introduced under the following terms:
Active employees who have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company and who retire at age fifty-eight (58) or later will be eligible for a bridging supplement equal to ten dollars ($10) per month per year of service to a maximum of thirty (30) years of service.
The above bridging supplement will be paid on a monthly basis until the attainment of age sixty-five (65) or the death of the retiree, whichever occurs first.
81
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA AND ITS LOCAL 324
(hereinafter the “Union”)
-and-
WEYERHAEUSER (hereinafter the “Company”)
WHEREAS the Company and the Union are parties to a collective agreement.
AND WHEREAS the parties are desirous of providing for Third Party Agreements covering Third Party Employers and their employees cutting on the Company limits and work sites.
NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Union agree as follows:
1.	The provisions of Article 3.01(b) of the Collective Agreement shall not apply where a Third Party pursuant to an agreement with the Company harvests wood on the Company’s limits and work sites provided that the Third Party and the Union execute the Memorandum of Agreement attached hereto as Appendix “A”.
2.	Prior to any Third Party commencing harvesting operations on the Company limits and work sites, the Company shall provide the Union with the following:
(a)	a copy of its agreement with the Third Party exclusive of price;
(b)	notification of the amount of wood to be harvested by the Third Party and the location and timing of the cut.
1) While Third Party agreements are in place in the Ear Falls/Red Lake areas, no mandatory moves from Ear Falls to Dryden will be required.
2)	Ear Falls employees who move to Dryden as a result of a bid or a transfer will receive a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) lump sum housing/relocation assistance payment.
3)	Ear Falls employees who forfeit their protected status prior to August 31st, 1995 will receive a one time lump sum payment of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000).
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Dan Dedo Jan Park
Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
82
Appendix 'A'
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
_______________________Hereinafter referred to
As the "Company"
AND
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 324 Hereinafter referred to As the "Union"
The above parties hereby agree that when operations are conducted by the Company on areas under
Third Party Agreement with Weyerhaeuser, Dryden, the following conditions will apply:
1.	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation.
2.	Employees will be established on a seniority list consistent with Article 12:01 of the Collective Agreement between Weyerhaeuser and the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 324. The Company will provide the Union with a seniority list updated monthly or as required.
3.	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
4.	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin board of the Company, such notices to have approval of the Company before such posting. A copy of the notice is to be given to the Company for their records.
5.	Employees will be paid bi-weekly according to the Wage Schedule set out in the Collective Agreement between Weyerhaeuser and the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers of Canada and its Local 324.
6.	Union dues and initiation fees will be deducted and remitted to the Union Office consistent with Article V of the Collective Agreement between Weyerhaeuser and the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 324.
7.	When operations are conducted on a full time basis (more than thirteen weeks per year), the Company will provide a benefits package consistent with the Collective Agreement Weyerhaeuser and the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 324 as follows:
Article XIV Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XIX Article XX Article XXI
83
Drug and Hospital Care Plans Life Insurance
Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans
Bereavement Pay
Dental Care Plan
Pension Plan
Vision Care Plan
8.	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) or (10) hours of pay based on the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he or she received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therewith when making his or her claim for such allowance.
9.	Adjustment of Grievances will be handled consistent with steps outlined in Article VIII of the Collective Agreement between Weyerhaeuser and the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 324. It is understood that steps III and IV would involve representatives of Weyerhaeuser.
10.	It is the responsibility of the Company to ensure that all employees are adequately covered by Workers' Compensation benefits. It is understood that owner operators are considered employees by the Company.
11.	This agreement is for____________cubic meters of wood harvested by_________________________.
12.	Local 324 CEP members employed by Full Book Trucking Contractor’s will have priority over Third Party Agreement trucks.
13.	The Company and the Union agree to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees covered by this agreement. It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in maintaining and improving safety and first aid practices. The Company agrees to provide adequate communications including two-way radios at or near work sites. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices consistent with Article 10.01 of the Collective Agreement between Weyerhaeuser and the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers of Canada and its Local 324.
14.	Work schedules may be six (6) days per week, forty (40) hours per week and either (10) hours per day or eight (8) hours per day.
84
15.	To subsidize the cost of required apparel such as safety pants, boots, gloves and mitts the Company will make a one time annual payment in the amount of $120.00 to each active employee with a minimum of six (6) months seniority, and payable in December of each year.
16.	Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
a) 4% of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than 800 days.
b) 6% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more but less than 2000 days.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 2000 days or more but less than 5000 days.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 5000 days or more.
17.	Employees who have accumulated one hundred twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his or her supervisor.
18.	Employees who qualify shall be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day
19.	The Company agrees to provide transportation or equivalent to individuals employed in third party operations.
20.	When operations are moved on a temporary basis, no longer than three months, the Company will provide lodging and in addition, a meal allowance of twenty ($20) per day.
21.	It is understood that either party may terminate this Letter of Understanding upon giving the other party at least thirty (30) days' notice of their desire to terminate the Letter of Understanding for any reason.
DATED at________, this_day of
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA AND ITS LOCAL 324
(hereinafter the “Union”)
-and-
WEYERHAEUSER (hereinafter the “Company”)
This replaces the Letter of Understanding signed on April 18, 2002.
LOCAL 324 - WOOD HAUL
DEPARTMENTS - KIROUAC, RICCI, VICTORY, R&W PRINCIPLES:
“All new Trucking Contractors that come on to the Weyerhaeuser limits will fall under the full book Agreement.”
MARSHALLING POINTS - HAULS
South District
Kirouac Roundwood	-	Dryden
Kirouac Chip	-	Dryden
Ricci Roundwood	-	Ignace
Ricci Chip	-	Dryden
Raleigh Falls Chip Haul	-	Ignace
North District
Kirouac Roundwood	-	Ear Falls
R & W Roundwood	-	Ear Falls
Victory Roundwood	-	Ear Falls
2. MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE - POSTINGS FOR VACANCIES
-	Postings - open bidding, 5 day qualifying period
- Temporary	- definition, posted within Contractor only
- Seasonal	- definition, posting open specifying tenure, e.g. 3 months, 6 months until half loads, etc.
3.
MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE - BUMPING BY SENIORITY
86
-	Bumping rights will be affected by length of time off, by Contractor and by location (North District - Ear Falls, South District - Dryden, Ignace)
-	Bumping due to lack of work (less than one (1) calendar week) - Regardless of chip or roundwood hauls, company seniority will be recognized. Note: One (1) day re-scheduling period will be used before a bump within contractor occurs. Exercising their seniority to bump is first applied in the employee’s Contractor and district (eg. South person bumps within his Contractor and District first). If this is not achievable, the next point applies.
-	Bumping due to lack of work, more than (1) calendar week (seven consecutive days). Regardless of chip or roundwood hauls, CEP Local 324 seniority will be recognized and can be applied to Kirouac/Ricci/Victory/R&W operations and all districts (ie. North and South).
-	Senior employee will be placed in the work schedule after the completion of seven consecutive days as stated in the previous point.
-	Optional to bump or accept lay-off
-	Contractors obligation to train drivers to qualify on chip haul and roundwood haul
-	Drivers/operators bump subject to qualification
-	Kirouac/Ricci/Victory/R&W employees exhaust all employment opportunities with that contractor before changing employers
4.	SENIORITY LISTS
-	Kirouac will maintain a seniority list common to all roundwood drivers, chip drivers, loaders.,
-	Ricci will maintain a seniority list common to all roundwood drivers, chip drivers, loaders.
-	Victory will maintain a seniority list common to all roundwood drivers, loaders.
-	R&W will maintain a seniority list common to all roundwood drivers, loaders.
-	Common list of all Ricci/Kirouac/Victory/R&W employees = CEP Local 324
5.	THIRD PARTY TRUCKS - AUTONOMOUS
-	No bumping rights to or from Kirouac/Ricci/Victory/R&W hauls
-	Cannot haul when Ricci/Kirouac/Victory/R&W are down
-	Vacancies can be filled by Kirouac/Ricci/Victory/R&W employees as alternate work when available, by qualifications and in order of seniority
6.	ROAD CONSTRUCTION/SANDING - AUTONOMOUS
-	No bumping rights to or from Kirouac/Ricci/Victory/R&W hauls
-	Vacancies can be filled by Kirouac/Ricci/Victory/R&W employees as alternate work when available, by qualifications and in order of seniority.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY: Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION: Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
87
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN WEYERHAEUSER AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 324
TRIP TIMES
All parties agree that all Roundwood Truck Hauling Contractors use a payment system that is based on trip times. Also, it is recognized the current Ear Falls Contracting Chip Haul will remain on a trip time pay system.
It is understood the trip time concept is a method of calculating average time length in hauling wood fibre. The components used in the determination of a specific trip time rate will be based on our discussions (see attached interpretive notes). In this concept it is understood that daily variations to trip time length may occur. Payment will be on a trip time basis.
To ensure the accuracy of the trip time rate, a verification system will be established. It is understood that in this process of verification, a correction to the rate could include increasing or decreasing trip time length.
It is also understood that there may be some events outside the driver’s control and as a result, cause a situation that falls outside the agreed to concept stated above. In these circumstances, the parties will investigate the specific situations and, if justified, the respective Contractor will compensate accordingly at the appropriate rate.
Signed at Dryden, this 28th 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
88
Trip Time Breakout - Interpretive Notes June 29, 1999, Revised July 8, 1999
Components
Road Class	Speed
Primary Highway	10 KPH <
Secondary Highway	10 KPH <
Bush Roads	
Class 1	10 KPH <
Class 2	Based on
Class 3	Based on
Class 4 & 5	
(Camp Roads)	10 KPH
posted speed limit posted speed limit
posted speed limit road condition and local knowledge road condition and local knowledge
Misc. Times
Town Time Dead Head Time Loading Times: 8 ft.
T/L
Chips
Residual
10 minutes Area Specific
40 minutes 30 minutes 80 minutes 90 minutes
Unloading Times: 8 ft.
T/L Chips Residual Inspections Load Aligners Fueling Time
30 minutes 40 minutes 20 minutes 40 minutes 30 minutes 10 minutes 10 minutes
Notes
^ Trip time calculations do not include coffee or lunch breaks. However, a single trip haul beyond 8 hours will include a coffee break.
^ Company/union and contractor committee to meet once quarterly for remainder of 1999 and beyond if appropriate to review and continuously improve the trip time system.
^ Situations deemed to be beyond the control of the drivers will be reviewed as appropriate.
^ Times will be calculated from mill site.
89
^ All applicable legislative requirements will be followed.
^ When issues arise a Weyerhaeuser, Contractor and Union Representative from within the appropriate district will meet to discuss in an effort to resolve the issue. Results of investigations will be provided within one month from onset of investigation.
90
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN WEYERHAEUSER AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 324
The Company commits to continue its leadership role as signatory to the Collective Agreement. Further,
the Company endeavours to facilitate administration of the collective agreement with its contractors.
□	Amend Letter of Understanding on Page 82 - Bidding - Add: In the event there are no successful bidders the junior employee in the transition contractor will be awarded the posting.
□	Amend Article 12.03 b) Add: In the event there are no successful bidders the junior employee in the transition contractor will be awarded the posting.
a)	It is the intent of all parties (union, contractor and company) to align the Collective Agreement to the concept that contractors are performing and making operational decisions and in so doing are recognized as a significant partner in the administration and resolution of issues surrounding the Collective Agreement.
b)	An agreed upon process of transition from full book to Third party contractors (see attached Full Book Harvesting Transition Plan). Weyerhaeuser is prepared to maintain the status quo arrangements in regard to the full book hauling. It is understood that the completion of this transition may cover several future Collective Agreements.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
91
Insert Full Book Transition file
92
JOINT POLICY For
WEYERHAEUSER
And
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
AND ITS LOCAL 324
Weyerhaeuser, Ontario Forestlands, has been and will continue to be a leader in the area of Workplace Health and Safety within the Canadian Forest Industry. The Union and the Company are “Committed to Excellence” with regards to the Health, Safety and Wellness of all Company employees.
To this end, the Company and the Union agree that the provisions of the current Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario presently in force will from this day forward be the recognized minimum standard for Health and Safety in its Ontario Forestlands operations.
These are the principles to which both parties are committed.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario, this 31st day of March, 2005.
FOR THE COMPANY Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
93
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN WEYERHAEUSER AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
AND ITS LOCAL 324
COVERALLS - CHIPPER OPERATOR
The Company agrees to provide coveralls for field chipper operators.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario this 31st day of March, 2005
FOR THE COMPANY Dan Dedo Jan Park
FOR THE UNION Ritchie Mihalick Shelley Kiewning
94
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY LTD.
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 324
RE: Scheduling of Operations (10 Hour Shifts)
To optimize the efficiency of Forestlands operations the employer reserves the right to operate on a six (6) day per week basis. Employees will normally be scheduled for forty (40) hours per week. The following provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be amended.
Hours of Work - Article XI
a)	It is understood the Work Week schedule will average forty (40) hours per week, ten (10) hours per day, Monday to Saturday inclusive. Schedules will be worked out on a local basis and will include two consecutive days off wherever possible. To facilitate these schedules, the Sunday night shift may be included.
The Company will provide at least two (2) weeks notice to all employees affected by a change in the schedule from ten (10) hours to eight (8) hours or vice versa. It is agreed that changes to the schedule will coincide with the end of a pay period.
It is the intention of the Company to implement ten (10) hour shifts and once implemented to maintain this shift arrangement on a consistent basis.
b)	Shift Schedule - 10 hour shift
The first shift shall consist of ten (10) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 6:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of ten (10) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 5:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of sixty cents ($0.60) per hour.
c)	Reporting Pay
It is understood for employees scheduled on a regular ten (10) hour shift, “one-half day” shall be interpreted as five (5) hours pay; “full day” shall be interpreted as ten (10) hours pay and wherever “four (4)” appears, this shall be interpreted to mean “five (5)”.
d)	Overtime
For employees scheduled on ten (10) hour shifts, time-and-one-half shall apply for all time worked in excess of ten (10) hours per shift, and for all hours outside of his/her regular schedule of work.
95
Double time will be paid after ten (10) hours of work on an employee’s designated day off and on a Sunday.
f)	Call-in
For an employee scheduled on a ten (10) hour shift, who is called out, and who continues to work into his/her shift, 11:07 shall apply after the employee has completed ten (10) hours work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
g)	Job Postings
Job postings will stipulate eight hour shifts or ten (10) hour shifts as applicable.
Vacation With Pay - Article VI
For purposes of this Article, ar employee who is working a ten (10) hour schedule shall have his vacation accrual credited with one and one-quarter (1.25) days for each day worked on the ten (10) hour schedule. The principle being applied is that an employee should not lose or gain “Vacation with Pay credits” Under Article VI, paragraph 6.02, of the Collective Agreement as a result of working on a ten (10) hour shift schedule rather than on an eight (8) hour shift schedule.
Holidays With Pay - Article VII
a)	Qualified employees not working on a holiday shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay if the holiday falls on their scheduled day off, or ten (10) hours at their regular rate of pay if the holiday falls on their scheduled work day.
b)	An employee requested to work on any holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for his regularly scheduled hours of work, and at the rate of double time after his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. In addition and if qualified, shall receive ten (10) hours pay in lieu of the holiday.
c)	Notwithstanding the scheduled shift hours, an employee granted a floating holiday shall receive ten (10) hours
pay.
Bereavement Pay - Article XVII
For employees working a ten (10) hour shift schedule, this clause will be administered on the basis of payment for each regular shift missed, but in no event shall the total paid exceed forty (40) hours pay in the case of death of mother, father, spouse or children, nor exceed twenty-four (24) hours pay in the case of death of other specified family members.
Jury Duty/Subpoenaed Witness Allowance - Article XVIII
96
Employees will be paid the difference between payment received for such duties and their regular pay they would have received for each scheduled shift lost.
This special agreement is subject to the approval by the Director appointed under the Employment Standards Act of Ontario following a joint application by the Union and the Company.
Short Term Disability
The three (3) continuous day waiting period that is used for eligibility when an employee is on an eight (8) hour shift schedule will be changed to twenty-four (24) hours of lost work for employees on a ten (10) hour shift schedule.
Signed at Dryden, Ontario this 		day of	, 2005.
For the Company:		For the Union:
Dan Dedo		John McInnes
Jan Park		Ritchie Mihalick Shelly Kiewning