MASTER
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MANFOR LTD.
LUMBER DIVISION & WOODLANDS DIVISION
— and —
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 1-324
Effective September 1, 1985 to August 31,1989.
fcuu? 1 9 1987
00046 (02)
THIS AGREEMENT would apply to all employees who are presently employed by the Company at the date of signing this Memorandum of Agreement.
SIGNED THIS 29lh day of AUGUST. 1984.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
Manfor Ltd.
Lumber & Woodlands Divisions:
R. O. CLEMENT N. A. BARKETT
C.	K. HAM R. BAT1UK
R. .1. LEBLANC
D.	J. CURRY
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
international Woodworkers Of America. Local 1-324
NEIL I.. MENARD RENE JOSEPH RICHARDS DAVID B. H. MATHESON V. G. LANDRIAUI.T R. A. GARF.AU JAMES K. ANDERSON
XI
THIS AGREEMENT would apply to all employees who arc presently employed by the Company at the date ol signing this Memorandum of Agreement.
SIGNED THIS 29th day of AUGUST. 1984.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
Manfor Ltd.
Lumber & Woodlands Divisions:
R. O. CLEMENT N. A. BARKETT
C.	K. HAM R. BATIUK
R. J. LEBLANC
D.	.1. CURRY
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
International Woodworkers Of America, Local 1 -324:
NEIL L. MENARD RENE JOSEPH RICHARDS DAVID B. H. MATHESON V. G. LANDRIAULT R. A. GAREAU JAMES K. ANDERSON
82
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
I	Purpose
II	scope of
a)	Lumber
b)	Woodlands
III	Management Rights
IV	Union Recognition
V	Employee Security
VI	Committees
VII	Technological Change
VIII	Hours of Work and Overtime
IX	Rates of Pay
X	Call Time
XI	Travel Time
XII	Cost of Living Allowance
XIII	Statutory Holidays
XIV	Annual Vacation
XV	Health & Welfare Contributions
XVI	Pension Plan Contributions
XVII	Seniority
XVIII	Job Posting
XIX	Leave of Absence
XX	Accident Prevention Committee
XXI	Lock-Out Procedure
XXII	Adjustment of Grievances XXXIII Arbitration
XXIV	General — Lumber Woodlands
XXV	General — Lumber
XXVI	General — Woodlands
XXVII	Maintenance and Protection During Suspension of Wbrk
XXVIII	Strikes and Lockouts
XXIX	Duration of Agreement Schedule A-l — Wages Schedule A-2 — Wages Schedule A-3 — Wages
Schedule B — Woodlands Boundaries Schedule C — Health and V\felfare Schedule D — Sawmill Training Program Schedule E — Trades Apprentice Program Schedule F — Job Evaluation Program Letters of Understanding
Seniority — Woodlands Division
Physical Limitations
Scaling
Hot Meals — Lumber Division
PAGE NO.
1
1
2 4 4 7
7
8 9 II
14
15
15
16 18 20 21 21 24 24 26 27 29
32
33 35 38
48
48
49 51 54
56
57 59 65 69 73
81
83
84
85
Vacation Pay Calculation Pension Plan
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
TOPIC	PAGE
Accident Prevention Committee .................
Apprenticeship Program ........................
Arbitration ...................................
Access to Company’s Operations ................
Absence — Notification of......................
Accidental Death & Dismemberment ..............
Bereavement Leave .............................
Blocks ........................................
Contracting -Lumber Division ..................
-Woodlands Division ................
Check-off......................................
Clean-up ......................................
Call Time .....................................
Coveralls — Lumber Division ...................
-Woodlands Division ..................
Chokers .......................................
Chain Saw File ................................
Camps .........................................
Cookery Schedule ..............................
Check Scale ...................................
Deductions of Dues ............................
Disciplinary Action ...........................
Duration of Agreement .........................
Dental Plan ...................................
Employees Security ............................
Educational Courses ...........................
Equipment Available ...........................
86
88
NO.
26
69
32
. 7
24
61
26
42
I
. 2
4
43
14
37
38
39
40
41
45
46
4
7
49
63
7
34
39
Field Tradesmen
Filing Room Line of Progression Filing Room Rates
General — Lumber Woodlands General Provisions — Lumber General Provisions — Woodlands Grievance Committee Grievance Procedure
Hours of Work Hot Meals Health & Welfare Contributions Coverage During Lay Off Coverage During Leave of Absence Description of Plan
Independent Owner Operators Insufficient Number of Employees
Job Evaluation Job Posting Jury Duty
Lunch Period Leave of Absence Lock Out Procedure Licence Renewals Lock-Up Facilities Lumber Purchasing Locked Gate Life Insurance Long Term Disability Lunch Shacks
Management Rights
Negotiating Committee No Work Available . . . Notice Board...........
4
Overtime
9
Purpose of Agreement....................*■
Personal File.........,.........,.......
Piecework Non-Productive Rate ..........
Pension Plan Contributions ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
Probationary Employees..........,.......
Pay Statements..................*.......
Paydays ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
Power Saw Shack ........................
Power Saw Chain ........................
Pieceworkers Final Scale ...............
Power Saw Purchase .............
Qualifications for Statutory Holiday Pay
1 7 13 21 22 " 33 * 33 40 . . . 40 ...41 ...41 ... 16
Regular Hours of Work ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
Rest Periods — Lumber Division , -Woodlands Division
Rates of Pay...........................*.
Roads .................................
Reduction of Forces............*.......
Recall Notice .........................*a
Refamiliarization Period...............
Remote Areas ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ Reconditioned Skidders ................
■ ■	■	■	■ ■	■	■ ■	9
.........36
39
II
...........	13
*	*	21
zm.i	23
........23
...........	39
.......* 39
Scope — Lumber Division ■ ■ .. *................... 1
— Woodlands Division	................ 2
Scheduled Work Week ................................ 9
Scheduled Hours of Work .....................**..... 9
Split Shifts .............,........................ 10
Shift Premium ..........................*....***... 14
Statutory Holidays ................................ 10
Seniority — Principle of................*.......... 21
During lay offs ...............................21
List , ■ ■ ■,.......................,..........22
Termination of Seniority ...........**a........ 23
Supervision Reinstated .................,.......... 22
Safety Equipment — Lumber Division .................35
— Woodlands	Division .'..........40
Skidding Distance ...........................*■■■■	30
Scale Sheets ................................*..... 39
Spare Skidders ....................................,. 39
Suspension of Work	..............................48
Strikes and Lockouts ..............................48
Technological Change.........................*..... 8
Travel Time......................................... 15
Transportation Home ................,.............. 36
Transfer of Employees ...............................41
Training Program —	Sawmill . . .. *................. 65
Union Recognition......,........................... 4
Union Security ...................................... 4
Unjust Discharge................*......*.....*..... 34
Vacation Entitlements............................... 18
Vacation Scheduling	............................. 19
Weather Conditions..................,..............39
Woodlands Boundaries ..............................57
Weekly Indemnity ............................*..... 60
THIS AGREEMENT made this 18th day of March, 1986, at The Pas, Manitoba
BETWEEN:
MANFOR LTD.
LUMBER DIVISION AND WOODLANDS DIVISION
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
— and
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA AFL — CIO — CLC LOCAL 1-324
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
MASTER AGREEMENT I.W.A. LOCAL 1-324 MANFOR LUMBER/WOODLANDS ARTICLE I
1:01 The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in this Agreement and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually, and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1:02 In the event that an Agreement regarding proposed change is not reached prior to the end of the Agreement year, the existing Agreement shall continue in effect during the next Agreement year or until a decision is reached with respect to the proposed changes.
ARTICLE II
A.	Scope — Lumber Division
A2:01 This Agreement shall apply to all employees employed by Manfor Ltd., Lumber Division at The Pas, the Province of Manitoba, except foreman, office employees, those above the rank of foreman and those excluded by the Act.
A2:02 (a) In the event the Company considers contracting or sub-contracting any work out of the bargaining unit, they will negotiate a satisfactory contractor and sub-contractor clause with Local 1-324.
(b) In the event the Company considers contracting or sub-contracting, such employees working
five (5) straight days and /or five (5) days in intervals after completion of such days shall .oav initiation fees. Union dues, and remain members in good standing of the International Woodworkers of America. Such employees shall not be covered by the Forty-Five (45 day) probationary period in the Agreement. The Company shall have all employees sign check-off and welfare cards and be responsible for all deductions payable to Local 1-324
I.W.A, in separate check-off list.
This clause is not intended to cover contractors with Manfor Ltd., Lumber Division working on jobs related to new construction; i.e. construction trades with their own union affiliation.
The purpose of this clause shall be not to replace jobs normally performed by members of the Bargaining Unit of Local 1-324 I. W.A.
B,	Scope — Woodlands Division
B2:01 This Agreement shall apply to and cover all employees of the Company save and except Foremen, those above the rank of Foreman, Scalers, Office Staff and persons excluded by the Act.
B2:02 Contractors and/or Sub-Contractors of the Company working within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Union must become signatory to this Agreement unless specifically excepted as hereinafter set forth.
B2:03 The following employees and sub-contractors are specifically excluded from the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(a)	Independent owners operating under permits issued by the Department of Mines, Natural Resources and Environment of the Province within the said Schedule
(b)	Maintenance personnel employed by vendors of manufacturers of equipment engaged in maintaining equipment manufactured, sold or leased by their respective employers pursuant to a guaranteed maintenance program covering the specific equipment. B2:04 Independent owner-operators trucking wood
2
within the area described in Schedule “B” and owner-operators of equipment shall as a condition of employment pay to the international Woodworkers of America Union Local 1-324, monthly dues of two and onehalf (2Vi) times base rate, and other assessments proposed by the union.
In the event that contractors and/or sub-contractors. truck owner operators, do not submit dues and health and welfare and pension check-off assessments, the Company shall be responsible for all such deductions.
The Company agrees that during the life of this Agreement that, on the average, there shall be no more than thirty (30) percent contractors and/or subcontractors employed in log production for the mills at The Pas.
The thirty percent (30) above is exclusive of the Crown corporation Moose Lake Loggers Ltd. As job openings occur in Moose Lake Loggers Ltd., these openings shall be posted in the village of Moose Lake for residents of Moose Lake. If these openings are not tilled within three (3) days they will be posted throughout Manfor’s Woodlands Division. From the date of signing this Agreement there will be free movement of employees between the Manfor Woodlands Division and Moose Lake Loggers Ltd., payrolls through the exercising of seniority. Each employee shall carry full seniority from time of-hire with the parent Company including-fringe benefits. An employee would not carry camp seniority from Moose Lake Loggers to Manfor in the first move made after signing of this Agreement, however, if the employee further exercised his seniority and returns to his original company through job posting, then full camp seniority from the original date of hire will then apply. B2:05 The Company shall notify the Union Office prior to any new contractors covered by the agreement coming on the job.
B2:06 Any independent contractors or truckers hauling wood into the Complex will as a condition of delivery, pay dues.
3
ARTICLE III MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3:01 The management and the operation of, and the direction and promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the Management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purposes of discrimination against employees.
3:02 The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
4:01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union, during
the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive representative of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and conditions of employment contained in this Agreement, subject to Article II above.
(b) Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered ’ to include the
4:02	(a) All employees covered by this Agreement as
a condition of employment, who are now employees, or on the thirtieth (30) day from the beginning of their employment, whichever last occurs, shall become and remain members of the Union to the extent of keeping all regular initiation fees, assessments, and the regular dues as set by the Union.
(b) Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged after seven day’s written notice to the Company of the said employee’s refusal to maintain his membership. 4:03 The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee who authorizes such deductions, initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments, and accumulated dues not to exceed six (6) months o remit
ARTICLE IV Union Recognition
feminine.
UNION SECURITY
4
such deductions to the Secretary of the Union, Local 1324, Post Office Box 1886, The Pas, MB, once a month together with a list of the employees showing the amount deducted from the pay of each. The receipt of such by the Secretary, shall constitute full compliance with this Article by the Company. The local Union shallinform the employer in writing of the charges to bededucted and any change which may be authorized from time to time by the employee, such charges and changes are not binding on the employee until received by the Company. The Company agrees to furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Number of all employees when the first Union dues are deducted from the employee’s pay.
4:04 The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union.
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA — CHECK-OFF
Date: _______________________________ 19------
Name of Employer: ____________________________
Please Print
Operation ________________________________
Name of Employee _________________________
Phone: -----------------------------------
Address: _________________________________
Social Insurance No. _____________________
Are you a member of the I WA? ____________
in what operation were you last employed?
Local Union ------------------------------------------
I hereby authorize and instruct you to deduct from my
wages and remit to Local 1-___________the following in
payment of the amounts set out below:
5
1.	Union Initiation fees in the amount of $ ________
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of $ --------------
3. Union Dues $ --------------------------per month
commencing --------------------------- 19-------
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above.
APPLICATION FOR MENMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the International Woodworkers of America,. Local I--, and agree to abide by the constitution and by-laws of the organization. In case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and moneys paid.
Signature of
Applicant Employee: ________________________________
Clock No. __________________________________________
Duplicate copy to be forwarded to the Local Union Office.
This assignment in the case of employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective Thirty (30) calendardays from the date of execution. The Local Union shall notify the Company by letter of the amount of back dues owed by new employees and copies of such letter shall be furnished to the employee and the Committee. The said assignment shall remain effective until and unless the same is revoked in writing by the employee.
4:05 The employer shall submit to the Secretary-Treasurer or the Union, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month, the dues, arrears and assessments deducted, together with a list of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and also monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of employees.
6
4:06 Official Union representatives shall have access to the Company’s operation for the purpose of administering their responsibilities to the membership and they will make every effort to notify Supervision before arriving on site.
ARTICLE V	,
*7 /
Employees Security S *
5:01 There shall be no discrimination, coercion, interference or restraint by the Company or by the Union or by representatives of either party against any employee because of race, creed, colour, age, sex, religion, or national origin.
5:02 Employees whose regular jobs are not in the bargaining unit shall not work on any jobs which are included in the bargaining unit. In situations involving employees training or emergencies there will be times when Supervisors will operate equipment. This does not mean that Supervisors, in carrving_out such duties,, shall exclude or replace employees in the bargaming unit.
5:03 The expulsion of any employee from membership in the Union shall not be deemed cause for dismissal, except for non-payment of union dues.
5:04	(a) At the employee’s option, a job steward shall
be present during disciplinary action against the employee by the Company.
(b) Any employee shall have the right to view his own personal file in the presence of the Industrial Relations Officer.
ARTICLE VI
Committees 6:01 Negotiating Committees
(a)	-The Company agrees that a Negotiating Committee, not to exceed four employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized negotiation representatives of the union.
(b)	The Union shall supply the Company with
names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committee and shall inform the Company two (2) days prior to the meeting of any changes in the personnel of the said Committee.
6:02	The Company shall deal with the said
Committee with respect to proposals for modification of the Agreement as outlined in Article XXIX. Accredited officials of the International Woodworkers of America may participate in such negotiations.
6:03	Grievance Committee
(a)	The Company agrees that a Grievance Committee, not to exceed four (4) employees in number, from each operation selected by the Union shall be recognized as the authorized representatives of the Union to handle all grievances outlined in Article XXII after Step 1 Grievance Procedure.
(b)	The Union shall supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the Grievance Committee and shall inform the Company at least two (2) days prior to any meeting of any changes in the personnel of the said Committee.
6:04	The Company shall not pay Committee
Members for time lost from work due to conciliation and arbitration proceedings.
ARTICLE VII
Technological Change
7:01 The Company shall give reasonable notice in any case not less than ninety (90) days in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the laying off of employees.
7:02	When technological changes are implemented^	^
every effort will be made by the Company to /U-retrain its employees to satisfactorily perform the new fj duties required of them.
7:03 An employee who is set back to a lower paid job
because of automation or technological change . , will receive the rate of his regular job at the time of the ,, setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further \ period of three (3) months he will be paid an adjusted rate
8
which will be midway between the rate of his regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in 7:04 below, provided he exercises the option within the above referred t6 six (6) month period. O/J 3) £j i	7 iO
7:04 Employees discharged Or laid off from their regular job who sever their employment because of technological change orautomation shall beentitled to severance pay of one (I) week’s pay for each fifty-two (52) weeks of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks pay. , > j. j
ARTICLE Vffl	'
Hours of Work and Overtime
8:01 The regularly scheduled work week for all production employees shall commence on Monday.	; ' / /UiJ O 0
8:02 The regular hours of work shall consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. A rate of one and one half (I x/i) shall be paid for all work performed on the sixth (6th) day and double time for the seventh (7 th) day of the regularly scheduled work week. Overtime
payment on a daily basis will not b£ duplicated on a weekly basis.	/ Ar- '
8:03 All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or forty (40) hours in the work week shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I ]/i) times. All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid at double time provided the employee has worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days, in any event, the rate of pay shall not be less than rate and one-half (I ’/£). 8:04 All hours worked, at the request of the Company, in excess of twelve (12) hours on a daily basis shall be paid at the rate of dpujbl£ time provided no rate shall be pyramided.
8:05 It is agreed that maintenance,’ repair and
9
construction employees can be scheduled on a Tuesday-to-Saturday work week for which they will be paid straight-time for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday will be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on Sunday will be paid at double time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company the rate of pay will be rate and one half. It is further agreed, that the rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutualconsent between the employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday will be paid for at straight time.
8:06 The regular work week for employees such as camp staff, Woodlands employees loading rail cars and Watchmen shall be as scheduled. They will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1XA) times their regular rate on Sunday or their sixth (6th) work day, and double time on their seventh (7th) work day.
8:07 Camp staff on a daily rate shall be paid overtime after eight (8) hours worked in each day. They shall not split shift more then twelve (12) hours per day. 8:08 For the purpose of this Article, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked. 8:09 The Union recognizes that the Company has the right to schedule hours of work subject to the following:
(a)	The Company will post the regular hours of work for all its employees in a conspicuous place in the operations.
(b)	Forty-eight (48) hours of notice will be given of any change of posted hours of work. The notice required refers to a change in the crev
unscheduled overtime of more than one (1) hours shall be supplied with a hot mealafterone (1) hour, or in lieu of a meal, receive six ($6.00) dollars. Sandwiches or T.V. dinners shall be no substitute. The hot meal shall be served on Company time. An employee working on an unscheduled overtime shift shall be supplied with a hot meal at each regular meal period. (See Letter of Understanding — Hot Meals Lumber Division).
not refer to individual change.
8:10 All employees who are
IO
8:11 Employees shall not be required to suspend work during their normal work week for the purpose of absorbing overtime.
8:12	(a) When an employee works continuously for
more than sixteen (16) hours, lunch period included, and if scheduled to work the next day he will be given a rest period of eight (8) hours. He will not be required to report to work until the end of the eight (8) hour rest period. He will be paid straight time for any time lost from his work day as a result of the rest period.
(b) Afternoon shift employees, rescheduled to work day shift the following day shall be given an eight (8) hour rest period. They shall be paid straight time for any time lost from their work day as a result of the rest period. 8:13 No employee shall be required to work more than five (5) hours without a lunch period. Lunch period shall consist of one (I), thirty (30) minute period in each regular shift except for guards and watchmen who by nature of their work, work eight (8) consecutive hours.
8:14 Lumber Division employees working on a continuous operating shift shall not overlap shifts. The Lumber Division shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Any hours worked beyond their regular scheduled shift shall be at the premium rate. Graveyard shift shall not be a swing shift for Production workers.
ARTICLE IX
Rates of Pay
9:01	(a) The Company and the Union agree that the
rates of pay as set forth in the attached Schedule “A”, shall form part of this Agreement and shall continue in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
(b) (i) The parties hereby agree that effective June IS, 1986 wages of all hourly rated employees covered by this agreement shall be increased by	based upon
II
the wage curve in effect on May I, 1986.	£>&	/
(ii) The parties hereby agree that effective June IS, 1986 the rates for pieceworkers be increased by 4Vi% but that it be applied as outlined in Schedule “A-2”.
(c)	The parties hereby agree that effective September 1, 1987 the wages for all hourly rated and piecework employees be increased by 2%.
(df The parties hereby aer^e that effective September’ I, 1988 the wages for all hourly rated and piecework employees be increased by 2Vi%-
(e) The parties agree that the base rate for the term of this agreement shall be:
Effective:	June 15/86 Sept. 1/87 Sept. 1/88
$14.09	$14.37	$14.73
9:02 When an employee is assigned to perform work in a job classification paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid at the rate of the job to which he is assigned. No hourly rated employees shall receive a rate lower than the rate of pay at which he commenced his day’s work. Piecework employees unable to complete their normal days work due to circumstances beyond their control will be given the opportunity to perform other work if available. In the event there is a reduction in the work force an employee shall receive the rate of the job to which, by virtue of his seniority, he is assigned providing he is able to perform the work of the job concerned.
9:03 If a new job is established or if there is a substantial change in the job content during the term of this Agreement, it is understood that the Company shall set the rate of pay for the new job or changed job taking into consideration present classifications in Schedule “A-l” of this Agreement. The Company shall notify the Union in writing of such changes of classifications. If requested by the Union, the Company shall meet with the Union before the end of a thirty (30) day trial period to explain, discuss and negotiate such new rates. When Agreement is reached on the new rate, it shall be retroactive to the date the employee was assigned the new job.
12
9:04 Sawmill Job Evaluation
A job evaluation program will be implemented effective May I, 1986 in accordance with the provisions and procedures as outlined in Schedule “F”.
9:05 In all cases where a pieceworker is to be paid for non-productive hours he shall be paid at the power saw operator’s rate, except where otherwise specifically stated.
9:06 In those areas where it is necessary to clean up an area which has previously been partially cut, or where the density of wood is less than eight (8) cords per acre, the hourly rate in Schedule “A-2” for skidder and power saw operators together with the hourly rate for power saw plus wood will be paid.
9:07 On Cut and Skid Operations main or designated roads for the access of pieceworkers that are more than one thousand feet (1,000) long will be cut in advance and a premium of twenty percent (20%) of the regular piecework rate will be paid.
Designated access roads will be indicated on the map provided in Article 26:33 of Woodlands General.
9:08 It is agreed that skidder mid power saw operator rates as stated in Schedule “A-2” will not be used for production work except working behind feller-bunchers.
9:09 The hourly rates as agreed are minimum guaranteed rates and do not preclude the Company and Contractors from establishing piecework rates for the loading and driving crews. This minimum guaranteed rate is to be computed at the end of each Two
(2)	week consecutive period on an hourly basis and the piecework rates to be computed at the end of the same Two (2) week consecutive period and the loaders and drivers shall be paid the greater of the Two (2) sums. The employer will confirm the offered piecework rates for each haul area in writing to the employee involved in the loading and driving crews at the same time the rate for each area is agreed upon. The Company will provide the Union with an agreement signatory page for all Contractor Companies covered by this agreement.
13
The truck drivers are required to help load and unload their trucks as instructed.
9:10 Shift schedules for trucks shall not exceed Twelve (12) hours.
9:11	(a) The shift premium differential will, be:
Afternoon shift — 31 cents ljl( j / Q ( >Ca1 l Graveyard shift — 31 cents t j '.j > q qq / . 9:12 Field Tradesmen normally assigned off site shall be paid a field allowance of Ten Cents ($0.10) per
ARTICLE X	,
Call Time	(a J() --S
10:01 An employee reporting for woijt at the marshalling area/ Lumber Division at his schedule starting time for whom no work isavailable, and who has not been notified not to report, shall receive three
(3)	hours pay at the regular hourly rate. In the event the employee commences work and the operation closes, he shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours atfhis regular rate of pay.	tf.^ Q /1
10:02 Any employee who because of an emerge rcy, is called out for duty any time before or after his regular hours of work shall be free when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid four (4) hours foreach unrelated job he is assigned at straight time or overtime for hours worked, whichever is the greater. Work scheduled for one (i) shift in advance but outside of the regular or normal scheduled work week is not call in. 10:03 It is further understood and agreed that if at any time there is an insufficient number of employees to operate the Lumber Division, through no fault of the employer, who do not report for work at the regular starting time then the balance of the employees on that shift shall not receive call time provided for in Article X, Section 10:01 of the said Collective Agreement.
14
ARTICLE XI
the
regular hourly rate for all time spent by him in proceeding from the marshalling point to and from the place of work, in excess of one-half (Vi) hour. Travelling time shall not be included in the regular work day. Standard Measure for walking time is established as Three (3) miles per hour. For the purpose of this Agreement the camp shall be the marshalling point. In the case of pieceworkers, their place of work shall be their block. It is agreed that the marshalling point for Garage employees is the garage to which they are assigned in accordance with this Agreement.
Travel Time
11:01 Woodlands employees shall be paid'at
iMj i
ARTICLE XII
Cost of Living Allowance
12:01 During the qualifying period September 1, 198!
to August 31, 1983 a Cost of Living Allowance, hereinafter referred to as COLA, will be effective as follows:
12:02 COLA payments made under the terms of this article will be determined in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index for Canada (all items) published by Statistics Canada (197 1 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the CPI.
12:03 COLA payments made under this article will be paid to employees if the CPI rises more than Twenty-eight percent (28%) accumulated from September 1, 198 I to and including August 31, 1983. COLA payments, as described in 12:04 below will be paid to employees following each calendar month in which the CPI has exceeded Twenty-eight percent (28%) during the qualifying period including the month in which the CPI exceeds Twenty-eight percent (28%).
12:04 COLA payments will be calculated by multiplying each employee’s eligible hours in the calendar month by One Cent (1 cent) for each full .20 rise in the CPI beyond Twenty-eight percent (28%) during the
15
qualifying period.	£ Wc	'
12:05	(a) Eligible hours are hours worked, vacation
hours, statutory holiday hours, jury duty and bereavement leave and hours actually spent in Apprentice School Training.
(b)	COLA shall not be used in computing overtime premium or in the calculation of any other pay, allowance or benefit.
(C) COLA payments will be made after release of CPI monthly statistics with a statement which will show detail of the COLA payment calculation.
12:06 In the event that COLA becomes payable and the CPI later declines to a point where it is no longer payable, COLA would cease to be payable in the month following the last month that CPI exceeded Twenty-eight percent (28%) accumulated from September I, 1981.
12:07 If Statistics Canada changes the form or basis of calculating CPI, the Parties to this Agreement will request Statistics Canada to make available the discontinued index or, failing this, determine an appropriate substitute.
12:08 This article will remain in effect only for the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII
Statutory Holidays
13:01 The following days shall be observed as paid holidays:
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day August Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day (December 26th),
16
In the event the Province of Manitoba or the Government of Canada proclaim Heritage Day to be a Statutory Holiday during the term of this Agreement, the Company will recognize such holiday as a day off with
pay.
13:02 The observance of the above holidays may be made on days other than calendar dates when so proclaimed by the Province of Manitoba, or upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Employees shall be entitled to payment for anv of the above holidays provided that the employee qualifies as outlined in Section 13:06. A holiday falling on Saturday will be celebrated on Friday and a holiday falling on Sunday will be celebrated on Monday and the employee will beentitled to straight time pay only on the original Statutory Holiday.
13:03 On the original statutory holiday, statutory holiday pay for pieceworkers will be calculated by dividing their gross earnings for the previous payroll month by the number of days worked during that period. 13:04 Employees working on a holiday will be paid at the rate of one and one half \\Vi) times their straight time rate in addition to their Statutory Holiday pay.
13:05 An employee working on a holiday will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I Vi) his rate or appropriate premium rate.
13:06 (a) An employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay must comply with each one of the following three (3) conditions.
(i)	Have been on the payroll Forty-Five (45) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
(ii)	Have worked his last regular scheduled work day before and his first regular scheduled work day after the holiday unless his absence is due to illness, compensable occupational injury, or is otherwise authorized by the employer.
(iii)	Notwithstanding (ii) above, the employee must have worked one (1) day before and (I) day after the holiday both of which must fall within a period of sixty
17
(60) calendar days.
(b)	In case of injury or illness in (a) above, the employer shall have the right to request a medical certificate.
(c)	Employees while on Leave of Absence for Union business, or any employee while a member of a Negotiating Committee, shall qualify for paid Statutory Holidays. This Section shall not apply to those employees on Leave of Absence under Article XIX, Section 19:03 (a) and (c).
13:07 If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s normal day off, the employee shall be granted one (1) additional day off in lieu of the holiday with pay, at a time mutually agreeable to the employee and his supervisor.
ARTICLE XIV
Annual Vacations
14:01 An employee who has completed One (1) year of
continuous service with the Company shall be^/.^y entitled to an annual holiday of Two (2) weeks and shaUu be paid Five Percent (5%) of his total earnings yarned in the prior vacation year.	^>..>^7//
14:02 An employee who has completed Two (2) years
of continuous service with the Company shall be£)J) Q entitled to an annual holiday of Three (3) weeks and shall be paid Seven Percent (7%) of his total earnings earned in the prior vacation year.
14:03	(a) An employee who has completed Seven (7)
or more years of continuous service with ths/rjnt Company shall be entitled to an annual holiday of Fottr^ ' ^
(4)	weeks and shall be paid Nine Percent (9%) of his total earnings earned in the prior vacation year.
(b) After One (1) year continuous employment, time not exceeding One (1) year lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation provided that the
18
employee returns to his employment.
14:04 An employee whose employment has terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate rate contained in Sections 14:01, 14:02 or 14:03 above. 14:05 The vacation year shall be based on the employee’s anniversary date.
14:06 An employee shall be entitled to the above vacation only when his service has been continuous. Continuous service shall terminate by reason of an employee:
(a)	Being dismissed for just cause.
(b)	Leaving the employ of the Company.
(c)	Being laid off due to lack of work for more than the length of time as outlined in Article XVII, Section 17:03 (a) and (b).
(d)	Failing to return to work within Fifteen (15) days after being notified to return after a layoff.
(e)	Being absent for any other reason for more than the length of time outlined in Article XVII, Section 17:03 (a) and (b).
14:07 Employees shall take vacations at times scheduled by the Company in order to cause the least disturbance to the efficient operation of the Divisions. Vacations shall be between January 1st and December 31st. The Company will try to schedule vacations when possible between May 1st and September 30th. All vacations must be completed by December 3 1st. Preferred vacation schedules will be based on employee’s seniority. The Company will endeavor to announce the vacation schedule by April 1st.
14:08 Where a Statutory Holiday falls within an employee’s annual vacation period such day shall not count as a vacation day. The holiday shall be taken on the day preceding or following the vacation period.
14:09 An employee who qualifies for vacation pay referred to in Section 14:02 and 14:03 shall be entitled to the increased percentage effective on the employee’s personal anniversary date. The Company will adopt a common vacation pay calculation cut off date
19
for all employees of May 31. A special vacation payroll will be prepared following each May 3 I, and employees may receive their vacation pay then or leave it until they begin their vacation.
If an employee has approved vacation scheduled between January 1, and May 31, he will be entitled to receive the vacation pay earned between the last cut-off date and his vacation period.
14:10 The basis of calculating vacation pay using a common cut off date is described in the attached Letter of Understanding (Schedule “G”).
ARTICLE XV
Health and Welfare Contributions 15:01 The Manfor Ltd., Health and Welfare Plans shall be administered in accordance with the terms of the current insurance policies. The following is a description of the plans and the insurance should be consulted for a comprehensive description of the insurance coverage period.
15:02 The Company agrees to provide to its employees the Health and Welfare Plan described in Schedule “C” herein. Employees will be eligible to become members of the plan upon completion of Forty-Five (45) calendar days of continuous employment with the Company, provided they are at work on that date. If not at work on that date, they will be eligible immediately upon return to work.
(a)	An employee with more than One (I) year of continuous service who is laid off, shall be covered under the Health and Welfare Plan, and Dental Plan, for a period of Three (3) months.
(b)	An employee with more than Forty-Five (45) calendar days of continuous service but less than One (i) year shall be covered if laid off due to scheduled vacations.
15:03 Employees on an approved Leave of Absence shall be covered under the Health and Welfare Plan to the end of the calendar month in which the leave was granted.
20
ARTICLE XVI
Pension Plan Contributions
16:01 The Company and the Union will negotiate a Pension Plan in accordance with the Letter of Understanding dated March 18, 1986, attached as Schedule “H”.
ARTICLE XVII
Seniority
17:01	(a) The Company recognizes the principle of
seniority;. In the application of seniority, it shall be determined by Lumber Division or Woodlands Division seniority but the seniority of each Division will be separate and distinct from the seniority of the other.
(b)	The selection and promotion of supervisory / officials from the bargaining unit shall be entirely matter for the Company’s decision, in making such i selection or promotion, length of continuous service will / be given due consideration.
17:02 In the event of a reduction of forces, the last / person hired shall he the first released. s£.J /
17:03 It is agreed between the parties that seniority/ during lay off shall be retained on the following
basis:
(a)	Employees with less than one (I) year of
service shall retain their seniority for a/period of six (6) months.	2$ M
(b)	Employees with one (Ijf or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (I) additional month for each year’s service up to an additional twelve (12) months. It shall be the employer’s responsibility to maintain an address file of the employees and it shall be the employee’s responsibility to notify the employer in writing of any change of address.
17:04 For the purpose of establishing seniority for all employees during the term of the Agreement,, it is hereby agreed that seniority shall be by number starting with Number one (I). When an employee leaves the
operation his number shall cease to exist and shall not be given to an employee ei '	’ *e employ of the
17:05 Notwithstanding _ w	ie 'contrary in this
agreement it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue for Forty-Five (45) calendar days during which time they are to be considered probationary employees only. During this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of Forty-Five (45) calendar days thev shall be regarded as regular employees and shall then de entitled to seniority dating from the day in which they entered the Company’s employ.
17:06 It is agreed, that, when hiring new employees, preference shall be given to those employees of the Company having had previous seniority and who have applications on file.
17:07 The Company agrees to provide the Union with a Seniority list, by Division, of the Company’s employees by number once each six (6) months, setting out the number, name, camp (Woodlands Division) and seniority with the Company of each employee.’ The seniority of the employees will be posted on the bulletin boards in conjunction with the list being sent to the Union.
17:08	(a) In any case where an employee has been
transferred by the Company to a supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit, provided however, that supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return within one (I) year to the job held at the time of their promotion to a supervisory position providing the job is not held by an employee having more Plant seniority. If the employee returns to the bargaining unit after- the expiration of one (1) year from the date of his promotion, he shall return to a base rate job to which his seniority entitles him.
(b) Supervisory employees in (a) above shall
Company.
22
have their seniority frozen while in a supervisory position. 17:09 An employee shall cease to have seniority and his employment shall be terminated if the employee:
(a)	Is discharged for proper cause.
(b)	Terminates his employment with the Company.
(c)	Does not return to work fifteen (15) days after he is called back to work.
17:10 In case of major recalls after reduction in the labour force employees will be notified by telegram at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the commencement of operations. Upon receipt of the recall the employee will notify the Company by telegram, Collect, within seven (7) days of his intent to work on the specified date. It shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of his address during layoff. Recall notice will be sent to the last known address on record of the employee.
17:11	(a) During a reduction of work forces when an
employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job he may elect to apply his seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he has previously held thejob in the operation on a regular basis.
(b) He may also elect to apply his seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay, provided he is able to perform assigned work. Upon increasing the workforce, an employee shall be returned to service in order of seniority, provided he is able to perform the work.
17:12 Employees exercising their seniority shall be allowed a Two (2) day period as a,fefamiiiari-
17:13 In the case of layoffs, the Cc	notify
the employee or employees ■	t least
Fourteen (14) calendar days in advance unless the lack of work is beyond the Company’s control.
17:14 Laid off employees will be recalled to a temporary or emergency position by telephone in order of seniority, subject to their availahilitv at the time of the call.
zation period.
23
ARTICLE XVIII	j
Job Posting X )"/f
18:01	(a) Vacancies for other than base rate jobs shall
be posted in advance for a period of not less than Five (5) working days. All job posting awards will be posted within Five (5) working days at the close of the bid date. A carbon copy of the job tender will be available to the bidding employee.
(b)	The Company will notify the Camp Chairman of job postings and awards.
(c)	After-a trial period of Twenty (20) working days where an employee does not qualify for the position concerned he shall revert to his former position without loss of seniority.
(d)	In filling vacancies, senior employees shall be given preference provided they are able to perform the work.
(e)	This section shall not apply to relief replacements of two (2) weeks or less necessitated by illness or injury, or other leave of absence, or to relief replacement of longer duration for employees on vacation, but in filling these vacancies senior employees will be given preference, inaccordance with Article XVII, Section 17:01 (a) provided they are able to perform the work. In the event relief replacements are required for a longer period than defined above, such vacancies shall be posted as relief positions only.
ARTICLE XIX
Leave of Absence
19:01 The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness forthe term of this Agreement subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shall report or cause to have reported to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible. The employment of any employee not returning to work with one (1) year of his being granted leave of absence may be terminated by the Company unless proper justification for further leave is
24
H
/
shown.
19:02	(a) Any employee desiring Leave of Absence
must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
(b)	All employees on Leave of Absence must return to the position vacated when such leave was granted. While on Leave of Absence, Seniority shall accrue. Consultation between Union and Company will take place before extended periods of Leave of Absence can be granted.	,
19:03	(a) The Company will grant Leave of Absence--
to employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office for the term of such office. The employee who obtains this Leave of Absence shall return to Company within thirty (30) calendar days after—• completion of his term of employment with the Union.
(b)	The Company will grant Leave of Absence / to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions or as members of
the Negotiating Committee of the International Woodworkers of America in order that they may carry-out their duties on behalf of the Union.	/ f_J
(c)	The Company will grant Leav^of ‘Absence to employees to permit them to improve their education at a recognized educational institution as a full-time student for a period not to exceed six (6) months. The employee who obtains this Leave of Absence shall report for work to the Company within fifteen (15) diav. of the completion of his educational training, This trailing must be relative to the Industry.
(d)	The Company will grant Leavtfof Absence - . . to employees elected or nominated to full time Federal orO , Provincial Office. Once elected, Leave of Absence will be granted for the term of such office. Employees elected to Municipal Office will be granted Leave of Absence if requested and needed to fulfill the duties of their office.
(e)	In order for the employer to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives his Leave of Absence, as set forth in Clause (a), (b), (c) and (d) above the employer will be given due notice in writing; in the case of (a), (c), and

25
I
(d), Twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of(b), Five (5) calendar days.
19:04 The Company will not grant Leave of Absence to employees who desire to obtain employment with another employer or any other gainful employment. 19:05 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: In the event of death of a father, mother, brother, sister, --‘husband, wife, son, daughter, father-m-law, mother-inlaw, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step parent, grandparent, grandchild, legal guardian or ward of an employee, the employee shall receive up to Three (3) consecutive days leave, these days to include the date of the funeral. In the event Three (3) days are not sufficient time to attend the funeral, further leave shall be granted without pay.
The employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each day that falls on his regular scheduled work day. The Company may require proof of relationship and date of funeral.
ARTICLE XX
Accident Prevention Committee
20:01 The Committee shall consist of not more than eight (8) members nor less than four (4) members including two (2) co-chairmen, one (1) chosen by the employer’s members, and the other chosen by the Union members, and the co-chairman shall alternate the function of chairing the meetings of the committee and shall participate fully in the deliberations and decisions of the Committee.
20:02
The general duties of the Safety Committee shall
be:	&S/I
(a)	To make a thorough inspection not' Hess tthan once a month of the entire operation for the purpo® of determining hazardous conditions, to check on unsafe practises and to receive complaints and recommendations with respect to these matters.
(b)	To investigate promptly all serious accidents and any unsafe conditions or practises which may be reported to it. Such investigations shall include accidents
26
which might have caused serious injury to a workman whether or not such injury actually occurred.
(c)	To hold regular meetings at least monthly for the discussion of current accidents, their causes, suggested means of preventing their recurrence and reports of investigations and inspections.
(d)	The Company will keep a record of all investigations, inspections, complaints, recommendations, and minutes of the meetings on behalf of the Safety Committee. The minutes shall indicate what action has been taken with respect to the suggestions or recommendations previously made and if no action has been taken, the reasons therefore shall be given. Copies of minutes shall be sent promptly to the Workplace Safety and Health Division, Industrial Relations Department, and local Union.
(e)	To investigate fire conditions, examine tire escapes, fire extinguishers, water buckets, sand buckets, and all fire fighting appliances.
(f)	To inspect lighting arrangements in all places of employment, and to report to management all insufficiently lighted passageways and other portions of the plant where workmen are liable to be injured in the course of their employment.
(g)	All safety meetings and safety tours to be
conducted on Company time	>s of normal
20:03 St. John’s Ambulance	Courses will
be made available outside normal working hours to all employees who desire to be trained and one (I) trained employee in each work area of the Woodlands Division and one (I) trained employee on each shift in the Lumber Division will receive the first aid allowance.
The purpose of a plant lock-out procedure is to ensure that through proper instruction and plant practises all energy activated equipment is safe to work on. That before commencing maintenance or repair work or any
earnings.
ARTICLE XXI
Lock-Out Procedure
27
other adjustments where the inadvertent starting of the machinery could endanger a workman, the main control device must be locked-out.
Who Locks Out?
(a)	The person starting work on the machine.
(b)	Any other person working on the same equipment by individual lock.
(c)	After the above procedures have been followed, the first individual referred to shall make sure the power is off by trying the “start” button.
Removal of Locks:
(a)	On completion of work, the power shall remain locked out until the last person finished is clear of the equipment and has removed his own lock.
(b)	Locks shall only be removed:
(i)	By the person who installed them.
(ii)	IN AN EMERGENCY, by the senior shift supervisor or superintendent (if he is taking the place of a Foreman) who shall first make every effort to contact the individual who put the lock on. He must ensure that the machinery or equipment can be operated safely.
(c)	Persons coming on shift must place their own locks on all switches before the individual going off shift removes his lock.
(d)	Senior shift supervisors may lock-out the machine during shift changes to allow the person going off shift to remove his lock.
Special Circumstances
(a)	Casuals: The lock-out procedure will be reviewed with all casuals and/or overtime workers.
(b)	In the event that joint work on equipment is done by an outside maintenance crew and part of the regular crew, the maintenance procedure will be reviewed with both parties present and only the regular procedure will be used.
(c)	If the work is being, done directly by an outside maintenance crew, the regular lock-out procedure will be reviewed with them and only that procedure will apply.
28
Other Sources of Energy
Electrical power is not the only source of energy that can cause accidents if inadvertently operated. Compressed air (and other gases), pressurized water, hydraulics, and gravity are some examples of energy sources that must be de-energized and locked out before physical contact is made with the equipment. If physical contact is required on equipment, then the employees involved must be trained to understand that lock-out of the above energy sources is also required.
The Following Rules Apply:
(a)	Lock-out controls to de-energize all valves.
(b)	Bleed hydraulic air or water systems after pumps or supply have been locked-out.
(c)	Block-up all equipment that can move because of gravity- (i.e. hoists, hold down rolls, lathe backup r o 11 &
Additional Points:
(a)	This lock-out procedure shall apply to ALL PLANT PERSONNEL. This includes office staff, production employees, supervisory staff, and maintenance personnel.
(b)	All main control boxes are to be highlighted and properly identified in the plant.
(c)	The provisions of lock-out procedure will be written into a job safety analysis as it is drafted for the operation.
(d)	There will be regular reviews of this plan for all plant personnel.
(e)	It will be reviewed by all new employees. Mobile Equipment
In case of mobile equipment a tag-out procedure will be used and same general rules will apply.
ARTICLE XXII
Adjustment of Grievances
22:01 It is the intention of the Company and the Union
that by execution of this Agreement industrial
29
peace will be maintained and that the Union and the Company shall co-operate to that end and that work will be done efficiently and without interruption.
22:02 It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that the complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
22:03 The Company and the Union mutually agree that should any grievance arise between the parties to this Agreement as to its interpretation, application or violation, it shall be dealt with, without stoppage of work in the following manner:
Step I: The individual employee with a job steward of his choice shall first take up the matter with his immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days of the origin of the grievance. The Supervisor shall reply within five (5) working days. Failing satisfactory adjustment and no later than five (5) working days from the date of which the Supervisor is required to reply then;
Step 2: The matter shall be taken up in writing by the same employee and the grievance committee with a higher level of management. Within five (5) working days of-receiving the grievance in writing, management must respond in writing. Failing settlement then;
Step 3: The matter shall be taken up by 2 authorized members of the Union Executive with the Division Manager and another member of management. A response must be given in writing, within ten (10) working days from the time the matter was discussed. 22:04	(a) If a grievance has not advanced to the next
stage under Steps I, or 2, within Five (5) working days after the completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed abandoned. In the event of the absence of authorized agents of the Company or the Union, the time limit may be extended by mutual consent.
(b) Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days after the completion of Step 3, refer the matter to arbitration as provided in the Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
22:05 The Union shall promptly notify the Company
30
of the personnel of its Grievance Committee and of any change in personnel; and the Company shall notify the Union of the names of the officials of the Company referred to herein.
22:06 As far as practical, all grievances will be dealt with at the close of the regular work shift or in the case of the night shift, prior to the beginning of the regular work shift without loss of earnings. Where grievances are dealt with outside of regular working hours at the request of the Company, the employees engaged in the discussion of the grievance shall be paid at straight time rate of pay for the time so spent. The aggrieved employee or employees, providing they are present, shall be considered as participating in the discussion of the grievance.
22:07 The job steward on duty will be allowed sufficient time on any shift for the purpose of handling grievances, in such instances, he must secure permission from his supervisor prior to undertaking an assignment. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
22:08 The job steward or his appointee shall be employees of the Division where the grievance originated.
22:09 The Company shall advise the Union in any case where an employee has been discharged. Such advice to be provided at theearliest possible time. In cases where the Union considers it necessary to contest a discharge, the matter shall be dealt with through the provisions of Article XXII, Section 22:03, Step 3.
22:10 The business agent for the Union shall be entitled to represent and/or assist the Grievance Committee at any step in the grievance procedure.
22:11 In the event of any violation of this agreement between a contractor and an employee of a contractor, the matter shall be referred in writing to the grievance procedure at Step I. If the matter is not resolved, the response at Step I, shall also be in writing. The Company shall be responsible for any violation of the Collective Agreement beyond that point.
22:12 It is agreed that written responses to grievances
31
should include the reason(s) for denying the grievance.
ARTICLE XXIII
Arbitration
23:01	(a) When either party decides to submit a
grievance to arbitration as per Article 22:04 (b), then the other party shall be so notified in writing by registered mail.
(b) The parties shall appoint a panel of six (6) arbitrators. The single arbitrator shall be selected from this panel.
tct If the qarties fail to agree on the selection of a single arbitrator from among-the panel, they shall request the honorable Minister of Labour of the Province of -Manitoba to make the appointment from among the said panel.
(d)	In the event that the arbitrators provided for in this Section are not available to preside as arbitrator, the parties agree that they will request the Honorable Minister of Labour of the Province of Manitoba to appoint a temporary replacement.
23:02 No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
23:03 In the case of arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or the employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all necessary arrangements will be made to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses. 23:04 The remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
23:05 The proceedings and decision of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto, but the arbitrator shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with
32
the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, add to, modify or amend any part of the Agreement, or make any general changes, such as changes in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
23:06 In all cases of interpretation orarbitration of the terms of this Agreement, the text of the original signed copies shall govern.
24:01	(a) On each pay day the Company shall provide
to each employee an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediate preceding pay period, the rate of wage applicable to him, all deductions made from his wages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually payable to him, and other such information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the parties.
(b) Pay days shall be every second Friday. Any pay shortage equivalent to one (I) or more days pay will be paid the next working day, with allowance for the difficulty of distance in Woodlands, considered. Shortages of less than one (I) day’s pay will be paid on the next pay cheque.
24:02 The Company agrees that the Union may post notices on a notice board supplied by the Company for Union business.
24:03 An employee hurt in an industrial accident, and attending a doctor, shall be paid for the loss of time on the day he was injured, at his regular hourly rate for his regular scheduled work day.
24:04 In the event of employees sustaining injuries at work, or becoming affected by occupational disease during the course of their employment and becoming physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee	itable employment as is
24:05 If any provisions oi this agreement or any
ARTICLE XXIV
General — Lumber/Woodlands
available.
33
collective agreement made in pursuance thereof is found to be contrary to the provisions of the law, now or hereafter enacted, this Agreement will not be abrogated, but is subject to such amendments as may be necessary to bring it into conformity with the law.
24:06 The Company and the Union desire each employee to be familiar with the provisions of this Agreement and his rights and duties under it. For this reason, the Company will have the Agreement printed in booklet form and the management will give a copy to each employee.
24:07 An employee proven to have been unjustly discharged, suspended or demoted shall be reinstated to his former position and receive pay for all time lost.
24:08	(a) Employees undertaking Company approved
educational courses, including correspondence courses, upon successful completion shall be entitled to reimbursement of Seventy-Five percent (7‘	'	" urse
(b) Employees undertaking educ	rses,
including corre^DOndence courses, that are reauired as a
condition of job requirement,’ the Company will reimburse the employee for One Hundred Percent (100%) of the course fees upon successful completion of the course.
24:09 The Company will pay the cost of occupational license renewals and renewal examinations and will reimburse an employee for the time lost while writing these examinations. These licenses and examinations must be relevant to the employee’s job in the Division. Driver’s licenses are excluded.
24:10 The Company will supply lock-up facilities for employees’ tools, and will replace tools lost in a fire or broken on the job, provided that in the case of broken tools they are produced for replacement. Tools lost by theft (provided there is evidence of forced entry) or fire from Company provided lock-up facilities in buildings or garages (and which are listed in the inventory of Mechanic’s Own Tools mutually agreed to by the Mechanical Superintendent and the employee) will be
fees.
34
replaced.
Notwithstanding the previous paragraph, it is agreed that the Company is not responsible for providing lock up facilities for pieceworker’s saws. However where they are working in the immediate vicinity of a public highway the Company will provide a lock-up facility or a means of bringing pieceworkers saws to and from the job site on a daily basis.
24:11 The company will make available tradesmen’s tools required upon the introduction of the metric system at no cost to the employee.
24:12 The Company agrees to supply, free of charge, insect repel lant to all employees to a maximum of Two (2) units per month.
24:13 The Company will sell to employees full packages of lumber for pickup during regular working hours at the market price existing at the time of purchase.
24:14 Upon presentation of a voucher from the Clerk of The Court, showing fees received for Jury Duty, Coroner’s Witness, Coroner’s duties and Crown Witness, £n em loyee will_be paid the difference-between such fees a &6urly~rate for regular straight time . Eight (8) hour working days lost as a result o' * '	'
25:01 The Company and the Union shall co-operate in the formulation and the enforcement of Company rules and regulations to maintain order, discipline and efficiency and to promote measures necessary to assure the maximum safety and health of all employees. In the case of disagreement the procedure for processing other grievances shall apply.
25:02 The employees are required to take good care of any article provided them by the Company and such articles shall be returned to the Company on termination of employment.
25:03 The Company shall supply safety equipment when the Safety Committee and the Company
ARTICLE XXV
General Provisions — Lumber
35
agree such equipment is necessary for the protection of employees. The first stage of this provision shall be on the following basis:
(i)	Mitts for:
(a)	Dry Chain
(b)	Lumber Pilers
(c)	Gloves for Welders
Replacement in (a), (b), and (c) above shall be made on an exchange basis.
(ii)	Aprons for the Dry Chain
(iii)	Safety-toed boots
(a)	Where required.
The Company and the Union agree to the principle of wearing safety footwear at all times and new employees must obtain them prior to commencement of employment.
(iv)	Protection Rainwear
(v)	Hard hats, winter hard hat liners, safety goggles, earmuffs.
In the case of(i) (a), (b), (c) and (ii) (a) the first pair and one (I) pair per month if required thereafter.
In the case of (i) (d) the first pair and one (1) pair per three (3) months if required.
In the case of (iii) the Company shall cover the cost of the first pair at fifty (50) percent of the cost and pay fifty (SO) percent of the cost of one (I) additional pair of boots each calendar year thereafter.
25:04 All employees obtaining lumber grader’s certificates shall be paid at straight time base rate for the hours in class.
25:05 The Company will arrange transportation home, where required, to employees held over to work overtime at the end of their shift, who miss or lose their ride as a result.
25:06 All employees shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods during each regular shift provided always that the Company will have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision. 25:07 A Lumber Division employee who accepts a
36
posted position will not be eligible to rebid for another vacancy for a period of four (4) months from the time he took over the originally posted job except to bid into the apprenticeship program.
25:08 Employees becoming ill on the job and permitted to leave to obtain medical attention shall be provided with transportation home, if required, at the Company’s expense. Affected employees may be asked to provide a medical certificate.
25:09 Employees hurt in an industrial accident requiring medical attention or hospitalization, or who are permitted to go home, shall be provided with transportation, if required, at the Company’s expense. 25:10 The Company will supply to maintenance employees. utility man and shaker clean-up man, clean coveralls as required on an exchange basis. 25:11 The Company shall pay straight time hourly rate for employees to attend Union Management
meetings.
25:12 Pay statements will be placed in enveloped before distribution to employees.	' f I /
25:13 Maintenance employees shall be allowed a ten (IO) minute wash-up time at the end of each shift. 25:14 An employee absent from work, due to illness or other reason shall notify his foreman at least one half O/2) hour ahead of his shift commencement. A medical certificate will not be required for a one (1) day absence, provided however that cases of habitual absenteeism will require medical certificates for one (I) day absences. Failure to notify the Company or provide a valid reason for absence will be dealth with in accordance with Article III, Section 3:02 of this Agreement.
25:15 Watchmen will be placed on a seven (7) day swing shift schedule which is: work seven (7) 12 to 8 shifts — two days off, work seven (7) 4 — 12 shifts — one (I) day off, work seven (7) 8 — 4 shifts, four (4) days off. Calculation of pay for the Watchmen will be based on a Sunday to Saturday calendar week.
Because of this shift schedule, Watchmen will receive double time for all hours worked in excess of eight (8)
37
hours on a Sunday and it is agreed Article 8:03) does not apply to Watchmen.	I
25:16 It shall not be considered a violatjpn of this Agreement for employees to respect a legal picket line established by a bona fide trade union provided such picket line blocks entrance to the Employer’s premises and has been authorized by the trade union.
25:17 The Company and the Union agree that a continuous job evaluation program for all hourly paid categories within its operation is necessary and desirable.
25:18 Notwithstanding the other provisions of this agreement, a Watchman may not be bumped from his position during a layoff unless it is expected to last longer than 90 calendar days.
ARTICLE XXVI
General Provisions — Woodlands
26:01 The Company shall install a locked gate where practical on all main roads to cutting operations of the Company. The Company will be responsible for all tools as listed in the inventory of the employees own tools mutually agreed to by the Supervisor and the employee which are left in locked Company buildings with the consent of the employee’s immediate supervisor. 26:02	(a) The Company will supply to maintenance
employees clean coveralls as required on an exchange basis.
(b)	The Company will supply clean coveralls as required on an exchange basis to employees required to service the following mobile Company equipment:
Drotts
Dozers
Graders
Slashers
Loaders
Scrapers
(c)	Effective September I, 1986, the Company will supply each field mechanic with one pair of insulated
38
coveralls per calendar year.
26:03 There shall be no strip cutting for the duration of this Agreement.
26:04 Where an employee is scheduled to work by himself in an area remote from other employees, a second man will be assigned.
26:05 The Company agrees to the principle of the two (2) man crews and will apply this principle wherever possible.
26:06 It is agreed that when new Company owned sf 'dders or reconditioned skidders are assigned to a cutting area the skidder operator with the most seniority will be given the first option to have the skidder assigned to him on a one time basis within Six (6) months. 26:07 The Company shall supply windshields for all skidders during the winter months.
26:08 If weather conditions are found to be too severe for crews to work they shall , have the option (subject to common sense) to cease work for theduration of such weather conditions.
26:09 All employees shall be entitled to two (2) ten (IO) minute rest periods during each regular shift provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision. 26:10 Skidders shall not be required to skid over one thousand (1,000) feet from skidway or landing. 26:11 The Company shall supply each pulp cutting crew, upon request, with a ten (IO) gallon drum for power saw gas, at no cost and all power saw gas will be free of charge.
26:12 The Company shall supply scale sheets to employees itemizing each pile on separate scale
slips.
26:13 (a) The Company shall have one (I) spare skidder in each operating area.
(b)	The Company shall supply chokers as
required.
(c)	The Company shall provide a cable cutter for each skidder.
39
26:14 Fallers and buckers shall be supplied one (I) free chain saw file per week.
26:15 Transportation shall be available on all job sites. 26:16 The Company agrees to provide a power saw shack at all resident camps and such shacks shall be properly lighted and heated and equipped with vice, anvil, chain breaker, air compressor, and proper lock-up lockers for power saw storage, such facilities shall be available for the use of employees at each camp.
26:17	(a) The Company agrees to make available at
each camp or marshalling area, for the use of employees, the following equipment and supplies at Company cost plus five (5) percent for handling:
Axe bits, axe handles, pulp hooks, gas cans, wedges, lunch kits and thermos bottles.
The above items will be debited to the man’s account but upon the return of each item to Company Stores the account of the workman will be so credited. Oil will be supplied for power saw use at Company cost plus Five (5) percent for handling. Items on loan that are not returned at the time an employee exits from his camp or marshalling area will be charged for at the wholesale price plus Five (5) percent handling charge. It is understood and agreed that in the case of loss or breakage of these items while they are on loan, the cost will be borne by the employee at his own expense. The Company shall make available where possible, personal safety items such as work gloves at Company cost.
(b)	The Company shall supply hard hats, winter hard hat liners, earmuffs and safety goggles.
(c)	In the case of safety-toed boots, the Company shall cover 50% of the cost of one pair of normal safety toed boots per calendar year and effective September 1, 1986 shall cover 50% of the cost of one pair of winter safety boots per calendar year.
26:18 (a) The Company agrees to supply one (I) power saw chain every Twenty-Two (22) days worked for those people cutting Sixteen (16) and Eight (8) foot wood, and one (1) power saw chain every Twenty-One (21) days worked for those fallers cutting treelength.
40
Those employees normally working as skidder operators will receive a saw chain every Forty-Two (42) days worked on an exchange basis.
(b)	Buckers will receive a power saw chain as required on an exchange basis. Fallers will receive a power saw chain every Twenty-One (21) days worked on an exchange basis.
(c)	The Company will maintain a reasonable supply of power saw parts in each camp which will be available to employees at cost.
26:19 Pieceworkers intending to quit shall give the Company Foreman reasonable notice of leaving and the scales shall scale him up within Three (3) days. Such time limit shall be exclusive of Sundays and holidays.
It is understood the intent of this section is that the Company will endeavor to have the pieceworkers final scale completed and the worker paid in accordance with the final scale prior to the worker leaving the operation. 26:20 The Company agrees to have a sufficient number of lunch shacks available for each crew on or before October 1st of each year and they shall be kept in good repair or replaced as required.
26:21 The Company agrees to have power saws available for purchase with payment on the basis of one dollar ($1.00) per cubic meter.
26:22 The Company agrees that existing bonus rates will continue at present levels, unless changes in equipment or methods dictate a revision.
26:23	(a) Pieceworkers who are transferred at the
request of the Company from one camp to another will be given the first opportunity to return to their original camp when openings occur in that original camp from which they had been transferred.
(b) The senior employee shall have the right to transfer or remain in his camp/marshalling area. In case of transfer of a machine, the operators assigned to the machine will be transferred with the machine.
If a machine must be transferred without its regular operator and a spare is available the Supervisor will
explain to the operator why the regular machine and not the spare(s) must be transferred.
(c) Job transfers at the request of the Company shall be paid at the hourly rate and mileage where applicable.
26:24 When supervision has had four (4) hours or more advance notice preferably at the end of the day’s shift or prior to the day’s shift commencing at the completion time of a block and the crew is caused to wait for supervision to move them to another block the crew shall be compensated for such time lost at power saw operator rate plus the power saw rental rate per hour for their power saw.
26:25 Supervisors shall check the block before the crew moves and state at that time if it is satisfactory or not. If after receiving assurance that the block is satisfactory and the crew is requested to return, Article IX, Section 9:06 will apply. However, if a crew has been instructed during the four (4) hour notice, to clean up a block before moving and fails to do so and must return to that block to clean-up, they shall not be paid for the time so spent on clean-up.
26:26 Each employee in the crew involved will be paid for moving time in excess of one-half (Vi) hour at the power saw operator rate plus the power saw rental rate when moving from one block to another or to a new area if the move takes place during the normal working day. Moving time is the lapse time required to move a cutter(s) from one block or area to the other. This clause shall not apply in the case of an employee requesting a transfer from crew to crew or camp to camp.
26:27 Each block shall have definite markers on all four (4) sides where possible except where obvious natural boundaries are used such as creeks, roads and lakes. Markers shall not be moved after the crew has been assigned the block unless agreed to between the parties involved. A swamp shall not be considered a natural boundary and should be ribboned off before cutting begins.
26:28 All blocks will be numbered consecutively. The blocks will be assigned in sequence, after each
42
crew has completed their previous block.
26:29 Should a dispute over block assignment arise, the crew and the Union representative shall have access to all area layout information.
26:30 A block is defined as a worksite or area where individual crews are assigned.
26:31 In the event a block has been improperly assigned, the rate of compensation shall not be less than their daily average gross earnings for days actually worked during their last pay period.
26:32 Where regular production crews are assigned to clean-up situations for more than one (I) block the rate of compensation shall not be less than their daily average gross earnings for days actually worked during their last pay period.
26:33 A map with the numbered blocks will be posted in a suitable location in each operation stating all the necessary information.
26:34 The Company may establish camps and upon the completion of the construction and erection thereof, the Company shall maintain therein good conditions of cleanliness, sanitation and health.
26:35 The Company shall install a washing machine and dryer in all camps for laundry purposes. 26:36 Meal periods in camps will consist of one (I) hour for example; dinner shall be from 12:00 noon until 1:00 p.m.
26:37 The Company will at all times supply fresh meat, milk, fruit juices, fresh fruit and vegetableswhen in season Fruit juices shall be supplied for breakfast served in containers allowing self-service for consumption at the table.
26:38 All camps shall have one (1) tier single beds and two (2) clean sheets and one (I) pillow case will be issued once a week. Clean blankets will be issued to employees upon arrival at camp and will be replaced as conditions warrant. All beds shall be provided with a canvas cover.
26:39 The Company will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, storage facilities for bag-
43
gage, a clothes closet or locker, and where possible, adequate hot water supply. Where possible inside showers and toilets will be provided.
26:40 Pest control measures within the camp buildings shall be carried out as required.
26:41 The Company will provide suitable refrigeration for all perishables.
26:42	(a) The charge for board and lodgings shall be
two ($2.00) per man per day. An employee who leaves camp on authorized leave, weekends, or because he is ill or has been injured, will not be charged, providing he notifies the camp clerk at the time of leaving camp.
(b)	Disabled or sick Company employees may stay in a Company camp during their recovery period for two dollars ($2.00) per day. During the recovery period, the employee must observe normal camp rules and regulations.
26:43 An employee shall be required to pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Wax paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches.
26:44 Food served to the employees shall at all times be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include fresh fruit, vegetables and greens when in season.
26:45 It is the intention of the Company to show a film once per week at each camp, provided on a camp basis if there is a reasonable demand for this service. Shuffleboards or pool tables will be provided in each recreation hall.
26:46 The Company agrees to supply air conditioners for all camo kitchens. Air conditioning will be provided in the lunch room of the Woodlands Divisional Garage.
26:47 The Company will install twenty-six (26) inch colour T.V.’s in all camps.
26:48 The Company agrees to the following schedule of cookery staff:
44
Scheduled for the cafeteria style cookeries (with mechanical dishwasher):
NO. Persons Eating
2nd	Night
Cook Cook Cookee Baker Total
I- 14 15 - 30 31 - 50 51 - 70 71 - 100 101 - 125 126-150 151 - 180 181 - 215 216 - 250 251 - 285
1
1
I
1	1
1
I	I
1	I
1
I	1
1	2
1	2
1
2
2
3
4
4
5
6
7
1
-	2
3
-	4
-	5 6
I	7
I	8
I	9
10
111
26:49 Schedule for Cookery Personnel (with no mechanical labour saving devices):
No. Persons Eating
14 or less 15- 25 25 - 45 45 - 65 65 - 85 85 - 105 105 - 125 125 - 145 over 145
2nd	Night
Cook Cook Cookee Baker Total
1	—
i -
I
i
i	i
i	i
i	i
I	2
I	2
—	—	1
1	—	2
2	3
2	I	4
3	-	5
4	—	6
5	—	7
6	—	9
6 I IO
It is agreed that the above schedule(s) may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work load are introduced.
26:50 A single room for the Union Camp Chairman is available under the following procedure:
(a)	After the Area Logging Superintendent is advised in writing of the name of the Union Camp Chairman, and after a request fora single room is madeto the Area Logging Superintendent.
(b)	In such instances where a change is made re:
45
Union Camp Chairman the former Union Camp Chairman reverts back to the standard of two (2) employees to a room.
(c)	No alteration will be made to the room during the Union Camp Chairman’s occupancy.
26:51 Pay statement or cheques will be placed in envelopes before distribution to employees. Employees may have cheques deposited direct to banks in The Pas upon request.
26:52 The Company shall supply gasoline for use in personal vehicles to Woodlands Division employees who are posted to or regularly work at locations outside The Pas. Employees will pay the Company’s cost plus ten percent (10%) for handling if the present system is continued. The Company is investigating the feasibility of arranging for employees to pay cash for gas. If this is feasible the Company will implement that system as quickly as possible and there will be no 10% charge for handling.
26:53 It is agreed that no Woodlands employee on the Manfor Ltd., payroll as of February 1, 1986 will be put out of work because of the use of mechanical felling equipment.
26:54 When a dispute over the scale arises, it shall be dealt with, in the first instance by the Company Check Scaler, the employees involved and the Camp Steward.
The check scale must be called for by the employees within Fourteen (14) calendar days after receiving the original scale slip and then must be completed and returned to the employees within Fourteen (14) calendar days after notifying their immediate supervisor. The maximum relative scaling variation is plus or minus (+/-) Four Percent (4%) on stack scale and no adjustments will be made unless the variation exceeds plus or minus (+/-) Four Percent (4%) in which case the actual pile as scaled will be adjusted accordingly to reflect the full difference.
If no agreement is reached it shall be dealt with by the Chief Scaler, Union Business Agent or his appointee, the employees involved and a licensed Manitoba Scaler agreed upon by both parties.
46
The treelength deck will beslashed or bucked into 16'6" and 8'6" lengths and will be cube-scaled by this licensed scaler.
On the third (3rd} and final binding cube scale if it differs from the original scale by more than plus or minus (+/-) Three Percent (3%) of the original scale, the original scale will be adjusted accordingly and the cost for the independent scaler will be charged to the party who was out of favour with the final and binding scale.
In the event the Manitoba Scaling Manual is changed to provide for tree-length scaling this clause will be reviewed to reflect the change(s).
26:55 The Company will give instruction in metric scale.
26:56 During the term of this Contract, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss a system of grouping of categories in the logging sector.
26:57 In the event of lay-offs employees may not bump to a different job classification if the lay off does not exceed ten (IO) working days.
26:58 All mechanics positions will be posted on the following basis:
(a)	All mechanics will be considered permanently posted to their location of work on March 1,1986.
(b)	Effective March 2, 1986 all permanent vacancies will be posted in accordance with ARTICLE XVIII.
(c)	Notwithstanding Section 18:01 (e) temporary and relief vacancies will be tilled by asking for volunteers and if there are none, the junior mechanic will be temporarily transferred.
(d)	If a mechanic’s regular work is temporarily moved to the Divisional Garage, he will move with the work, and the Divisional Garage becomes his marshalling point. In this situation the Company will not be responsible for a mechanics room and board.
47
ARTICLE XXVII
Maintenance and Protection During Suspension of Work
27:01 It is agreed that during any general suspension of work at any time and for any cause whatsoever, the Company’s property shall be protected and the Company’s equipment shall be left in good condition by the employees. All safety provisions shall be fully complied with by all employees prior to any cessation of work.
27:02 It is understood that those employees who are required to remain at work under the provisions of Article XXVII, Section 27:01 above, shall be available for such work during suspension of work.
27:03 The employees referred to in Article XXVII, Section 27:02 above, shall be paid at the wage rate in effect at the time of the general suspension of work.
ARTICLE XXVIII
Strikes and Lockouts
28:01 It is agreed that neither the Union nor the employees of the Company shall in any way authorise, condone, support, or participate in any slow down, suspension of work, walk out, strike, or picketing by any employee or groups of employees during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for the renewal of this Agreement are in progress subject to the provisions of Article XXV, Section 25: 16.
28:02 It is agreed by the Company that there be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for renewal of this Agreement are in progress.
28:03 It is agreed that at all times, whether during the term of this Agreement or otherwise and for any cause whatsoever the Company’s property shall be protected and the Company’s plant, equipment and inventory shall be left in a good and safe condition by the employees. No employee shall leave his work without first assuring that all prescribed safety provisions have been
48
complied with.
28:04 It is also agreed that those employees who are required to remain at work to fulfill the functions as provided in Article XXVIII, Section 28:03, shall be available as required for such work during any suspension of regular operations.
28:05 The employees referred to in Article XXVIII, Section 28:04, shall be paid the regular wage rate applicable to their respective classifications in effect at the time they were required to perform the work contemplated by Article XXVIII, Section 28:03 and 28:04.
ARTICLE XXIX
Duration of Agreement
29:01 The provisions of this Agreement shall become effective from the first day of Sentemher. 1985 and shall,"notwithstanding any statutory provisions to the contrary, continue in force and effect until the 31st day of August, 1989 and thereafter from year to year, provided ftnn eitner party may, not less than Thirty (30) days nor more than Ninety (90) days before said expiry date of August 31, 1989, serve notice in writing by Registered Mail, on the other party to terminate or negotiate a revision of this Agreement, and where notice is given the party shall forthwith bargain collectively with a view to the renewal or revision or conclusion of a new Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have caused these present to be executed on their duly authorized representatives on the date given below, to take effect on the first day of September, 1985.
49
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
Manfor Ltd.:
K..D. HALLIDAY W.E. JONAS
C.	(KEN) HAM H.H. GINTER
D.	J. CURRY
International Woodworkers of America Local 1-324, N.L. MENARD
J. K. ANDERSON R.J. RICHARDS M. LACHANCE C. LANGAN
50
SCHEDULE “A-l”
SAWMILL RATES
Group 1
Janitor
Group 2
Strip Cutter Strip Layer/Stacker Clean-up/ Planer Clean-up/Chipper Atten,
Group 3
Bin Chaser Clean-up/ Yard
Group 4
Log Deck Chaser Planer Chain Puller Planer Hoist Operator
Group 5
Car Blocker
Group 6
Log Scanner Operator *( 10c)
Planer Stacker Attendant *(10e) Watchman
Group 7
Truck Driver/
Mail and Freigh
Group 8
Planer Feeder Drop Sort “B”
Stores Clerk
Group 9
Stacker Op./Kiln Clean-up/Bobcat
Rates Effective
June 15/86 Sept. 1/87 Sept. 1/88 14.09	14.37	14.73
14.16	14.44	14.80
14.16	14.44	14.80
14.16	14.44	14.80
14.16	14.44	14.80
14.24	14.52	14.88
14.24	14.52	14.88
14.35	14.64	15.01
14.35	14.64	15.01
14.35	14.64	15.01
14.45	14.74	15.11
14.56	14.85	15.22
14.56	14.85	15.22
14.56	14.85	15.22
14.66	14.95	15.32
14.77	15.07	15.45
14.77	15.07	15.45
14.77	15.07	15.45
14.87	15.17	15.55
14.87	15.17	15.55
51
Tallyman/ Bander Op.	14.87
Group 10
Auto Trimmer/P.M.	14.97
Group 11
Auto Trimmer/S.M.	15.10
Edgerman/ Pockets *(I2c)	15,10
Forklift/Planer	15,10
Forklift/Sawmill	15.10
Truck Driver/
Clean-up	15.10
Forklift /Shipping	15.10
Group 12
Storekeeper	15.23
Resaw Op./Line Bar	15.23
Chip Edgerman	15.23
Barker Op/ 18" & 18"	15.23
Log cut Off/
Circular 50"	15.23
Group 13
Kiln Operator	15.35
Group 14
Small Log Line Opr.	15.48
Large Log Line Opr.	15.48
Group 15
No category in this group	15.62
Group 16
Relief Operator	15.78
Log Loader/ Volvo 1641	15.78
Group 17
No category in this group	15.97
Group 18
No category in this group	16.16
Group 19
No category in this group '16.34
15.17
15.27
15.40
15.40
15.40
15.40
15.40
15.40
15.53
15.53
15.53
15.53
15.53
15.66
15.79
15.79
15.93
16.10
16.10
16.29
16.48
16.67
15.55
15.65
15.79
15.79
15.79
15.79
15.79
15.79
15.92
15.92
15.92
15.92
15.92
16.05
16.18
16.18
16.33
16.50
16.50
16.70
16.89
17.09
52
Group 20
Planer Grader	16.54
Group 21
#2 Planerman	16.74
Group 22
No category in this group 16.94 Group 23
#1 Planerman	17.14
Group 24
No category in this group 17.41 Group 25
No category in this group 17.68 Group 26
No category in this group 17.95 Group 27
No category in this group 18.25
All Tradesmen	18.76
Oiler	15.46
16.87	17.29
17.07	17.50
17.28	17.71
17.48	17.92
17.76	18.20
Employees with Grader’s Certificate.............. 15c/hr.
Employees designated as Lead Elands ............. 25c/ hr.
Employees designated as First Aid Men .... 25c/hr.
"Indicates amount (cents/hr) red-circled for incumbents in these positions.
53
SCHEDULE “A-2’
WOODLANDS RATES
Cook
2nd Cook
Cookee
Bull Cook
Night Watchman
laboureO
JumorPartsman
Driller Helper
Power Saw Operator
Handy Man
Part&an
Powder Man
Bus Driver
Truck Driver Tandem Skidder Operator Grapple Skidder or Flail Air Trac Without Ticket Bombardier Swamp Tractor
Truck Driver Trailer IO’ & Under Bunk Truck Driver Trailer over IO’ Bunk Truck Driver Multi-Trailer Air Track with Ticket Heavy Duty Equip. Oper. Slasher On/Off Loader Feller/ Limber/ Buncher
Store
Warehouseman
Storesman
EFFECTIVE June 15 Sept. I 1986	1987
120.40	122.81
113.89	116.17
112.68	114.93
113.65	115.92
112.68	114.93
14.09	14.37
14.27	14.56
14.27	14.56
14.50	14.79
14.56	14.85
14.57	14.86
14.86	15.16
14.87	15.17
14.87	15.17
15.04	15.34
15.10	15.40
15.10	15.40
15.10	15.40
15.13	15.43
15.27	15.58
15.27	15.58
15.42	15.73
15.42	15.73
15.51	15.82
15.52	15.83
15.66	15.97
18.76	19.14
15.22	15.52
14.76	15.06
Sept. 1 1988
125.88 119.07
117.80 118.82
117.80 J4J2
14.92
14.92 15.16
15.22
15.23
15.54
15.55
15.55 15.72
15.79
15.79
15.79
15.82
15.97
15.97
16.12
16.12
16.22
16.37
16.37 19.62
15.91
15.44
54
Stores Runner	14.44	14.73	15.10
Piler Operator	.98 per cord 1.02 per cord
Employees designated as
First Aid Men ............... $0.25/hour
Employees designated as
Lead Hands .................. $0.25/hour
Power Saw Operators working on an hourly basis, using their own saws, will be paid One Dollar and Ten Cents ($1.10) per hour for their saw, plus free gas and oil. This rate will be increased to $1. IS per hour effective September I, 1986 and $1.25 per hour effective September I, 1987.
Rates for payment of mileage for the use of private vehicles will be Forty (40 cents) cents per mile.
Cut and Skid crews felling, limbing, skidding and piling tree length merchantable timber shall be paid per crew cord including power saw rental as follows: Two (2) man crew consisting of a Faller and Skidder Operator:
Meter
Effective	Effective	Effective
June 15/86	Sept. 1/87	Sept. 1/88
(per cu.m.) (percu.m.) (per cu. m.)
7.5	9.74
9.0	9.00
10.5	8.09
12.0	7.46
13.5	7.18
15.0	6.88
9.93	10.18
9.18	9.41
8.25	8.46
7.61	7.80
7.32	7.50
7.02	7.20
Three (3) men crew consisting of Two (2) Fallers and One (i) Skidder Operator:
Failers
Meters
9.0
10.5
12.6
13.5 15.0+
Effective June 15/86 (per cu. m.)
9.74
9.00
8.09
7.46
7.18
6.88
Effective Sept. 1/87 (per cu. m.)
9.93
9.18
8.25
7.61
7.32
7.01
Effective Sept. 1/88 (percu.m.)
10.18
9.41
8.46
7.80
7.50
7.19
55
Skidder Operators
7.5	9.07	9.25
9.0
10.5	7.47	7.62
12.0	6.60	7.02
13.5	6.31	6.73
15.0+	6.44
9.48
17.81
7.20
6.90
6.60
Cut and Skid crews felling, limbing, skidding and bucking eight feet, six inch (8'6") and sixteen feet six inch (I6'6") merchantable timber shall be pair per crew Cu.M., including power saw rental as follows:
Three (3) Man Crew
Fallers and/or Buckers
Skidder Operator Two (2) Man Crew Fallers and/or Buckers
Skidder Operator
Effective	Effective	Effective
June 15/86 Sept. 1 /87 Sept. I /88 Cu/M	Cu/M Cu/M
9.02	9.20	9.43
8.22	8.38	8.59
9.02	9.20	9.43
9.02	9.20	9.43
SCHEDULE “A-3”
Forestry Rates
Tree Planting
June 15, 1986 Sept. I, 1987 Sept. I, 1988
Planters -rate per tree
planted	$.10	$.10	$.105
Quality bonus — $.005 per tree for 85% to 95% correctly planted.
— $.005 per tree for 95% to 100% correctly planted.
Helper	$14.09	$14.37	$14.73
Scarifying			
Equipment Operator	$15.10	$15.40	$15.79
	56		
SCHEDULE “B”
Woodlands Boundaries
All that portion of the Province of Manitoba bounded as follows:
On the North by the North limit of Township Eighty-Four; on the West by the West boundary of the Province of Manitoba; on the South and East by the following described boundary: Commencing at the intersection of the said West boundary of Manitoba with the North limit of Township Forty-six; thence East along said North limit of Township forty-six to the West limit of Range Twelve West; thence North along said West limit of Range Twelve West to the North limit of Township Fifty-eight; thence East along said North limit of Township Fifty-eight to the West limit of Range Ten West; thence North alon^, said West limit of Ranee Ten West to the North limit of Township Sixty-two; thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty-two to the West limit of Range Two West; thence South along said West limit of Range Two West to the North limit of Township Sixty; thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty to the West limit of Range one East; thence North along said West limit of Range One East to the North limit of Township Sixty-two, thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty-two; to the West limit of Range Twelve East; thence North along said West limit of Range Twelve East to the North limit of Township Sixty-eight; thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty-eight to the West Limit of Range Fourteen East; thence North along said West limit of Range Fourteen East to the North limit of Township Seventy-eight; thence East along said North limit of Township Seventy-eight to the line of West Longitude 95 degrees; thence North along said line of West Longitude 95 degrees to the North limit of Township Eighty-four, excepting thereout all those portions thereof contained within the limits of the Grass River Provincial Park, the Cormorant Provincial Forest and the Clearwater Provincial Park, all rights-of-way for railways, highways, and roadways, all lands underlying any natural rivers or lakes or other body of water, and excepting also all lands therein to which the Government
57
has granted a valid subsisting lease, licence or patent before February I, 1966, a list whereof has been given to the Company by the Government on or before such date, which said area represents the area in which the Company will operate under the terms hereof, or any extension of the said area granted by the Government to the Company under the terms hereof
58
SCHEDULE “C”
Health and Welfare I GENERAL PRINCIPLES
(a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
(b)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment.
(c)	Coverage will be portable for employees moving between the Lumber Division, Woodlands Division or Moose Lake Loggers and there will be no waiting period for such qualified employees.
(d)	The Company will mail a weekly indemnity form to an employee at his request.
(e)	Benefit coverage will continue where an employee is absent-from active employment and is being paid wages by the Company during his absence. Benefit coverage will cease on the cessation of active employment except that under the following circumstances, coverage will continue as indicated:
(1)	If a covered employee is absent on Workers Comoensation claim for temporary disability, coverage for Group Life, A.D. & D., Medical and Dental will continue during the period in respect of which the employee receives Worker Compensation temporary disability time loss payment to a maximum of two (2) years.
(2)	If a covered employee is absent on weekly indemnity claim under the plan coverage will continue duringthe period in respect of which the covered employee receives weekly indemnity benefits under the plan.
(3)	If a covered employee is absent on a Long Term Disability claim, coverage for Group Life, A.D. & D.» Medical and Dental will continue during the period in respect of which the employee receives Long Term Disability benefits to a maximum of one (I) year.
(4)	Benefit coverage will continue to the end of the calendar month only for an employee who is on an authorized leave of absence.
59
(f) Employees who are in receipt of W.C.B., or L.T.D. benefits will be granted a Leave of Absence until they are able to return to work, or are declared totally disabled or reach age 65.	$ / ' ’' '
II
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
The Company will pay the full cost of the ' following Weekly Indemnity Plan, providing for a Fifty- r. fj two (52) week period of disability with benefits - ^ ; commencing the first day of a non-compensable accide"^ the first day of hospitalization as a bed patient, and on the- A Fourth (4th) day of sickness. Coverage will be Seventy . , ^ Percent (J0%) of normal weekly earnings for the Fifty- «	1
Two week period of disability up to £ maximum of -. $380.00-effective Stjntember 1,. 1986. $400.00 effective’. 1 J September I, 1987 and $420.00 effective September UrfaiQQ 1988. The Union accepts the improved Weekly Indemnity^' _ I coverage as payment in kind of the employee’s share of /-the reduction in U.I.C. premium resulting from the"^ . qualifications of the Weekly Indemnity Plan under U.I,C. regulations.	, jjnfl4/"
III LONG TERM DISABILITY
' f
(a) The Company will provide a long term disability program based on Fifty-five Percent (55%) of an employee’s normal annual earnings, less offsets, to a maximum monthly benefit of $1,570.00 effective
September I, 1986, $1,600.00 effective September I, 1987, rv;-^ and $1,650.00 effective September I, 1988, from the date of expiration of weekly indemnity coverage to Age 65. ’''	“Normal Annual Earnings” is defined as an employee’s
\	regular straight time hourly rate multiplied by 2,080
j ‘N hours.
&
(b) The definition of disability will be changed to being disabled from performing any job at Manfor Ltd.
IV GROUP LIFE I t ,J0
The Company will provide group life insurance coverage, insuring each employee for twice his annual earnings, as defined in 3 above.
Notwithstanding this, effective September I, 1986, the level of Insurance for pieceworkers will be the greater of their previous years annual earnings or 2,080 hours x the
Power Saw Operators rate.	,
V ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND 1 11 li
DISMEMBERMENT	‘
The Company will provide A.D. & D.» coverage insuring each employee for once annual earnings as defined in 3, above.
Death......................................
Loss of both hands or both feet .............
Loss of both eyes .........................
Loss of one hand and one foot . . ,........,
Loss of one hand and one eye........*......*
Loss of one foot and one eye ,.............
Loss of one hand or one foot ................
Loss of one eye .............................
Loss of thumb and any finger of the same hand ............................
VI COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH PLAN (EMPLOYEES & DEPENDENTS) (o
1.	Manitoba Medicare. The Company will contribute
to all employee’s Manitoba Medicare to a maximum of present cost per year.
2.	The Company will provide the following coverage:
(a)	Medical — (N.B. There is no deductible for this section of die plan). COVERAGE;
(i)	The difference between the cost of semiprivate accommodation in an accredited Manitoba Hospital and the standard ward rate paid by Manitoba
Medicare.	/O'l / /oo
(ii)	Up to five (5) dollars per day to a maximum of One Hundred Eighty (180) days while confined in a nursing home or convalescent hospital in any one year.
(iii)	The difference between the cost of hospitalization outside Canada, including semi-private accommodation and other hospital expenses, and the cost for these services paid by Manitoba Medicare. There is no daily maximum and the plan pays for ninety percent (90%) of the above incurred expenses.
(b)	Major Medical — (N.B. There is no deduc-
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
50%
50%
25%

//
61
tible for this section of the plan). The maximum payable by the insurance carrier under this section is Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000) per employee in any Three (3) year period.
(0 This portion of this section is covered at One Hundred Percent (100%).	/
—	prescription drugs /<D / y/tjw
—	professional ambulance service
—	diagnostic services not covered under Manitoba Medicare
—	Medical appliances such as artificial
limbs, wheelchairs, etc.	^ ,, Y)f_)
—	Optical care, including the cost of frames and lenses, contact lenses, artificial eyes and the fitting of prescription glasses to a maximum cost per person of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) in any Two (2) year period.
(ii) This portion of this section is covered at Eighty Percent (80%).
— services of a registered nurse
—	dental repair as a result of an accident
—	hearing aids to a maximum of Three Hundred Dollars ($300) per family per year.
—	private room up to Ten Dollars ($10) per day additional if recommended by a‘
*)0 licensed physician or surgeon.
"	— services of a licensed osteopath, podia-
trist, physiotherapist, up to Six Dollars ($6.00) per visit with a maximum of Fifty (50) visits per family per year.
—	Effective September I, 1986 services of a licensed chiropractor up to ten dollars ($10.00) per visit with a maximum of fifty (50) visits per family per year.
—	extra billings of a licensed physician or surgeon outside Manitoba with no maximum limitations.
62
VII DENTAL CARE PLAN (EMPLOYEES & DEPENDENTS)
The Company will pay all of the premiums fog this plan.	/ ■■ ^
I.	Benefits
(a)	Diagnostic Services All necessary procedures to assist the dentist in
evaluating the existing conditions to determine the required dental treatment including:
(i)	Oral examination
(ii)	Consultations
(iii)	X-Rays (complete mouth x-rays will be covered only once in a three (3) year period.
(b)	Preventative Services
All necessary procedures to prevent the occurrence of oral disease, including:
(i)	Cleaning and scaling
(ii)	Topical application of fluoride
(iii)	Space maintainers
(c)	Surgical Services
All necessary procedures for extractions and other surgical procedures normally performed by a dentist.
(d)	Restorative Services
All necessary procedures for filling teeth with amalgam, synthetic porcelain, and stainless steel crowns. Gold inlays or onlays will be provided as a filling material only when teeth, in the professional opinion of a dentist, cannot be restored with any of the above materials. Gold foil will be provided only in cases of repair to pre-existing gold restorations.
(e)	Prosthetic Repairs
All necessary procedures required to repair or reline fixed or removable appliances.
(0 Endontics
All necessary procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling.
(g)	Periodontics
■ / ^
63	'
All necessary procedures for the treatment of tissues supporting the teeth.
(h)	Prosthetic Appliances and Crown and Bridge procedures.
(i)	Crowns and Bridges
(ii)	Partial and/or complete dentures, but not more than once in five (5) years.
(i)	Orthodontics
The services of acertified orthodontist registered as such by the college of Dental Surgeons of Manitoba only after the patient has been covered continuously for Twelve (12) months. Appliances lost, broken, or stolen will not be replaced. These services are only available for dependent children up to their nineteeth (19th) birthday. Lifetime maximum benefit is Two Thousand ($2,000) Dollars per person for all services by an orthodontist.
2.	Co-Insurance
In respect to benefits a. to g., the plan provides reimbursement of Eighty Percent (80%) of eligible expenses.
Benefits h. and i. will besubject to Fifty Percent (50%) co-insurance.
64
SCHEDULE “D”
Sawmill Training Program
The purpose of this prograit\Js to provide on the job traimne in order that ernDloveesrrnavbetter eexefciselHeir
^eniorirjr as job vacancies occur, to improve the knowledge and skill of the employees, employed in the operation, and to provide suitable trained employees for skilled jobs within the operation.
1.	The Company will provide a list of key jobs that require an extended and intensive training
program. Employees training on key jobs will be given supervised training until they are thoroughly familiar with the fundamentals of the job. Practice time will then be scheduled until the trainee isqualified. The following is the list of key Jobs:
1.	Slasher Operator
2.	Debarker Operator
3.	Log Loader Operator
4.	Large Log Line Operator
5.	Small Log Line Operator
6.	16 Ft. Chipping Edger Operator
7.	Trimmer Operator
8. Forklift Operator
9. Kiln	Operator	,
10.	Oiler
11.	Grader
12.	Planer Feeder
13.	Mill Stores
14.	Reman Stud Operator
15.	Filing Room
2.	Definitions
Regular: Defines the status of the present incumbent employed on a full time basis.
Spare: Defines the status of an employee who has previous successful job tenure and/or successfully completed the plant trainee program.
Trainee: Defines the status of an employee currently training in this program.
3.	The length of training period will be determined
65
by the trainee’s progress and management will endeavor to qualify personnel concerned in the shortest possible time.
4.	(a) Selection of trainees shall be in accordance with the appropriate provisions of Article XVII
Seniority of the Current Collective Bargaining Agreement. No one posted to a key job may bid on a trainee posting.
(b)	Job bids under this program shall be valid for 90 calendar days.
5.	(a) No employee shall be permitted to train for more than one job at a time and no more than three jobs within a twelve month period.
(b)	Trainees who of their own accord give un the trainingjob oraredisqualifiedshall maintain full rights to train for two more jobs within the twelve month period.
(c)	A twelve month period is defined to commence with the employee’s initial bid into the program.
6.	Trainees will be notified in writing of their progress at intervals during the training period.
7.	The Company will notify the trainee, the local Union, and the Plant Committee in writingwhen
he is qualified as a spare or he is removed from the training program.	0 £	/f
8.	Rates of pay for trainees will b& theirregular job rate except that they will not receive more than
the established rate for the job that they are training for. However, in the absence of close supervision (close supervision is defined as a supervisor or qualified operator in the immediate vicinity of the key job, thereby enabling such supervisor or qualified operator toinstruct or oversee job performance) if the trainee performs the job in excess of one hour per day he shall receive the job rate for the actual hours worked,
9.	Regular status employees cannot be displaced by a “spare” even though the “regular” may have
less seniority, unless due to a reduction of forces by plant seniority. On recall from such curtailment (by plant seniority) the regular status employee will return to his
66
original job.
10.	The Com Dan v shall determine the number of spares and/o; trainees required for any one job, and the length of the training period may be established where necessary.
1 I. The “Utility Man” will be a posted job and everything being equal, the senior man will be awarded the job. He will be used to fill the gap between trainees., scares., and regular oaerators, but the “Utility Man” will never permanently fill one particular job. This clause is not intended to restrict in any fashion the provisions of this program.
12.	Spares who refuse for other than proper cause to accept vacancies for which they are trained, shall
lose their spare status on the second refusal.
13.	The Company shall supply a list to the local Union and Plant Committee of employees who
are now qualified or now training and the terms of the plan will apply to them just as if they had been selected under the provisions laid out herein.
14.	FILING ROOM LINE OF PROGRESSION
Effective Effective Effective Length of time in program June 15/86 Sept. I /87 Sept. 1/88
0 to 3 months
(Training, Per)
4 to 12 months 13 months to 24 months 25 months to 36 months Circular Sawfiler Benchman Head Sawfiler
15.01	15.31	15.69
15.60	15.91	16.31
16.01	16.33	16.74
16.59	16.92	17.34
18.60	18.97	19.44
18.76	19.14	19.62
20.71	21.12	21.65
It is agreed by the Company, and the Union, that the above line of progression and terminology will apply in the Filing Room. It is further agyeed that the Knife Grinder, “after one year, will receive further training through the stages of Saw Fitter 1st year, Saw Fitter 2nd year, and Circular Saw Filer. No person can progress beyond Circular Saw Filer unless the position above this becomes vacant. The length of time to be similar to existing apprenticeship training programs in the
67
Industries. Schooling to be scheduled when practical.
It is agreed that the Head Saw Filer will perform the Benching duties along with instructing and teaching all personnel engaged in saw filing and knife grinding. The Head Saw Filer will also have supervisory responsibilities.
The Circular Saw Filer will receive further training as a Benchman and will receive the rate only for the time it is required to do benching on Band Saws.
It will be considered part of the duties of all personnel in the Filing Room to grind knives.
No incumbents will have their rates reduced as a result of this Agreement.
15.	The Planer Feeder will receive further trainingto qualify as an Operating Planerman.
16.	There will be no “freezing” in any established line of progression except those previously
agreed as frozen on April I, 1986 and recorded in writing between the parties.
17.	Under normal circumstances Spares or Trainees will on a shift basis, fill vacancies caused by
absenteeism, W.C.B., Sickness or vacation subject to Section 18.01 (e).
68
SCHEDULE “E”
Trades Apprentice Program
The purpose of the Agreement is to assist interested and qualified men in furthering and developing their skills, and to provide tradesmen of the highest possible calibre to the Company’s operations.
The program will cover all designated trades, or trades to be incorporated in accordance with the Company’s requirements.
The term of each apprentice’s training will be in accordance with the Manitoba Department of Labour Apprenticeship Board rules and regulations.
Applicants for entry into the program will be subject to meeting the standards required by the Department of Labour Apprenticeship Branch.
I	ENTRY STANDARDS
1.	Education Applications will be accepted from applicants who meet the educational level specified by the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	Age Limit Entry will be limited to new applicants aged 18 years or over.
3.	Testing Applicants who meet the criteria established in I and 2 above will be required to pass a mechanical aptitude test.
II	SELECTION
Apprenticeship openings will be filled’ in accordance with the provisions of Article XVIII Job Postings. However, only those employees who meet the criteria established in I and 2 above may apply and be tested. The successful applicant will be selected from applicants scoring seventy-five percent (75%) or better in their test, based on Woodlands and Lumber Division seniority where applicable.
The openings for apprenticeship training will be determined by the Company and its requirements. One application per employee will be considered for the Apprenticeship Program; therefore each candidate must decide regarding the trade he desires before filling his application.
69
The Company intends to train its own employees; however if no qualified employees apply for apprenticeship openings, the Company may hire new qualified employees to enter the program.
Ill GENERAL
1.	A Joint Apprenticeship Committee will be formed, comprised of two Union and two management representatives with the Industrial Relations Manager acting as Co-ordinator. The Committee will be expected to:
(a)	Review test results on initial applications.
(b)	Periodically review apprentice’s progress.
(c)	Make such recommendations as it deems necessary from time to time for improvements to the program.
2.	Apprentices will be required to perform work in accordance with the following general outline:
(a)	First Year — The apprentice will work as a Trades helper taking necessary direction from a journeyman and/or his supervisor.
(b)	Second Year — The apprentice shall be qualified to assist the journeyman and work under the direction and instructions of the journeyman and/or his supervisor. He will work alone at times performing assignments in keeping with his training.
(c)	Third Year -The third year apprentice will be required to perform work of increasing complexity and in accordance with his tools and his training. He may work alone frequently, but occasionally will require direction or assistance from a Journeyman and/or his supervisor.
(d)	Journeymen must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of their trades as outlined by the Act, and be-able to direct assistants.
3.	All journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have and shall not qualify for the journeyman’s rate unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired with the exception of machinery and tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the
70
Journeyman.
Apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job. Tools must be acquired year by year, as shown.
4.	Vacations may not be taken as a group and no apprentice may take his vacation at a time that is in conflict with his appropriate school term.
5.	Apprentices will have all rights and responsibilities under the Labour Agreement.
6.	There will be a probationary period of up to three (3) months prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement, during which time the apprentice may return or be returned to his original job without loss of seniority. During the probationary period, any candidate who fails to meet the Company’s requirements will be returned to his previous job. Employees hired directly into apprenticeship training failing to pass the probationary period will be able to apply their Lumber/ Woodlands Division seniority where applicable.
7.	Those employees entering the Apprenticeship program or those presently in the prograrn,$hall be paid die following rates:
If an applicant is qualified to write and pass the examination at any stage of the program, he shall have the right to slot in at that stage.
Apprentices who have obtained a journeyman certificate shall be paid at the ticketed tradesman rate.
8.	There will be a training syllabus designed for each trade. A record will be maintained of each apprentice’s progress.
9.	Training — Schooling:
(a)	The Provincial Apprenticeship Board recom-
Length of time in the Program
0 to 3 months
71
mends that apprentices spend time in the practicalaspects of their trade prior to entering their annual school term. In this case, as the probationary period for apprentices is Three (3) months, apprentices will not enter school prior to the completion of their three month probationary period.
10. Thereafter, entry into school will depend on the schedule of school sessions set up by the Apprenticeship Board. The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Traininc and Assistance Program Allowance and the employee’s normal earnings (based on his regular straight time hourly rate multiplied by 40 hours per week) for the duration of the school term. Upon completion of each period of training in an approved vocational school, apprentices will be required to pass examinations set by the Apprenticeship Branch. In the event offailure to pass the examination, apprentices shall be required to be reexamined within 12 months. Failure to pass the second examination will result in the apprentice being removed from the program. Apprentices removed from the program will return to their original position. In the event the original position no longer exists, he will return to one with an equivalent rate.
Existing Maintenance employees hired prior to September I, 1981 and still in our employ who have not obtained a Journeyman’s ticket will be encouraged to enter the program at a level to be individually determined by the Apprenticeship Branch. Persons presently employed as Journeymen who do not wish to become certified, or who take the technical qualifications examination and fail shall continue to be employed as journeymen, and if a person presently employed as a journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Technical Qualifications Certificate, he can then become indentured as an apprentice. Once started in the Apprenticeship program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the apprentice shall have the right to continue providing he passes all prescribed tests as provided for him by the apprenticeship regulations, and work is available to him. Upon completion of his first year of apprenticeship an apprentice shall not be affected by
72
operational curtailment as it applies to other employees exercising their seniority.
SCHEDULE “F
Sawmill Job Evaluation Plan
1.	Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a Manual dated December 1971 and entitled “Interior Sawmill Industry Job Evaluation Manual” as amended July 1973 and as further amended July 1974 (herein referred to as the “Manual”).
2.	Job Evaluation Committee
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Job Evaluation Committee to consist of one member representative of Manfor Ltd., and one member representative of Regional Council No. 1, International Woodworkers of America.
3.	Function of Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Job Evaluation Committeeshall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in the Sawmill named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as “Review Committee”) to consist of two members representative of Management and two members representative of the employees. At least one representative of Management must be a member of the Plant’s salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Sawmill Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the Plant, and the Union may do likewise except that effective January I,
73
1975 neither party may choose as its representative a member of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by Interior Forest Labour Relations Association or by Regional Council No. 1 of the I.W.A.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not hourly-paid employees.
5.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Job Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a “Request for Job Evaluation” form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Job Evaluation Committee. The form of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them may be amended as required by the Job Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this schedule.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request forevaluation or reevaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Job Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Job Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job it shall communicate that decision to the Review Committee who
74
will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Job Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Job Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job description of material submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
6.	Application of Program
The job evaluation program shall apply to all employees in the Lumber Division except those categories listed below.
Millwright
Electrician
Carpenter
Filers, Fitters and Helpers Oiler
Apprentice
7.	Direction of Work
Job evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general dutiesand requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restrictions on the right of the Company to create a new job or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation, the Job Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
8.	Re-Evaluation
(a) When a job has moved to a higher group as a result of re-evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for reevaluation.
75
(b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of paragraph 10 herein.
9,	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management.
(a)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that the job was installed.
(b)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall continue at the temporary rate, however, the temporary rate will be considered a red circle rate subject to the provision of paragraphs 10 and II below.
10,	Red Circled Jobs.
(a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
(b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his former job he shall regain his red circle rate.
(d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he shall retain his existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his regular job the said employee shall regain his red circle rate.
76
U. Red Circled Rates
(a)	The amount of a job rate that is in excess of the evaluated worth will be red circled at the time of evaluation.
(b)	It is intended that the red circled amount never increase. Therefore, it must be subtracted from a rate prior to the application of a percentage wage increase and then added back.
(c)	A red circle amount will be reduced as the evaluated worth of the job increases.
12.	Seniority
Subject to the provision herein set out, Article XVII (Seniority) of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
13.	Referral Procedure
(a)	When the Job Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the Plant Job Review Committee.
(b)	An evaluation done by the Job Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding, on the Parties, but., at any time after five years since the Fast evaluation or reevaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
(c)	If the Job Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within theirjurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to Management and to the I.W.A. Local 1-324 for settlement.
(d)	All communication between the Plant Review Committee and the Job Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committees and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to the Plant Review Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the office of the local Union and the employer representative care of the Company’s offices.
77
14.	Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in the Plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Manfor Ltd. and the I. W.A. Regional Council.
15.	The point range and increments for the 27 groups are as follows:
SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION
Group
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
Effective June 15,1986
Cents
Over
Points	Increments	Base
001-	60 nil	nil
61- 70	.07	.07
71- 80	.08	.14
81- 95	.11	.26
96- 115	.10	.36
116- 140	.11	.47
141- 165	.10	.57
166- 195	.11	.68
196- 230	.10	.78
231- 270	.10	.88
271- 320	.13	1.01
321- 370	.13	1.14
371- 420	.12	1.26
421- 470	.13	1.39
471- 520	.14	1.53
521- 570	.16	1.69
571- 620	.19	1.88
621- 670	.19	2.07
671- 730	.18	2.25
731- 790	.20	2.45
791- 850	.20	2.65
851- 910	.20	2.85
911- 970	.20	3.05
971-1030	.27	3.32
1031-1090	.27	3.59
1091-1150	.27	3.86
1151-1210	.30	4.16
Rates
14.09
14.16
14.24
14.35 14.45 14.56 14.66
14.77 14.87
14.97
15.10 15.23
15.35 15.48 15.62
15.78
15.97
16.16 16.34 16.54 16.74
16.94 17.14 17.41 17.68
17.95
18.25
78
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
II
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
Effective Sept. 1, 1987
I- 60 61- 70 71- 80 81- 95 96- 115 116- 140 141- 165 166- 195 196- 230 231- 270 271- 320 321- 370 371- 420 421- 470 471- 520 521- 570 571- 620 621- 670 671- 730 731- 790 791- 850 851- 910 911- 970 971-1030 1031-1090 1091-1150 1151-1210
nil
.07
.08
.12
.10
.11
.10
.12
.10
.10
.13
.13
.13
.13
.14
.17
.19
.19
.19
.20
.20
.21
.20
.28
.27
.28
.31
nil
.07
.15
.27
.37
.48
.58
.70
.80
.90
1.03
1.16
1.29 1.42
1.56 1.73 1.92 2.11
2.30 2.50 2.70 2.91 3.11 3.39
3.66
3.94
4.25
14.37
14.44
14.52 14.64 14.74 14.85 14.95
15.06 15.17
15.27 15.40
15.53
15.66 15.79 15.93 16.10 16.29
16.48
16.67
16.87
17.07
17.28
17.48 17.76
18.03 18.31 18.62
79
2
3
A
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
Effective Sept. I, 1988
I- 60 61- 70 71- 80 81- 95 96- 115 116- 140 141- 165 166- 195 196- 230 231- 270 271- 320 321- 370 371- 420 421- 470 471- 520 521- 570 571- 620 621- 670 671- 730 731- 790 791- 850 851- 910 911- 970 971-1030 1031-1090 1091-1150 1151-1210
nil .07 .08 .13 .10 .I I .10 .13 .10 .10 .14 .13 .13 .13 .15 .17 .20 .19 .20 .20 .21 .21 .21 .28 .28 .29 .32
nil
.07
.15
.28
.38
.49
.59
.72
.82
.92
1.06
1.19 1.32 1.45 1.60
1.77
1.97 2.16
2.36 2.56
2.77
2.98
3.19 3.47 3.75 4.04
4.36
14.73
14.80
14.88 15.01 15.11 15.22
15.32 15.45 15.55 15.65 15.79
15.92 16.05 16.18
16.33
16.50
16.70
16.89
17.09 17.29
17.50
17.71
17.92 18.20 18.48 18.77
19.09
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PROCEDURE FOR EXERCISING SENIORITY IN THE WOODLANDS DIVISION
In order to qualify to exercise seniority, the following will apply:
may exercise seniority to displace the Junior employee in the work area in any job which the employee is able to perform the work. Employees exercising their seniority shall be allowed a two (2) day refaitiiliarization period.
seniority in his/her work area and wishes to exercise seniority in other areas within the Woodlands Division, the same procedure will apply as above, (bump thejunior employee on the seniority list in the classification being bumped).
(5)	When the employee’s original job is reactivated again, the employee has to return to the original job provided the employee has not bid into another job during that period.
(6)	In the case of lay-offs, the Company will notify die employee or employees concerned at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance unless the lack of work is beyond the Company’s control.
Within Seven (7) days of notification, where practical, a Personnel Notification form, Supplement No. 1, should be completed stating whether they accept a lay-off or wish to exercise seniority.
(7)	(a) If during the lay-off period, the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company Personnel Supervisor, he shall be called back to work as soon as his seniority entitles him to a job once an opening occurs.
(b) The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his rights, bumping an employee with less seniority once heaccepts a
(1)	Be on the payroll for Forty-five (45) days.
(2)	Must be laid off.
(3)	When reducing the workforce, senior employ
(4) If a Woodland’s employee is unable to exercise
81
lay-off in six (6) above.
Dated the 18th day of March, 1986.
Signed on Behalf of:
MANFOR LTD.
W.E. JONAS
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1-324
J. K. ANDERSON
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PHYSICAL LIMITATIONS
When an employee has an established physical handicap or infirmity to the point where he/she can no longer perform his/ her regular duties, then the Employee, the Industrial Relations Superintendent and the Business Agent of the Union will consult and see whether or not there is a job classification that the employeecan perform on a full time, regular basis.
If the three (3) parties mutually agree that such job(s) exist, then the Company and the Union reserve the right to by-pass the job bidding and posting procedure to place the handicapped or infirmed employee on the job, based on his/ her seniority.
Dated the 18th day of March, 1986.
Signed on Behalf of:
MANFOR LTD.
W.E. JONAS
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1-324
J. K. ANDERSON
83
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SCALING
A Committee will be formed consisting of the Woodlands Manager, Business Agent of the Union, one employee representing the Company and one employee representing the I.W.A. to meet as required to review check scaling requests and procedures.
Dated this 18th day of March, 1986.
Signed on Behalf of: MANFOR LTD.
W.E. JONAS
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1-324
J. K. ANDERSON
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
HOT MEALS - LUMBER DIVISION
In the application of ARTICLE 8: IO the parties agree that a Lumber Division production employee is entitled to a hot meal when he works either 4 hours or 8 hours before or after his regular shift regardless of whether he is scheduled or not.
Dated this 18th day of March, 1986.
Signed on Behalf of:
MANFOR LTD.
W.E. JONAS
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1-324
J. K. ANDERSON
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
VACATION PAY CALCULATION
Re: Examples of calculating vacation pay using May 31, as the cut-off date:
Case I — Anniversary date after the cut-off date: Facts: Anniversary date: August 15, Start Date: August 5/79; Cut-off date May 31.
An employee completes 7 years of service on August 15, 1986. The Company cut-off date is May 31. On May 31, this employee will receive 7% of earnings from June I, 1985 to May 30, 1986. On August 15, 1986 he will receive an additional 2% on earnings from August 15, 1985 to May 30, 1986.
Same principles applies to two years.
Case 2 — New employee in his first year.
Facts: Start Date: Dec. 1/85 Cut-off date May 31.
86
On May 31, 1986 employee will receive 5% of earnings between December 31, 1985 and May 31, 1986. After December 1, 1986 the employee is entitled to take two weeks off, however his pay will be less than two weeks.
Dated this 18th day of March, 1986.
Signed on Behalf of: MANFOR LTD.
W.E. JONAS
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1-324
87
J.K. ANDERSON
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
77//
PENSION PLAN
The parties have agreed to the following arrangements with respect to pension matters:
I.	Manfor Ltd., will continue participation in the
1.	W.A. Lorest Industry Pension Plan until August 31,
1986 with a contribution on all hours worked of 62cents per hour.	j^f
2.	Manfor Ltd., will be prepared to participate in the creation of a Prairie Pension Plan provided:
(a)	It is restricted to operations and employees in Alberta, Saskatchewan or Manitoba.
(b)	There are enough employers to make a viable multi-employer plan.
(c)	Benefit levels will be the same as provided in the current plan.
(d)	The plan is based upon actuarial sound funding methods and the initial cost is acceptable to Manfor Ltd.
(e)	Special provisions are developed to prevent the plan from having to assume significant liability from an employer who withdraws, joins, or goes out of business.
3.	Should a Prairie Pension Plan not be developed by Sept. I, 1986 Manfor Ltd., will establish a jointly trusteed Company Pension Plan providing the same benefit levels and other features (except portability outside Manitoba) as the current plan. There will be no pyramiding of benefits between the new and current plan.
4.	Negotiations for the Manfor Ltd., Pension Plan will be concluded by December I, 1986 and implementation will be retroactive to September I, 1986.
5.	The difference in contribution rates between the current plan and the Prairie Pension Plan or the Manfor Ltd. Pension Plan at their commencement date expressed in cents per hour, will be applied, through negotiations, to improve health and welfare benefits and/or paid time off with one exception.
88
If there is any financial cost to Manfor Ltd., associated with the withdrawal from the current plan the reduction in contributions referred to will be applied against this cost. Only after Manfor Ltd., has recaptured the cost of leaving the current plan, will the savings in contributions be applied to improve benefits and paid time off.
6.	All past service not covered by the I. W.A. Forest
Industry Pension plan will be protected in the new plan. No one will suffer any loss of time or credit because of a transfer to the new plan.
Dated this 18th day of March, 1986.
Signed on Behalf of: MANFOR LTD.
W.E. JONAS
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1-324
J.K. ANDERSON
89