• ENTRE •
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD.
• ET •
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
in smEwn, 1938 au si aout 2004
wo'/rfes)
INDEX
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED
Article
Page
1	Purpose........................... 1
2	Period ........................... 2
3	Recognition -Jurisdiction ........ 2
4	Rates & Classification ........... 4
5	Pinion Membership ...............  5
6	Vacations with Pay ............... 8
7	Holidays with Pay ............... 10
8	Adjustment of Grievances ........ 13
9	No Strike - No Lockout........... 17
10	Working and Living Conditions ... 17
11	Hours of Work ................... 26
12	Seniority ....................... 30
13	Bulletin Board .................. 36
14	Jury Duty ....................... 37
15	Health and Welfare............... 37
16	Life Insurance .................  37
17	Dental ...........................38
18	Bereavement Pay ................. 40
19	Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan 41
20	Long T erm Disability Plan......44
21	Pension Pian .................... 44
22	Vision Care Plan ................ 46
Miscellaneous ........................... 46
Paid Educational Leave.......... 47
Return to Work Program...........48
Printing of Collective Agreement .. 48
Wage Schedule............................ 50
Trades Apprentice Program ............... 6S
Letters of Understanding ................ 68
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD.
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in Article X of this Agreement and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1.02	It is understood that any reference made in the masculine within this Agreement (ie. “he”) shall apply equally to both sexes. It is also understood that where there arises a difference in translation, meaning or interpretation between the English and French language versions of this Agreement, the
2
English version will be deemed to be correct.
ARTICLE 2 - PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of the Agreement from September Is’, 1998 to August 31st, 2004, inclusive and from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to August 31s' of that particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE 3
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in Woods, Sawmill and Planing Mill operations on the limits and on the work sites of the Company. For purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the Wage Schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed onjob classifications which may be established and become part of the attached Wage Schedule during the term of this Agreement.
3.01(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the

3
Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees ofcontractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
3.01(c) The Company agrees that it will not employ contractors or sub-contractors to do maintenance work commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement provided sufficient workers are available to perform the work required. In such situations where additional manpower will be required to perform the above maintenance, employees will have first right of refusal. It is understood that this does not apply to those contractors already working for the Company.
3.01(d) From time to time, the Company will study its needs for maintenance to determine if it would be warranted to make adjustments to the number of people.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical
4
danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other trade Union. Questions ofjurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matter in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE 4 -RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
4.02	If, during the term of this Agreement, a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03(a) When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment ofnewjob classifications, the Company will give the Union at least thirty (30) days advance notice in writing.
4.03(b) During the thirty (30) day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union and discuss such changes.
4.03(c) For the new job classifications, the
5
Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the Wage Schedule.
4.03(d) Following implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes, shall commence without delay.
4.03(e) After agreement is reached, such rates shall become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
4.03(f) In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the change or alteration, the matter may be referred to Stage 2 ofthe Grievance Procedure. The thirty (30) day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties. New rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached Wage Schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for suchjob classification from day work to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earning of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming
6
members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02(a) Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02(b) When hiring employees, the Company will, after complying with Article XII of this Agreement, give preference to Union members who apply and are capable of doing the work required of them. If Union members are not available, the Company shall have the right to hire non-Union help until such time as Union members are available. The Company further agrees to advise the Union Office of its labour requirements from time to time thereafter. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees as changes occur.
5.02(c) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring advise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, to report to the Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
!
7
5.02(d) The Company shall put employees on checkoff at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due him.
5.03	If an individual employee, who is a member of the Union or wishes to become a member, so desires, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request, or upon written notice by the Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him.
5.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names and amounts. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Company’s operations. Credentials carried by the Union representatives shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union, and shall be presented to a Company Official upon arrival on the operations.
5.06	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and Representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
8
RTICLE 6 - VACATION WITH PAY
6.01(a) Vacation with pay will be paid with the employee’s regular pay cheque:
i)	At time of termination ofemployment;
ii)	In cases of lay-off when such are to exceed one (1) month;
iii)	By separate cheque on the 6 month anniversary date; or
iv)	At the time vacation is taken.
6.01(b) Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted at times most desired by employees. An employee, to ensure consideration of his desire, must notify his supervisor of his preferred vacation period by April lsl in any given year. After April 1“, preference will be given on a first come, first serve basis. If two or more employees make request for holidays on the same day, for the same holiday period, and the requests conflict with the Company’s requirements, preference will be given to the senior employee.
6.01(c) These requests for holidays, floaters and leave of absence, must be received in writing and authorized by the appropriate supervisoror manager.
6.01(d) Each2% increment of vacation pay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time off.
6.02	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on the following basis commencing the first pay period following signing of the contract:
a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who have
9
less than 800 days of seniority.
b)	6% of gross earnings for employees who have 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days seniority.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have
2.000	days or more but less than 4,000 days seniority.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have
4.000	days or more but less than 5,400 days seniority.
e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have 5,400 days or more seniority.
f)	Supplementary Vacations with Pay
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation with pay, in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 - 1 week ( 2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks ( 4% of gross earnings)
Age 62 - 3 weeks ( 6% of gross earnings)
Age 63 - 4 weeks ( 8% of gross earnings)
Age 64 - 5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
6.03	For the purpose of this Article, seniority will be acquired and maintained as defined in Article XII of this Agreement.
6.04	Effective January 2, 1997, the Company shall deduct vacation pay taxes on a bi-weekly basis.
10
ARTICLE 7 - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees will be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:
When taking a holiday with pay, the employee will be reimbursed the same amount of hours as he was scheduled to work.
New Year's Day January 2nd Good Friday Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Christmas Day Dominion Day Boxing Day
7.01(b) When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be deemed to be the Holiday.
7.01(c) In addition, employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year to be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. Effective January lsl, 2002, employees will be granted three (3) floating holidays on the above basis. If an employee has not taken his floating holiday by the end of December each year and has not signified his intention of taking it, such floating holiday will be scheduled by the Company before February 28 of each year.
7.01(d) Requests for floaters must be submitted in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, three (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception ofemergency situations. Management
11
will respond within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
7.02(a) An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article 12.02 is eligible for holiday pay provided he works his last scheduled shift immediately preceding the Holidays and his first scheduled shift immediately following the Holidays.
7.02(b) I An employee who is qualified under Article XII and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence.
II	An employee who isqualified under Article XII and who ceases work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday (s) within such thirty (30) day period.
III	An employee who is qualified under Article XII who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay forthe holiday(s) within suchthirty (30) day period.
7.02(c) If an employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, is recalled and works any time during the twenty-one (21)
12
calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.03	A special leave of absence may be granted to a qualified employee who must travel a long distance to be home for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive pay for the holiday provided he returns on time. Any request for such leave of absence must be made to his Supervisor prior to the end of the third (3rd) week of December.
7.04(a) If qualified, a pieceworker will be paid at the rate of Operator Skidder on day work, for the Statutory Holiday, and a day worker shall be paid a day's pay at his or her regular rate for the Statutory Holiday.
7.04(b) If qualified, a day worker who is requested to work on any Statutory Holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate, and in addition shall receive one (1) day's pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday
7.04(c) A pieceworker who is requested to work on a holiday shall receive his earnings plus one-half day at the appropriate rate in 7.04(a) and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one (1) day at the appropriate rate in 7.04(a). Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
7.05	An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday
13
pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period. This does not apply in connection with a period of shut-down not related to a period ofvacation entitlements under Article VI and specifically does not apply in connection with any shut-down between Christmas and New Year.
ARTICLE 8 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
8.02(a) The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership of two (2) Union Grievance Committees of three (3), each headed by a Union Steward, one (1) in the bush operations and one (1) at the Mill site.
8.02(b) Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foremanwill acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02(c) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men.
14
8.02(d) Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man may be allowed time off during his working hours at a time acceptable to the Company in connection with Union/Company business, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Company (excluding negotiations of Collective Agreement). The Company shall pay the Union Steward and/or Grievance Committeeman, at his regular or premium rate, which may be proper for any time spent in connection with 8.02.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, the Union Steward or the Union Representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor for adjustment. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the foreman, in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
Stage 2 - The matter shall be referred to the General Manager of the Company or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union’s
15
President, or his representative. Failing a settlement within thirty (30) days, then,
Stave 3 - Either party may, within the following thirty (30) days, refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee’s grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the premises, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employeewill be reinstated on hisjob under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.06	Grievanceswhich involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 2 of this Grievance Procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined
16
in Section 8.03 it shall commence at Stage 2 of this Grievance procedure by the Woods Manager or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union, Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager of the Company or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one (1) person; these two (2) shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party’s nomination. This Arbitration Board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) persons selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party. Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a single Arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.09	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to
17
individualjob classifications under Section4.02 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	In view of the orderly procedure established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, it shall not cause, call or support any strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be
no lockout.
ARTICLE 10
WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall co-operate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in the plant to promote safe working conditions and practice. There shall be at least one (1) meeting of the Safety Committee every month.
18
The position of chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-Chairman. The Chairperson of each meeting shall make sufficient reports; copies going to the Company office, the Union office and the plant’s bulletin board. A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
10.02(a)	There shall be adequate First Aid
Stations at or near work sites. Such stations to meet the standards of the Worker’s Compensation Act and the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
10.02(b)	All mobile equipment will be
equipped with adequate fire extinguishers. It is the responsibility of the operator to see that it is in working order and is continually filled.
10.02(c)	Adequate transportation facilities
shall be provided by the Company for sick or injured employees.
10.02(d)	Employees will provide doctor’s
notes for any medically related absenteeism when so requested by the Company under the following terms:
i)	The cost of these notes (if any) will
be paid for by the Company; jj) The first such absenteeism, within the calendar year, may be requested
19
after 2 days of absenteeism;
iii) Subsequent absenteeism within that same calendar year, may be requested after 1 day ofabsenteeism.
10.03 Adequate car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees.
10.04(a)	Suitable portable shacks will be
supplied and built by the Company for year round use to employees in the cut and skid piecework operations. Company will supply stove and screens.
10.04(b)	There shall be a fifteen (15)
minute coffee break during each half shift, near mid point of half shift. Coffee breaks shall be on Company time. The Company will maintain lunchroom facilities for the sawmill and garage. It is further understood that three (3) microwave ovens will be provided in each of the Sawmill lunchrooms.
10.05(a)	It is agreed that present standards
of service will be maintained with respect to transportation except as follows:
i)	It is the employee’s responsibility to notify the bus driver of their desire to travel on the bus;
ii)	If an employee misses the bus for his scheduled shift, he will be responsible for his own transportation to work for that shift.
10.05(b)	The Company will provide free
insurance coverage against loss by fire and theft of
20
tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen, to the full value of such tools, while on Company property. It is understood that coverage €or theft and fire of tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. (Sawmill, Planing Mill, Garage, Warehouse). Tradesmen shall supply an itemized list of tools to the Company, so that proper coverage can be provided.
10.05('c~> Tool Allowance:
Upon proof of purchase, the Company shall pay $400.00 per year as tool allowance to all trades person.
10.05(d)	Power saws will be insured for
loss by fire or theft to a maximum of $2,000.00 when stored in Company warehouse. Damage to employee owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire or causes damage willfully, or through established negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss.
10.06(a) The Company . will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (1) scale per week. Pieceworkers will be provided with a copy of the scale slips after each scale. The scale slips will be closed every day and provide the following information, where applicable; number of cords, number of pieces, riding and/or walking allowance and footage of strip or main road cut. Monthly payroll sheets shall be provided to all employees showing the rates of pay, days worked, monthly
21
earnings and deductions and, for piecework cutters, amount of wood scaled.
10.06(b) When an employee gives twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment, the Company will endeavour to provide him with a settlement within another twenty-four (24) hours, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.06(c) The Company shall notify the affected employees when a skidway is to be removed before forty-eight (48) hours after being scaled.
10.06(d) Employees shall be paid every second Thursday.
10.06(e) A Times and Earnings Statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, time worked, total earnings and deductions covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be given to employees by the Company.
10.07(a)	All hand tools and equipment
required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others. All hand tools and such equipment will be charged to the employee’s account at the time of issue. When an ,operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required. Full credit will be given for all tools returned. All tools not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are
returned.
22
10.07(b)	No person shall be required to
own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in the Agreement. No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company unless agreed to by the Company and the Union.
10.08(a)	Power saw operators will be
provided with free chain saw files provided the old files are returned, and will be issued on loan the following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
10.08(b)	The Company agrees to stock two
(2) types of power saw chains and chain saw repair	
kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at cost plus handling charges. The Company will provide one (1) chain brake per year to bush employees who regularly operate chain saws as part of their employment. Employee shall provide proof of purchase in order to claim.
23
10.09	A separate building will be provided for the storage of power saws. Said building shall contain sufficient lockers for storage. In addition, a suitable separate heated building with work bench and vise will be provided for the repair of power saws. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters.
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation and to be equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for the employees at waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities, where practical. The Company will, for the safety of its employees have either communication or transportation available at waiting places. If an employee is requested by the Company and agrees to supply his own means of transportation, to satisfy certain operational requirements, he will be paid twenty-five (.250) per kilometre for all kilometres travelled.
10.11	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union each particular operation ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement, and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.12	Each tractor operator shall have a helper accompanying the machine when deemed necessary in the interest of safety.
10.13	The Company agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching in the producing and delivering
24
operations on its limits.
10.14	The Company, consistent with its stated intent to promote and ensure the safety of employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe. There shall be no less than two (2) per gang for piecework at all times.
10.15	The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all men who are transferred from camp to camp.
10.16(a)	The Companywill furnish on loan
all non-personal safety apparel required. Employees will pay for personal safety apparel such as shoes, pants, etc.
10.16(b)	The	wearing of safety equipment
and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union or is mandatory under Government legislation.
10.16(c)	Raincoats at the Log Deck and
welding gloves will be loaned by the Company to employees using same in the authorized executionof their work.
10.16(d)	The	Company will supply
machinists, mechanics, welders, millwrights, electricians and other employees who perform maintenance or dirty work, suitable coveralls and provide for laundering of same free of any charge. The Company will provide insulated coveralls for
25
tradespeople.
10.16(e)	Each employee will receive
$70.00 per year to be applied towards the purchase of new safety boots. The Company further agrees to sell safety gloves or mitts to power saw operators and to persons handling cable at seven dollars ($7.00) below invoice price. Worn out gloves or mitts must be returned to Company in order to receive a new pair and at intervals for which same should last.
10.16(f)	The Company agrees to supply
free of charge one (1) pair of gloves or mitts per month upon reception of old pair to those employees handling lumber.
10.17(a)	The Company will provide proper
toilet and washing facilities with running water at the Sawmill. Washing and drinking water will also be provided at the garage.
10.17(b)	Upon signing of this Agreement,
the Company will take such measures as are required to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in both Sawmill and Planing Mill.
10.18	SKIDWAY PREPARATIONS
Company shall pay 5% ofbase earnings forskidway preparation where right of way hasn’t been cut.
10.19	SORTING BONUS
When at Company’s request the crew is required to sortwood 2.86% ofbase earnings will be paid. The Company agrees that such said bonus applies on all
26
conifers if separated.
10.20	RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM
A local Union-Management joint committee will meet in order to finalize the details and endorse this agreement to show the commitment of all parties.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK
11.01(a) The work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive.
11.01(b)	Employees may be required to
work in excess of their regular day of shift or week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 for such time worked. Except in cases of emergency, an employee will, upon his reasonable request, be excused from working overtime.
11.01(c) For the purpose of this Agreement, a Saturday or a Sunday or a Holiday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. of that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.02(a) The day or day shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. mealtime excepted.
11.02(b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m, mealtime excepted.
11.02(c)	Ctatwo (2) shift operations a shift
differential of fifty cents (.50(1) per hour will be paid
27
in addition to the regular rates for those employees working the second shift. On three (3) shift operations, s shift differential of fifty-five cents (.550) per hour will be paid in addition to the regular rates for those employees working the third shift. The new shift differential increase is effective the date of ratification.
Effective September 1SI, 2002:
2nd shift differential increase to ,550/hr.
3rd shift differential increase to .580/hr.
Effective September 1“, 2003:
2nd shift differential increase to ,570/hr.
3rd shift differential increase to ,600/hr,
11.02(d) The Company may schedule the following with respect to three shift operations:
Schedule A
j»»	2nd	3rd
7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. 11 p.m. to 7 a.m.
11.02(e) Cn three shift operations, the Company will schedule 20 minute lunch breaks and 10 minute coffee breaks.
11.03(a)	If an employeewho has completed
his scheduled work week agrees to work on Saturday or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Friday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive four (4) hour pay at the overtime rate provided he remains available for the
28
four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company and accepts alternate work if such work is offered to him provided such work falls within the qualifications of the employee and that he is adequately dressed.
11.03(b)	Where an employee has been off
work without prior authorization or has received a three (3) day suspension without pay, he/she shall not be eligible for overtime work during the week of the occurrence or suspension.
11.04 If a day or shift worker reports for work and/or is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he shall be paid for a minimum of eight (8) hours. To qualify for the above, an employee must remain on the job until told by the foreman that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered, provided the employee is adequately dressed weathenvise to perform such work.
11.05(a) Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked on Saturday and Sunday and all hours worked by an employee outside his schedule shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half with the exception when an employee has arranged with the approval of his supervisor to exchange shifts with fellow employee.
11.05(b)	Overtime work required will be
distributed to the senior most operator who normally performs the work in the classification requiring the overtime. If he/she is unavailable, it will then be offered to the second most senior, and so on. If
29
none of the operators who normally perform the work requiring the overtime wish to work, it shall then be offered, first, to a Spareman from an alternate shift, starting with the most senior (provided he can perform the work in question). If no Spareman wishes the overtime, it will then be offered to a qualified operator, startingwith the most senior.
11.06	Walking distance up to 1lA miles each way or riding time up to one-half ('A) hour each way or walking and riding time combined and not exceeding one-half ('A) hour each way, shall not be included in the regular hours of work and shall be on the employee’s time.
11.07	An employee, who is called back for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours’ pay at the straight time rate.
11.08	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
30
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY
Effective September 1st, 1981, the provisions set out hereunder in compliance with the Letter of Understanding of June 3rd, 1982, shall come into full force and remain in effect.
12.01(a)	The Company recognizes the
principle of seniority. Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay-offs.
12.01(b)	Seniority for the purpose of this
Agreement shall mean all days worked and working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor plus total number of days on vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty, bereavement leave and Company approved off the j ob training in any calendar year.
12.01(c)	Overtime work is not to be
regarded as accumulative seniority time. However, an employee will receive one day of seniority if he or she works 5 or more hours on an overtime shift on Saturday or Sunday.
12.01(d)	It is agreed andunderstood that an
employee's seniority will be cancelled if there should be conclusive evidence that he would have been capable of performing his regular work while absent for medical reason or that he worked elsewhere while on authorized leave of absence.
31
12.01(e)	An employee who is on authorized
leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority while on such leave of absence.
12.01(f)	An employee who has accrued
seniority and is then employed by the Union, shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (1 1) months.
12.02 Employment of any new employees shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days in one period of employment except on cases of layoff. Thereafter, Article 12.01 shall apply and the employees shall be credited with thirty (30) days of accrued seniority.
12.03(a) Seniority will be applied in recalls, promotions, transfers and layoffs.
12.03(b)	When layoffs are required due to
the completion of seasonal operations or a part thereof each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Company prior to the effective date of the advance
notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the
Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
12.03(c)	The Company will provide the
Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
12.03(d) In transfers from onejob classification to
32
another senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for thejob to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification unless the change is made at the employee’s request in which case he would receive the rate for the lower classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work jobs, the rates specified for Operator Skidder on day work shall apply or the rate of the job classification whichever is the higher.
12.03(e) If as a result of a lay-off or for any other reason it is necessary to transfer an employee from one classification to another, senior employees will be given preference provided they have the skill, efficiency and ability to meet or to be trained to meet the job requirements.
12.03(f)	When a permanent vacancy occurs
immediate notice thereof will be posted on the bulletin boards for a period of five working days. A permanent vacancy is defined as a vacancy of fifteen working days or more, during the said five working day period the Company may make a temporary appointment to such permanent vacant position.
12.03(g)	Employees will not be considered
for such vacant position unless they apply in writing during the five day period on forms to be supplied by the Company. A copy of such form will be retained by the applicant.
12.03(h)
The permanent vacancy will be
33
filled by the senior applicant provided he has the necessary skill, ability and efficiency to meet, or to be trained to meet the job requirements. An employee accepting the posted job shall be allowed five working days in which to qualify or any further time as may be mutually agreed to. Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job. Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring persons outside the bargaining
unit when no qualified employee applies.
12.03(i)	An employee who has successfully
claimed and filled a permanent j ob shall not be eligible to further bid for another vacancy before three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy is a promotion. A promotion shall mean advancement to aj ob which carries a higher rate of pay or a steady job.
12.03(j)	If an employee, who is off work
due to Worker’s Compensation or sick leave bids and is the successful candidate for an open position as per Article XII of this Agreement and is unable to return to work because of such, the second highest seniority bidder shall receive the position on a temporary basis until the successful candidate is capable of returning to this position or indicates his or her desire not to accept the position.
12.03(k)	When a vacancy is caused by an
employee’s absence due to disability or authorized leave of absence such vacancy will be considered and posted as “Temporary” in which case the employee whose position has been dealt with as a “Temporary” vacancy is entitled, upon his return, to
34
resume his former position provided he is capable of performing its requirements.
12.03(1)	It is agreed that in cases of
temporary vacancies of less than fifteen (15) days, such vacancies may be filled by temporary appointment and such appointment shall be made according to seniority among qualified employees. In the event regular employees do not wish to accept the temporary appointment, the Company will be permitted to hire new employees to fill the temporary appointment, provided ail other employees on lay-off have been recalled.
12.03(m)	In layoffs of three (3) months or
less, employees will return to their original jobs when normal operations resume.
12.04	In cases of layoffs, due to a shortage of work, the Company will give written advance notice of at least five (5) working days to the employees intended to be laid off and to the Steward. The time period set out herein shall not be applicable in cases involving a breakdown of machinery or an electrical power failure nor in the case of inclement weather and in connection with private skidder owners and their crews.
12.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of layoff, employees will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt
35
of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by April 30th of each year an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority and Company seniority in days as specified in Section 12.01, as at March 31 st of the same year, The list will show in addition each employee’s occupation and address.
12.07	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly on the bulletin boards showing the total accumulated Company seniority of each employee with a copy to the Union Stewards.
12.08(a)	Sickness certified by a physician,
dentist or licensed chiropractor, authorized leave of absence or disabling injury, shall not affect an employee’s seniority. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of this Article shall retain such seniority for twenty-four (24) months layoff.
12.08(b)	An employee who quitsofhis own
accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this Article, shall automatically lose ail seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
36
12.09 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment, or due to curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII, to meet the Company’s labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company. It is understood this does not apply to seasonal layoffs.
12.10(a)	An employee with three (3) or
more years ofcontinuous service for whom nojob is available can upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) week’s pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous service up to the date of termination, computed on the basis of forty (40) straight time hours at the employee’s regular rate.
12.10(b)	The maximum severance
allowance payable being (30) weeks. It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowances will be terminated from his employment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this agreement.
ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BOARD
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company and the Company shall provide the Union with one glass lockable type bulletin board; such notices to have approval of the Foreman before such posting.
37
ARTICLE 14-JURY DUTY
14.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown or the Defence, the Company shall pay for each day of such service an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his/her regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he/she received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore, when making his/her claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE 15-HEALTH AND WELFARE
15.01(a)	For each employee who has
established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will pay the premium cost of drug plan equivalent to the current Blue Cross Drug Plan (.35^) and semi-private Hospital Care Plan monthly.
15.01(b)	On layoff, the Company will
continue to pay the monthly premium costs of the following plans to the end of the month which the employee is laid off and for the succeeding month.
0	Drug Plan
ii)	Semi-Private
ill)	Dental Plan
iv)	Life Insurance
ARTICLE 16-LIFE INSURANCE
16.01	For each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the
38
Company will initiate and maintain and pay the full premium cost to provide $37,000.00 Life Insurance while employed (A.D. & D. to the same amount included).
September Is', 1999 increase to $40,000.00 September Is', 2000 increase to $45,000.00 September 1", 2001 increase to $50,000.00 September 1st, 2002 increase to $55,000.00 September Is', 2003 increase to $60,000.00
ARTICLE 17 - DENTAL CARE PLAN
17.01	The Company will maintain a dental care plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	ELIGIBILITY:
(a)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
(b)	It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to lay-off or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commences.
2.	PLAN DESIGN:
(a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
39
(b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50%). The Plan provided for the application of the O.D.A. Schedule of Fees, subject to a one year lag.
Maximum of $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
Effective September Is', 2002 increase Rider No. 2 to 55% and increase maximum to $1,500.00.
c)	September 1", 2001 add Orthidontal coverage (Rider #3), 50% to a lifetime maximum of $ 1,000.00
d)	The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
3.	ADMINISTRATION:
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan Design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	PREMIUMS:
The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	INTEGRATION:
(a) The Plan will not provide like benefits
40
where such are currently being provided by Federal or Provincial Legislation.
(b) If during the life of this Agreement, Federal or Provincial Governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
18.01(a)	When death occurs to a member of
an employee’s family that is an employee’s father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and grandchild, the employee who has established seniority under Article 12,02 and is actively employed by the Company will be granted leave and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for three (3) working days.
(b)	Five (5) days leave with pay will be provided on death of an employee’s spouse, children, mother and father.
(c)	These three (3) and five (5) days must be taken within seven (7) calendar days of the funeral.
(d)	Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family.
(e)	It is understood for purposes of this Article,
41
step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
ARTICLE 19
WEEKLY INDEMNITY INSURANCE PLAN
19.01(a)	The Company will maintain the
premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance for employees who have established seniority in accordance with Article XII. The Plan will provide for seventy per cent (70%) of weekly earnings: forty (40) hours times an employee's regular rate to a maximum of $525.00 per week, to commence on the first day in case of non-compensable accident or hospitalization and after three continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of the disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. In the event of day surgery, the three day waiting period will not apply.
Effective January l!l, 2000 increase maximum to $540.00 per week.
Effective January 1", 2001 increase maximum to $560.00 per week.
Effective January 1“, 2002 increase maximum to $580.00 per week.
Effective January l!l, 2003 increase maximum to $590.00 per week.
(b) All cost ofmedical reports requested by the Company or insurance Carrier will be paid by the Company.
NOTE:
42
(a)	A claim for weekly indemnity benefits must be supported by a certificate from a physician, dentist or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	It is further understood that the Company and the Union will co-operate fully and in every reasonable respect to ensure that all claims for benefits herein are legitimate.
(c)	Provided that the required and necessary medical information and documentation in regard to a proper and legitimate weekly indemnity claim has been provided to the Company promptly, then payments in regard to the said weekly indemnity claim will be made on a bi-weekly basis, and in cases of disability of less than two (2) week’s duration, will be made as soon as the amount is ascertained.
(d)	Subject to Article 19,01 above, it is understood that an employee is entitled to weekly indemnity benefits for non-compensable injury or illness when unable to perform his/her regular duties and if the Company is unable to offer his/her alternative suitable employment. It is understood that the employee will accept alternative suitable employment if it is available and offered. If an employee voluntarily accepts employment with another employer, the employee will not be eligible for weekly indemnity benefits.
(e)	If an employee’s Weekly Indemnity Benefit Claim is delayed by more than one (1) month, the Company will advance the benefit payments to the
employee.
43
NOTE: I. A drug plan benefit whereby an employee, upon having a prescribed drug ordered must pay the druggist a flat rate of thirty-five cents (,35£) per prescribed drug, the balance being covered by the carrying insurance Company, and furthermore, there being no co-insurance factor and no limit.
II. A semi-private hospitalization benefits unlimited as to duration or amount and not subject to the deductible or coinsurance.
NOTE; All of the benefits set forth above are to be described in a pamphlet in French and English to be supplied to each employee by the Company.
DISPUTED W.S.I.B. CLAIM
(a)	If an employee covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan, suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.S.I.B. Weekly Indemnity, payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.S.I.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.S.I.B. Claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment (s) received to
44
the appropriate fund or insurance Company.
(b)	For employees who qualify under Article XII, the Company agrees that an employee shall be paid at the regular rate for the balance of his shift lost, because of injury while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to work, he will be required to show proof, to qualify forthe above. Continued coverage on all benefits for a period of twelve (12) months if employee is off due to sickness or accident.
ARTICLE 20
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
20.01 The Company will institute, maintain and pay the monthly premium cost of Long Term Disability Plan providing for benefits of 50% of monthly earnings up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,250.00 based on accumulated seniority. Such plan to become effective after the weekly indemnity plan is exhausted. Effective September 1, 1996 the maximum will increase to $1,500.00 per month.
RTICLE 21 - PENSION PLAN
21.01(a)	The Company agrees to provide a
Pension Plan to be effective September 1, 1988.
21.01(b) All employees must participate in this pension plan and will be in the form of three (3) equal units totalling to $210.00 per month of defined contribution to be deposited in a restricted access group RRSP. Members cannot redeem any assets
until:
45
1.	The attainment of age 55;
2.	Retirement;
3.	Termination of employment;
4.	Death;
5.	Permanent disability; or
6.	Written authorizationprovidedjointly by the employer and the Union.
21.01(c) The Company shall contribute $70.00 to each member’s account each month, or within thirty (30) days after the end of each month, in which a member who has not attained age 65 is entitled to receive pay for time worked or is on:
1.	Weekly Indemnity
2.	The first twelve (12) months ofbenefits under the Worker’s Compensation Act (Ontario)
3.	Vacation, or
4.	Jury Duty,bereavement leave, maternity leave, apprenticeship leave or other leave authorized by the Company.
21.01(d) For an employee who is eligible, the Company shall contribute an additional $70.00 to the member’s RRSP account each month or within thirty (30) days after the end of each month, in which the member contributes the sum of $70.00 to the member’s RRSP account. Employees will join this Plan after completing two hundred (200) days of work.
January lsl, 2000 - increase to $80/$80/$80 January Is', 2002 • increase to $85/$85/$85 January 1“ 2003 ■ increase to $90/$90/$90
46
ARTICLE 22 - VISION CARE PLAN
22.01(a)	The Company will maintain a
Vision Care Plan which will provide for the expenses incurred by an employeeor the employee's covered dependents when recommended by a physician or optometrist as follows:
22.01(b)	Frames, lenses and fitting of
prescription glasses, including contact lenses up to a total payment of $80.00 for each 24 month period.
Effective September 1“, 1999 increase to $90/24 Effective January Is', 2000 increase to $100/24 Effective January lsl, 2001 increase to $110/24 Effective January Is', 2002 increase to $120/24 Effective January lsl, 2003 increase to $130/24 Effective January Is', 2004 increase to $150/24
22.01(c)	The Company agrees to replace,
free of charge, pitted prescription safety glasses for all maintenance employees requesting same to a maximum of one pair per year. Guidelines for the provision of prescription safety glasses will be established and will include: return of the damaged glasses, maximum price of frame, type of frame, pace of purchase etc.
MISCELLANEOUS
Leave of Absence;
Leave of absence, except those granted for Union business, will not be granted for a period of more than one (1) month, once a calendar year.
47
It is further understood that a leave of absence, except those granted for Union business, may only be granted after all applicable holidays have been used.
PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
Effective at date of ratification, one cent (.010) per regular hour worked for each employee shall be paid to the Union Office in order to pay for educational needs of Haavaldsrud employees. Effective September lsl, 2001 increase to two cents Effective September l!l, 2003 increase to three cents
TRAVELLING TIME: (Day workers!
(a)	Where a day worker's travelling time to and from work is composed of riding, driving, and/or walking time, he will be paid for all travelling time, in excess of one half (14) hour each way at the regular straight time rate, based on the employee's regular rate of pay.
(b)	Travelling time, for the purpose of this Agreement is comprised of all time spent by an employee form the marshalling point (Becker, or the employee's residence, whichever is the closest) to the work site.
(c)	Bus drivers only will be paid at time and one half for driving bus to and return from work.
(d)	It is agreed that for tractor operators, grader operators and loader operators, the Company will pay straight time rate at regular employee's rate
48
from Becker to work site during the term of this Agreement.
TRAVELLING TIME: (Pieceworkers)
(a)	When a pieceworker’s travelling time to and from work is composed of riding, driving and or walking time in excess of one (1) hour per day, he will be paid $10.00.
(b)	The marshalling point shall deemed to be Becker or the employee s residence, whichever is the closest.
VOLUNTEER FIRE FIGHTER
Employees who are members of the community volunteer fire fighters and who are called to fight a fire which occurs during their shift, will be reimbursed their regular wags for the hours lost.
PRINTING OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Company agrees to pay full cost and have sufficient amount of books printed within three (3) months of ratification.
49
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, this________day of__________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
50
WAGE SCHEDULE
HOURLY RATES
WOODS DEPARTMENT
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/98	FEB. 8/99	SEPT. 1/99	MAR. 1/2000
Bringing treelength to Barker
Debarker Feeder-Hydraulic Debarker Operator Saw Operator Loading Cars or Down Piling
Operator Bulldozer 1 Operator Bulldozer 2 General Labour Operator Skidder Operator Koehring Feller Forwarder
Operator F eller Buncher Float Truck Driver
$18.47	$18.84
$18.47	$18.84
$18,47	$18.84
$18.47	$18.84
$18.47	$18.84
$19.11	$19.49
$18.41	$18.78
$17.86	$18.22
$18.45	$18.82
$18.73	$19.10
$18.73	$19.10
$19,11	$19.49
$19.41	$19.60
$19.41	$19.60
$19.41	$19.60
$19.41	$19.60
$19.41	$19.60
$20.07	$20.27
$19.34	$19.53
$18.77	$18.96
$19.38	$19.57
$19.67	$19.87
$19.67	$19.87
$20.07	$20.27
HOURLY RATES
WOODS DEPT.
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2000
Bringing treelength to	
Barker	$20.19
Debarker F eeder-Hydraulic	$20.19
Debarker Operator	$20.19
Saw Operator	$20.19
Loading Cars or Down	
Piling	$20.19
Operator Bulldozer 1	$20.88
Operator Bulldozer2	$20.12
General Labour	$19,53
Operator Skidder	$20.16
Operator Koehring Feller	
Forwarder	$20.47
Operator Feller Buncher	$20,47
Float Truck Driver	$20.88
5
EFFECTIVE SEPT. 1/2001
$20.80
$20.80
$20.80
$20.80
$20.80
$21.51
$20.72
$20.12
$20.76
$21.08
$21.08
$21.51
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2002
$21.42
$21.42
$21.42
$21.42
$21.42
$22.16
$21.34
$20.72
$21.38
$21.71
$21.71
$22.16
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2003
$22,06
$22.06
$22.06
$22.06
$22.06
$22.82
$21.98
$21.34
$22.02
$22.36
$22.36
$22.82
HOURLY RATES	EFFECTIVE
WOODS DEPT.	SEPT. 1/98
Truck Driver Hauling	
Gravel	$18.38
Truck Driver Sander	$18.38
Truck Driver Trailer	$18.73
Operator Grader	$18.73
Operator Chain Saw	$18.73
Tire Repair Man	$18.45
Top Loader	$17.22
Fuel Man - Niteman	$17.84
One Man Slasher	$18.73
Loading, Unloading Tree-length on Haul 80 Cruzair and 50 Drott	$18.73
Mechanic Helper	$18.45
Mechanic 3	$18.96
Mechanic 2	$19.58
Mechanic 1	$20.49
Mechanic A (licensed)	$21.03
52
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
FEB. 8/99	SEPT. 1/99	MAR. 1/2000
$18.75	$19.31	$19.50
$18.75	$19.31	$19.50
$19.10	$19.67	$19.87
$19.10	$19.67	$19.87
$19.10	$19.67	$19.87
$18.82	$19.38	$19.57
$17.56	$18.09	$18.27
$18.20	$18.75	$18.94
$19.10	$19.67	$19.87
$19.10	$19.67	$19.87
$18.82	$19.38	$19.57
$19.34	$19.92	$20.12
$19.97	$20.57	$20.78
$20.90	$21.53	$21.75
$21.45	$22.09	$22.31
HOURLY RATES
WOODS DEPT.
Truck Driver Hauling Gravel
Truck Driver Sander Truck Driver Trailer Operator Grader Operator Chain Saw Tire Repair Man Top Loader Fuel Man - Niteman One Man Slasher Loading, Unloading Tree-length on Haul 80 Cruzair and 50 Drott Mechanic Helper Mechanic 3 Mechanic 2 Mechanic 1 Mechanic A (licensed)
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2000
$20.09
$20.09
$20.47
$20.47
$20.47
$20.16
$18.82
$19.51
$20.47
$20.47
$20.16
$20.72
$21.40
$22.40
$22.98
51
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2001	SEPT. 1/2002	MAY 1./2003
$20.69	$21.31	$21.95
$20.69	$21.31	$21.95
$21.08	$21.71	$22.36
$21.08	$21.71	$22.36
$21.08	$21.71	$22.36
$20.76	$21.38	$22.02
$19.38	$19.96	$20.56
$20.10	$20.70	$21.32
$21.08	$21.71	$22.36
$21.08	$21.71	$22.36
$20.76	$21.38	$22.02
$21.34	$21.98	$22.64
$22.04	$22.70	$23.38
$23.07	$23.76	$24.47
$23.67	$24.38	$25.11
54
HOURLY RATES WOODS DEPT.
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/98	FEB. 8/99	SEPT. 1/99
Mechanic Lead Mechanic Lead (licensed) Welder 1 Welder 2
$21.40	$21,83
Effective April 5/99 $22.83 $20.49	$20.90
$19.58	$19.97
$22.48
$23.51
$21.53
$20.57
Operator Slasher Hoist Operator Slasher Saw Operator Slasher Hydraulic CfiF Loader Portable Barker:
Hydraulic Operator Barker Feeder
SAWMILLS PLANER DEPARTMENTS
$17.81
$17.81
$17.81
$17.81
$17.57
$18.17
$18.17
$18.17
$18.17
$17.92
$18.72
$18.72
$18.72
$18.72
$18.46
Stationary Electric Barker:
Front End Loader Operator	$17.81
BarkerFeeder	$17.57
8'Box Man	$17 .10
$18.17	$18.72
$17.92	$18.46
$17.44	$17.96
EFFECTIVE
MAR. 1/2000
$22.70
$23.75
$21.75
$20.78
$18.91
$18.91
$18.91
$18.91
$18.64
$18.91
$18.64
$18.14
5
HOURLY RATES	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
WOODS DEPT.	SEPT. 1/2000	SEPT. 1/2001	SEPT. 1/2002
Mechanic Lead	$23.38	$24.08	$24.80
Mechanic Lead (licensed)	$24.46	$25.19	$25.95
Welder 1	$22.40	$23.07	$23.76
Welder 2	$21.40	$22,04	$22.70
SAWMILL & PLANER DEPARTMENTS
Operator Slasher Hoist Operator Slasher Saw Operator Slasher Hydraulic Off Loader Portable Barker:
Hydraulic Operator Barker Feeder
Stationary Electric Barker:
Front End Loader Operator Barker Feeder 8' Box Man
$19.48	$20.06	$20.66
$19,48	$20.06	$20.66
$19.48	$20.06	$20.66
$19.48	$20.06	$20.66
$19.20	$19.78	$20.37
$19.48	$20.06	$20.66
$19.20	$19.78	$20.37
$18.68	$19.24	$19.82
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2003
$25.54
$26.73
$24.47
$23.38
$21.28
$21.28
$21.28
$21.28
$20.98
$21.28
$20.98
$20.41
HOURLYRATES	EFFECTIVE
SAWMILL	SEPT. 1/98
Bullcook	$16.89
Barker	$17.81
Boardway	$17.10
Bulledger	$17.81
Canter	$17.81
Chipper	$17.10
Saw & Edger Tader	$17.10
Jack Ladder (Log Deck)	$17.10
Planer Feeder	$17.81
Sawyer	$18.26
Trimmer	$17.81
Chip and Saw	$18.54
General Labourer	$17.10
Unlicensed Lumber Grader	$17.81
Licensed Lumber Grader	
(less than 1 vearl	$18.26
56
SAWMILL
EFFECTIVE FEB. 8/99
$17.23
$18.17
$17.44
$18.17
$18.17
$17.44
$17.44
$17.44
$18.17
$18.63
$18.17
$18.91
$17.44
$18.17
$18.63
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/99	MAR.. 1/2000
$17.75	$17.93
$18.72	$18.91
$17.96	$18.14
$18.72	$18.91
$18.72	$18.91
$17.96	$18.14
$17.96	$18.14
$ 17.96	$18.14
$18.72	$18.91
$19.19	$19.38
$18.72	$18.91
$19.48	$19.67
$17.96	$18.14
$18.72	$18.91
$19.19	$19.38
HOURLY RATES	ELLECTIVE
SAWMILL	SEPT. 1/2000
Bullcook	$18.47
Barker	$19.48
Boardway	$18.68
Bulledger	$19.48
Canter	$19.48
Chipper	$18.68
Saw& EdgerTailer	$18.68
Jack Ladder (Log Deck)	$18.68
Planer Leeder	$19.48
Sawyer	$19.96
Trimmer	$19.48
Chip and Saw	$20.26
General Labourer	$18.68
Unlicensed Lumber Grader Licensed Lumber Grader	$19.48
(less than 1 year)	$19.96
57
SAWMILL
EFFECTIVE SEPT. 1/2001
$19.02
$20.06
$19.24
$20.06
$20.06
$19.24
$19.24
$19.24
$20.06
$20.56
$20.06
$20.87
$19.24
$20.06
$20.56
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2002
$19.59
$20.66
$19.82
$20.66
$20.66
$19.82
$19.82
$19.82
$20.66
$21.18
$20.66
$21.50
$19.82
$20.66
$21.18
EFFECTIVE Sept. 1/2003
$20.18
$21.28
$20.41
$21.28
$21.28
$20.41
$20.41
$20.41
$21.28
$21.82
$21.28
$22.15
$20.41
$21.28
$21.82
58
HOURLY RATES SAWMILL
Licensed Lumber Grader (more than I year)
Planer Piler Fork Lift Operator Hydraulic Mill Feeder Automatic Stacker Oiler
Millwright Helper Millwright 2 Millwright 1 Millwright A
Millwright A-1 (Licensed) Millwright Lead Millwright Lead (licensed) Filer helper Filer I Filer A
Filer A (Licensed)
Filer Lead
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/98	FEB. 8/99
$18.56
$17.57
$17.81
$17.81
$17.81
$17.57
$17.57
$18.54
$19.25
$20.00
$21.03
$21.40
Effective April 5/99 $17.57 $18.54 $20.00 $21.03 $21.40
$18.93
$17.92
$18.17
$18.17
$18.17
$17.92
$17.92
$18.91
$19.64
$20.40
$21.45
$21.83
$22.83
$17.92
$18.91
$20.40
$21.45
$21.83
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/99	MAR 1/2000
$19.50
$18.46
$18.72
$18.72
$18.72
$18.46
$18.46
$19.48
$20.23"
$21.01
$22.09
$22.48
$23.51
$18.46
$19.48
$21.01
$22.09
$22.48
$19.70
$18.64
$18.91
$18.91
$18.91
$18.64
$18.64
$19.67
$20.43
$21.22
$22.31
$22.70
$23.75
$18.64
$19.67
$21.22
$22.31
$22.70
HOURLY RATES
SAWMILL
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2000
Licensed Lumber Grader	
(more than 1 year)	$20.29
Planer Piler	$19.20
Fork Lift Operator	$19.48
Hydraulic Mill Feeder	$19.48
Automatic Stacker	$19.48
Oiler	$19.20
Millwright Helper	$19.20
Millwright 2	$20.26
Millwright 1	$21.04
Millwright A	$21.86
Millwright A-1 (Licensed)	$22.98
Millwright Lead	$23.38
Millwright Lead (licensed)	$24.46
Filer helper	$19.20
Filer 1	$20.26
Filer A	$21.86
Flier A (Licensed)	$22.98
Filer Lead	$23.38
5°
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2001	SEPT. 1/2002	SEPT. 1/2003
$20.90	$21.53	$22.18
$19.78	$20.37	$20.98
$20.06	$20.66	$21.28
$20.06	$20.66	$21.28
$20.06	$20.66	$21.28
$19.78	$20.37	$20.98
$19.78	$20.37	$20.98
$20.87	$21.50	$22.15
$21.67	$22.32	$22.99
$22.52	$23.20	$23.90
$23.67	$24.38	$25.11
$24.08	$24.80	$25.54
$25.19	$2S.95	$26.73
$19.78	$20.37	$20.98
$20.87	$21.50	$22.15
$22.52	$23.20	$23.90
$23.67	$24.38	$25.11
$24.08	$24.80	$25.54
HOURLY RATES SAWMILL
Filer Lead (licensed) Electrician Helper Electrician 3 Electrician 2 Electrician 1
Electrician A (Licensed) Electrician Lead Electrician Lead (licensed) Welder A-1 (Licensed) Chipper Edger Car Attendant Spare man
60
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/98	FEB. 8/99
Effective April 5/99 $22.83 $18.45	$18.82
$18.96	$19.34
$19.58	$19.97
$20.49	$20.90
$21.03	$21.45
$21.40	$21.83
Effective April 5/99 $22.83 $21.03	$21.45
$17.81	$18.17
$17.10	$17.44
$18.26	$18.63
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE SEPT. 1/99	Mar. 1/2000
$23.51	$23.75
$19.38	$19.57
$19.92	$20.12
$20.57	$20.78
$21.53	$21.75
$22.09	$22.31
$22.48	$22.70
$23.51	$23.75
$22.09	$22.31
$18.72	$18.91
$17.96	$18.14
$19.19	$19.38
HOURLY RATES
SAWMILL
Filer Lead (licensed) Electrician Helper Electrician 3 Electrician 2 Electrician 1
Electrician A (Licensed) Electrician Lead Electrician Lead (licensed) Welder A-l (Licensed) Chipper Edger Car Attendant Spare man
EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2000
$24.46
$20.16
$20.72
$21.40
$22.40
$22.98
$23.38
$24.46
$22.98
$19.48
$18.68
$19.96
61
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
SEPT. 1/2001	SEPT. 1/2002	Sect. 1/2003
$25.19	$25.95	$26.73
$20.76	$21.38	$22.02
$21.34	$21.98	$22.64
$22.04	$22.70	$23.38
$23.07	$23.76	$24.47
$23.67	$24.38	$25.11
$24.08	$24.80	$25.54
$25.19	$25.95	$26.73
$23.67	$24.38	$25.11
$20.06	$20.66	$21.28
$19.24	$19.82	$20.41
$20.56	$21.18	$21.82
OILER
62
To do oiling, greasing, water sprinkler testing, cleahing of electric motors, and various other maintenance related activities, as directed by his Supervisor or the Lead Millwright. Oiler is also an entrance position into Millwright Helper. This person has preference for the Millwright Helper position if and when it becomes available. The rate should be established at the Millwright Helper rate.
LICENSED LUMBER GRADER
Note that experience will be based on actual days grading, and does not necessarily mean from the date the license was issued.
PIECEWORK RATES
Cutting and Skidding Tree Length
Rates per tree length piece, cut, limbed, topped and
piled, butt diameter measure as per the following
schedule:
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
Size of Butt to be marked on all trees cut with power saw.
Skidding Distance
Maximum skidding distance 600 feet. Each cutting patch will be 600 feet square, and all patches will be distributed in regular succession and without favouritism.
BULLCOOK:
63
It is understood that the Company will work with the Union to ensure the work is being done. The Company and the Union Grievance Committee will collectively create a work schedule from which the Bullcook will work and monitor the position's effectiveness.
SCALING
For the purpose of this Agreement, a stacked cord of 4 ft. Rough pulpwood shall be 50" x 8'; a stacked cord of 8 ft. Rough pulpwood shall be 50" x 100" x 4'.
Where rough wood over 19 feet in length is cube scaled, 85 cubic feet of solid wood shall constitute a cord without allowance for over lengths. Such cube measurements shall be made according to Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
POWER SAW RENTALS
A day worker using his power saw will be paid a power saw rental of $10.00 per 8 hour shift and he will be supplied with gas and oil free of charge by the Company.
SKIDDING BEHIND FEELER BUNCHER
It is agreed that limbing, topping and skidding treelength produced by Feller-Buncher shall be carried out on piecework rate set at 60% o f the rates
64
applying under the section of cutting and skidding treelength in this Agreement.
SKIDDING BEHIND FELLER BUNCHER WITH LIMBS
Forty per cent (40%) of the rates applying under the section of cutting and skidding treelength to a maximum distance of 900' with a 667 machine or equivalent.
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES WHEN SKIDDING BEHIND FELLER BUNCHER
Jackpine to be paid at the same rate as spruce for skidding behind the feller buncher.
CUTTING WITH LIMBS, WITHOUT TOPPING CONVENTIONAL CUT AND SKID
75% of conventional rates.
MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the operations, to direct the work force, and to hire, promote, transfer or lay-off employees and to suspend or discharge or otherwise discipline employees forjust cause; provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provisions of the Agreement.
65
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12,05 (Job Postings),
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to three (3) months prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former department without loss of seniority.
3.	Any helper who fails his apprenticeship exams shall be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months. Failure to pass the reexamination will result in the apprentice being dripped form the program and returned to his former department without loss of seniority. The above will not apply to the persons currently employed in any of the categories of Trades in the event that they shall become indentured in the future or are currently indentured.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training
66
Program allowances and the employee’s normal earnings based on his regular straight time rate, multiplied by 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation, the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	Providing ajourneyman has completed the
time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such Certificate and receive the “A” rate immediately upon receipt of his Provincial Trade Certificate.
MAINTENANCE TRADES ANNUALREVIEW
Annually in the month of March, an evaluation committee consisting of the Plant Manager or his representative and the Maintenance Supervisor, together with a qualified Union Member and/or a Union Representative, will evaluate the performance and progress of each Helper and Tradesman below the category of “1”, with a view of upgrading personnel who qualify.
If upgrading is necessary in the interim it will be done by the Plant Manager and the Maintenance Supervisor.
67
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this________day of___________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
68
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD. and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
The following paragraphs are for the purpose of clarification only and are not intended to change the context of Article XII in any way.
A- Re: Article X
Working and Living Conditions
In the application of the provisions contained in the second paragraph of Article 10.06 the Company and the Union agree to the following exceptions:
1.	Wheeled Skidder Owner-Operators who are members of the Hearst Skidder Association are permitted to continue as per the established practice.
2.	The Company may continue to engage truck owner-operators together with their equipment in order to supplement the Company’s own fleet of trucks, subject to the following conditions:
a) It is agreed and understood that where an Owner-Operator who supplies more than one truck, the additional driver for these trucks shall be subject to Article XII of the Collective Agreement and the Company shall post for these openings approximately one month prior to the
69
commencement of the logs hauling.
b) Owner-Operators shall pay a work permit to the Union for every month or part thereof, which shall be deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Local Union Office.’
It is understood that skidder owners and their crews, truck owners, are excluded from the provisions of Article 10.10,
B - Re: Article XII - Seniority
In the application of the seniority provisions of the agreement, it is agreed that Truck owners will not be displaced by the exercise of seniority. However, it is also agreed that such said owner-operators will not in any way be allowed to cause that Company drivers be subject to loss of earnings or layoff.
SIGNEDATHORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, this_______day of_________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE:	ARTICLE XII
The parties hereto agree to the proposition as set forth herein to be submitted to the employees of the Company in a separate ratification vote.
PROPOSITION:
It is agreed that the total accumulated days of seniority of each employee on the ratification date for the 19 81 Agreement, between the Company and the Union, will establish the seniority order of each employee on the seniority list as per the provisions of the expired Agreement and that from that date, the order of seniority will remain fixed and can only be altered by the termination of employment of any of the employees on the list.
In which case those listed on the seniority list below the employees who terminate, will climb upwards to fill the vacancy.
All new employees to be added in the order of hire.
71
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this_____day of______________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud
Ken Haavaldsrud
Becky Haavaldsrud
David Haavaldsrud
Damien Roy
Richard Levesque
Brian St Louis
Norman Guiilemette
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD.
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE: BONUS:
1.	It is agreed and understood that there shall be no preferred rates or bonuses paid in money or in kind during the term of this Agreement, unless agreed to by the Company and the Union.
2.	It is agreed and understood that the biweekly production bonuses on the Tree length Debarker Operation will remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
3.	It is further agreed and understood that effective date of ratification the Company will introduce a bonus system similar to the Tree length Debarker Operation in the Sawmilland Planing Mill Operations.
73
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, this________day of___________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
It is agreed and understood that the tree length barker operation may be scheduled on a three shift operation.
1.	Start and stop times shall be:
First	8:00	to	4:00
Second	4:00	to	12:00
Third	12:00	to	8:00
2.	The schedulemay be changed upon mutual agreement.
3.	Shift differential shall be:
First shift (day)	Nil
Second shift	.500
Third shift	,550
Effective September Is', 2002 Second shift	,550
Third shift	,580
75
Effective September Is', 2003 Second shift	,570
Third shift	,600
This letter shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this________day of____________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ifen Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian Si Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE:	INTER-DEPARTMENT “BUMPING”
it is agreed and understood that no “bumping” shall be permitted between the woods department and sawmill and planer department and vice-versa.
It is further agreed and understood that in the woods department, pieceworkers will not be allowed to bump on the tree length barker operation and vice-versa.
It is further agreed and understood that when a job posting hasn’t been filled in one department, the Company shall post said opening in the other department and any employee so transferring shall do so with full seniority for the purpose of Company benefits only. in the event the opening isn’t filled, the Company shall have the right to hire new employees.
When one or more employees transfers to another department on the same date, seniority rank will be based on their pre-existing seniority (i.e. the oldest
77
transferring employee will be given the highest seniority position of those transferring, followed by the second highest seniority person transferring and so on).
In case ofpermanent layoff of the SatelliteDebarker Plant which involves the following classifications:
Bringing tree length to barker Debarker Feeder • hydraulic Debarker Operator Saw Operator
Loading cars of down piling
Top Loader
Millwright
The affected employees will be permitted to bump, with full seniority, junior employees in the wood department or sawmill and planing mill department.
In the event of seasonal lay-off, affected Woods department employees will be permitted to work in the Sawmill department and vice-versa with the understanding that:
The normal provisions of seniority apply to those wishing to temporarily transfer ie, (transfer according to seniority); No Sawmill Department employee will be displaced or prevented from returning to work as a result of such temporary transfer from the Woodlands Department or vice-versa;
New employees will not be hired during this period
78
unless:
a)	it is a specialized position, or
b)	affected employees have not expressed an interest to transfer, or
c)	the number of positions available have not been filled by transferring employees.
Transferred employees will retain their seniority unless they fail to return to their pre-layoff position following a recall.
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, this________day of___________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ifen Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD. and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE:	DELIMBING OF WOOD
It is agreed and understood that in the event of a total seasonal layoff, delimber operators shall be permitted to continue working for a maximum of two weeks without being “bumped”, in order to finish up the delimbing,
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this______day of_______________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud
Ken Haavaldsrud
Becky Haavaldsrud David Haavaldsrud
Damien Roy
Richard Levesque
Brian St Louis
Norman Guillemette
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE: HOURS OF WORK fSAWMILL!
It is agreed and understood that the sawmill will begin to work the 9 day, 2 week work schedule. The hours are as follows:
1st WEEK
Monday to Friday 7:00a,m. - 5:00p.m. (Dayshift) 7:00p.m. - 5:00a.m. (Nightshift)
2nd WEEK
Monday to Wednesday
7:00a.m, ■ 5:00p.m. (Dayshift) 7:00p.m. - 5:00a.m. (Nightshift) Thursday	7:00a.m. - 5:00p.m. (Dayshift)
7:00p.m. - 5:00a.m. (Nightshift)
Every second weekend will be a long weekend (Friday off).
When taking a holiday with pay, the employee will be reimbursed the same amount of
81
hours as he was schedule to work.
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this________day of____________________, 1999,
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE-
TRAINING FOR KEY CLASSIFICATIONS:
It is understood that thej ob classificationsof Chip ’ n Saw Operator and Carriage Operator shall be posted for the purpose of training.
1)	The applicants will be selected on the basis of seniority.
2)	The successfulapplicant may be trained on an irregular basis, but it shall be done as soon as possible.
3)	The successfulapplicantmust demonstrate reasonable skill, efficiency and ability at an early stage in his training.
4)	It is further understood that the successful trainees will be given preference to bid on thesej ob classificationswhenever there is a vacancy, but the trainee(s) may be required to fill any vacancy for the classificationwithin a period of one year in order to allow the Company sufficient time to train other employees for those classifications.
83
SIGNEDATHORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this_______day of__________________, 1999,
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD. and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
pf.. LAYOFFS OF LESS THAN 15 DAYS
It is understood that for layoffs of less than fifteen (15) days, the planing mill employees will not be allowed to bump sawmill employees an vice-versa.
SIGNEDATHORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this_______day of________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldslrud	Norman Guillemette
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD, (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter called the “Union”)
RE:	CONTRACTORS
The following employees shall be permitted to work as contractors:
1.	Andre Lemieux
2.	Michel Lemieux
3,	Jean Noel Lachance
4,	JimWickman
Such contractors shall pay a work permit monthly to be deducted monthly by the Company and forwarded to the Union Office. Such work permits shall be in the amount as per the Union’s By-laws.
In the event that any of the above contractors quits or leaves his employment with the Company, such classification shall be posted and filled by an employee covered under the Collective Agreement provided there is still work to be done in such classification.
86
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, this_____day of____________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Idsrud
Damien R
Brian St Louis
Guillemette
87
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD. and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
RE:
OWNER-OPERATOR- FELLER BIJNCHF.R
The Company shall be permitted to have one (1)
owner-operated machine subject to the following:
1)	Company employees shall be offered the opportunity to purchase the equipment before the Company seeks an outside owner.
2)	Owner-Operator shall be subject to all provisions of the Collective Agreement except for the rate of the machine.
It is understood that the Owner-Operator will be responsible for his own W.S.I.B. coverage for the first four (4) months of employment on a one time only basis.
3)	The Owner-Operator shall be permitted to operate hisVher machine provided that no qualified senior employees are on lay-off.
88
The Owner-Operator will work on the same basis as the Company machines.
4)	Should the Company require a second shift for the above, it shall be posted and filled as per Article 12.03.
5)	The Owner-Operator Feller-Buncher will only be permitted to work if the two (2) Company’s Feller-Bunchers are in full operation or schedule to be in operation. (i.e. Two shifts each) except in cases prohibited because of safety.
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this_____day of______________, 1999,
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud
Ken Haavaldsrud
Becky Haavaldsrud David Haavaldsrud
Damien Roy Richard Levesque
Brian St Louis
Norman Guillemette
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD.
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
LUMP SUM AMOUNT
In addition to the above, Haavaldsrud employees will receive $3,000.00 as an offer for settlement of the contract, paid on the following basis:
Effective date of ratification:
$500.00 paid to all non-probationary employees
Effective Dec. Effective Dec. Effective Dec. Effective Dec. Effective Dec.
Is', 1999 1st, 2000 Is', 2001 1”, 2002 Is', 2003
$500.
$500.
$500.
$500.
$500.
In order to collect the full $500. 00 offered for Dec. Is', 1999, Sawmill employees must have worked
1,000	hours during the 12 month period prior to December l!l, 1999. Woodlands employees must have worked 750 hours during this period. Sawmill employees who have worked less than 1,000 hours (750 hrs. for Woodlands employees) shall receive this amount multiplied by the number of hours
90
worked during the 12 months prior to December Is', 1999 and divided by 1,000 (750 for Woodlands employees).
In order to collect the full $500 offered for Dec. Is1, 2000, Sawmill employees must have worked 1,000 hours during the 12 month period prior to December 1st 2,000. Woodlands employees must have worked 750 hours during this period Sawmill employees who have worked less than 1,000 hours (750 hrs for Woodlands employees) shall receive this amount multiplied by the number of hours worked during the 12 months prior to December 1“, 2000, and divided by 1,000 (750 for Woodlands employees).
In order to collect the full $500 offered for December lsl, 2001 Sawmill employees must have worked 1,000 hours during the 12 month period prior to December 1st, 2001. Woodlands employees must have worked 750 hours during this period. Sawmill employees who have worked less than
1.000	hours (750 hrs for Woodlands employees ) shall receive this amount multiplied by the number of hours worked during the 12 months prior to December 1“, 2001, and divided by 1,000 (750 for Woodlands employees).
In order to collect the full $500 offered for December 1sl, 2002, Sawmill employees must have worked 1,000 hours during the 12 month period prior to December 1st, 2002. Woodlands employees must have worked 750 hours during this period. Sawmill employees who have worked less than
1.000	hours (750hrs forWoodlands employees shall receive this amount multiplied by the number of
91
hours worked during the 12 months prior to December I", 2002 and divided by 1,000 (750 for Woodlands employees).
In order to collect the full $500 offered for December 1st, 2003, Sawmill employees must have worked 1,000 hours during the 12 month period prior to December 1 *', 2003. Woodlands employees must have worked 750 hours during this period. Sawmill employees who have worked less than
1,000	hours (750 hrs for Woodlands employees) shall receive this amount multiplied by the number of hours worked during the 12 months prior to December Is', 2003, and divided by 1,000 (750 for Woodlands employees).
For the purpose of calculating the hours worked, the following are also included:
1.	Hours of paid vacation leave
2.	Paid hours for statutory and floating holidays
3.	Hours lost while employee received benefits under the weekly indemnity plan
4.	Hours lost while employees received an income replacement benefits from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board unless employees has not been actively at work since September Is', 1998.
Note that 1,000 hours is equal to 125 days (at 8 hours/day) and 750 hours is equal to 94 days.
92
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this_____day of______________, 1999,
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guiilemette
93
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD. (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
Re: Weekend Maintenance Schedule
The Company may institute a weekend maintenance schedule for trades people, in which the affected employees will work Friday, Saturday and Sunday on the hours outlined below. It is understood that employeesonthis schedulewill work 32hours, paid for 40.
Worked Paid Friday	8	8
Saturday	12	14
Sunday	12	18
Schedule
7:00a.m.to 3:30p.m. 7:00a.m. to 7:30p.m. 7:00a.m. to 7:30p.m.
Hours worked in excess of the regular work day or in excess of 32 hours within the week, will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
For the purpose of vacation entitlement, one (1) week will be Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
94
Statutory Holidays or Floating Holidays, shall be paid the same amount of hours as if the employee had worked:
No employee will loose or gain any money as a result of the above. If a statutory holiday falls on a Monday or any other day during the week, it shall be observed on the following Friday.
The three (3) days worked on a weekend schedule will be equal to 5 days seniority.
Should a person be off on a Sunday dues to sickness, he will be allowed to work two (2) eight (8) hour shifts through the week to make up eighteen (18) hours missed on Sunday.
Scheduling to remain constant, except when Christmas Day and Boxing Day fall on a Sunday. Weekend shift employees will go back to five (5) day scheduling that week.
95
SIGNEDATHORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this_______day of__________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette
96
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER CO. LTD. (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter called the “Union”)
Re: Woodlands Seasonal Layoff - Amended
In layoffs of three (3) months or less within the Woodlands Department, employees will return to their original jobs when normal operations resume. In layoffs of more that three (3) months but less than twelve (12) months, the employee has the option of:
i) returning to his regular job, or
jj) remaining on the bumped position, or a position to which he/she has been recalled
Once an employee elects to remain on his hob, that becomes his/her regular position.
If an employee is laid off from his regular position for longer than twelve (12) months, he loses recall rights to that position. A position vacant for over twelve (12) months shall be posted per the job posting procedures.
97	>
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO,
this________day of___________________, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Grant Haavaldsrud	Damien Roy
Ken Haavaldsrud	Richard Levesque
Becky Haavaldsrud	Brian St Louis
David Haavaldsrud	Norman Guillemette