BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
STEPHENVILE, NEWFOUNDLAND
AND
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF AMERICA
LOGGERS LOCAL 2564
JANUARY I, 1989 to DECEMBER 31, 1992
MAR ~ 31992
AGREEMENT




THIS agreement made at Grand Falls in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador this 29th day of June. Anno Domini One Thousand Nine Hundred and Ninety.
BETWEEN .
ABITIBI-PRICE INC., OF STEPHENVILLE, NEWFOUNDLAND (hereinafter called the "Employer") of the one part,
AND
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, LOGGERS LOCAL 2564 (hsrsinsftsr callsci ths "Union”) of fchs othst part*
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
INDEX
ARTICLE
I	Purpose
II	Term of Agreement
III	Recognition & Jurisdiction
IV	Rates & Classifications
V	Union Membership
VI	Annual Vacation
VII	Holidays With Pay
VIII	Floating Holidays
IX	No Strike - No Lockout
X	Working and Living Conditions
XI	Hours of Work
XII	Seniority
XIII	Adjustment of Grievances
XIV	Safety
xv	Discipline
XVI	Commuting
XVII	Walking & Riding Time
XVIII	Cookhouse and Bunkhouse Staff
XIX	Bereavement Leave
xx	Training
XXI	Fringe Benefits
XXII	Jury Duty
3
6
7
10
13
15
16 17 32 42 48 54
57
58
59
60 62 63
63
64
2
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the
Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working and living conditions, and to ensure insofar as possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy or operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement
„£ 4-v.^  ♦- i ^
ui cite wuitui uiuus s>ec j.oj. utt uci cj.ii •
1.02(a) In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the words "Employer" or "Employers" shall mean the Company and any non-working Contractor, i.e., a Contractor who is not an employee under this Agreement, bound by the Agreement, and of whom the Union has received written notice by the Company to the effect that he is to be treated as an Employer for the purpose of this Agreement.
(b) For the purpose of Article XIII, the term "Contractor" shall mean a non-working Contractor who is an Employer as per Article 1.02(a).

2.01	This Agreement shall become effective as of the.jFirst
day of January 1... _1989t (except as otherwise provided) and shall remain in full force and effect to and including the 31st day of npr-pmKpj^—±-9-9-2—a-nd from year to year thereafter, unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of December of the particular year that such as its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
- 3
ARTICLE II
TERM OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
3.01	The Employer recognises the Union as the sole collective
bargaining agency for all the employees of the Employer engaged on the licensed areas of Management Units 14, 15 and 16 or other Company operations on limits under the jurisdiction of the Stephenville Woodlands' General Logging Superintendent in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador, save and except Woods: Manager, Assistant Woods'	Manager,	Superintendents,	Assistant
Superintendents, General Foremen, Foremen, Assistant Foremen, Scalers, Assistant Scalers, Technical, Clerical and Office Staff, Guards, Towermen, Gatekeepers, non-working Contractors, non-working Sub-Contractors , and persons employed in Supervisory, Advisory or Confidential capacities.	Owner-operators of trucks and owner-
operators of mechanical equipment are covered by this Agreement, but the amount to be paid for the rental of trucks and other mechanical equipment is the exclusive function of the Employer and not subject to the Grievance Procedure.
- 4 -
3.02(a) The Employer agrees that if contracts are made, such Contractors shall be required to apply all the terms of this Agreement, including the wage rates, i.e., it is understood and agreed between the parties hereto that any person who works on the woods' operations of the Company in any capacity referred to in the Wage Schedules attached hereto or any new classification to be added thereto under Article IV shall be considered to be an employee of an Employer for purposes of this Agreement.
(b)	It is further agreed that Contractors and/or SubContractors who themselves work and any workmen whom they hire shall be considered employees of the Employer who awards such contracts, and the Agreement applies in the same manner as it does to other employees except as provided in Article XIII, Section 13.05(b).
(c)	Employees of Contractors engaged for the purpose of erecting structures outside the limits of the Company are not covered by this Agreement when such employees and the Contractor are bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with the Canadian Labour Congress.
3.03	Anyone performing work, except for the purpose of
instruction, in case of emergency or casual assistance. as listed in the job classifications set out in the Wage Schedules, attached to and forming part of this Agreement, including new job classifications under Article IV, shall be considered employees of the Employer within the terms of this Agreement.
- 5 -
3.04	Supervisory personnel shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee listed in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, including new job classifications under Article IV, except for the purpose of instruction, in case of emergency or casual assistance.
3.05	The Employer reserves the right "to select members of the Bargaining Unit to act as a Sub-Foreman on any operation. Employees who act in this classification shall receive all terms and conditions of the Labour Agreement. However, the right of selection shall be vested exclusively with the Employer.
3.06	The jurisdiction area of Application under this Agreement shall be the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador and shall cover those job classifications listed in the Wage Schedules which are part of this Agreement including job classifications under Article IV.
3.07	The Employer shall not be asked to act upon and shall not be responsible for questions of jurisdiction which may arise between the Union and any other Union or Unions. It is also agreed that the Employer's operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union or Unions.
ARTICLE IV
4.OX
4.02
4.03
- 6 -
RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
The Wage Schedules are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
For job classifications, and experimental jobs used in the procurement of wood fibre used in the manufacture of newsprint or for fuel, not listed in the attached Wage Schedules, the Employer shall set estimated or temporary rates of which the Union will be notified in writing within thirty (30) days from the date the new job commences. Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedules. After a trial period of sixty (60) days, any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedules and attached hereto. Upon failure to reach agreement on the rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. It is understood that the sixty (60) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. The workmen concerned shall be entitled to all the benefits of the Agreement from the date the new job commences.
All rates under this Article may be made retroactive to the end of the trial period by an Arbitration Board.
- 7 -
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Employer agrees that it is in favour of its employees, covered by this Agreement, becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02	All employees shall become members of the Union within seven (7) days from the date they begin work covered by this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment. All members shall maintain their "membership in good standing as a condition of continued employment through the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union having a suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union, in writing, at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.03	It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Employer, in writing, of any employee who has refused to join the Union or any member who refuses to maintain his membership in good standing, and an Employer shall not be required to release an employee until notice in writing has been received. In the event of such release, the Company will not be required to issue the notice of lay-off as contained in Clause 12.08.
5.04	The Employer shall deduct each month, from the wages of each employee within the Onion*s jurisdiction, the regular monthly working membership dues of the Local Onion and, on his behalf, remit the same to the Local r?n i ori _
- 8 -
5.05	If an individual employee, who is a member of the Union or wishes to become a member, so desires, the Employer agrees that it will, on his behalf, and upon his written request, deduct Union Initiation Fees and/or back dues from monies due him.
5.06	Remittance of all deductions accompanied by an itemized list, in duplicate, showing the payroll number, name, S.I.N., address, date .of birth, date of hire, and amounts by individual and totals by camps or work areas, shall be sent to the Local Union as sooh as possible; but, in any event, not later than two (2) weeks from the end of the calendar month in which it is deducted.
5.07	The Employer shall advise the Union from time to time of the Employer's labour requirements. When hiring additional employees, the Employer will give preference to Union members who have applied in writing within the previous six <6) months, and who are capable of doing the work required of them.
N.B. This does not apply to employees with recall rights.
5.08	The Union shall furnish the Employer with a list of Local Officers and a List of Representatives and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur.
9
5.09	Union Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all Woods' Operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Employer's operations on condition that said representative will abide by the regular rules and regulations of the Employer. Credentials carried by the Union Representative shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union 'and a Travel Permit signed by the Woods' Manager of the Company. Accredited Union Representatives shall be provided with board and lodging, if available, on an Employer's premises at $5.50 per meal. It is recognised that on commuter operations, a special situation is created making it necessary for the Union Representatives to sign up
men during working hours. This shall be done after consultation with, and with the consent of the Foreman or his representative. It is agreed that the Foreman will be instructed by the Employer to permit the Union Representative to sign up men during working hours when this is ,-p.3s.sbjl£“«=* without uitutaf*	.,-fi.th
production. In so doing, the Union agrees that said Union Representative shall have due regard for production.
5.10	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked sixty (60) days within a six (6) month period. During the period of probation, any new employee who proves unsatisfactory in work performance may be disciplined up to release from employment without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Discharge for cause other than poor work performance may be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE VI
ANNUAL VACATION
10 -
Vacation Time
6.01	The Employer shall grant vacation time off to employees covered by this Agreement in accordance with the following provisions.
An employee's vacation entitlement in any calendar year is based on his accumulated seniority as of the end of the previous computer payroll-year.
(a)	Less than 150 days - one (1) day vacation for each 30 days of seniority.
(b)	150 - 900 days - two (2 Y weeks vacation.
(c)	901 - 1,500 days - three <3) weeks vacation.
(d) 1,501 - 4,000 days - four (4) weeks vacation.
(e) 4,001 - 6,500 days - five <5) weeks vacation.
(f)	Over 6,501 days - six <6) weeks vacation.
6.02	Vacation Pay shall be paid to employees at the time of vacation or weekly with regular earnings if requested on the following basis:
(a)	4% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under
6.01	(a) and (b> above.
(b> 6% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under
6.01	(c > above.
(c)	8% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under
6.01	< d) above .
(d> 10% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under
6.01	(e) above.
(e) 12% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under
6.01	(f) above.
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
- 11 -
An employee who loses his seniority rights through voluntary separation, shall have his vacation credits included with his pay, at time of separation.
Employees wishing to take vacation time off during the prime vacation period (July 1 to October 1) must apply, in writing, for such vacation time off, not later than May 15 of that calendar year. Employees wishing to take vacation time off during any other time must apply for such vacation at least six (6) weeks in advance of the date requested. All vacation time off must be approved by the Employer before being taken. If for any reason, the employee cannot be granted his vacation on the date requested, the employee shal 1 bg jw .	if isd, i n writin9, a t least three 13)
weeks in advance of the date requested, at which time the employee shall also be notified of his/her approved vacation dates.
The Employer shall provide vacation application forms in multiple copies so that an employee shall have for himself a copy of his request signed by the appropriate Company official .
Subject to the foregoing, an employee shall be granted vacation time off on dates requested unless it causes acute manpower shortage in his classification at his jobsite. During the prime vacation period (July 1 to October 1), not more than two (2) consecutive weeks vacation will be granted. Extended vacation will be granted to employees travelling out of the province.
6.06
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10
- 12 -
(Cont'd.)
Vacation periods are not to be divided into shorter periods than one (1) week, seven (7) calendar days. Vacation Pay will be paid in proportion to the time taken unless the employee makes a request, in writing, to be paid differently.
Should two or more employees apply for the same vacation dates, the date of application shall determine. Should the date of application be the same, seniority shall determine.
Vacations shall commence on the first day of an employee's normal work week, unless other arrangements can be made between the employee and his supervisor so that adjustments in the scheduling of crews can be kept to a minimum. Vacation Pay, in accordance with Clause 6.02, shall be on a separate cheque and paid not later than the Friday preceding the day that the vacations are due to commence.
Employees who do not wish to take vacation time during the current year will, upon application on forms provided, be paid all earned percentage of accumulate gross earnings to the end of the previous computer payroll year. Such employees shall be paid not later than three <3) weeks after the date of application.
If an employee has not collected his Vacation Pay as provided for in this Article, the Company shall pay same at the end of the second payroll year, but only up to the end of the previous computer payroll year.
- 14 -
7.02	(Cont’d.)
(b)	Employees must have worked the last scheduled shift before and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is on vacation or is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid if he otherwise qualifies. Employees on vacation or absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence. A special leave of absence for any of the above 'noiidays may Jre g*jrdm.teaJ iXr eirrpJoytfw who have to travel long distances to be home for the holiday, provided that a request for such leave is made five (5) days before the holiday.
(c)	Employees who otherwise qualify but are laid off on any of the twenty-five (25) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday will be paid for the holiday. Employees who otherwise qualify but who are laid off prior to the pay period in which the holiday occurs, will not be paid at the time the holiday is due. Such holiday or holidays pay will be added to the first payroll period after recall.
7*03	Employees who meet the other requirements of this
Article, and who work on or after 30th November of any calendar year, shall be granted three (3) bonus days. Such days will be taken together as directed by the Employer. It is understood that the employee may be paid compensation in lieu of time off.
7.04 An employee does not have to report before or after the stipulated day as per 7.02(b), if his regular employment is not available.
- 15 -
7.05	All employees qualifying for a paid holiday, except those working on negotiated piecework rates, shall receive pay for the holiday at their regular rates. Those working on negotiated piecework rates shall receive pay for the holiday at the General Labour Rate, plus 8 per cent.
7.06	All employees who qualify for a paid holiday and work
on the paid holiday will receive pay for the time	.
worked at time and one-half and, in addition, will receive the "Holiday Pay" for which they qualify. All employees who do not qualify for pay for a holiday and work on such holiday shall receive pay for the time worked at time and one half. Days absent from work while on vacation, and all days for which an employee received pay or part pay, shall be considered as days worked for the purpose of qualifying for a paid holiday.
ARTTCLF. VTTT - FLOATING HOLIDAYS
8.01	Every employee covered by this Agreement is entitled
to three (3) Floating Holidays with pay provided he/she meets the following requirements:
(a)	To be eligible for the first Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 25 days in the previous payroll year.
<b) To be eligible for the second Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 50 days in the previous payroll year.
(c) To be eligible for the third Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 100 days in the previous payroll year.
It is agreed that the employee may elect to take eight (8) hours pay in lieu of time off.
- 16 -
8.01	<Cont*d.)
Time off must be arranged with the employee's immediate supervisor, and an employee who does not take the Floating Holiday when the Woodlands are operating will be paid for the day during the last week of operations prior to the regular fall shutdown. The Floating
8.02	It is further agreed that an employee may elect to
take eight (8) hours pay in lieu of time off.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	It is agreed that all disputes shall be settled in
accordance with the procedure set forth in Article XIII of this Agreement, and that there shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members against the operations covered by this Agreement nor lockouts by the Employer during the life of this Agreement.
- 17 -
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	The Employer agrees to abide by the terms and conditions
of the Logging Camps Act 1960, the amendments thereto and the regulations thereunder. The Union agrees that the workmen covered by this Agreement will cooperate with the Employer in maintaining the general rules of cleanliness and order in the living quarters, mess halls, outhouses and surroundings of camps and places of work.
10.02	Subject to this Agreement, it is clearly understood and agreed that it is the sole right of the Employer to administer Woods' Operations, direct employees in such a way as to ensure maximum efficiency, change its methods or system of operation and distribute work. The Union shall be advised of any significant change in operations at least thirty (30) days in advance of the introduction of such change.
10.03	The Employer agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.04(a) The weekly pay period shall be the period commencing on 8:00 a.m. each Sunday and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the following Sunday. Weekly pay cheques will be available at the end of the regular shift on the first Friday following the end of the weekly pay period. However, there may be occasions when such things as weather conditions, computer breakdown, transportation difficulties, etc., etc., will arise which will prevent

- 18 -
(Cont1d»)
the Company from meeting this commitment. If such is the case, cheques will be distributed as soon as they are available.
For each pay period, a memo of earnings slip will be issued to each employee giving the following information: the period .covered, hours and/or days worked, rates of pay, walking and riding time, number of cords, cunits or cubic metres, number of piles, earnings and deductions and any other pertinent information.
(b)	Employees covered by this Agreement, who experience a two (2) week delay in approved Workers' Compensation payments, will, upon request, be advanced an amount " equal to the Workers' Compensation payment.
10.05(a) When van purchases are made, the employee will be given an itemized bill showing date of purchase and price of each item.
(b) Except in case of emergency, in camps, van shall be available and open a minimum of two nights a week on Tuesday and Thursday for at least two hours each night between the hours of 6s3Q	snd 9 ! 3 0 p, .
(c) Van shall be sold to employees at no profit to the Employer.
19 -
10.06<a) Only factory-built buses, automobiles or snowmobiles shall be used for the ground transportation of men.
Such vehicles to be kept clean and in good repair so as to provide the safe and comfortable transportation qualities intended. Same to have adequate seating accommodation for all on board and equipped for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. when boats are used for the transportation of men, they shall likewise be kept clean and in good repair with due regard for the comfort and safety of men.
<b) Shelters shall be provided at waiting and/or lunching places and shall be equipped with oil stoves or wood stoves that are equipped to meet the regulations allowing their use during the fire season. Shelters shall be of smooth wall construction inside and shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the summer, shall be tightly floored, have windows and, in addition, shall have seating accommodation and table space for each employee, i.e., shelters shall be such that an employee can relax and eat his lunch or wait 'in comfort. It is, nevertheless, agreed that when it is necessary to take fire prevention precautions in the summer, no fires will be permitted in such shelters. Notices to this effect will be placed on camp bulletin boards and in buses on commuter jobs.
A Committee of Union and Management shall be formed to cover all Woods Operations to inspect all lunch shelters. Union Representatives will be reimbursed for any time lost. The Company agrees to consider all reasonable recommendations made by said Committee.
- 20
10.06(c) Where employees provide a Coleman stove for their own use in lunch shelters, the Employer will make such stoves available at cost less a subsidy of $10.00 per stove. The Employer will provide free fuel and will also stock parts for sale at cost.
The use of such stoves shall not be restricted during the fire season unless Government Regulations dictate otherwise.
10.07	The Union agrees that its members will observe all
regulations pertaining to the prevention of forest fires as established by the Provincial Government and the Company. All employees shall fight forest fires when called upon to do so by an authorised person. Employees taken from their job to fight forest fires will be paid their regular rates for such work, except those working on negotiated piecework rates who will be paid the General Labour Rate from the time they are taken from their jobs. It is further agreed that the Employer will make every effort to limit the daily working time on fire fighting to eight (8) hours.
10.08	When pulpwood has been destroyed by fire before being
scaled, such wood shall be paid for at the agreed rate. The Employer will make every effort to establish the quantity of wood burned with a reasonable degree of accuracy. It is agreed that the man or men responsible for starting the fire will not be paid for any pulpwood which he or they may have lost.
- 21 -
10.11(
Employees losing personal belongings through fire while on the Employer's operations will receive 75% of the cost of the items lost, to a maximum of 75% of the cost of one pair of mitts, one pair of socks and one suit of rainwear or a jacket. Individuals who lose personal belongings through fires caused by their own negligence will not be compensated.
Employer regulations require every chain saw operator to have a reliable fire extinguisher on his person when using a chain saw during the fire season. The Employer will make available suitable fire extinguishers to saw operators free of cost. The fire extinguishers shall be on loan to the employee and he shall return it in good condition to the Employer at the end of the fire season. If the fire extinguisher has been lost or damaged, he shall compensate the Employer for the cost of same.
At each operating camp and, where practical on worksites, a separate building will be provided for the storage and repair of power saws and shall be large enough to be adequate and have sufficient space for storage and, in addition, shall be adequately lighted and heated, and equipped with work Dencn and vice to facilitate repair of power saws. On cutting operations, under Schedule "C", the Employer will supply chain saws and parts to be sold at the Employer's invoice cost to the employee, if so requested.
On cutting operations under Schedule "C", it is agreed that the employees may be required to supply their own power saws. However, the Company shall have on all such operations, spare power saws that the employee may rent, should the employee's saw break down. Such spare saws
- 24 -
10.15	Day workers using their own power saws will be paid on the following basis:
(a)	For road cutting - $5.50 per day. Gas and oils to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
(b)	For improvement jobs - $5.00 per day. Gas and oils to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
(c)	The Foreman is to decide if the chain saw is to be used and inform the man to take his saw to the job, in which case he will be paid the full day's hire whether his saw is used or not.
(d)	Saws are not to be left on the job indefinitely for hire purposes, i.e., a man, on being told that his saw is required on a certain day, will not be able to leave it there for another day or days and expect to collect hire.
10.16	The Employer agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching on their woods' operations except by mutual agreement between the parties and under conditions mutually agreed to before any shacking or batching commences.
10.17
It is agreed that the Employer will maintain good
25
10.18(a)	All camps shall have inside toilet facilities, single tier beds, and shall be furnished with a wardrobe-type storage locker for each employee for hanging of his clothes. The locker shall be of sufficient height for an inside shelf at the top and inside storage of footwear at the bottom.
10.18(b)	Inside toilet facilities, washroom facilities and drying rooms shall be accessible without travelling outdoors.
(c)	Employees on other than regular day shift shall have separate sleeping quarters to enable them to obtain proper rest.
(d)	cookhouse and Bunkhouse staff shall have Separate sleeping quarters, separated from the kitchen and dining room facilities to the extent that these operations will not unduly heat or disturb their sleeping quarters.
10.19	Camps shall be constructed so as to accommodate all employees with not more than two (2) per room. The rooms shall measure approximately 8* x 10*. All beds and mattresses shall be of good quality and maintained in a serviceable condition at all times. The Employer shall continue to provide spring-filled mattresses and bedding consisting of pillows, pillowcases, sheets and blankets. Pillowcases and bed sheets will be changed once a week. Clean blankets shall be supplied upon hiring or transfer from another worksite, and shall be changed as required. Such items of bedding must not be removed from the Employer's premises except by those employees who must do so in the course of their duties.
10.21
10.22
10.23
10.24
10.25
- 26 -
an camps sridii oe of smooth wall construction inside. All camps shall be maintained in such a manner as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the summer.
All camps shall be properly lighted and it is agreed that flat wick lamps are inadequate for proper lighting. All camps of a permanent or semi-permanent nature shall have electric lighting. Where practical, painting will be done to aid in the desirable condition.
All camps shall have separated proper washing facilities, including adequate showers. The Employer shall provide proper facilities for washing clothes in the form of washing machines and an adequate supply of hot and cold water. In camps where washing machines are presently
___ j ^	^ i .
mauc avanamc


_y	suuuci , sui.ii
machines are to be made available to all other employees.
All camps shall have separate drying rooms adequate to the extent that it will not be necessary for employees to have wearing apparel and/or footwear drying in their sleeping quarters. It is agreed that drying rooms must be large enough to accommodate all employees, each of whom shall have, for his use only, a hanger-type device to facilitate the drying of wearing apparel.
All camps shall have a recreation room for the use of employees. Such rooms shall be large enough and equipped to accommodate at least half the employees in a comfortable manner.	'
All Bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups except where drinking fountains are
provided in the Bunkhouse.
28
10.27(f)	The Employer shall maintain at all camps non-carbonated fruit-flavoured cold drink dispensers. The Employer shall maintain steam tables in all camps, and where new camps are constructed, such camps shall be equipped with additional electrical appliances to meet the needs of the cookery.
<g>	An exhaust fan will be installed in Bunkhouse washrooms and in the Cookhouse.
(h)	Food coolers will be provided in all Cookhouses.
(i)	The Employer will provide reconstituted (powdered) milk in all camps.
10.28(a)	Where a mid-day meal is taken, a ten-minute coffee break is allowed in the morning and in the afternoon.
(b)	Where men lunch away from camp, they may decide themselves on a crew basis, to take their lunch at mid-day with ten-minute coffee break in the morning and afternoon, or they may have two regular lunch periods of 40 minutes each per day.
(c)	During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on the Employer's time.
(d)	The present practice regarding evening snacks will continue.
10.29(a)	The Board Rate of $2.03 per meal {$6.09/day) will be 4-U-tc PaI X A. V- -4- VilC UCliU UJ. LIUS LUIiCLLiVC nyi CClllCU u •
33
11.02(b) Meal time for lunch, i.e., the mid-work day meal or lunch, shall be one hour after approximately half of the work time of the shift has expired, or as otherwise agreed between the parties.
11.03(a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
(b)	A holiday, under Article VII, shall begin at 7:00 a.m.
the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday.
(c)	An employee's scheduled day off (Saturday to Monday)
shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.04(a) The day shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., meal time excepted.
(b)	The night shift consists of eight (8) consecutive hours
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted.
(c)	A night shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per
\	hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for
all night shift work.
<d) On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after.
The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry the regular shift differential.
- 34 -
..04(e) If it becomes necessary to work a three (3) shift
operation, the first shift, i.e., the day shift, shall be worked within the time specified in 11.04(a) with the second shift immediately following the first shift. Under these conditions, the work day or shift shall consist of eight. (8) consecutive hours plus the shift differential as provided for m 11.04(c) for the second shift and a shift differential on the third shift of fifty-five (55) cents per hour. Meal time shall be 20 minutes and on the Employer's time, approximately four (4) hours after the shift commences.
(f> The hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday
or Monday) shall be scheduled and posted on the Company and Union bulletin boards not later than 7:00 p.m. on Thursday of the previous week. Failing such posting, unless the employee is personally notified, before the regular quitting time of his fifth weekly shift, of a change m his schedule for the coming week, the schedule of the week previous shall apply. The starting and stopping times and shift schedule shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly periods subject to the following:
(Cont'd.>
1* An employee m.av not change shifts during the week
except when his shift schedule is changed by the company . When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the firsc shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked, and, if not, time and one-half shall apply. An employee cannot be short-shifted by reason of changing shifts, i*e., if this takes place, he shall be paid for the shift or shifts lost at his regular rate.
2. Where starting times must be staggered due to
operational requirements, such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall
be confined to a two-hour period, and in such cases, the work shift shall take place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. as
the case may be.
- 36 -
11.05(a) If an employee is required to work on his scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday or a holiday under Article VII, or Christmas Day, Boxing Day or New Year's Day, such overtime shall be scheduled and posted in the same manner and with the same conditions applying as for the hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) under 11.04(f. If he is available for posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for .reasons beyond his control, he shall receive two (2) hours pay at time and one-half.
If requested by the Employer, the employee must remain available for the two (2) hours to be eligible for such pay. It work commences during the two (2) hour period, he shall receive pay at time and one-half for all time worked plus time and one-half for idle time when available or two (2) hours at time and one-half, whichever is the greater.
<b) Employees covered under Schedule "A" will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of eight (8> consecutive hours on Sundays, except in the case of ship loading and unloading in which case employees covered under Schedule "A" will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours on Sundays.
37 -
11.05(c) An employee called out after the completion of his reqular shift will be paid a minimum four (4) hours or time and one-half for hours worked, whichever is greater. It is understood that employees who are notified that they are required for work after their regular shift has been completed and they are informed of this prior to the end of their regular shift will not be eligible for a call out payment, but will be paid in accordance with the overtime provisions under this Article.
11.06	The Employer has the right to enforce the hours of
work. Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or shift, all hours worked on Sunday, except as provided for in 11.05(b), ail hours worked by an employee on his scheduled day off, (Saturday or Monday), or outside his scheduled day or shift, and all hours worked on holidays, under Article VII, and all hours worked on Christmas Day, Boxing Day or New Year's Day, shall be paid for at time and one-half. All time worked in excess of eight (8) biO\ixs on Sunday will be paid at double time. Premium time will not apply to fire fighting.
Time spent.travelling to and from work shall not be considered as time worked, unless otherwise specified. Walking and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in this Agreement.
38 -
II. 08
11.09
Cooks, second cooks, cookees, watchmen and choreboys are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement providing for a 5“dav work week and eight (8) hour work day or shift. In lieu thereof, they shall receive alternate weekends off from Friday noon until Monday noon without loss of pay. If Friday is a holiday, tine off without loss of pay shall begin on Thursday noon. If Monday is a holiday, time off without loss of pay will be extended to Tuesday noon; in both cases, as his holiday with pay if he gualifies. This is not to be construed as a right upon which a claim for extra pay may be made if not availed of.
In cases of lay-off, Cookhouse and Bunkhouse staff shall be paid, in lieu of their earned time off, for all days worked since their last scheduled weekend off at the calculated rate per day, which is equivalent of their actual rate for days worked, i.e., 5 1/2 days per week.
Employees working on incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed rate will be governed by the following breakdown clause:
"Should a machine break down, an employee who has to stop work before he completes his shift shall have his time calculated as follows:
uic L.uyiuvci snail y on uue x eiiid xn xriy xiours ioat
from work on incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed rate during that shift at the employee's regular rate of pay.
Fellers and buckers nay be reguired to continue cutting, in which case this may be done on their i . .	unt_
SUUU UXMtS da 1L
icjuiai luu.iii9
interferes with their ability to earn bonus.
39
11.10(a) (Cont'd.)
"At this point, they will move to another strip other than the one on which they were working at the time of breakdown. In so doing, all hours worked on the separate strip shall be kept separate and apart from any hours worked on incentive bonus and all wood produced during such time will be considered the Employer's wood and will not be included with the wood produced on bonus."
With reference to the foregoing, the skidder operator shall be required to make every reasonable effort to immediately notify the Supervisor.
(b) All other employees shall be governed by the following breakdown clause:
"An employee reporting for work as directed shall not be sent home because there is no work available due to a mechanical breakdown. In such cases, the employee will be offered alternate work (which may include cutting under Schedule "C") to complete the first day of such reporting, at his regular rate of pay or the prevailing rate for the job performed, whichever is higher."
In 11.10(a) and 11.10(b), alternate work shall be offered for the next shift. In such cases, the employee shall be paid at his regular rate for such alternate work. In both of the foregoing Clauses, if it becomes necessary to change an employee’s shift, in order to offer such alternate employment, the Employer will not be subject to the penalty provided for in Clause 11.04(f)(1) of this Agreement. Furthermore, in both of the foregoing Clauses, should the employee refuse to perform the alternate employment, he loses his rights to the provisions contained herein.
- 40 -
11.10<b) (Cont’d.)
If no alternate work is available, the employee shall be paid the shifts referred to above at his regular rate.
With reference to all the foregoing, the employee must remain available for work.
Where any breakdown continues for more than the shifts referred to above and no other suitable work is available, the employee shall be offered cutting under Schedule "C" but shall not lose his seniority if he elects not to accept it.
If the breakdown continues for more than one full week beyond the week in which the breakdown occurs, or if, as a result of the breakdown, a decision is made to phase out the broken-down machinery, the employee may, if he so desires, exercise his seniority as per Article XII. Any employee who elects not to exercise his seniority or accept the alternate work will be laid off. Recall will be in accordance with Clause 12.01.
(Note:	For the purpose of this Article, power saws are
not considered to be machines.)
11.11	When work has to be discontinued after commencing,
an employee shall receive a half day's pay if the number of hours worked is less than four, and a full day's pay if the number of hours worked is more than four.
- 41 -
11.12	An employee, who during his scheduled work week, reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, shall receive two hours pay at his regular rate unless he was notified previously that work would not commence, and providing that when requested to do so by the Employer, the employee shall remain available for .work for the two hours. An employee in a camp operation shall be deemed to have reported for work once he leaves the immediate camp premises. Camp premises is defined as the area that is covered by a radius of 300 meters from the main entrance door to the Cookhouse. An employee on commuter operations shall be deemed to have reported for work when he arrives at the marshalling point.
This Clause does not apply when the reason for non-commencement is due to Acts of God.
11.13	An employee who, when recalled, reports for work as directed and no work is available, shall be paid for all regular working hours spent waiting to go to work at the rate of the job for which he was recalled. It is understood the employee can be offered alternate employment and, if refused, he is not entitled to any payment.
ARTICLE XII
SENIORITY
- 42 -
12.01
12.02
The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, so that in promotions, demotions, hiring, transfers, lay-offs and recalls from lay-off, seniority shall govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill. efficiency and ability in the work required. In the application of the above, and where all other conditions of this Article are met, the junior employee shall at all times be the first laid off and the last recalled.
Seniority shall be accrued from May 1, 1965 to May 1, 1967 on the basis of days worked. From May 1, 1967, seniority for the purpose of the Agreement shall mean all days worked plus all working days that would have been worked but were lost because of sickness or injury (certified by a licensed physician, dentist, chiropractor, optometrist, or registered nurse in an outport hospital or clinic) up to a maximum time of one hundred (100) days for each in any calendar year and authorized leaves of absence up to a maximum total of thirty (30) days in any calendar year. An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority while on such leave of absence up to sixty (60) days in any calendar year.
If is understood and agreed that the employee shall be granted leave of absence for sickness, accident, Union business, death or illness in the immediate family, jury duty, for self-improvement by attendance at a recognized establishment of learning or training and when the employee must be dealt with according to law. Any employee who is unable to report for work for any of the reasons outlined above shall notify his Employer as soon
- 45 -
12.06
Employees who have to leave the job because of personal injury or sickness shall, when cleared for work in accordance with 12.05, return to the job from which he left if same is continuing. However, should a lay-off occur while the employee is off on accident or sick, he shall then be recalled in the same manner, with the same conditions applying as all other employees.
12.07
Where the term "camp". is used, it shall also mean commuter operation.
12.08(a)
In the case of a planned general shutdown, a notice will be posted on all bulletin boards in areas where the shutdown applies. In cases of layoff, other than those caused by Acts of God, employees shall be given written notice of such layoff or one (1) week's pay in lieu there?/, For the •	of thi^ Agreement, an Act of
God shall include weather conditions and any other conditions over which the Company does not have control.
(b) When lay-offs are required due to the completion of
seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each employee so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority to transfer to another job if he so desires, subject to the principles of Clause 12.01. Transfers will be made only if the employee, having received the advanced notice of lay-off, in accordance with Clause 12.08(a), advised the Company, in writing, of his desire	to	be transferred,	two working days	after
the notice	of	lay-off (posted	or by individual	notice).
Forms will	be	provided by the	Company for this	purpose.
- 46 -
12.09	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, it is understood and agreed that an employee shall not exercise seniority to the extent that the Employer shall have to hire him and provide board and lodging on any commuter operation.
However, should the Employer find it necessary to hire an employee who is not a bonafide resident of a community from which a commuter operation is being carried on, the Employer shall provide the employee with board and lodging for which the employee shall pay not more than the agreed camp rate.
12.10	An alphabetical list of names of the employees for whom seniority is established as above will be submitted to the Union in triplicate every three (3) months, showing accumulated seniority to date, their hiring date following their last break in seniority, occupation or occupations, date of birth and address. Seniority Lists will be confirmed as accurate if no protest is received within thirty (30) days from the date of posting such lists in camps and/or in buses on commuter operations.
In promotions, demotions, hiring, transfers, lay-offs, recalls from lay-off, and subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in the work required, Onion members shall at all times receive preference over non-Union men.
All job vacancies in new classifications that are established under Article IV of the Labour Agreement will be posted so that all employees within the operating division who wish to apply for the job may do so. The j notice will be posted for a period of twenty (20) working
12.11
12.12
- 49 -
13.02(a) Where possible, the Union shall arrange for the
election, from its working membership at each camp or worksite by the members therein, of a Union Committee of up to three (3), one of whom shall be the Union Steward and spokesman for that Committee.	Immediately
after an election, the Union Committee in the camp or worksite will notify the Foreman, in writing, as to the name of-the Union Steward and Committee men and the Foreman will- acknowledge, in writing: the receipt of such notice. The Foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination
exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Committee men.
13.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is
defined to be any difference including the degree or extent of disciplinary action between the parties or between any one of the employees and his Employer covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
50
13.03 (Cont'd.)
stage 1; Complaints of employees must first be taken by the employee himself directly to the Foreman and/or his representative for adjustment without undue delay but, in any event, not more than thirty (30) days immediately following the occurrence or event giving rise to the complaint. It is understood that an employee may, if he so desires, be accompanied by the Onion Steward and/or representatives. If the complaint is not adjusted satisfactorily within three (3) days, the matter becomes a grievance and must be taken up at Stage 2. No employee's grievance will be recognized until the Foreman has first had an opportunity to settle the complaint, providing the employee remains employed under the same Foreman. If the employee is no longer employed under the same Foreman, the grievance may be taken up commencing at Stage 2.
Stage 2:	The matter shall be taken up by the Onion
Committee and/or Union Representatives with the Employer concerned in cases where the Employer is a Contractor, and in other cases, with the Divisional Superintendent or his representative, as the case may be, within three (3) days from the end of the three (3) day period in Stage 1, in writing, on forms to be supplied by the Union. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with, in writing, at all stages thereafter. The Employer or Divisional Superintendent or his representative shall make a reply, in writing, and, failing a satisfactory adjustment within three (3) days, then:
51
13.03	(Cont'd.)
Stage 3:	In the case of a Contractor, either party may,
within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration. In other cases, the matter shall be referred to the General Logging Superintendent, or his representative within three (3) days from the end of the decision period in Stage 2, Failing a satisfactory
i n onr>K r»+* Ka»* naeo a ui f Ki n fftn v / A 1
then:
Stage 4:	The matter shall be referred to the Woods'
Manager, or his representative, within three (3) days and failing a satisfactory adjustment within fifteen (15) days, then:
Stage 5:	Either party may, within the following fifteen
(15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration. Failure of the grievor or the Union to process a grievance to the next step in the Grievance Procedure within the time limit specified shall not be deemed to have prejudiced the Union on any future similar grievance.
13.04	The Employer will notify the Local Union Secretary, in writing, at the time of discharge or suspension of an employee, giving the reasons. for such discharge or suspension. A grievance arising from a claim of unjust discharge or suspension may be processed beginning at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure, in writing, not later than six (6) days after receipt
of notification. Where it has been finally established by an Arbitration Board that an employee has been improperly discharged or suspended, he shall be reinstated in his former job without loss of seniority, and the consideration of his grievance
52 -
13.04 (Cont'd.)
shall include the determination of the extent, if any, to which he shall be compensated for lost pay, and reimbursement for the premium cost of any health and welfare coverage currently in effect. Arbitration will, in no way, award redress exceeding that which the employee would have earned in the Company's employ had he not been improperly discharged or suspended.
13.05(a) If the Union has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b) Grievances of employees who are defined in Article III, Section 3.02(b) shall commence at Stage 2.
13.06	In Arbitration, the Employer and the Union shall each
select one man, these two shall select a third party who will act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the name of the other party's nominee and shall forthwith inform the other party of the name of the nominee. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, within ten (10) days, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower to appoint a third party and such appointee shall be accepted by both parties as Chairman. If the party to whom notice is given fails to select an arbitrator
53 -
13.06 (Cont*.)
within the period of five (5) days after receiving notice, the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower shall, on the request of either party, name an arbitrator on behalf of the party who failed to select an arbitrator.
13.07	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration
Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement, and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement, except arbitrations under Article IV.
13.08(a> Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board. The decision of the majority of the members of the Arbitration Board shall be the decision of the Board and, if there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board.
<b) The Arbitration Board shall file their decision with the parties within fifteen <15) days of the hearing.
13.09	Time limits specified in this Article may be extended
by mutual consent, of the parties, or by TO&t'C&J consent
of the respective nominees to an Arbitration Board. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, specified in Article VII, shall not be included in any time limits of this Article.
ARTICLE XIV
SAFETY
54
14.01	The Company and Union shall cooperate in the prevention of accidents and industrial disease and shall promote measures necessary to ensure the safety and health of all employees.
14.02	An employee who suffers an injury is required, subject to circumstances- prevailing, to present himself as soon as practical to his supervisor, or his representative, who will arrange for first aid treatment and, in the case of a serious injury, have arrangements for medical treatment.
14.03(a) The Company and the Union mutually agree that it is desirable to obtain and maintain an accident-free experience on the Woodlands' operations. To this end, the Employer will continue its search for improved and more varied items of safety apparel and safety devices in order to offer maximum protection to its employees.
(b) The wearing of a safety hat is a condition of employment. Safety hats and harnesses will be made available to employees on loan.
(c) The wearing of safety pants of a type approved by the
Employer is a condition of employment for all employees using power saws, axes or pulphooks. The Employer will pay a subsidy of $10.00 annually to employees who purchase approved safety pants.
- 55 -
14.03(d)
The wearing of safety footwear is a condition of employment. Employees will be instructed as to what type of boot is to be worn, depending of the job being performed. An employee, upon proof of purchase of safety footwear, shall receive a subsidy of 30% of the cost to a maximum of two (2) pairs per year.
e)
The wearing.of eye protection is a condition of employment in designated areas. Approved eye protection will be made available to employees required to wear same. The initial issue will be free of charge to employees and will be replaced by the Employer when worn or damaged through fair wear and tear. Items lost or damaged through negligence will be replaced by the
hi
(f) The wearing of hearing protection devices is a condition of employment for all employees working in areas where the noise level exceeds 85 decibels. Approved hearing protection will be made available to employees required to wear same. The initial issue will be free of charge to employees and will be replaced by the Employer when worn or damaged through fair wear and tear. When lost or damaged through negligence, will be replaced by the employee at his own cost.
14.04(a)
The Employer agrees that all those engaged in the transportation of men in Employer vehicles will follow good and safe transportation practices.
(b) The Employer agrees to require all others engaged in the transportation of men on Employer's roads to engage in safe transportation practices.
56
14.04(c) Mandatory safety inspections will be carried out monthly on all buses.
14.05	Employees will not be assigned to work alone in an
area that is considered dangerous.
14.06(a) A joint Union-Management committee shall be established.
There shall be a safety representative of each operation. The Union shall appoint Union representatives on this committee. Meetings will be held as required, but not less than once a month during the operating season. Meeting time and place to be arranged by the safety supervisor.
(b) In general, the function of the committee shall be to advise the Company in all matters pertaining to the safety and occupational health of employees.
(c) Minutes of committee meetings shall be kept, copies
to be posted on the applicable notice boards and copies to be forwarded to the Union.
14.07	Noise level checks will be made whenever a change of
equipment or process causes an appreciable change in noise level, or as recommended by the committee. Records of noise level readings will be made available to the committee.
ARTICLE XV
DISCIPLINE
- 57
15.01	Disciplinary action by an Employer may be taken against an employee for just cause. Just cause may be deemed to be. but not necessarily restricted to, violations of any of the following:
a)	Bringing liquor into the operations, or being under
the influence of 1__iytunr while on the job*
b)	Neglect of duty.
c)	Disobedience.
d)	Deliberate destruction or removal of the Employer's or other employee's property.
e)	Infraction of the regulations for protection of the forest from fires.
f)	Disorderly conduct. g> Dishonesty.
h)	Violation of safety regulations or safe working practices.
i)	Violating other rules of the Employer or standard practice to the detriment of the Employer, the Union or another individual.
15.02	Any employee subjected to disciplinary action, other
than discharge, will be considered to have a clear record	has no further disciplinary action taken
against him, under this Article, for a period of twenty-four (24) months worked.
- 58 -
ARTICLE XVI
COMMUTING
16.01	A commuter, for the purpose of this Agreement, is an employee not obtaining board and lodging in a camp.
16.02	Each community from which employees commute shall have an agreed central place or places as a marshalling point for the purpose of commuting.
16.03	The Employer will provide free and acceptable transportation for commuters' from the marshalling point to the disembarkation point in the work area.
When transportation is by road, factory-built buses or automobiles will be used.
16.04	Employees shall not be allowed to commute to an operation in their own vehicles, except by arrangement between the parties.
16.05	If it becomes necessary to hire a man who is not a bonafids resident of a comicmnity from which free
transportation is provided, board and lodging will be provided in that community by the Employer at the agreed camp rate.
16.06
Where camps are operating and board and lodging is available, employees who use their own transportation will not receive a commuting allowance.
- 59 -
16,07	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, bonafide
residents of a community within walking distance of their place of work may commute on foot or otherwise; and walking time shall apply from the marshalling point in the community with 1 1/2 miles each way on his own time as for other employees.
ARTICLE XVII ~ WALKING AND RIDING TIME
17.01	Walking and riding time will be established on the
following basis:
a)	For the purpose of this Article, it is agreed that an employee walks at the rate of three (3) miles
per hour.
b)	Time allowance for riding time from the designated starting point to the disembarkation point will be established between the parties. Where a commuter bus makes frequent stops to allow employees to disembark, the time lost shall not enter into the calculation for walking and riding time.
c)	Where travelling time to the place of work is composed of walking and riding time, it shall be combined.
d)	Walking and riding time from a camp shall be reckoned from the dining room door to the employee's place of work.
e)	Walking and riding time for commuters shall be
reckoned from the marshalling point to the employee's place of work.

Employees will be paid for walking and/or riding time to and from work over one-half (1/2) hour each way on the basis of a flat rate of $9.00 per hour.
- 60 -
17.03	Walking and/or riding time shall not exceed one and one-half hours each way.
17.04	Where two separate crews travel on the same bus from the same marshalling point to separate disembarkation points, there will only be one designated riding and walking time.
ARTICLE XVIII - COOKHOOSE AND BUNKHOUSE STAFF
18.01
The cookery staff supplied for the workforce , including Supervisory personnel, shall be shown below. For the purpose of the Article, the cookery staff will not be considered part of the workforce.
WORKFORCE
1-15 employees 16-50 employees 51-81 employees 82-106 employees 107-132 employees 133-155 employees 156-180 employees 181-205 employees
COOKERY STAFF
1	Cook					
1	Cook,	1	Cookee			
1	Cook,	1	Second	Cook,	1	Cookee
1	Cook,	1	Second	Cook,	2	Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	2	Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	3	Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks	. 4	Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	5	Cookees
For further increases in workforce, the Cookhouse staff shall be increased proportionately.
It is agreed that this Schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing work are introduced. It is agreed that the Bunkhouseman will be hired when the camp opens and the Bunkhouseman will be given assistance as and when required.
- 61
18.01	(Cont'd.)
When the number of employees In a camp reaches 110/ an additional Bunkhouseman will be added, making a total of -	two Bunkhousemen. An extra Bunkhouseman will be added
for every additional ninety (90) men thereafter. In determining the number of Bunkhousemen to be hired, Supervisory personnel shall be included when calculating the number of the workforce.
18.02	Fuel for heat and cooking will be supplied'by the Employer, prepared and ready for use.
18.03	Cookery staff shall not be required to do work aside from kitchen and dining room duties. The Bunkhouseman is not permitted to work at the preparation of food or the washing of dishes.
18.04	On camp operations, where night-shift work is carried out, a member of the existing Cookhouse staff will be assigned to the night shift. The r-e-arrangement of the workload will facilitate cookery service during the night-shift without an added workload on the day-shift staff.
18.05	Cooks, who are required to work in excess of what is
accepted as their normal hours of work in the preparation of food for firefighters, will be paid $9.81 per hour for all such time worked.
ARTICLE
19.01
19.02
19.03
- 62
XIX - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
When death occurs to a member of an employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers shall be paid eight (8) hours at the general labour rate, plus 8%) for time lost to a maximum of five ( 5 ) consecutive days. When death occurs to a member of an employee's family, other than the immediate family, leave will be granted under the same conditions, to a maximum of three (3) consecutive days'. The intent of this Clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. One day must be the day of the funeral, and pay will only be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during this period.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted to the Company by the employee accompanied by written verification from an acceptable authority. Such verification shall designate the employee's relationship to the deceased.
For the purpose of this Article, immediate family is defined as husband, wife, child, adopted and stepchild. Family, other than immediate family, is defined as father, father-in-law, stepfather, mother, mother-in-law,
stepmother, foster parent, grandparents, brother, brother-in-law, stepbrother, sister, sister-in-law, stepsister.
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURLY WAGE RATES
RATE	RATE	RATE	RATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JAN. 1, 1988 JAN. 1, 1989 JAN. 1, 1990 JAN. 1, 1991 JAN. 1, 1992
MECHANICAL CLASSIFICATIONS
*	Mechanic 1st Class - Cert. Mechanic 1st Class ~ Uncert
" Mechanic 2nd Class
*	Mechanic - Helper 8 Learner
*	Welder 1st Class - Cert. Welder 1st Class - Uncert. Mechanic - Power Saw
14.99
13.78
12.85 12.43
14.99
13.78
12.86
15.44
14.23
13.30
12.88
15.44
14.23
13.31
16.47
15.26 14.08 13.66
16.47
15.26 14.34
17.30
16.09 14.91 14.49
17.30
16.09 15.17
18.17
16.96 15.78 15.36
18.17
16.96 16.04
EQUIPMENT OPERATORS	cn
cn
Slasher Operator
Harvester Operator
Forwarder Operator
Front-End Loader Operator (L.T.)
Front-Ent Loader Operator (G.R.)
Backhoe Operator
Dozer Operator
Grader Operator
J5 8 John Deere Operator
Skidder Operator - Non-Prod.
12.84
12.99
12.72
12.80
12.63
12.63
12.63
12.63 12.31 12.59
13.29
13.44
13.17
13.25
13.08
13.08
13.08
13.08 12.76 13.04
14.07	14.90
14.22	15.05
13.95	14.78
14.03	14.86
13.86	14.69
13.86	14.69
13.86	14.69
13.86	14.69
13.54	14.37
13.82	14.65
15.77 1 15.92 15.65 15.73
15.56
15.56
15.56
15.56 15.24 15.52
PRODUCTION CLASSES
Wheeled Skidder Operator Feller 8 Bucker
9.28
13.73	14.56
13.44	14.27
15.43
15.14
Must possess a certificate of qualification or a certificate
recognized by Provincial Government.
Schedule "A"
rent'd.	RATE	BATE	RATE	BATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE JAN. 1,1988 JAN. 1, 1989 JAN. 1, 1990 JAN. 1, 1991 JAN. 1,1992
DRIVER CLASSIFICATIONS
Truck	Driver	- Pallet	12.48
Truck	Driver	- Trailer	12.69
Truck	Driver	- Knuckle Boom	12.80
Truck	Driver	- Single 6 Tandem	
Axle	- Hauling on Body		12.31
GENERAL CLASSIFICATIONS
12.93
13.14
13.25
12.76
13.71
13.92
14.03
13.54
14.54
14.75
14.86
14.37
15.41
15.62
15.73
15.24
Bus Driver
Jackhammer operator
Carpenter 1st Class - Cert.
Carpenter - Uncertified
Dynamite Man
Winch Boat Operator
Deck Hand
Boatman - Rough Water Motor Boat Driver River Driver Sacking Lake General Labour SAWMTLL Sawyer T ail Sawyer Trimmer Edger Man Canter
Planer Operator Jack-up Man MISCELLANEOUS Painter
12.31
12,29
13.55
12.93
12.34 12.42
12.34 12.33 12.28 12.21
12.17
12.17
12.76
12,74
uioo
13.38
12.79 12.87
12.79 12.78 12.73 12.66
12.62
12.62
13.54
13.52
15.03
14.16
13.57 13.65
13.57 13.56 13.51
13.44
13.40
13.40
14.37
14.35
15.86
14.99
14.40 14,48
14.40
14.39 14.34 14.27
14.23
14.23
15.24 15 22 16.73 15.86
15.26
15.35
15.27 1^.26 15.21 15.14
15.10
15.10
I
O',
Cl
I
12.71
12.29
12.17
12.45
12.40
12.40
12.17
13.16
12.74
12.62
12,90
12.85
12.85
12.62
13.94
13.52
13.40 13.68
13.63
13.63
13.40
14.77
14.35
14.23 14.51
14.46
14.46
14.23
15.64
15.22
15.10 15.38
15.33
15.33
15.10
67
SCHEDULE "B"
BASIS - HOURS PER DAY AS REQUIRED BY THE JOB
RATE	RATE	RATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JAN. 1, 1989 JAN. 1, 1990 JAN. 1, 1991 JAN. 1, 1992
COOKHOUSE STAFF
First Cook Second Cook Cookee
Bunkhouseman
MISCELLANEOUS
Watchman	95.82	100.52	105.55	110.83
Sub-Foreman	101.17	106.13	111.44	117.01
99.47
97.71
96.39
96.39
104.37
102.61
101.29
101.29
109.59
107.83
106.51
106.51
115.06
113.30
111.98
111.98
A wage supplement of $0.87 per hour will be paid in addition to all rates during the term of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE "C
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M3 (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
JAN. 1, 1989 TO JAN. 1, 1990 TO JAN. 1, 1991 TO JAN. 1 , 1992 TO DEC. 31, 1989	DEC. 31, 1990	DEC. 31, 1991	DEC. 31, 1992
Cut and Pile
2,50 m	15.28	15.99
'Y.SlPfl Bunch	12.95	13.55
16.73
14.18
17.51
14.84
$0.04 per m3 will be paid on all wood produced in respect of poor bush bonus.
$1.25 per m3 will be paid as a winter bonus on all 2.50 meter wood during the period January 1st to April 30th.
Cutters will not cut strip roads while cutting their strips.
- 69 -
OTHER PROVISIONS - PIECEWORK (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
A flat rate for cutting wood for each camp or worksite will be set up at the beginning of each cutting season. Rate to be established before cutting begins, and the cutter shall be informed of his cutting price before starting work. The Contractor or Foreman will rotate the cutters in order to obtain equalization of cutting changes for each camp - or worksite .
At the start of each cutting season, the Company will provide the Union with a list containing the names of all Contractors with whom contracts are made for the production of pulpwood, also the camps or worksites to be operated by the Company, and the name of the Foreman supervising same. Such lists to be promptly amended from time to time as auu.xtj.OTis or ueietious take place* Tne ±xsits- will also show by classification, the estimated quantity of pulpwood to be produced,	the cutting price per cubic	meter and	the	location of
the cutting	area for each Contractor	or	Foreman.	At	the end of
each labour	contract year, the Company	will provide	the	Union with
a breakdown of the wood produced, as per the above arrangements, which will show the average price paid per cutting cubic meter for each classification, such average price shall derive from varying prices paid	for wood cut on the whole	of the Company's	operations.
- 3 -
6. RE:	INDEPENDENT SAWMILLS - JUNE 19, 1979
By this Letter of Understanding, the company is prepared to agree that in the future, the company will notify the union when independent sawmills are to be set up on company limits. The company will also indicate the approximate size of the sawmill and the geographical location of same. This notification will take place prior to the commencement of such operations.
7.	RBi LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OF NOVEMBER 10, 1983
The following paragraphs of that letter are reconfirmed.
Paragraph #2
The company agrees to notify the union of any addition of licensed timber limits.	(March 25, 1983)
Paragraph #4
Where a skidder operator is hired to pay-pack wood or to do other similar work where he is separated from the production piecework bonus operation, he will receive the rate for skidder operator (non-production) as contained in the Wage Rates, Schedule "A".
FOR ABITIBI—PRICE INC.
2 7-0 9o
Date
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ABITIBI—PRICE INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS
AND
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF AMERICA LOGGERS1 LOCAL 2564
BETWEEN
The Company agrees that where logging operations, requiring camp facilities, are established under this Collective Agreement, such facilities will be similar in all resoects to other camp operations carried on by AbitLbi-Price in the Province of Newfoundland and
Labrador.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS
AND
The Company agrees that the provisions of Article 17.01(a) can be amended by consultation between the Union Business Agent and a Management Representative responsible for any area where rough terrain or other factors require a reassessment of the rate h e re to £o re provided.
Manager - Wood Lands
Date
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ABITIBI—PRICE INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS
AND
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF AMERICA LOGGERS1 LOCAL 2564
The Company agrees chat the distance of the "pay-packing" of wood will be the subject of a mutual agreement between the Union Business A^ent and a Management Representative.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS
AND
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS &. JOINERS OF AMERICA LOGGERS1 LOCAL 2564
The Company agrees that an employee’s request for replacement of equipment that is lost due to fire or theft, while such equipment is subject to Company controi, will be considered on the merits surrounding the loss.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING



The Company agrees to have safety apparel available for purchase by the employees through the contractor.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN ABITIBI-PRICE
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS AND
U,B.C.J.A., LOCAL 2564
Re:	Interpretation of Collective Agreement
________________Article 12.06_______________
An employee who has been temporarily disabled as the result of an illness or accident, upon obtaining a medical certificate of fitness, will be required to return to the job which he left if same is continuing.
In the event that an employee is permanently disabled from doing the job he left, but has a medical certification indicating that he is capable of performing work in another job, he may exercise his seniority rights for the first job that becomes available provided he has previously demonstrated his skill and ability in the job. He will not have the right to bump a junior employee who was working prior to his having received such medical certification.
Date
- 2 -
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
TYPE OF PLAN
One year group renewal term.
ELIGIBILITY
All full time Union employees of the Woodlands Division, their spouses and dependents under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the employee's completion of a waiting period of 60 days of accumulated seniority.
If the employee is not actively at work on the date the coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on the employee's return to regular employment on a full time basis.
DEFINITIONS Regular Employees
Any employee of the company, including a contractor's employee, who is covered by the current Collective Agreement shall be deemed a "regular employee", provided that he has accumulated at least 60 days of seniority.
Dependent
An unmarried child 1 year of age but less than 19 years of age (25 years of age when a student full time) wholly dependent on the employee for support.
- 3 -
BENEFIT
Your life insurance benefit provides coverage on and off the job.
DEATH BENEFIT
If the employee should die, regardless of cause, 535,000 will be paid to the beneficiary.
You may change your beneficiary at any time subject to the laws governing such changes.
If you do not appoint a beneficiary, or if your beneficiary predeceased you, the benefit will be paid to vour executors, administrators or assigns.
SPOUSE
If the spouse should die, regardless of the cause, $2,500 will be paid to the employee.
DEPENDENT
If the dependent should die, regardless of the cause, SI, 000 will be paid to the employee.
OPTIONS AT DEATH
In the event of your death, your estate will receive the benefits under this plan in a lump sum payment unless you have made a prior request in writing that payment be made to a designated beneficiary in a lump sum, or in monthly instalments.
PREMIUM COS-
The company will pay the full cost.
CONVERSION OPTION
Should the employee terminate employment, group life insurance may be converted, regardless of health, to any regular individual policy used for this purpose, provided you make written application for conversion within 31 days of the date of your termination. Should death occur during the 31-dav period in which you are eligible to make application for conversion, the amount of your group life insurance will be paid to your beneficiary.
The purpose of this provision is to make sure you do not lose coverage er\tL.i.£eiy if you are • in poor health when you terminate =
If you are in good health, you should compare the premium rates of other companies as well, to be certain you are paying the best rate possible.
PERIODS OF LAY-OF-
Should the employee be temporarily laid-off, the group life insurance will remain in force for 240 days from the first date of lay-off.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The employer may deem coverage to continue for a period of not more than 30 days following the date on which the employee is granted leave of absence for any reason other than illness or injury.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	When the employee terminates employment.
2.	On the date the covered person enters the armed forces of any country on a full time basis.
3« On the date the group policy terminates.
4* On the date you are no longer eligible.
5. On the date you die.
4 -
5
CLAIM PROCEDURES
LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT
In the event of a covered person's death, the beneficiary should contact the fringe benefits section of the Industrial Relations Department.
CHANGE OF CARRIER
The company reserves the right to terminate this policy in order to change carrier.
RETIREMENTS
An employee or spouse who attains age 65 shall not continue to be covered by this plan and his certificate shall be cancelled.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 200 accumulated seniority days. if you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
CONTRIBUTIONS
6
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
If, while insured, an employee suffers any of the losses listed below as a result of:
(a) an accidental bodily injury visibleonthe surface of the body ,or
<b) a disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental injury, or
(c) accidental drowning.
The benefits indicated will be paid providing that death or loss occurs within 365 days after and results directly from the accidental bodily injury. The total benefit payable for one accident shall not exceed 100% of the amount specified m the schedule of insurance. Should a later claim occur, it will be considered as a new claim.
EMPLOYEE
Effective August 1, 1990, the principal sum under the accidental death and dismemberment benefit is $35,000
NATURE OF LOSS
Loss of life
Loss of both hands or both feet Lass of both eyes Loss	of	one	hand	and	one	foot
Loss	of	one	foot	and	one	eye
Loss	of	one	hand	or one	foot
Loss	of	one	eye
Loss of thumb and any finger of the same hand
SPOUSE AND DEPENDENT
Effective August 1, 1990, for eligible employees, an accidental death benefit will be provided for spouse and dependent as follows:
Spouse	$2,500
Dependent	$1,000
Dependent - an unmarried child 1 year of age but less than 19 years of age (25 years of age when a student full-time) wholly dependent on the employee for support.
AMOUNT PAYABLE
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
50%
50%
25%
- 7 -
EXPOSURE AND DISAPPEARANCE
If, as a direct result of an accident, a covered person has died or has suffered one of the specified losses due to exposure to the elements of nature, Confederation Life will pay the benefit Provided death or loss occurred within 365 days after the accident.
If, as a direct result of the accidental disappearance, wrecking or sinking of the conveyance in which a covered person was riding, such employee has disappeared and his body has not been found within 1 year, then on the presumption that he has died, Confederation Life will pay the benefit.
BENEFICIARY
In the event of loss of life, the principal sum will be paid to the employee's beneficiary as recorded on his group insurance enrolment card.
In the event of losses other than life, the amounts indicated will be paid to the insured.
DEFINITIONS
"Accidental Death" means death resulting from any of the following:
(al accidental bodily injury visible on the surface of the body or disclosed by an autopsy.
(b) disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental bodily injury.
(c}
accidental drowning.
"Loss of Foot" means severance at or above the ankle joint.
"Loss of Hand" means severance at or above the wrist joint.
”Lo~s of Thumb and Finger" means severance at or above the knuckles joining the thumb and finger to the hand.
"Loss of Eye" means entire and irrecoverable loss of sight of the eye.
an
8
EXCEPTIONS
No benefits will be payable if death or accidental bodily injury results directly or indirectly from:
(a)	Any infection of bodily or mental infirmity or disease existing before or commencing after the accidental injury except a disease or infection as provided in the definition of "accidental death".
(b)	Suicide, intentionally self-inflicted injuries while sane,
or self-inflicted injuries while insane.
<c) Insurrection. war, service in the armed forces or any country in a state of war, whether or not war is declared, or participation in a riot.
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
Should you be temporarily laid-off, your accidental death and dismemberment benefit will remain in force for 90 days from the first day of lay-off.
TERMINATION OF IN-SURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates: 1 2 3 4 5
1.	when the employee terminates employment.
2.	on the date any covered person enters the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3. on the date the group policy terminates.
4. on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
10
Coramencinq "on the date of lay-off ? regular Weekly Indemnity
benefits will cease. The employee must apply, if eligible for U.I.C. benefits.	When the U.I.C. benefit expires, or if the
employee is not eligible for any benefits under U.I.C. , the company will treat his Weekly Indemnity as a continuation of his claim and the employee will receive a Weekly Indemnity benefit without satisfying a new qualifying period.
In all cases above, the total number of weeks to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits and U.I.C. benefits will not exceed fifty-two (52) weeks.
Should the employee be disabled from the same accident or sickness on the date he IS x"HUTcf f btfU3 tO' 'work; L ills1, Den&li t" wi!i f fesuiTfe f tOm
the date that he is recalled. The insured employee who becomes disabled during a period of lay-off will become eligible for benefits commencing from the day following the date he would have started to work.
DEFINITION OF DISABILITY
Eligible employees who are unable to work because of nonoccupational accident and sickness may claim benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan. To qualify, an employee must be under the regular care and treatment of a physician.
A period of disability means a period during which the insured is under the care of a physician as a result of injury sustained or sickness contracted and is totally and continuously disabled such as to be unable to perform any work.
However, in isolated regions where there is no physician, the paramedical clause under Weekly Indemnity may be applied. Under this provision, the insurer will accept a certification of disability CompJ._et.ed by a Registered Nurse located in the region, for payment
periods of less than two (2) weeks; for longer periods, the insurer reserves the right to request a medical statement from an M.D.
Under all circumstances, the insurer shall have the right to require the disabled employee to undergo a medical examination at the insurer's expense and so often as it may be reasonable.
RECURRENT DISABILITY
- n -
Successive periods of disability	rivfd by Jess iJ?,?,*? 30 calendar
days shall be considered one period of disability unless the subsequent disability is due to an injury or sickness entirely unrelated to the causes of the previous disability and after the employee has returned to full-time active employment.
INTEGRATION OF BENEFITS
Benefits payable under this plan will be offset by any benefits which are payable (or would have been payable had a satisfactory application been submitted) under the Canada Pension Plan or the Quebec Pension Plan, and/or any government plan of automobile insurance which has been approved as an acceptable limitation by the Unemployment Insurance Commission. Benefits are also offset by earnings or benefits from any employer.
1.	It is understood and acknowledged that the master contract between the employer and the insurance carrier is the governing instrument and that decisions made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the insurance contract are not subject to the grievance procedure.
2.	It is further agreed that the union will fully cooperate with the employer to control absenteeism and the misuse of disability payment provisions and, furthermore, that all necessary and reasonable attempts to investigate the legitimacy of all and any absences and that any employee proven to have made false statements or to have given misinformation is liable to dismissal.
TAXES AT SOURCE
Since disability benefits are taxable, federal taxes will be deducted st source according to the current Federal Tax Table as
per reported T.D.l exemption form. In any event, tax exemption not reported on initial submission of a disability claim will be applied at a flat 15%.
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
12
i-Overage Uuuer uus pian win uerralridte On une eariiesL
following dates:
ui. cne
1.	when you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3.	on	the	date	the	group policy terminates.
4.	on	the	date	you	are no longer eligible.
5-	on	the	date	you	die.
Should you be receiving Weekly Indemnity benefits under this policy and the policy is terminated, then benefits will continue to the end of the benefit period, provided that you remain totally disabled.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE COMMISSION REGISTRATION
In the event that any time the plan is registered with the Unemployment insurance Commission, the total premium reduction will be retained by the company.
EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
Benefits will not be payable for the following:
1.	Those days for which you receive holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from your employer.
2 . A disability for which you are not under the continuing care and treatment of a physician. Benefits are not payable for a disability not supported by a specific diagnosis (i.e. fatigue, anxiety, etc., are not specified diagnosis).
3. Self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
4.	Any disability for which you are entitled to indemnity or compensation under Workers' Compensation Act.
5.	Bodily injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any
country or participation in a riot.
6.	Under all circumstances, the Insurer shall have the
riqht to te.cy.ii.re. the disabled	to undergo a
medical examination at the insurer's expense when and so often as may be required.
13 -
7.	On attainment of age 65.
8.	Pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or any complication thereof.
9.	For a period of disability in excess of two weeks where treatment is rendered solely by chiropractor provided it has been recommended by a physician or surgeon. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four (4) weeks per insured person per calendar year.
10.	Al coholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is
confined in a hospital or institution licensed to provide care and treatment incident thereto,' or unless the employee is undergoing a regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the company and a physician.
11	The disability is due to cosmetic surgery or treatment as determined by Confed, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injury and commenced within 90 days of the accident.
12	The disability arises while engaged in employment for remuneration or profit with any other employer, including strike or holidays.
13	The disability is the result of engaging in a criminal act.
CLAIM PROCEDURES
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
When you find that you cannot report to work because of a nonoccupational accident or sickness, you should contact the fringe benefit section of the Industrial Relations' Department of Abitibi-Price Inc., in Grand Falls. (This contact must be made within fifteen (15) days from your first date of absence. Failure to do so in this time period may result in a loss of benefits.)
A claim form will be sent to you and you in turn will take that form to your doctor. He completes the portion headed "Attending Physician's Statement". If he does not answer all questions, the form will be returned and this could result in a delay of your payments. You must complete the section concerning you which is headed "Insured's Statement". You must return the form to the Industrial Relations' Department.
- 14 -
You may from time to time be requested to have your doctor complete supplementary forms as required by the insurance company.
When the completed claim form is received at the Industrial Relations' Department, it will be forwarded to the insurance company. They will make all decisions concerning approval or rejection of the claim. If approved, the cheques will be sent to the claimant through the Industrial Relations' Department. It is very important that the Industrial Relations' Department has your correct address to ensure that your cheques will not be delayed.
Once you have been in receipt of Weekly Indemnity benefits, in order for you to be able to come back to work, you must have a return to work pass from your doctor. When you have the pass, you report for work on the designated day and present the pass to your foreman. All foremen have been instructed not to allow any employees back to work unless they produce a pass. It will be useless for you to report for work and tell your foreman that you have a pass but left it home. Your foreman will have no alternative but to send you home for it. In addition to a loss of wages, this could mean a considerable expense to you, depending on the travel distance involved.
The cost of the plan will be fully paid by the company.

The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee and/or the employee's dependent is eligible under the disability benefit provision in any other government plans for disability, for which the employee is entitled to receive an amount of disability benefit under this plan, except war disability pensions. The company reserves the right to request that an employee make application for government benefits and, if the employee refuses, his benefits will be suspended.
The company,may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other government plans.
The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of anv future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the company through some mutually satisfactory arrangement.
15 -
LONG TERM DISABILITY
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division, under age 65, will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period.
If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
BENEFIT
Effective January 1, 1991, the maximum monthly benefit payable will be increased to $1,200 per month for any claim which commenced on or after January 1, 1991.
This amount will be reduced by other income to which you may be entitled from any of the following sources:
1.	the long term disability benefits shall be reduced by any benefits or replacement income that is payable. or would have been payable, had a satisfactory request been submitted to the government under C.P.P./Q.P.P. and under any Workers' Compensation Act related directly to the accident or illness for which these benefits are paid.
2.	earnings or payments from any employer.
3.	disability benefits payable under any other group. association or franchise insurance plan.
4.	retirement benefits provided by an employer and/or a government.
5.	income replacement indemnity payable under any government plan of automobile insurance.
The amount of benefit payable to Confederation Life will not be affected by changes in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes result from:
1.	a correction due to an error made when your award was originallv determined.
2.	a change of 10% or more m the benefit formula under the government plan.
16
Confederation Life reserves the right to estimate the amount of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan award pending advice of the actual award.
COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFITS
Benefits begin after the .expiration of Weekly Indemnity benefits provided proof of disability is submitted within 6 months following the qualifying period.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD
Once you have satisfied the qualifying period, you will receive a monthly income until your 65th birthday or the cessation of total disability, or until you have received a maximum of 60 months in benefits, whichever occurs first.
DEFINITION OF TOTAL DISABILITY
Totally disabled means you are wholly and continuously disabled due to illness or accidental bodily injury and, as a result, you are unable to perform the duties of your normal occupation during the qualifying period and the succeeding 12 months. If, after this time, you are unable to perform the duties of any occupation for which you are or may become fitted by eduction, training or experience, you will still be considered totally disabled.
Confinement is not normally required. However, you must be under the regular care of a physician and be prepared to attempt rehabilitative employment, or participate in a rehabilitation programme, considered appropriate by Confederation Life.
REHABILITATION
Long Term Disability benefits are designed to be paid during periods when you are disabled and cannot work. Often however, there will be a time when. although you are not yet fully recovered, you can work at some type of Job and possibly earn an income.	This type of work *is usually considered to be
rehabilitative employment and, provided Confederation Life does class it as such, L.T.D. benefits will not automatically cease but can continue while you are on rehab.
- 17 -
Although most income is normally used to reduce L.T.D. benefits, in the case of rehab only half of these earnings will be used to reduce your L.T.D. payments, provided that while on rehab your income from all sources including those outlined previously is not greater than 100% of your earnings prior to your disability.
RECURRENT DISABILITIES
Once YOU have been disabled and have received benefits under this plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by less than 4 months of full-time active employment.
A disability will not be considered to be ‘recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is entirely unrelated to the causes of the previous disability.
If any'period of disability is classified as "recurrent", it will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. You will not have to re-satisfy any'qualifying periods which may apply -benefits will begin again immediately.
WAIVER OF PREMIUM
Premiums are due and payable during the qualifying period. However, once the qualifying period has been satisfied, premiums falling due during a period when benefits are payable, will be waived.
EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
Benefits will not be payable for the following:
1. a disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2. a disability resulting from insurrection, war. service in the armed forces or any country,or participation in a riot.
3.	a disability resulting from alcoholism, drug addiction, or the use of any hallucinogen unless you are participating in a therapeutic program recognised by Confederation Life and are under the continuous care of a medical specialist in this field.
4.	a disability which is the result of engaging in a criminal act.
5.	a disability which arises while engaged in employment for remuneration or profit with any other employer, including strikes and holidays.
- 18 -
Complications due to pregnancy are covered.	However, any
disability due to any cause will not be eligible for benefits at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with relevant government legislation or the leave agreed upon by you and your employer.
CLAIM PROCEDURES
You should contact the fringe benefit section of the Industrial Relations' Department of Abitibi-Price Inc., in Grand Falls.
A claim form will be sent to you, and you in turn will take that form to you doctor. He completes the portion headed "Attending Physician's Statement". If he does not answer all questions, the form will be returned and this could result in a delay of your payments. YOU must complete the section concerning you which is headed "Insured's Statement". You must return the form to the Industrial Relations' Department. You may from time to time be requested to have your doctor complete supplementary forms as required by the insurance company.
When the completed claim form is received at the Industrial Relations' Department, it will be forwarded to the insurance company. They will make all decisions concerning approval or rejection of the claim. If approved, the first and last cheque will be sent to the claimant through the Industrial Relations' Department - all other cheques will come directly from Confederation Life. It is very important that the Industrial Relations' Department has your correct address to ensure that your cheques will not be delayed.
Claims must be submitted no later than qualifying period.
6 months following the
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3. on the date the group policy terminates.
4. on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
6.	on the first of the month coincident with or immediately foljkmriRj' bihr' cc,e*\h£' reach age 65 or retire.
19
When your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claims must be given to Confederation Life within 90 days of the date of termination of insurance;
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS
Long Term Disability benefits will extend beyond Your termination date, subject to the maximum benefit period, provided you become disabled while you are still insured. Benefits will continue to_ be paid according to the contract provisions, regardless of the subsequent termination of the group policy, Confederation Life reserves the right to require that while you are in receipt of L.T.D. income, you furnish proof of the continuance of total disability, and submit to an examination “■by Confederation Life's medical laiivU-Vurs- w'ntfrT requested.
MEDICAL INSURANCE PLAN
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 90 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Eligible dependents are your spouse and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are under 21 years of age, unmarried children to age 25 if full-time student. If a child is mentally or physically infirm, wholly dependent on you for support, and was insured prior to attaining the maximum age,-they will continue to be insured.
All your dependents must be registered (by name, relationship and date of birth) with the employer before claims are accepted for payment. If you are initially insured for employee benefits only, and later acquire a dependent, you should notify your employer accordingly in writing. Your dependent will then be enrolled in the plan. If one of your dependents is hospitalised on the date coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
20
This o-Lan. includes a Co-ordination of Benefits provision: This provision operates in the event that you are covered under more than one health plan and insures that payments made by all plans do not exceed the actual expenses incurred.
HOSPITAL BENEFIT
If you, or a covered dependent, are confined in a licensed hosD^taJ.*, you will be reimbursed for room and board	in.
excess of ward accommodation up to the level of semi-private accommodation. If confined in a private room, payment will be based on the hospital average charge for semi-private room and board.
MAJOR MEDICAL BENEFIT
PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
This benefit pays 100% of all eligible expenses under item 1 and 80% of all other benefits which are in excess of a deductible of S25 up to a maximum per calendar year of $10,000 less any major medical payments made during the immediately preceding 2 calendar years for each covered individual.
r\Dnnr|'T'TOT i?

The $25 deductible is applied once each calendar year to the eligible expenses incurred that Year per family.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
The following is a list of items currently eligible for payment under this group plan. However, should your provincial medicare plan alter to include any of these items, coverage under this plan will automatically adjust in accordance with the approved legislation.
Eligible expenses must be reasonable, customary and recommended as necessary by a physician. Hospital or physician's charges incurred on an emergency basis outside Canada wiii be treated as specified under points 11 and 12.
21
1.	Drugs, medicines, sera and injectables, available only on a written prescription by a physician or dentist and dispensed
by a phan&arJLsi’-, d
2.	Diagnostic procedures, radiology, oxygen and blood transfusion.
3.	Fees of a private nurse (R.N.) who is not related to you or ordinarily a resident in your home and whose continuous attendance is for justifiable medical reasons recommended and requested by the attending physician.
4.	Necessary licensed ground ambulance service to and from a local hospital.
5.	One return trip 'y&i	'y>fai
by air ambulance or regular scheduled airline or railroad to the nearest hospital qualified to provide treatment.
Licensed ground ambulance service to and from the point of departure is also an eligible expense.
6- Dental treatment required as a direct result of an
accidental injury to natural teeth provided such treatment is rendered within 6 months of the accident and the claimant's insurance as well as this policy are still in force, the eligible expenses for such dental treatment shall be limited to the expenses incurred only to repair the damage resulting directly from the accident, and to an amount for the least expensive procedure which will provide a professionally adequate result.
7.	Purchase of a truss, brace or crutches or purchase of an artificial limb or eye when loss of the limb or eye occurred while insured under this plan.
8.	Purchase of a wheelchair.
9.	Rental of a hospital bed, iron lung or wheelchair.
10.	Room and board and normal nursing care in a licensed nursing home, under the supervision of a physician, up to S20 per day.
11.	Physiotherapy treatments rendered by a licensed physiotherapist except any such treatment provided by
an individual who is related to you.
22
12.	Professional services of a physician {where this coverage is permitted by law) with the following conditions:
(a)	In the case of treatment for mental and nervous disorders while not confined to hospital, payment will be at 50% and is subject to a maximum payment
of $10 for each treatment and S500 for all treatments during any one calendar year.
(b)	For emergency treatment outside Canada, reasonable and customary charges in the area in which the service is given will be considered as a" eligible expense less the amount payable under your provincial medicare plan.
13.	Hospital charges incurred for emergency treatment outside Canada, including room and board (for the difference between the benefit payable by the provincial hospital plan and the actual cost of ward accommodation) and charges for special hospital services for a maximum of 31 days per period of disability.
VISION CARE - EMPLOYEE AND DEPENDENTS
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses, including prescription sun glasses and contact lenses, up to a maximum payment of $75 in any two consecutive calendar years. Payment will be exempt from the plan deductible.
The vision care benefit will be $75 once every twenty-four (24) months for employees and dependents age eighteen (18) and over, and once every twelve (12) months for dependents under age eighteen _(18). An optometric benefit (eye examination) of $20 once every twenty-four (24) months will be extended to employees and dependents over age eighteen (18) and once every twelve (12) months for dependents under age eighteen (18).
MATERNITY EXPENSES
Charged incurred due to pregnancy will be treated in the same manner as charges incurred due to any other condition.
23
EXPENSES NOT COVERED
1.	Vitamins, periodic check-ups, travel for health and examinations required for the use of a third party.
2.	Cosmetic surgery or treatment when so classified by Confederation Life, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
3.	Charges levied by a physician for his/her time spent travelling, broken appointments, his/her transportation costs, room rental charges, for advice given-by him/her by telephone or other means of telecommunications:
4.	Any services, treatments or supplies payable under, or insurable only by, a government plan.
5.	Intentionally self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
6« Any disability for which you are entitled to indemnity or compensation under any Workers' Compensation Act.
7. Bodily injury resulting directly or indirectly from
insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot.
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
Should you be laid-off, your medical benefit will remain in force for 90 days from the first day of lay-off.
24
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3. on the date the group policy terminates.
4. on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
When your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claims must be given to Confederation Life within 90 days of the date ot termination of insurance.
CLAIM PROCEDURE - HOSPITAL & MAJOR MEDICAL BENEFIT
Claim forms are obtainable from the supervisor in the area in which you work or from the Fringe Benefit Section of the Industrial Relations' Department of Abitibi-Price Inc. in Grand Fails. When hospitalized, a claim form should be completed by the hospital. The claim form can then be submitted to Abitibi-Price Inc.
When making a claim, you must obtain the necessary form as outlined above, complete and return it, along with any itemized bills to:
Abitibi-Price Inc.
Woodlands Division P.O. Box 500 Grand Falls, Nfld.
A2A 2K1
To be eligible for payment, claims must be submitted not later than the calendar year following the year in which the claim occurred.
Itemized bills in support of claims will not be returned but will be retained by Confederation Life.
Note:	It is your responsibility to pay for your medical bills and
submit same to Confederation Life for reimbursement.
- 25 -
DENTAL CARE PLAN
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 200 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Eligible dependents are your spouse and '-your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are under 21 years of age. unmarried children to age 25 if a full-time student. Any mentally or physically handicapped child may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-. sustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
All your dependents must be registered (by name, relationship and date of birth) with the employer before claims are accepted for payment. If you are initially insured for employee benefits only, and later acquire a dependent, you .should notify your employer accordingly in writing. Your dependent will then be enrolled in the plan.
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
This plan included a Co-ordination of Benefits Provision. This provision operates in the event that you are covered under more than one health or dental plan and ensures that payments made by all plans do not exceed the actual expenses- incurred.
CONTRIBUTIONS
Effective August 15, the employer.
1985, contributions will be paid in full by
26
COVERED EXPENSES
The maximum benefit per calendar year is $500 per insured family member and covers extractions, partial and full dentures and denture repairs.
-	dental x-rays.
-	oral surgery, including excision of impacted teeth.
-	amalgam, silicate and plastic composite fillings.
-	anaesthetics administered in connection with oral surgery or other covered dental services.
-	injections of antibiotic drugs by the attending dentist.
-	oral examination, scaling and cleaning of teeth once every six <6) months.
Reimbursements will be based on the suggested fee for general practitioners or denturists in the 1988 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide. Effective January 1, 1990, reimbursement will be based on the suggested fees in the 1989 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide. Effective January 1, 1991, reimbursement will be based on the suaaested fees in the 1990 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide.--Effective January 1, 1992, reimbursement will be based on the suggested fees in the 1991 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide.
PRE-DETERMINATION OF BENEFITS
If the cost of a course of treatment planned is expected to exceed $200, the course of treatment must be filed with, and approved by, the insurance company prior to the commencement of treatment. The forms are available from your employer. After reviewing the proposed treatment, the insurance company will notify both you and your dentist of the estimated payment under the plan. Failure to file and obtain approval may result in benefits of a lesser amount than would otherwise have been payable. When optional procedures are available, reimbursement will be based on the least expensive procedure which, as determined by the insurance company, will produce a professionally adequate result.
2 7
EXCLUSIONS
The plan does not cover:
-	dental services not listed under "Covered Expenses".
-	services not performed by a licensed dentist of denturist.
any eligible expenses for which coverage is provided or available (or would be if the plan was not in effect) under any insurance or other contract, plan or law.
treatments received before the effective date of your benefits. dental services performed primarily for cosmetic purposes.
-	travel expenses to and from the place of treatment.
-	treatment brought about by conditions arising from war, riot or insurrection, or while serving in the armed forces of any country.
-	self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
-	fixed bridgework.
charges levied by a physician or dentist for his/her time spent travelling, broken appointments, his/her transportation costs, room rental charges, or for advice given by him/her by telephone or other means of telecommunication.
-	dental treatment received from a dental or medical department maintained by an employer, an association, or a labour union.
services and supplies rendered for full mouth reconstruction,, for a vertical dimension correction, or for a correction to temporal mandibular ]oint dysfunction.
- 29 -
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
Disabled employees on Workers' Compensation will be eligible for benefits for up to twelve (12) months after the date of disability.
ROW TO CLAIM
After you or one of your dependents have made an appointment with
the dentist, obtain a claim form from your employer. The completed claim form should be returned to your employer for processing.
In the event that the dentist demands payment from the claimant upon 'completion of treatment, it will be the claimant's responsibility to pay the dentist and then claim reimbursement from
the insurance company. It will be necessary for the claimant to secure a completed claim form from the dentist.
To 'be eligible for payment, claims must be submitted no later than the calendar year following the year in which the claim occurred.