a i<9°-t&fe
HERRING	IF  ---------------
1990	-	1991
fw's Agreement entered into between, the Native Brotherhood Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C. and hit?
the
companies signatory to this Agreement covers minimum working conditions for gillnet herring fishermen in the iptfcc,6: dvw«iSy; of herring for the roe.	------------------------------------■aucatiXtCL.
TT T9 HF.RF.TN MnTTTRT.T .V AGREF.n AS ROT ,T .OTaTR 1
1)	The Company(ies) party to this Agreement agree to recognize the Native Brotherhood of B.C. hereinafter referred to as "the Brotherhood", as the representative of all gillnet herring fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood and who have designated the Brotherhood as their authorized representative.
2)	The Company(ies) agree to honour Brotherhoodvouchers covering initiation fees and dues signed by fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood or are desirous of joining, the Brotherhood and who have monies due from the Company, "T t d-f understood that such vouchers, when honoured, sltall be paid by cheque by
the Company and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Brotherhood. The Company shall forward payment to the Brotherhood of all such vouchers not later than May 31, 1990 for the 1990 roe season, or May 31, 1991 for the 1991 roe season.
3)	It is agreed that not later than June 30, 1989 the Company will pay by cheque to the order of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund established by the Union,- four dollars and seventy-cents ($4.75)per green ton of herring produced under this Agreement. The Company shall furnish to the Brotherhood a list of fishermen employed under this Agreement along with the payment to the Fund. The Brotherhood agrees that . the Company has no responsibility with regard to any claim any person may have in connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund.
4)	The minimum price to be paid to gillnet fishermen for gillnet herring caught and delivered to collectors or packers on the fishing grounds shall be si:: hundred dollars ($600) per green ton.
5)	It is mutually agreed that from the date of this Agreement, all Brotherhood members who are engaged in herring or mixed fishing shall 'observe a 48-hour weekend closed period beginning 2:00 p.m. Friday and ending 2:00p.m. Sunday, eucept where the Department of Fisheries and Oceans determines that there is evidence of suitable roe herring in an area and that the herring in that area will be largely spawned out at the end of the weekend.
6)	It is mutually agreed that should any dispute occur involving Brotherhood members that cannot be settled on the spot, such disputes shall be referred to the Brotherhood and the Company concerned for final adjustment. In no case shall members of the Brotherhood involved in a dispute take any action without consultation with the Brotherhood Headquarters.
7)	It is agreed that gillnet herring fishermen working under this Agreement will not be required to transport herring to the Company plant and that the Company will supply adequate collector or packer' service. In the event the Company, for unavoidable reasons is temporarily unable to supply such service and provided the Company instructs the fisherman,to deliver his production to the plant, the Company will provide
additional payment to the fisherman for such transportation. The minimum additional payment shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) per ton for packing the fish to the plant or point of unloading. The Company shall pay for the unloading and any other transportation costs involved.
8)	Each Company will advise the Brotherhood in writing of the names of herring vessels and the names of herring boat operators to be employed the Company one week prior to the commencement of the opening of Gillnet Herring Roe Fishing. The Company will advise the Brotherhood in writing of all replacements or other changes during the season.
9)	Worker., Compensation Independent Coverage
Each Company shall provide all gillnet fishermen with Workers' Compensation Coverage in accordance with Workers1 Compensation Board regulations while operating under the terms of this Agreement, inclusive of fishing, loading and unloading, washing, repairing and making up of fishing gear.
This clause does not remove other statutory or contractual obligations which the Company may have with regard to Workers' Compensation.
10)	This Agreement shall be effective from January 1. 1990 and will remain in full force and effect until December XI. 1991 and will remain in effect from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to re-open is given by either party prior to December 31, ' 1989 or December 31 of any subsequent year. If notice to re-open is given, negotiations shall commence immediately and either party shall be free to terminate or suspend herring fishing operations effective on or after December 31, 1989 or December 31 of any subsequent year in which notice is given.
2
s Aqreement is hereby mutually siqned by the Parties hereto this day of	, 1990.
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING	THE NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF
ASSOCIATION OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Representing:
BRITISH COLUMBIA PACKERS LIMITED '
THE CANADIAN FISHING COMPANY LIMITED/ J.S. MCMILLAN FISHERIES LIMITED / NELSON BROS. FISHERIES LIMITED r OCEAN FISHERIES LIMITEDy
3
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE NATTVE BROTHERHOOD OF BRTTTSH COLUMBIA AND
THE FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
The Native Brotherhood of British Columbia, representing seine crews and gillnet fishermen who are members and have designated the Native Brotherhood as their authorized representative, and the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of British Columbia, representing member companies signatory to this agreement have mutually agreed as follows:
1. The member companies of the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and the Native Brotherhood of B.C. (hereinafter referred to as the "Brotherhood") agree to enter into discussions leading to a new relationship covering the fishing, processing and marketing of
salmon and roe herring.
The new relationship will detail the arrangements €or the price schedules and sharing formulae for Brotherhood seine and gillnet fishermen marketing salmon and/or roe herring through the Company.
3. The objective of the Brotherhood and.the Company is to develop a new arrangement so that the Company and Brotherhood members are able to prosecute the salmon and herring fisheries without interruption and each receives a fair market return for their investment of capital and labour.
4. Discussions will begin immediately and conclude by June 1r 1992 in order that both parties can prepare for the upcoming fishing seasons.
S. The subjects for discussion include, but are not limited to:
a)	contract between fishermen and Company for delivery and purchase.
b)	market sharing formula
c)	timing of payments
d)	crew/vessel cost and revenue sharing formula
e)	benefit package
6. As an interim measure, the Brotherhood and the Company agree to abide by the terms of the 1990-91 Roe Herring and Herring Gillnet fishing agreements between the Company and the Brotherhood. Improvements to these agreements will be made as they are reached during discussions of the new relationship.
This agreement is signed by the parties this	day of
day of
1992.
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING	NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF B.C
ASSOCIATION OF B.C.
z
On(behalf df/
British Columbia Packers Ltd.
The Canadf^n, Fishing, Company Ltd.
J.S. McMf
Fisheries
Nelson Bros. Fisheries Ltd Ocean Fisheries Ltd.
rJo-r r2-<=:SUNtflL ^ A..Ci2-OSS
ooo^G