HFRRTNG GILLNET FTSHTNG AGREEMENT
This Agreement entered into between 'the Native Brotherhood and the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C. and the member companies signatory to this Agreement covers minimum prices and working conditions for gillnet herring fishermen in the production of herring for the roe.
IT IS HEREIN MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1)	The Company(ies) party to this Agreement agree to recognize the Native Brotherhood of B.C. hereinafter referred to as "the Brotherhood", as the representative of all gillnet herring fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood and who have designated the Brotherhood as their author ized representative.
2)	The Company(ies) agree to honour Brotherhood vouchers
covering initiation fees and dues signed by fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood or are desirous of joining the Brotherhood and who have monies due from the Company. It is understood that such vouchers, when honoured, shall be paid by cheque by the Company and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Brotherhood.	The Company shall forward
payment to the Brotherhood of all such vouchers not later than May 31, 1987,
3)	It is agreed that not later than June 30, 1987 the Company will pay by cheque to the order of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund established by the Union, four dollars and seventy-cents ($4.75) per green ton of herring produced under this Agreement. The Company shall furnish to the Brotherhood a list of fishermen employed under this Agreement along with the payment to the Fund. The Brotherhood agrees that the Company has no responsibility with regard to any claim any person may have in connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund.
4)	The minimum price to be paid to gillnet fishermen for gillnet herring caught and delivered to collectors or packers on the fishing grounds shall be one thousand and ninety-two dollars ($1,092.001 per green ton.
5)	It is mutually agreed that from the date of this Agreement, all Brotherhood members who are engaged in herring or mixed fishing shall observe a 48-hour weekend closed period
1
stcbeginning 2:00p.m. Friday and ending 2:00p.m, Sunday, except
— '"where the Department of Fisheries and Oceans determines that there is evrdence of suitable roe herring in an area and that the herring in that area will be largely spawned out at the end of the weekend.
6)	It is mutually agreed that should any dispute occur involving Brotherhood members that cannot be settled on the spot, such disputes shall be referred to the Brotherhood and the
Company concerned for final adjustment. In no case shall members of the Brotherhood involved in a dispute take any
action without consultation with the Brotherhood Headquarters.
7)	It is agreed that gillnet herring fishermen working under this Agreement will not be required to transport herring to the Company plant and that the Company will supply
adequate collector or packer service. In the event the Company, for unavoidable reasons is temporarily unable to supply such service and provided the Company instructs the fisherman to deliver his production to the plant, the Company will provide additional payment to the fisherman for such transportation. The minimum additional payment shall be sixty dollars ($60,001 per ton .for packing the fish to the plant or point of unloading. The Company shall pay for the unloading and any other transportation costs involved,
8)	Each Company will advise the Brotherhood in writing of the names of herring vessels and the names of herring boat operators to be employed by the Company one week prior to the commencement of the opening of Gillnet Herring Roe Fishing. The Company will advise the Brotherhood in writing of all replacements or other changes during the season.
9)	Workers' Compensation Independent Coverage
Each Company shall provide all gillnet fishermen with Workers' Compensation Coverage in accordance with Workers' Compensation Board regulations while operating under the terms of this Agreement, inclusive of fishing, loading and unloading, washing, repairing and making up of fishing gear.
This clause does not remove other statutory or contractual obligations which the Company may have with regard to Workers' Compensation.
2
10 5 This Agreement shall be effective from the signing date hereunder and will remain in ettecF From year- to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to re-open is given by either party prior to December 31, 1987 or December 31 of any subsequent year. If notice to re'-open is given, negotiations shall commence immediately and either party shall be free to terminate or suspend herring fishing operations effective on or after' December 31,	1987 or
December 31 of any subsequent year in which notice is given.
This Agreement is hereby mutually signed by the Parties hereto t_his_ IdfCK) day of /T?o, c, 1987.
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING	THE NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF
BRITISH COLUMBIA PACKERS LIMITED THE CANADIAN FISHING COMPANY LIMITED
J.S. MCMILLAN FISHERIES LIMITED NELSON BROS. FISHERIES LIMITED OCEAN FISHERIES LIMITED