NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
1989. 1990 and 1991
This Agreement made and entered into between each of the undersigned Companies severally as the Party of the First Part, hereinafter referred to as the Operator, and the Native Brotherhood of British Columbia, hereinafter referred to as the Brotherhood.
WHEREAS:	It is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto to set
out hereunder the basic Agreement covering prices and fishing conditions for the 1989, 1990 and 1991 salmon seasons for purse seine and gillnet fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood.
WITNESSETH:	The Parties hereto mutually agree with each other as
follows:
ARTICLE I - HONOURING VOUCHERS
The Operators agree to honour Brotherhood vouchers for dues signed.by fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood or are desirous or joining
the Brotherhood and who have monies due them from one of the Operators. It is understood that such voucher, when honoured, shall be paid by cheque by the Operator concerned and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Brotherhood.
It is further agreed that each Company Head Office will issue instructions to the plant managers and bookkeepers in accordance with the terms of the "Memorandum of Understanding" on vouchers between the Operators and the Brotherhood.
ARTICLE II - METHODS OF POUNDAGE BUYING
Section 1: All the salmon purchased on the grounds or at the plants shall be weighed at the time of original delivery and the weight so recorded shall constitute the basis for payment.
Section 2:	In the case of an exceptionally heavy run of any salmon
species in any locality, rendering it impossible or difficult to weigh fish as provided in Section 1 above, it shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement if some other arrangement, such as averaging is arrived at, provided that in such instances the change arranged is concluded by mutual consent of the Brotherhood fishermen and of the Operators in the given locality.
*58 - 3 1990
2
ARTICLE III -SCHEDULE-OFMINIMUM PRICES
Section 1: The Operators ayree to pay the following schedule of minimum prices for No. 1 quality salmon, caught and delivered throughout and to the end of the 1991 salmon seasons:
1QRQ
Sockeye	$1.28
Coho, Steelheads	.65
Pinks	.35
Chums - Dark chums all areas, All Season	.30
-	Areas 1-10-Guarantee for
Brights All Season	.48
-	All other areas-Guarantee
for Brights All Season	.60
1990	1991
$1.29	$1.33
.65	.65
.36	.37
.30	.30
48	.48
60	.60
Section 2: a) Red Springs, 12 pounds and over, received in good condition, without mutilation $1.35 per pound round during 1989, 1990 and 1991.
b)	If Red Springs are canned, the minimum prices payable to fishermen shall not be less than that set forth for Cohos.
c)	If White Springs are canned, the minimum prices payable to fishermen shall not be less that $0.60 per round pound.
d)	If jack Springs are accepted, the minimum price payable to
the fishermen shall be not less than $ 0.75 per fish during 1989, 1990 and 1991.
Section 3:	Gutting of Springs and Cohoes - Cohoes and Spring Salmon shall
be gutted by the boat crew if such instructions are issued by the management.
Payment for such gutted fish shall be made on the dressed weight and shall be based on the round prices being paid by the Company at that time in the area, plus 10% to compensate for loss of weight in gutting.
In addition, a payment of 1 cent per pound gutted weight shall be made to the crew as compensation for the work involved. Such payment for work done shall be made directly to the crew and not become part of the gross stock.
It is understood that should disputes arise in the area as to whether or not the loss in weight through gutting is greater or less than 10% then at the request of either party a test or tests may be made to ascertain the actual percentage loss in gutting fish. The surcharge of 10% may be increased or decreased according to the results of the test(s) for all fish taken in the area from the date of the test.
3
ARTICLE IV - COMPFTTTTVF. PRICKS
Should any individual Company during the term of this Agreement pay a price to fishermen higher than that set out in Article III of this Agreement, then such Company shall make the higher price applicable to all types of gear operating in the area where the higher price is in effect, and for the same period.
Where premium prices are being paid by a Company for quality production according to accepted quality standards for markets other than canning, then the Company shall make this premium price applicable to all types of gear operating in the area and supplying this quality production.
ARTICLE V - EXPORT RESTRICTIONS
It is mutually agreed and understood that the minimum prices contained in this Agreement are contingent upon there being no restriction on the export of Chums in any form throughout the season.
ARTICLE VI - LATE RUN COHOE (FRASER RIVER & INLETS I
Under this Agreement, the Operators have the right, if quality seriously deteriorates, to request re-opening of the price tor Cohoes on the Fraser River after November 1 and for Cohoes in the Inlets after October 1. Notice of such intention shall be given to the Brotherhood in such case not less than seven (7) days prior to the date specified above. If no mutually agreeable price is established after such notice has been given, the Operators have the right to cease acceptance of Cohoe at the minimum price specified in Article III, after October 1 for fish from the Inlets and after November 1 on the Fraser River.
ARTICLE VTT - BENEFIT FUND
S&ntinn 1:	It is agreed that at the conclusion of the 1989 and 1990
salmon seasons, The Operators shall pay to the order of the United Fishermen’s Benefit Fund a sum equivalent to 1.8 cent (one and eight tenths cents) per pound of net caught salmon purchased in British Columbia. And at the conclusion of the 1991 salmon season a sum equivalent to 2.0 cents (two cents) per pound cf net caught salmon purchased in British Columbia. The Union agrees to levy similar assessments on all non-member Companies in B.C. with which the Union signs a Net Salmon Agreement.
All payments to the United Fishermen’s Benefit Fund shall be made prior to January 15 of each year. Should these payments not be made*by January 15 the parties to the contract shall include in the next contract a penalty clause of 10% per annum which shall apply to future late payments.
Section 2:	It is agreed that any claim a fisherman or a tenderman may
have in connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund shall be the responsibility of the Board of Trustees, in accordance with the United Fishermen’s Benefit Fund Rules and By-Laws.
4
Section 3:	The Board of Trustees shall include Trustees nominated by the
Union, the Native Brotherhood of B.C. and the Fishing Vessel Owners' Association of B.C. The Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C. shall be provided with a financial statement of the Fund, audited by a competent firm of chartered accountants, at least once yearly. Also provided will be the minutes of the Board of Trustees ana annual meetings of the Fund, regular monthly or other financial and statistical reports prepared by the Benefit Fund Director.
Section 4:	The Union will not alter the basic principles as stated in the
Article - Membership of the Rules and By-Laws of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund regarding eligibility for benefits. These principles shall be applied in any increase of benefits as a result of the increased contributions to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund. It is understood that the principles referred to herein are that Salmon Net Fishermen who deliver salmon to Companies party to this Agreement, shall remain equally eligible for death benefits established under the Fund, regardless of membership in the Union.
Section 5:	It is agreed that each member Company shall deduct the
equivalent of the annual premium of the Medical/Dental Services Plan established by the Union from the earnings of the fishermen covered under this Agreement. The Union shall advise the member Companies, in writing, of the exact amount to be deducted and shall provide each Company with lists of fishermen who have enrolled in the Medical/Dental Services Plan and who have authorized the necessary deductions. All monies so deducted shall be forwarded to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund.
Section f>
Payments required under Section 5 above shall be remitted by each member Company by September 30 of each year.
Section 7:	It is further agreed that each member Company shall notify the
United Fishermen's Benefit Fund not later than September 30, of all individuals whose names have been forwarded on lists provided by the Union but on whose behalf the Company will not forward an annual premium.
ARTICLE VIII - INTERRUPTION OR CESSATION OF OPERATIONS
Section 1: In case of machinery breakdown, or any other conditions interfering with operations of a cannery, this Agreement shall immediately be held in abeyance insofar as it pertains to the individual cannery so non-operating. 'With the cannery again resuming operations, all terms and conditions of the Agreement shall be immediately reinstated.
Section 2:
5
This Agreement is subject, however, to the reservation that the Operators reserve the right individually to cease operations at any time when deemed necessary and are thereby released from their obligations hereunder while closed down, except that not less than forty-eight (48) hours' notice in writing shall be given to the Brotherhood at their headquarters in Vancouver, B.C., and the same notice shall be posted at each cannery and camp, of the intention to close down and all fish offered by the fishermen, members of the Brotherhood, within the forty-eight (48) hour period must be taken and paid for at not less than the agreed prices.
ARTICI ,F, IX
Section 1:
Any dispute arising out of this Agreement which cannot be settled by the Brotherhood and the Company shall be referred to a committee of one representative of the Brotherhood and representative of the Operators and one disinterested
one
party, satisfactory to both the Brotherhood and Operators for settlement.
Section 2:	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the
beginning of t h £ 1989 salmon seasonf until April 15th, 1992 and shall be continued thereafter from year to year unless notification in writing is given at least thirty (30) days prior to April 15, 1992 or prior to April 15th of any subsequent year thereafter by either party desiring to change or modify any portion of this agreement or to terminate the entire Agreement. Negotiations shall commence as quickly as possible following such written notice of modification or change or termination cf said Agreement and the terms of this Agreement shall remain effective subject to the right of either party to terminate or suspend fishing operations on or after April 15th of the year in which written notice is received. Provided the terms and conditions of the Agreement are adhered to by both parties, it is mutually agreed and understood that fishing shall continue uninterrupted during the term of the Agreement for all salmon referred to in the Agreement, subject to force majeure, strikes, fires, riots, war, Act of God and any other factor beyond the control of the Operators and the Brotherhood.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER THIS ________/______DAY OF 2)>€a-	,	1989.
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATION OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
The Canadian Fishing Company Limited J. S.McMillan Fisheries Limited Nelson Bros. Fisheries Limited Ocean Fisheries Limited
NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
'ThuULS 7K, CjJU^h.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:	COLLECTION OF DUES AND VOUCHERS
1989, 1990 AND 1991
1.	It shall be the responsibility of the Brotherhood Representative to see that vouchers are properly marked as to the Fisherman's Home Plant before being presented to the Company concerned.
2.	The Brotherhood shall present a	signed	copy of the voucher to the
manager or head bookkeeper of the Fisherman's Home Plant and shall present three copies of a summary sheet to the Company's Head Office.
3.	On receipt of the above, a charge	will be	immediately made to the plant
concerned for the Head Office consisting of the full amount shown on the summary sheet. The charging entry and one copy of the summary sheet shall be immediately mailed to the receiving plant from the Company's Head Office.
4.	The plant will then charge the amount shown on the summary sheet to the
fisherman's account. The amount of the voucher will be forwarded to the Brotherhood within thirty (30)	days	(if deliveries have already
commenced or from the time of the fishermen's first delivery to the Company, whichever comes sooner) with the understanding that if the man goes in the hole, the voucher may be charged back to the Brotherhood, except that if the man has received payments during or at the end of the season for other than operating or travelling expenses, there shall be no charge-back to the Brotherhood.
5.	Each Company with more than one office for fishermen's accounts will forward instructions to its managers and bookkeepers to ensure compliance with this Memorandum and supply a copy of such instructions to the Brotherhood.
6.	All Companies will cooperate with the Brotherhood in providing information necessary to forward vouchers to the proper plant and in transferring vouchers from one plant to another.
7.	Each Company shall appoint one individual whose responsibility it will be to ensure that the intent of this memorandum is carried out.
SIGNED AND DATED IN VANCOUVER THIS_________L______DAY OuE___»	______, 1989,
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
NATIVE BROTHERHOOD of
BRITISH COLUMBIA
NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
SUPPLEMENTRR^ORF.F.MF.NT FOR SALMON SEINE VESSELS SHARE BASIS AND FISHING CONDITIONS 1989. 1990 and 1991
This Agreement made and entered into between the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C., hereinafter referred to as the OPERATORS, and the Native Brotherhood of B.C. hereinafter referred to as the BROTHERHOOD.
ARTICLE 1 - DIVISION OF CATCH
From the gross value of the catch will be deducted the cost of fuel and lubricating oil. The resultant balance is to be divided on the basis of eleven shares, four shares to the boat and net, and seven shares to the crew. From the seven shares shall be deducted the cost of all provisions and the balance divided equally among the members of the crew.
ARTICLE T1 - CONDITION OF VESSELS
Section 1: It is agreed that at the start of the Season all boats shall be in seaworthy condition in accordance with rules and regulations etablished by the Department of Transport.
Section 2:	Proper fire fighting and life-saving equipment shall be
provided on each vessel.
Section 3:	Crew's quarters, galley and toilet accomodation shall be in
first class sanitary condition and the crew shall extend 100 percent cooperation in maintaining such cleaninless.
Section 4:	In vessels where there is no toilet accomodation, same shall
be installed if convenient and practicable before vessel leaves for the fishing grounds.
Section 5:	The crew shall keep the fish hold and deck in a sanitary and
neat condition throughout the season.
Section 6:	It is agreed that at the beginning of each season vessels
shall be fully equipped with adequate crockery dishes and proper cooking utensils. At the end of each season the crew shall be responsible for the replacement of broken crockery and damaged utensils.
Section 7:	A medicine chest shall be furnished to each vessel in accord-
ance with the requirements of the Workers' Compensation Board. The Operators agree to maintain adequate replacement supplies at all fishing stations, and the responsibility for the upkeep of a vessel's First Aid Chest shall be upon the Boat Delegate elected by the crew.
ARTICLE III - BOAT DELEGATE
Section 1: A Boat Delegate, duly elected by the crew, shall be recognized by the Captain and the owner as the Brotherhood representative.
1
7tion 2: Section 3:
Section 1 Section 2:
Section 1 Section 2
Section 3
The duties of the Boat Delegate shall be as follows:
a)	To oensure that correct tallies and records are kept:
b)	To ensure that settlements made with all or any members of
the crew are fairly and correctly made. Each member of the crew shall receive a copy of the full settlement.
:	The Boat Delegate, duly elected by the crew, shall be fully
recognized by the Operators signatory to this Agreement as the representative of the crew and the Brotherhood on all matters connected with the weighing of fish. In order to facilitate the election of suitable representatives for this purpose, the Operators shall, if requested by the Brotherhood, make available a list of crew members of boats fishing for them.
ARTICLE IV - SETTLEMENTS
: When a crew member quits before the end of a season, he is entitled to his proportionate share of the catch.
Settlements are to be made as quickly as possible at the conclusion of each season.
ARTICLE V - CAPTAIN'S RIGHTS
: The Operators agree that seine boat captains shall have the right to hire ana discharge their crew members.
: In all matters pertaining to the operation of the boat, it is agreed and understood that the Captain's decision shall be final, subject only to instructions from the Operator or his representative.
:	It is understood that the Captain has the right to apply the
following conditions subject only to approval of the crew if specifically provided for:
a)	When a man is engaged it is for the balance of the salmon
season, unless he suffers an accident or illness or is granted compassionate leave by agreement with the crew or has been specifically engaged for a lesser period or has clearly informed the Captain and boat delegate, if any, that ne will leave the vessel at a specific date:
b)	If a crew member is discharged, seven calender days shall
constitute proper notice to the crew member. If the crew member obtains another position before the notice period is complete, the notice will be terminated at that time.
If a crew member quits, seven calender days shall constitute proper notice to the captain of the vessel. If the captain obtains a replacement crew member before the notice period is completed, the notice will be terminated at that time.
2
When, in the opinion of the skipper and a majority of the crew, intoxication impairs a man’s ability to perform his work, no notice of discharge need be given and sub-section (c) may be waived with respect to his transportation to the port of hireing.
c)	When a man is discharged by any Operator or his agent, the Company shall be responsible for his fare to his port of hiring. The Operator agrees to pay steamer or scheduled airline transportation back to the port of hiring as wellas the fare for his replacement when such fare (or fares) is actually used;
d)	When a man quits, he shall be responsible for his fare to his port of hiring. If his quitting is in violation of sub-section (a) above, he shall be responsible for the fare for his replacement when such fare is actually used;
e)	When a man fails to give proper notice for quitting, he shall be subject to a $500.00 penalty;
f)	The penalty shall be paid to the remainder of the crew except that, if every effort to obtain a replacement is not made, the penalty will be paid tot he United Fishermen’s Benefit Fund;
g)	When a vessel is in port on weekends and there is no work being done by the crew such as is required on occasion under this Share Agreement and there are commercial eating places ashore available to the crew, the Captain may provide that on such days the cook not be required to prepare meals, and that the cook be given sufficient time away from his other duties to order provisions. Captains shall be advised of this provision in the Agreement by management. Cooks and boat delegates shall be advised of this condition- by the Brotherhood and any grievances shall be settled under the grievance procedure.
Section 4: It is understood that the Operators shall not be responsible for penalties and fares uncollected.
ARTICLE VI - ILLEGAL FISHING
mere shall be no illegal fishing and if any is done the^ Captain and the crew shall be jointly responsible for any fines or penalties imposed.
ARTICLE VII - FUEL
Fuel tanks and lub-tanks will be filled by the Operator at the start of each season and will be returned by the crew in a similar condition at the close of each season.
ARTICLE VIII - HOLE BILLS
Section 1: It is agreed and understood that hole bills shall not be collectable under the following circumstances:
a)	When men are discharged and it is definitely proven that
such discharge was not due to any fault of their own;
b)	When the vessel goes into some other trade or other type
of fishing;
c)	When crew members are discharged by the Captain for
reasons other thanthe regular reasons;
d)	Where vessel isa totalwreck;
e)	When an accident has occurred and the crew is not required
after repairs are completed.
Section 2:	Definition:	It is understood that hole bills as referred to
in this Agreement shall denote a condition where the crew share of the landed catch at the time referred to in Section 1 (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) is not sufficient to cover the cost of fuel, lubricating oil and provisions as set out in Article II of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IX - LIMITING CATCH
The Operators agree that should it be necessary to place a limit onfish deliveries, such limit will be set on a per-man basis.
ARTICLE X - CHARTER BOATS
It is agreed that all boats chartered by the Operators for the 198S and 1987 salmon seasons and operated by members of the Brotherhood shall come under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
4
ARTICLE XI - NET WORK
'Section 1
Section 2:
Section 3
Section 4:
Section 5
:	The Brotherhood recognizes the responsibility of the seine
crews to give proper care to the seine throughout and to the
end of the fishing season, including necessary repairs, washing and bluestoning, in accordance with mangement' s instructions.
It being understood and agreed that if it is not management's intention to strip the seine, that it shall be returned in the same condition as received, reasonable wear excepted. Crews shall not be required to alter the dimensions of the seine, or to effect major repairs, when the vessel concerned is terminating the season.
Any crew member who does not adequately participate in the maintenance of the seine on weekends during the fishing seson, unless his absence is mutally agreed upon, shall be charged for each absence at regular netman's rates.
If there is no replacement this sum shall be equally divided among the seine crew members who do the work. The Captain must advise the Company promptly of any such charge to be made.
Loading or unloading of seines shall not be considered network and on arrival in port at the end of any season or for a lay-up, or to change over to another type of fishing, it shall be the crew's resonsibility to bluestone, wash and unload the seine within the ten-day period. In the event that the net is bluestoned on the day of arrival in port, the crew may be called out to wash and unload the seine on a day to be specified during the next ten days.
Any crew member who fails to appear on the day specified unless his absence has been mutually agreed upon, shall be charged for eight hours' work at the regular Netman’s rates which sum shall be paid to the man taking his place. If there is no replacement then the sum shall be equally divided amongst the seine crew members who perform the work.
:	The Brotherhood recognizes the responsibility of the seine
crew to deepen, shallow or shorten the seine during the fishing season in accordance with the Captain's instructions. It shall also be the crew's responsibility to lengthen the seine provided that the extension which is to be added is made up beforehand. If the extension is not made up, and the crew is called upon to do this work, then they shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the current agreement on network.
Work done by member of the crew in preparing nets for each season and in&ripping, washing stripped web, and storing nets at the end of each seaons, shall be paid for by the owner of the net, inaccordance with theterms of the current Brotherhood agreement on network.
; The owners agree that should a seine, or seines, be put out which has not been relaced or rehung since the previous season and it becomes necessary for the crew to relace or rehang the
5
seine within two weeks of the commencement of the net being fished, members of the crew who work on the seine shall be paid for such network at the rates set out in the Networkers' Agreement.
Section 6: The owners agree that if at the time of taking the seine, it i necessary for a crew to make up purse lines or brailers, payment shall be made for such work at the straight time rates set out in the Networkers' Agreement. It is understood that putting such gear aboard is part of the regular operation and no extra payments be made.
Section 7:	The Company shall provide the seine crew members who are
working on seines including the loading, unloading, washing, bluestoning of same, or working on brailers, purse lines or ptherfishing gear, with Workers' Compensation and Unemployment insurance coverage for such workfor which payment is made bythe company under the foregoing sections.
Section 8:	In the performance of such work and responsibility for same
under the foregoing sections, the Captain shall participate along with other crew members.
ARTICLE XII - CERTIFIED ENGINEERS' BONUS
It is agreed that all engineers holding Department of Transport 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th Class Marine Engineers' Certificates engagedas engineers on salmon seine boats shall receive a bonus of $25.00 per month during the 1986 and 1987 fishing seasons, said bonus to be paid by the Operators.
ARTICLE XIIT - RADIO TELEPHONE
a)	Where radio telephones are installed on seine boats, it is agreed that the crew will not be required to pay for any installation or rental charge. Where crew members use the radio telephone for personal calls, excepting emergency calls, the Operators shall have the right to impose and collect a surcharge of 15 percent over and above the actual cost of such calls.
b)	It is further understood and agreed that the Operators shall have the right when settlements are being made to withhold the sum of $15.00 per man as a deposit for a period not to exceed six weeks, to cover each crew members' personal calls.
6
ARTICLE XIV - FAIR PRACTICES
'ring the term of this Agreement, no crew member shall be asked to make written or verbal agreements with the Operator covering rental of boat equipment or charges to gross stock unless such written or verbal agreement is approved by the General Executive Board of the Brotherhood.
ATRICLE IV - NEW MEN
If any crew member is going seining for the first time he may, at the discretion of the Captain and the crew, receive half the normal fisherman's share for the first fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days, the half share remaining shall be divided among the balance of the crew. This condition shall be drawn to the attention of the crew man at the time he joins the vessel.
ARTICLE XVI - GRIEVANCEPROCEDI IRE .
Section 1: In all disputes regarding allocation of crew share (i.e. 7/11 of gross stock after deductions for fuel and lube oil) the Company agrees, upon notification and followed up by written authorisation from the Brotherhood, to hold any disputed funds in an interest bearing trust account pending agreement by all parties tot he dispute that settlement has been reached.
Section 2:	All disputes that cannot be settled on board the vessel,
except those described in Section 1 above, must be referred to the Operator or Operators concerned and the Brotherhood for adjustment.
THIS SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT IS SIGNED IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SALMON
PRICE AGREEMENT AND IS RECOGNIZED AS PART OF THE SAME.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER, B.C. this	/ day of;	1989.
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATION NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF
OF BRITISH COLUMBIA	BRITISH COLUMBIA