ROE HERRING FISHING AGREEMENT 1990 - 1991
This Agreement entered into between the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union and the member Companies of the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C. signatory to this Agreement, covers prices, wages and working conditions for herring fishing.
IT IS HEREIN MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1. )	The operators party to this Agreement agree to recognize the Union as the
representative of all crews on vessels engaged in the herring operation who are members of the Union and who have designated the Union as their authorized representative.
2. )	It is agreed that at the conclusion of each herring season, each Company
will pay by cheque to the order of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund established by the Union, four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75) per green ton of herring produced under this Agreement. The Company shall furnish to the Union a list of fishermen employed during each season under this Agreement. All payments and lists from the start of the roe herring season to June 30th shall be forwarded to the Union not later than August 15th. The Union agrees that, the Company has no responsibility with regard to any claim any person may have in connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund.
3. )	Medical Plan Premiums
a)	It i s agreed that each Company shall pay to each fisherman an amount eqial to 50% of the monthly premium of the B.C. Medical Plan for each month, or part month, each fisherman is employed in the operation.
b)	In addition, upon termination of the operation each Company shall pay to each fisherman an amount equal to 50% of the B.C. Medical Premium for one additional month for each month or part month the crew member was employed in the operation.
4.	) a) The minimum price to be paid to fishermen for catching and delivering
roe herring shall be as follows:
-1-
(nim
Column "A"
Column "B"
Total Price Benchmarks (total payment to seine crew & vessel)
Crew Payment
1 wfen tota' payment to crew & vessel reaches or exceeds a "benchmark in Column "A")
$ 750	$ 300
850	320
950	342
1050	368
1150	391
1250	420
1350	452
1450	479
1550	496
1650	528
1750	560
1850	583
1950	612
2050	642
2150	670
2250	705
By June 30, 1990 for the 1990 fishery or by June 30, 1991 for the 1991 fishery should total payment to the seine crew and vessel settlement reach or exceed or be anticipated by the appropriate company to reach or exceed the "Total Price Benchmarks" in column "A" above then the crew will be paid the corresponding "Crew Payment" in column "B" above.
b)	It is understood that each Company shall assume the risk on behalf of the crew for all herring loaded aboard seiners which deliver to that Company or other vessels used by that Company in transportation to the plants. In t.he event a seiner or other vessel sinks and the herring cargo is lost, the Company shall be responsible for payment of the crew share.
c)	If in any working unit or pool there are not more than eight (8) fishermen's shares for each seine boat, then the value of each fishermen's share shall be determined by dividing the appropriate "Crew Payment", as determined by Article 4 a) above, by the number of fishermen i n the pool.
Should any individual Company make an upward adjustment of the price contained in Section 4 a) then the value of each fisherman's share in that working unit or pool shall be determined by dividing the higher price by the number of fishermen in the working unit or pool. It is understood that this upward price adjustment may only be applicable to a specific location or locations for specific time periods,
-2-
i»Sr ?ij
d)	A fisherman's share shall not be less than the appropriate "Crew Payment", as determined by Article 4 a) above, divided by eight.
If the number of shares per seine boat in any working unit exceeds eight (8) payment of additional shares in the unit shall be to the account of the Company, provided such additional shares have been authorized by the Company.
e)	Ths following rules shall govern the payment of shares to vessels working shorthanded. It is understood that these rules shall not alter the provisions of Section 14 of this Agreement.
i	Where one or more men are off a vessel on account of accident, illness or compassionate grounds, the share or shares shall continue to be paid to such persons for a period of seven (7) days provided both the Captain and the crew are satisfied the leave is necessary. Where a replacement must be made prior to the expiration of the seven (7) day period (notwithstanding willingness of the crew concerned to perform extraordinary work) to ensure proper safety and efficient performance of the work involved, the share shall be paid to the person off the vessel only up to the date of replacement.
ii	By mutual agreement, the Captain and the crew shall have the right to extend compassionate leave beyond the period of seven (7) days. Wien compassionate leave is terminated, the Captain shall request a replacement from the Company and the boat delegate shall immediately notify the Union. Where a replacement is not immediately available, the share shall be paid to the crew of the vessel concerned. Failure of the Captain to request a replacement or to renew such request every week or failure of the boat delegate to notify the Union shall result in the share being paid to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund.
iii	Where one or more men are off a vessel for reasons other than accident, illness or compassionate leave, the Captain shall request a replacement from the Company and the boat delegate shall immediately notify the Union. Failure of the Captain to request a replacement and to renew such request weekly or failure of the boat delegate to notify the Union shall result in the share being paid into the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund. Where a replacement has not been made despite requests for same, the share shall be paid to the crew of the vessel concerned.
iv	The reports referred to in Section (10) of this Agreement shall carry notations indicating where men are off vessels and the period this applied.
v	Any abuses or grievances under this clause shall be reported to the Union or the Company and shall be referred to a committee
-3-
representing an equal number of Company and Union representat, ,es and majority decisions of this committee will be final in all cases.
(f) E;ich Company will advise the Union in writing of the names of herring seine vessels and the names of herring seine skippers to be employed by the Company prior to their departure for the grounds and shall supply the foregoing information in writing to the Union prior to March 16, 1990 for the 1990 fishery and March 16, 1991 for the 1991 fishery, or prior to the commencement of any further herring operations under this Agreement. In the event any seine boats are replaced during the season, the skipper and crew shall be transferred to the replacement vessel. The Company will advise the Union in writing of all replacements or other changes during the season.
5. )	It is mutually agreed that the operators shall give full priority rights in
unloading and processing at their various plants to fish caught ty the Company's own gear.
Where the Companies are pooling their production through a minimum number of plants, the unloading shall be on the basis of first come first served. Proper advance notice shall be given when a pooling arrangement is made and prior to its termination.
6.	) On all table seine boats manned by members of the Union, eight (8) men
shall le employed. On all drum seine boats using a power skiff, a minimum of six (6) mm shall be employed. Whm power skiffs are not used with drum seine toats, the crew may be reduced by one.
Exceptions to the foregoing may be made by the Union where accommodation aboard a	seine vessel prevents use of a full crew complement,	in which
cases the	Union shall notify the Company( ies) of such exception in	writing.
7.	)	Engineers	on herring seine boats are to receive a bonus of fifty	($50.00)
dollars per month during the fishing season.
8. ) Under this Agreement, a ton shall be 2,000 lbs, of green herring. All
herring shall be weighed at the time of unloading from the seiners except that in the event the Company provides packers or barges to transport herring from the seine boats on the grounds to the plants for any seine units or pools, then the weighing shall take place at the time of unloading the packers or barges at the plant. In the event packers or barges are used tc receive herring at one plant, to be transported to another plant, the herring shall be weighed at time of delivery to such packers or barges. It sha 1 be the responsibility of the Company to provide unloading crews except where herring is transferred from the fishing vessel to a packer or barge on the grounds.
9.) It is mutually agreed. that the use of packers or barges or any other vessel for the transportation of herring from the seiners to the plant is at the
-4-
sole discretion of the Companies. Except for herring seine vessels which the Company has provided written notice to the Union in accordance with Clause I f), all vessels authorized by the Company for transportation of herring shall be classified as packers or barges and the cost of these vessels and payment of crews shall be to the cost of the Company. There shall te no other arrangements regarding division of catch or use of packers between the Companies and the owners or Captains of seiners or other vessels unless such arrangements have been approved by the Union and the Company has been notified of such approval in writing by the Union. This shall not apply to pooling arrangements between seine boats on the grounds.
10.	) Each Company will do everything possible to furnish regular reports weekly
and undsrtakes to supply such reports at least once monthly to the crews of all vessels. These reports shall list the names of all seiners engaged in the Company's herring operations. Where possible, these reports shall list the number of men employed on each vessel and shall indicate any pooling arrangements which are in existence. These reports shall list the daily deliveries of herring showing where the herring was caught, where it was delivered, the name of the vessel making delivery and the tonnage landed. These reports shall also list the tonnage of herring lost at sea. These reports shall indicate the number of tons used for reduction and the number of tons used for other purposes. A copy of each report shall also be forwarded to the Union.
11.	) It is mutually agreed that should any dispute occur involving Union members
that cannot be settled on the spot, such disputes shall be referred to the Union aid the Company concerned for final adjustment. In no case shall members of the Union involved in a dispute take any action without consultation with the Union Headquarters.
12.	)	It is agreed that	all	vessels shall be supplied with a	proper receipt when
herring deliveries are made. This receipt shall show	the number of tons
landed by the vessel and shall be given to the skipper of the vessel following each delivery.
In the event a seiner or herring vessel sinks and the herring cargo is lost, the receipt shall be issued on the basis of the tonnage hailed by the Captain or crew member acting in his place.
13.	)	It is agreed that	the	Companies shall supply all fuel and operating equip-
ment and expenses	in	accordance with past practice on	all vessels engaged
in the herring operation. No crew members shall be asked by the Company to make wiitten or verbal agreements covering rental or purchase of boat equipment on the crew's settlement.
14.	) a) The Company shall be solely responsible for the choosing of skippers
for all vessels.
b) The Company shall be solely responsible for the selection of Engineers and may hire engineers directly or delegate such hiring to the skip-pe-s subject to Company approval.
-5-
c)	Skippers shall have the right to hire and discharge crew men. /$. Whereever possible, such men are to be selected from men who have been employed on boats owned or operated by the Company or who have fished for the Company. Preferential consideration shall be given to the Union members, where ability, experience and compatibility for the particular job are equal.
d)	Companies agree that Captains will be instructed to inform their crew members in advance of any proposed pooling arrangements. No vessel shall be required to enter a pool without consent of the majority in a secret ballot vote of the Captain and crew.
e)	Any dispute arising out of this clause which cannot be settled by the Union and the Company shall, within 90 days, unless otherwise mutually agreed to, be referred to a committee of one representative of the Union and one representative of the Operators and one impartial third party satisfactory to both the Union and the Operators, for settlement.
15.	)	The	Cimpanies agree to pay	the expenses	of fishermen	for transportation
back	t d the port of hiring when discharged	at another port by the Companies
or their agents.
16.	) A med cine chest shall be furnished on all vessels in accordance with the
requirements of the Workers'	Compensation	Board. Each	Company shall provide	all seine crew members	with Workers'	Compensation	coverage in accor-
dance with Workers' Compensation Board regulations while employed under the terms of this Agreement, inclusive of fishing, loading and unloading, washing, repairing and making up seines or other fishing gear.
17. ) The Companies agree to maintain at all times adequate lifeboat equipment on
all vessels, lifeboat equipment to contain lamps, flares, food and water containers, oil compass, first aid kit, collapsible rubber rafts as obtainable lifebelts and other necessary provisions.
18.	) The Captain of the vessel shall use his discretion to decide load limits
and to judge tides or other relevant factors when travelling. Should extraordinary conditions arise which result in a difference of opinion between tie Captain and the Company representatives as to whether or not the vessel should proceed as instructed, the Captain's decision shall be final.
19.	) The operators agree to honour Union vouchers signed by herring purse seine
fishermen who are members of the Union and who have monies due to them from the operators.
20.	) It is mutually agreed that from the date of this Agreement, all Union mem-
bers who are engaged in herring or mixed fishing, shall observe a 48-hour weekend closed period, beginning 2:00 p.m. Friday and ending 2:00 p.m. Sunday except where the Department of Fisheries & Oceans determines that there is evidence of suitable roe herring in an area and that the herring in that area will be largely spawned out at the end of the weekend.
-6-
°1.) It is egreed by the Companies that there shall be provided at all plants adequate facilities for bathing 'and washing clothes and that such bathrooms shall bo kept clean at all times.
22.) a) Insofar as possible, the Companies undertake to have all herring seines prepared and ready for the crews of seine vessels. Should any crew be required to make up its own seine, the vessel concerned shall be included in the Company pool for the time only they are engaged in making up the seine. All payments due the crew for such work shall be paid to the Company pool concerned.
Any dispute arising from this arrangement between any crew and the Company as to the length of the time spent in making up the seine shall be turned over to the officials of the Union to settle, the Company not being involved in the internal Union arrangement with respect to the individual participants in the pool.
It	is further agreed that in	the	event of	any boat breaking	down	for a
period not to exceed seven	(7)	days	due	to mechanical or	other dif-
ficulty beyond the control of the crew, the vessel shall be included in the Company pool for this length of time. Likewise, should there be any dispute arising from this arrangement between the crew and the Company, the matter shall be referred to the officials of the Union to settle
b) i The Company agrees that should a seine or seines be put out which have not been relaced or rehung since the previous season, it becomes necessary for	the	crew	to	relace or rehang	the	seine
within three (3) weeks	of	the	commencement of that	net	being
fished, the members of the crew that work on the seine shall be paid for such	network	at	rates	set out	in the Networkers'
Agreement. It is further understood that monies for such network shall be paid into the seine pool to which the crew belongs.
ii	The Company agrees that if at the time of taking the seine it is necessary for	the crew	to	make	up purse	lines or brailers,
payment shall be made for such work at straight time rates set out in the Networkers' Agreement. Monies for such work shall be divided equally	among the crew of	the vessel	concerned, it being
understood that	putting	such	gear	aboard is	part of the regular
operation and no extra payments be made.
iii	The Union recognizes the responsibility of the seine crew to give proper care to the seine, including necessary repairs, washing and bluestoning of the seine during the season, in accordance with management's instructions. Ch arrival in port at the end of any season or for a lay-up or to change over to another type of fishing it shall be the crew's responsibility to bluestone, wash and unload the seine within a ten (10) day period. In the event the net is bluestoned on the day of arrival in port, the crew may be called out to wash and unload the seine on a day to be specified during the next ten days.
-7-
Any crew member who fails to appear on a day specified shal >e charged for eight (8) hours work at the regular netman's rates which sum shall be paid to the man taking his place. If there i s no replacement, then the sum shall be equally divided amongst the seine crew members who perform the work.
iv	Changes in the depth of herring seines between the end of the winter season and the summer season shall be done at the Companies' expense. The Companies will bear the expense of one change in depth of herring seines during the season. Wherever possible, the Companies shall provide netmen to assist in repairing snagged seines. Wien the Company provides netmen to assist in repairing snagged seines, such labour shall not be charged to crew members.
23.	) In the case of machinery breakdown or any other conditions, interferring
with the operations of a cannery or reduction plant, this Agreement shall immediately be held in abeyance insofar as it pertains to the individual canneiy or reduction plant so non-operating. With the cannery or reduction plant again resuming operation, all terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be immediately reinstated.
24.	) a) Ilf,in the opinion of the fishermen, spawning conditions in any area
make it undesirable in the interest of conservation to continue opera-t ons, Union Headquarters and the Operators shall be informed and if mutually agreed, joint representations shall be made to the Department of Fisheries & Oceans, or i'Fmutual agreement is not reached, the fshermen shall have the right to make their own individual representation to the Fisheries Service.
b)	Except as required under fishery regulations established by the Department of Fisheries & Oceans, neither the Company nor the Technician aboard a vessel shall order seiner Captains and crews to release herring in any area while engaged in the roe fishery unless tie tests made by the technician or designated Company representative prior to drying up reveals the mature roe recovery rate to be less than 9%.
c)	It is understood and agreed that insofar as it is practicable, test f shing shall be shared equally by the fleet. To that end, the Companies shall rotate test fishing amongst single vessels and pools having in mind the variation in the size of the pools.
25.	) This Agreement is subject to the reservation that the Operators reserve the
right individually to cease operations at any time when deemed necessary and thereby are released from their obligations herein while closed down except that not less than forty-eight (48) hours' notice be given to the Union at its Headquarters in Vancouver, B. C.
-8-
his Agreemert is effective from January 1st, 1990 and w i 11 remain in full force and effect until December 31, 1991. 'It will remain in effect from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to reopen is given by either party prior to Decsmber 31, 1991 or December 31 of any subsequent year. If such notice to reopen is given, negotiations shall commence immediately and fishing will continue under the terms of this agreement provided that effective noon, December 31, 1991, or noon December 31 of any subsequent year immediately following said notice, either party shall be free to terminate or suspend fishing operations.
This Agreement is
reby mutually signed by the Parties hereto this u day , 1990 on behalf of:
BRITISH COLUMBIA. PACKERS LIMITED ^
THE CANADIAN -ISHING COMPANY LIMITED ^ NELSON BROS. :ISHERIES LIMITED •
J.S. MCMILLAN FISHERIES LTD. v OCEAN FISHERIES LTD. ^
oteu-15
Company will supply adequate collector or packer service. In the event the Company, for unavoidable reasons is temporarily unable to supply such service and provided the Company instruct the fisherman to deliver his production to the plant, the Company will provide additional payment to the fisherman for such transportation. The minimum additional payment shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) per ton for packing the fish to the plant or point of unloading. The Company shall pay for the unloading and any other transportation costs involved.
8.	) Each Company, wi 11 advise the Union in writing of the names of herring
vessels and the names of herring boat operators to be employed by the Company one week prior to the commencement of the opening of Glllnet Herring Roe Fishing. The Company will advise the Union in writing of all replacements or other changes during the season.
9.	) Workers' Compensation Independent Coverage
Each Company shall provide all gillnet fishermen with Workers' Compensation Coverage in accordance with Workers' Compensation Board regulations while operating under the terms of this Agreement, inclusive of fishing, loading and unloading, washing, repairing and making up of fishing gear.
This clause does not remove other statutory or contractual obligations which the Company may have with regard to Workers' Compensation.
10.	) This Agieement is effective from January 1. 1990-and will remain in full
force and effect until December *311 1991. and will remain in effect from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to reopen is given by either party prior to December 31, 1991 or December 31 of any subsequent year. If such notice to reopen is given, negotiations shall commence immediately and either party shall be free to terminate or suspend herring fishery operations effective on or after December 31, 1991 or December 31 of any subsequent year in which notice is given.
The Canadian Fishing Company Limited J.S. McMillan Fisheries Ltd.
Nelson Bros. Fisheries Limited Ocean Fisheries Ltd.
oteu-15
lereby mutually signed by the Parties hereto this 1990.
HERRING GILLNET FISHING AGREEMENT
This Agreement entered into between the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union and the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of 8.C. and the marber companies signatory to this Agreement covers minimum prices and working conditions for gillnet herring fishermen in the production of herring for the roe market.
IT IS HEREIN MJKMLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1.	The	Company( ies) party	to	this Agreement agree	to recognize the United
Fishermen	and	Allied	Workers' Union, hereinafter referred to	as	"the
Union", as	the	representative of all gillnet herring fishermen who	are	member; of the Union and	who	have designated the Union as their authorized
rep -esentatlve.
2.	)	The	Company(ies) agree	to	honour Union vouchers	covering initiation fees
and dues signed by fishermen who are members of the Union or are desirous of joining the Union and who have monies due from the Company. It is understood that such vouchers, when honoured, shall be paid by cheque by the Company and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Union. The Company shall forward	payment	to the Union of all such vouchers not later	than
May 31 for	the	1990 roe	season or IVfy 31, for the 1991 roe season.
3. ) It is agreed that at. the conclusion of each herring season each Company
wil	pay by cheque to	the	order of the United	Fishermen's Benefit Fund
established by the Union, four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75) per green ton of herring produced under this Agreement. The Company (ies) shall furnish to the Union a list of fishermen employed under this Agreement along with the payment to the Fund. All payments and lists from the start of the roe herring season t.o June 30th shall be forwarded to the Union no later than August 15th. The Union agrees that the Company has no responsibility with regard to any claim any person may have in connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund.
4. ) The minimum price to be paid to gillnet fishermen for gillnet herring
caught and delivered to collectors or packers on the fishing grounds shall be Six Hundred Dollars ($600) per green ton,
5. )	It is mutually agreed that from the date of this Agreement, all Union mem-
ber:; who are engaged in herring or mixed fishing shall observe a 48-hour weetend closed period beginning 2:00 p.m. Friday and ending 2:00 p.m. Sunday, except where the Department of Fisheries £ Oceans determines that the -e is evidence of suitable roe herring in an area and that the herring in :hat area will be largely spawned out at the end of the weekend.
6. )	It is mutually agreed that, should any dispute occur involving Union members
that cannot be settled on the spot, such disputes shall be referred to the Union and the Company concerned for final adjustment. In no case shall members of the Union involved in a dispute take any action without consultation with the Union Headquarters.
7. )	It. is agreed that, gillnet herring fishermen working under this Agreement
wil l not be required to transport herring to the Company plant and that the
-1-