SOURCE
Royal Oak Mines Inc.
Timmins Division
No. OF EMPLOYEES
2gT)

NOM8RE
O'cMPIOYES
o

United Steelworkers of America Local 4440
dated July 11th 1996
00111 (06)
ARTICLE INDEX
Article Title
Article Page
General Purpose...........
Definition and Recognition ..
Management Rights.........
Union Security............
No Discrimination.........
Grievance Procedure.......
Arbitration...............
No Cessation of Work......
Seniority.................
Leave of Absence .........
Vacations.................
Hours of Work.............
Recognized Holidays ......
Wages.....................
Bulletin Boards...........
Health and Safety.........
Notices...................
General Provisions........
Term of Agreement.........
Schedule of Wage Rates .... Twelve Hour Shift Schedule
Continuity Pian...........
Group Benefit Plans.......
Tool Reimbursement........
Letters of Understanding..
Signing Authorities.......
1
1	2
2	4
3	5
4	6
5	7
6	13
7	15
8	16
9	28
10	32
11	34
12	39
13	44
14	44
15	45
16	50
17	50
18	r§T)
52
58
63
64
75
76 81
SEP I 5 IS3?	(')
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject Title
Article Page
Arbitration........................
Arbitrators .......................
Group Benefit Plans................
AD & D Insurance Plan.........
Dental Plan..................
Disability Insurance Plan....
Group Life Insurance Plan.....
Major Medical Insurance Plan .
Pension Plan ................
Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
Bulletin Boards...................
Call Outs .........................
Co-ordinators .....................
Continuity Plan....................
Contracting Out....................
Departments.......................
Discrimination....................
Employee Orientation..............
Employees.........................
Floaters .........................
Grievance Procedure................
Complaint Procedure ..........
Discharge Cases...............
Discipline....................
General.......................
Group Complaints..............
Pay and Incentive Earnings....
Stage One ....................
Stage Two ....................
6
6
14
11
1
8
4 1 1
12
5
13
13
64 67 71
65
66 69 67 64 44 34 57 63
3
16
6
3
2
42
7
7
10
12
7
9
10
7
8
(ii)
SUBJECT INDEX(cont’d)
Subject Title	Article
Page
Stage Three.................
Time Limits.................
Health and Safety...............
Committee ..................
Senior Committee............
Worker Safety and Health Rep.
Hoisting Delays.................
Leave cf Absence ................
Funeral Leave...........
Jury Duty...............
Union...................
Letters of Understanding.........
Management Rights................
No Cessation of Work.............
Notices .........................
On-Call .........................
Overtime.........................
Recognized Holidays .............
Reporting Time...................
Schedule of Wage Rates...........
Mill....................
Mine ...................
Miscellaneous...........
Open Pit................
Plant...................
Seniority........................
Job Posting.............
Inactive Employees......
5
15
11
9
2
7
16
11
11
12
11
8
8
9
45
45
45
48
36 28 30 30 28 76
4
15 50 35
37 39 34 52
54
52 57
53
55
16 23 27
(ill)
SUBJECT INDEX (cont’d)
Subject Title	Article Page
Layoffs ...................
Loss of Seniority .........
Probationary Employees.....
Promotion..................
Recall.....................
Seniority Lists............
Temporary Assignments......
Temporary Employees........
Temporary Jobs.............
Training Opportunities.....
Shift and Weekend Premium ........... 11
Special Training ................... 8
Stewards and Grievance Committeemen 5
Supervision Working................. 1
Term of Agreement.................... 18
Tool Reimbursement..................
Tuition Assistance................... 17
Twelve Hour Shift Schedule..........
Union Delegations.................... 17
Union Security........................ 3
Union Recognition...................
Vacations............................ 10
Wages ............................... 13
Work Day............................ 11
WorkWeek............................. 11
17
16
25 20 19 17 28
26 24 28 39 27 11
2
58
50
5
2
32
44
37
37
THIS AGREEMENT
Between:
ROYAL OAK MINES INC., Timmins Division, a Company incorporated under the laws of the Dominion of Canada on behalf of itself and its Mines.
Collectively hereinafter called the Company, party of the first part
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, for itself on behalf of its Local Union 4440.
Collectively hereinafter called the Union, party of the second part
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto agree as follows:
General Purpose
The parties are agreed that the general purpose of the Agreement is to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees; to provide for the operation of the Mines under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible, the safety and welfare of the employees, economy and efficiency of operations, quantity and quality of output, and orderliness of mine and plant; to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union; to secure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to maintain mutually satisfactory hours, wages and working conditions for the employees covered by this Agreement.
1
ARTICLE 1
Definition and Recognition
1.01	Unless it appears otherwise from the context, the word “employees” shall mean an employee of the Pamour No. 1 Mine, Schumacher Mine, Nighthawk Lake Mine, or Surface Mining Operations, save and except shift bosses, foremen, persons above the rank of shift boss or foreman, other members of staff exercising management or supervisory functions, office employees (including engineering, geology and survey office employees), head assayer, head refiner, students and uniformed police guards.
1.02	A supervisor will not perform work that deprives a bargaining unit employee of his regular or overtime work. Notwithstanding the foregoing: a supervisor may perform such work while leading, instructing or when the operation is in an emergency situation. If it is determined that there has been a violation of this Article and the nature and extent of the work and the employee who would have performed it can be established, an allowance equal to the rate, appropriate to the work performed, will be paid to the employee for the time actually worked. It is agreed that a supervisor assisting an employee or attending to equipment or machinery in the temporary absence of an employee shall not be a violation of this clause.
1.03	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined in Article 1, in respect of terms and conditions of employment of employees including provisions with referenceto rates of pay and hours of work.
2
1.04	Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall also mean the feminine gender unless the context requires otherwise.
1.05	The Company shall have the right to contract out any work it deems necessary, as long as it does not result in the lay-off of members of the bargaining unit. The Company will notify the Local Union President, in writing, with a copy sent to the Vice President, prior to the start of any contracting out that involves the presence of contractor employees on the property performing work that is normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. The Company will inform the Local Union President, in writing, with a copy sent to the Vice President, of the name of the contractor hired, the starting date and the expected completion date. The Company further agrees that it will meet, as required, with the President of the Local Union or his designate and/or Union Representative to discuss information concerning its "contracting out".
In the event of an emergency, the Company maintains the right to call the necessary contractors and notify the Local Union as soon as is practical.
1.06	As part of the orientation of newly-hired employees, the Company shall provide to newly-hired employees a copy of the current Collective Agreement, a U.S.W.A. new members kit and a viewing of a fifteen (15) minute video that is mutually acceptable to the Company and the Union.
3
t
ARTICLE 2 Management Rights
2.01	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power
(a)	to maintain order, and efficiency, to be the judge of the qualifications of employees, to make, alter, and amend rules of conduct and procedure for employees;
(b)	to hire, classify, transfer, promote or layoff employees and to discipline or discharge employees who have completed their probationary period for just cause, provided, however, that any exercise of these rights in conflict with the provision of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure; and
(c)	generally to manage the enterprise, locate, extend, curtail or cease operations, and to determine the number cf employees required for any and all operations, the kinds of locations of machines and tools to be used, and the schedules of production.
(d)	in the interests of mutual understanding and the efficient administration of this function, the Company agrees that in case of suspension, layoff or discharge, it will notify an Executive Officer, normally the President, or the Staff Representative of the Union, of the action taken and the reason for it.
4
ARTICLE 3 Union Security
3.01	The Company shall deduct, as a condition of each employee's continued employment, from his wages during the first pay period in each calendar month, a sum equivalent to the union dues in the amount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union's constitution and remit the same prior to the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction is made, to the International Treasurer of the Union, or the Local Union Financial Secretary.
The Company will, at the same time of making such payment list the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted along with the name of any employee whose earnings were insufficient to permit the deduction of the aforementioned sum.
The deductions shall commence, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the company, with the calendar month in which his first wages are received by him from the Company.
3.02	The Company shall provide the Local Union President every three (3) months, a listing of active employees arranged alphabetically, showing addresses on the Company records.
3.03	The Union will indemnify and save harmless the Company from any claim made by an employee for deductions made as herein provided.
5
ARTICLE 4 No Discrimination
4.01	There shall be no discrimination, favouritism or harassment by the Company or the Union or its members against any person employed by the Company because of membership or non-membership in any lawful union or because of race, religious creed, colour, sex, age, marital status, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, and political belief or any other prohibited ground as outlined in the Ontario Human Rights Code.
4.02	No person shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a member of any Union, and no representation to the contrary shall be made.
4.03	There shall be no solicitation for Union membership or any other Union activity on the Company's property or on the Company's time except as provided for in this Agreement.
4.04	Casual conversation which does not interfere with the work of any person employed by the Company shall not be regarded as Union activity.
4.05	(a) Information relating to Union business
may be distributed by employees at the entrances to the Royal Oak property if the Manager of Human Resources has been notified in advance.
6
(b) Distribution of Local Union publications by employees may be done at such times and at such locations on Royal Oak premises as agreed by the Manager of Human Resources.
4.06	Upon written request from the President cf the Local Union, the Company will provide facilities for the conduct of a secret ballot vote on Company premises.
ARTICLE 5 Grievance Procedure General
5.01	Employees are urged to attempt to settle any complaints with their immediate supervisor before proceeding with the Grievance Procedure.
5.02	Any settlement of a grievance shall not be construed as a precedent and shall not be binding on either party in respect to any other grievance.
5.03	Grievances shall be settled according to the following procedure.
Stage One
The grievor(s) in the presence of the Steward may, within seven (7) days of the occurrence of the events giving rise to the grievance, present the grievance in writing to his immediate supervisor. The supervisor shall give his decision within forty-eight (48) hours; should the grievor not be satisfied the grievance would pass to Stage Two.
7
Stage Two
Failing a settlement at Stage One, the employee and/or Steward may within seven (7) days of the time, when the decision at Stage One was or should have been given, present the grievance in writing to his immediate second line supervisor (who may be accompanied if he wishes by another Company official) designated to handle such matters at Stage Two. The immediate second line supervisor shall schedule a meeting to discuss the matter within seven (7) days of such grievance being received and shall give his decision in writing within five (5) days of such meeting.
Stage Three
Failing a settlement at Stage Two, the Grievance Committee may, within seven (7) days of the time at which the decision at Stage Two was or should have been given, give notice to the Company in writing requesting further consideration cf the grievance.
Management Representatives will meet with the Grievance Committee comprised of the President, or his designate, the Chief Steward, or his designate, the Department Steward involved, the Grievor, and the Staff Representative to discuss the grievance within ten (10) days of such notice being received. It is the intent of the parties at such meetings to have only necessary representation in attendance. The Company shall give its decision within seven (7)days of the meeting.
8
5.04	Any grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union shall be presented in writing to the other party. The parties shall meet and attempt to settle the grievance in accordance with the procedure at Stage Three.
Group Complaints
5.05	Where two (2) or more employees have grievances which are sufficiently common that they may be conveniently dealt with together, the grievances may be presented together at Stage Two within seven (7) days after the occurrence of the events giving rise to the grievances. The grievances shall be presented by not more than five (5) cf the employees concerned.
Time Limits
5.06	If action is not taken by the Union within the time limits set out in each stage of the Grievance Procedure, the matter shall be deemed to have been abandoned and Section 48 (16) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act shall not apply. If the Company fails to respond to a grievance within the time limits as specified in the Grievance Procedure, the grievance will succeed.
5.07	Any time limits fixed by this Article for the taking of action may be extended by mutual agreement. Requests for extensions shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall be made in writing.
5.08	Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays as set out in this Agreement shall not be counted in determining the time within which grievance action is to be taken.
9
5.09	Notwithstanding Section 49 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act the parties are mutually agreed that neither party will make a reference to the Minister until the grievance procedure has been completed.
Pay and Incentive Earnings
5.10	If a grievance affecting an employee’s rate of pay is decided in his favour the settlement shall be made retroactive to the pay period concerned provided the employee has presented his grievance within seven (7) days of receiving his cheque for that pay period.
5.11	Engineering results regarding incentive earnings will be issued a minimum of two days before the day on which incentive earnings are to be paid. Any difference in relation to the incentive earnings must be accompanied by a Bonus Complaint Sheet and presented to the Mine Superintendent within five (5) working days of the payday on which the bonus appears. Following this the Mine Superintendent will have seven (7) working days to respond. Should there be an ongoing complaint the employee will have seven (7) days to launch a complaint at Stage Three.
Discharge Cases
5.12	A grievance concerning the discharge of any employee may be presented at Stage Three within seven (7) days of the discharge.
5.13	If it is agreed at any stage of the Grievance Procedure or decided by the Arbitrator that an employee has been discharged without just and sufficient cause, the Company will reinstate him without loss of seniority
10
and will pay him for hours lost at his regular basic rate (less amounts earned or otherwise received) or will apply any lesser penalty agreed upon or decided by the Arbitrator.
Stewards and Grievance Committeemen
5.14	Stewards and Grievance Committeemen shall be employees having completed the probationary period. Stewards shall represent their designated Mine. Their number shall not exceed one (1) for each thirty-five (35) employees.
5.15	The Union shall notify the Company in writing every three (3) months of the names of the employees who are serving as Stewards and Grievance Committeemen and the Company shall not be required to recognize them until so notified.
5.16	Grievance meetings shall, as far as possible, be carried out during the regular hours of the day shift. When a grievance meeting occurs during the working hours of an employee in attendance, the Company will pay for the time spent by that employee in attending the meeting, which falls within his working hours.
5.17	When it is necessary for a Steward or Grievance Committeemen to request time off during working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance, he will request permission from his immediate supervisor. Permission to take such time off will not be unreasonably withheld when the supervisor is able to make satisfactory arrangements within his area of supervision and where the Steward or Grievance
11
Committeemen wishes to go outside his immediate work area, with the Superintendent of his Department or the Superintendent of another Department which the Steward or Grievance Committeemen wishes to visit for investigation purposes.
5.18	The Local Union President, or one of his designates, will be entitled to three (3) days off per week, with pay at his basic hourly rate, to attend to Local Union Business. The President will notify the Company, in writing, of the names of the designates at each of the Mines and only persons so designated in writing will be entitled to time off under this Article. The provisions of Article 5.18 are to be applied with respect to the procedure to be followed in arranging days off pursuant to this Article.
5.19	Employees may be suspended at any time where there is apparent cause. In the event of such a suspension the suspended employee will be given an opportunity to meet with a shop steward prior to leaving the property provided a shop steward is readily available. If a shop steward is not readily available, the Company will notify the Union as soon as practical regarding the suspension in accordance with Article 2.01(d) of this Agreement.
When a subsequent meeting is convened with the employee to further review the matter or to present the final disposition to the employee an available Steward will be present as a witness. At this point the employee may dismiss the Steward at his discretion.
12
5.20	In the event that the Company invokes disciplinary sanction against an employee, such discipline shall be dispensed without undue delay.
Where such discipline consists of a written warning or suspension, but not a verbal warning, an available Steward will be present as a witness. At this point, the employee may dismiss the Steward at his discretion.
5.21	Disciplinary notations, including suspensions, shall be removed from an employee's record provided the employee has remained discipline free for a period of twenty-four (24) calendar months except that this period will be extended should the employee be absent for a period greater than three (3) consecutive months during that twenty-four (24) month period. The extension shall be equal to the period of absence.
ARTICLE 6 Arbitration
Reference and Appointment
6.01	Failing settlement at Stage Three of a grievance involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, either party may, by notice in writing given within twenty-one (21) days of the time at which the decision at Stage Three was or should have been given, refer the matter to arbitration.
6.02	The Arbitrator shall be selected in rotation from
the following panel of arbitrators:	Owen B. Shime, Q.C.;
M. Teplitsky; R. Kennedy; and R. Joyce.
13
6.03	Any member of the panel who is unable or unwilling to act in his turn as Arbitrator shall not again be requested to act until his name comes up on the regular rotation of the panel.
Procedure
6.04	In any arbitration the written representations of the employee or employees made at Stage Two and the decision of the Company at Stage Three of the Grievance Procedure or in the case of a difference directly between the Union and the Company, the written representation by the applicant for the arbitration and the reply thereto by the other party shall be presented to the Arbitrator and the award of the Arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out.
6.05	Each party shall be entitled to be represented by counsel or otherwise and present evidence, to crossexamine the witnesses of the other party and to present arguments orally and/or in writing. When written arguments are submitted each party may reply once to the argument at the other party. When any written argument or brief is filed by a party with the Arbitrator, a copy shall at the same time be supplied to the other party.
6.06	The award of the arbitrator shall be confined to the issue raised in the written grievance and the reply thereto by the other party.
14
6.07	The findings of the Arbitrator as to the facts, the interpretation of this Agreement and also whether or not it has been violated shall be conclusive and binding on all parties, but in no case shall the Arbitrator be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
6.08	The expense of the Arbitrator shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union. No cost of arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
6.09	The Arbitrator shall be requested to give his award within a period of fifteen (15) days after the close of the hearing.
6.10	Arbitrations shall be heard in Timmins, Ontario, or at such other places as mutually agreed to by the parties.
6.11	No dispute may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 7
No Cessation cf Work
7.01	In view of the orderly procedure herein set forth for settling differences, the Union agrees that there shall be no strike, stoppage, slow-down or restriction of output during the life of this Agreement and that any or all of the employees taking part in or instigating any such strike, stoppage, slow-down or restriction of output shall be subject to discharge or other discipline by the Company.
7.02	On the other hand and for the same reason the Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement.
15
ARTICLE 8 Seniority General
8.01	There shall be two (2) types of seniority: Area and Department.
8.02	Area seniority means the length of an employee's continuous service with the Company since the date of his last hiring except as expressly provided herein.
8.03	Department seniority means the length of an employee's continuous service in the Department in which he is at the time regularly employed since the date of his last entry into such Department, except as expressly provided herein.
8.04	The Departments are:
Mine
Open Pit
Mill
Plant
8.05	An employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate during approved leave of absence of less than three (3) weeks and during absence due to injury or sickness.
Loss of Seniority
8.06	An employee shall lose all seniority and be removed from the payroll if he:
16
(a)	voluntarily quits, or
(b)	is discharged, and is not reinstated as per the provisions of the C.B.A., or
(c)	is laid off by the Company for a period longer than his continuous service at time of layoff for employees with less than two (2) years of service, or for more than twenty-four (24) months for employees with more than two (2) years of service, or
(d)	works for another employer while he is on leave without the approval of the Company, or
(e)	fails to report on the date of rehiring after having received notice of recall from layoff according to Articles 8.09 and 8.10, except for employees who advise the Company in advance of the recall date, and who can demonstrate to the Company that they are unable to report on the recall date due to sickness or accident.
Seniority Lists
8.07	Seniority lists shall be posted and revised every three (3) months. The lists shall remain posted for three (3) weeks in order to permit employees to verify that they are correct. At the end of this period a copy of the corrected list will be sent to the Union.
Layoffs
8.08	(a) Except for layoff of one (1) week or less,
consideration shall be given to the following two (2) factors in determining which employee(s) are to be laid off;
(i) area seniority;
17
(ii) the requirements and the efficiency of the operations and ability, knowledge, training, skill and physical fitness to do the work.
When, in the judgment of the Company, factor (ii) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two (2) or more employees, the employee with less area seniority will be the first to be laid off.
(b)	If in the event of a curtailment in any of the Company's Mines the number of Local Union Officers (or Stewards) becomes less than one (1) for each full thirty-five (35) employees then a Local Union Officer or Steward will be retained by the Company in his Mine until closure, regardless of his seniority provided he can perform the work available.
(c)	The Company agrees to allow forty (40) hours of training for senior employees who are laid off. The laid off employee will have one (1) opportunity to determine the job for which he is to be trained. The requirements and efficiency of operations and ability, knowledge, training, skill and physical fitness will be considered by the Company exclusively as they determine the success of the incumbent in attaining the new position. Within thirty (30) days upon ratification the Company will provide a list of these jobs which can be learned in forty (40) hours.
18
Lay-off Recall
8.09	Recall for any Mine shall be based on area seniority. Employees will be entitled to be recalled for a period as provided in Article 8.06 (c) of this Agreement. The employees shall be notified stating the jobs available and the proposed time of hiring, which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the time of notice. The persons notified and who report to work, if they are qualified and physically able to do the job, shall be rehired according to their position on the recall roster to the extent of the Company's requirements.
8.10	Articles 8.08 (a) and (b) and ,8.09 are subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees who are to be laid off or are to be relocated to another mine will be notified in writing. Notification will also be provided to the Union within twenty-four (24) hours.
(b)	Where an employee is required by a layoff to relocate to another Mine he shall have two (2) calendar weeks from the time of notification to inform the personnel or payroll office of his decision regarding his acceptance of the relocation.
(c)	An employee who declines relocation or recall to the permanent position from which he was laid off shall lose his seniority and be removed from the recall list except as providedfor in Article 8.06 (e).
19
(d)	Notices shall be sent by registered mail to the last address which the employee has on record with the personnel or payroll officer. The Company will be deemed to have fulfilled the requirements of this clause if the employee is contacted directly by telephone. Such contact shall be confirmed by registered letter.
(e)	An employee who has a minimum of five (5) years underground experience at Royal Oak Mines Inc., who has transferred to surface and is subject to layoff will be provided with training to acquire common core certification if he meets the requirements of Article 8.08 (a) to return to an underground position.
Promotion
8.11	When determining a promotion in any Department, (except to a position not included in the bargaining unit) the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee shall be promoted.
(a)	Department seniority
(b)	The requirements and efficiency of operations and ability, knowledge, training, skill and physical fitness.
20
When, in the judgment of the Company, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two (2) or more employees, the employee with the greater Department seniority will be entitled to preference.
8.12	When it is necessary to transfer an employee from one Mine to another, those employees who are qualified to perform the work required will be given the opportunity to transfer on the basis of their Departmental Seniority. Where no one accepts such an opportunity for transfer the most junior of the qualified employees will be transferred. At any time within six (6) months of an employee's date of transfer he will be given the opportunity to transfer back to his previous job should such job be refilled with an employee of equal qualifications.
NOTE: “The Company recognizes that positions of substantial duration on other properties may arise and senior employees may have a preference to be considered for these transfers. At the discretion of the department head, if all other aspects of the transfer are equal every effort will be made to give consideration to seniority”.
8.13	(a) Where an employee is transferred under
8.12 or for reasons of his health, his Department Seniority in such other Mine shall be equal to his Department Seniority prior to his transfer.
21
(b)	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to preclude the transfer of a person excluded from the bargaining unit or vice versa.
(c)	Persons who have been transferred out of the bargaining unit prior to July 1, 1984 shall only maintain area seniority rights in the bargaining unit from their date of hire to July 1,1986.
Persons who have been transferred out of the bargaining unit after July 1, 1984 will continue to earn area seniority credits for a two (2) year period after their transfer, and will then maintain only that level of seniority.
Employees permanently appointed to nonbargaining unit positions after July 1,1995 shall retain their accrued seniority for a period of twenty-four (24) monthsfrom the date d appointment. Following the expiry of the twenty-four (24) month time limit, the employee shall lose all seniority rights under this Agreement. In the event that such an employee returns to a bargaining unit position, such an employee shall be considered a new hire.
22
Job Posting
8.14	(a) When a job vacancy occurs it will be
advertised on the Company notice boards for one (1) calendar week. These postings will be posted in glass enclosed bulletin boards and will provide pertinent information regarding qualifications and current shift schedules.
(b)	Employees who wish to be considered for the job vacancy must file an application with their supervisor or the Human Resources Department.
(c)	Employees who are absent due to vacation or illness may notify the Human Resources Department in writing of any job which they wish to be considered for. If a vacancy occurs in such a job, while they are absent, they will be considered for the job posting.
(d)	1. Applications filed from within the
Department will be considered first, and if the vacancy is not filled from within the Department, then the applications from other Departments will be considered.
2. Applications will be considered in accordance with the provision of Section 8.11.
23
(e)	When the filling of a vacancy by a successful applicant creates a subsequent vacancy the Company will be obliged to post only the first such subsequent vacancy.
(f)	If no applications are received, or if none of the applicants possess the required ability and qualifications for the job, the Human Resources Department may hire a person to fill the vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within two (2) months cf being posted, such job will be reposted in accordance with Article 8.14(a).
(g)	An employee may make application for not more than three (3) job vacancies at any one time, and if he is successful in obtaining a job for which he has applied, the Company will not be obliged to consider his application for another posted job within the following four (4) months.
(h)	Temporary jobs which are expected to exceed two (2) months in duration will be posted. Any such vacancy caused by an employee's absence due to accident or illness will be available only to those employees in the department where the vacancy occurred. Any temporary job which is to be come a fulltime position will be posted. Temporary employees will be excluded from posting for such a job.
(i) An employee who is transferred from one department to another under the provisions of Section 8.14 Job Posting will receive Department Seniority equal to his Area Seniority.
0 A successful candidate is subject to a twenty (20) shift evaluation period. If during that period he decides that he does not wish to continue in the new job, or if he is not satisfactory, then he will be returned to his former classification at his former work site at his former wage rate.
(k) Successful candidates to job postings will be transferred to the new job without undue delay.
Probationary Employees
8.15	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, an employee, including a temporary employee, shall be considered to be a probationary employee and he shall have neither Area Seniority nor Department Seniority until he has actually worked fifty (50) shifts continuous service with the Company, which shall not include a maximum of twenty-four (24) shifts spent in the Common Core training program, at which time he shall become entitled to Area Seniority since the date of his last hiring by the Company and Department Seniority equivalent to the time he has served continuously in the Department.
25
8.16	A probationary employee may take advantage of the Grievance Procedure except in the case where his employment has been terminated by way of discharge or otherwise.
Temporary Employees
8.17	A temporary employee is one who has been hired for a specific job of a temporary nature which, in each case, shall not exceed a period of four (4) months. The provisions contained in Article 3 shall be applicable to temporary employees.
When a specific job of a temporary nature arises, the Company will give preference to having the work performed by regular employees within the department (including employees on lay-off who will be given first consideration provided the employee meets the requirements of Article 8.11 in accordance with Article 8.14 (i). Regular employees who undertake a temporary job shall, upon completion of the job, be returned to their former job classification at their former work site at their former wage rate or will be returned to lay-off if that was their previous status.
When a specific job of a temporary nature arises involving work that is normally of a regular and continuing nature in the Mine Department, the Union will be informed of the conditions giving rise to the need, prior to filling the job. The Company will forward the Union on a monthly basis a list of temporary employees which includes job classification, rate of pay, date of hire, and the completion date of the temporary job.
26
8.18	The services of a temporary employee will be terminated upon completion of the job. However, should he, after completion of the requirements set out in Article 8.14 (i), be transferred to the category of a regular employee, he will be entitled to seniority subject to, and in accordance with, the provisions of Article 8.15.
Inactive Employees
8.19	It is agreed that it is in the mutual interest of the parties and employees to promote effective rehabilitation of inactive employees who suffer from health disabilities. It is recognized that in the interest of promoting and effecting rehabilitation, designated employees of the Union and the Company may agree to waive any part or parts of this Collective Agreement which will impede the placement, implementation or continuation of a rehabilitationprogram. Agreement by either the Company or the Union will not be unreasonably withheld. However, where there is a competition between two (2) or more inactive employees for an available job, the most senior inactive employee who can do the job will be accepted.
Special Training
8.20	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union, individuals who with their agreement, are to be given special training or experience in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company (including students in temporary employment) not exceeding at any one time fifteen (15) or five percent (5%) of the employees at each Mine, whichever shall be the greater, and to promote, demote or transfer such individuals, and direct their efforts from time to time, free from any limitations providedfor in this Agreement.
27
Training Opportunities
8.21	Upon the Company determining an opportunity for training exists within a Department for employees to progress to a higher job classification, the Company will determine which employee(s) within the Department will be selected for training in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.11.
If, in the opinion of the Company, an employee fails to exhibit the necessary progress to continue in training, the Company may discontinue training such employee.
Temporary Assignments
8.22	From time to time, positions may arise at other properties where the requirements and efficiency of operations dictate the temporary assignment of specific individuals having the requisite ability, knowledge, training, skill and physical fitness to perform the work.
For the purpose of administrating Article 8, employees on such temporary assignment will be considered to have remained in their home department until such time as the temporary assignment ends.
ARTICLE 9 Leave of Absence
9.01	The Company will grant leave(s) of absence to attend Union convention(s), conference(s), or seminar(s), subject to the following conditions:
28
(a)	that the Union gives at least one (1) weeks written notice to the Company designating the employee or employees for whom such leave is desired:
(b)	that such leave will be for a period not exceeding two (2) weeks:
(c)	that such leave does not adversely affect the Company's operations.
9.02	The Company will, subject to the conditions set out in Article 9.01 (a) grant a leave of absence for up to six (6) employees at any one time, but not more than three (3) from each Department and not more than one (1) from each job, to attend to Union business.
9.03	The Company will grant long term leave of absence to employees to work in the official capacity of the Union, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	that the Union gives at least two (2) weeks written notice to the Company designating the employee for whom such leave is desired, and
(b)	that such leave will be for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months but upon the request of the Union, the leave may be extended for an additional twelve (12) months, and
(c)	that such leave does not adversely affect the Company's operations, and
29
(d)	that the leave will be given to just two (2) persons per year, and
(e)	that the total cost of benefit premiums for the affected individual will be reimbursed to the Company.
9.04	Any leave of absence permit must be in writing and signed by an authorized Company official.
Jury Duty
9.05	(a) A regular employee who loses time from a
scheduled shift because of Jury Duty or because he was subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown, as certified by the Clerk of the Court, shall be paid by the Company the difference between his base rate of eight (8) hours and the daily jury or Crown witness fee received. An employee on Jury Duty or a subpoenaed witness for the Crown is expected to report for work when not actively involved in Court proceedings provided he has been excused by a duly authorized Court official.
(b)	Time lost because of Jury service or as a result of being subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown will be considered time worked.
Funeral Leave
9.06	At the request of an employee, the Company will grant a leave of absence of three (3) days for the purpose of attending the funeral of a merpber of his immediate family subject to the following conditions:
30
(a)	“Immediate Family” shall be mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, spouse, children, step-children, grandchildren, step-parents, grandparents and grandparents of spouse. The word spouse shall include a common-law spouse where the couple are living together as husband and wife at the time of the death. If the employee in such a relationship is legally married to another person, such other person shall not be considered to be the spouse for the purpose of this Article 9.06. “In-Law” relationships will be determined by the above definition of spouse. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to advise the Company of whom it should recognize as the spouse.
(b)	The employee must provide the Company with suitable proof of the death for which leave of absence is granted and proof of attendance at funeral when requested.
(c)	In the event that a funeral of a member is being held beyond a five hundred (500) road kilometers distance from the employee's home, a leave of absence for up to a maximum of four (4) days may be granted for the purpose of enabling the employee to attend the funeral.
31
(d)	If he would have otherwise been required to work on one (1) or more of the said days the employee will be paid for eight (8) hours for each such day at his basic hourly rate.
ARTICLE 10 Vacations
10.01	An employee with less than one (1)year area seniority as of July 1st will be entitled to a vacation with pay for the vacation year ending such July 1st based on employment and earnings during the year ending such July 1st, all in accordance with the terms of the Ontario Employment Standards Act 1980 and amendments thereto and regulations thereunder.
10.02	An employee with more than one (1)year but less than five (5) years area seniority as of July 1st, will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks and pay of four percent (4%) of his total pay for the vacation year ending such July 1st, all in accordance with the terms of the Ontario Employment Standards Act 1980 and amendments thereto and regulations thereunder.
10.03	An employee with more than five (5) years but less than thirteen (13) years area seniority as of July 1st, will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks and pay of six percent (6%) of his total pay for the vacation year ending such July 1st.
10.04	An employee with more than thirteen (13) years but less than twenty-two (22) years area seniority as of July 1st, will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks and pay of eight percent (8%) of his total pay for the vacation year ending such July 1st.
32
10.05	An employee with more than twenty-two (22) years area seniority as of July 1st will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks and pay of ten percent (10%) of his total pay for the vacation year ending such July 1st.
10.06	An employee with more than thirty-two (32) years area seniority will be entitled to a vacation of six (6) weeks and pay of twelve percent (12%) of his total pay for the vacation year ending such July 1st.
10.07	The wishes of employees will be considered in allotting vacation times, but the Company reserves the right to schedule vacation periods. However, to ensure the orderly and efficient operation of the Mine and plants, such vacation period may be rescheduled.
(a)	Vacation requests shall be submitted by the employees to the Company on forms supplied by the Company no later than March 1st immediately preceding the vacation year.
(b)	Where two or more employees request vacation at the same time and not all requests may be accommodated, the allotment decision will be based on seniority.
(c)	The Company shall post the vacation schedule no later than May 1st immediately preceding the vacation year.
33
(d)	Vacation requests received after March 1st will be considered on a first come first served basis.
(e)	Employees shall not be allowed or required to schedule more than 2 weeks vacation in a block, unless the Company and the employee agree.
(f)	For the period as of the employee's anniversary date to the following June 30th an employee shall be entitled to vacation and vacation pay in proportion to the number of months or partial months in this period divided by 12.
Days off calculated under this formula shall be rounded up to the nearest whole day. An employee shall be entitled to take the additional time earned due to the passing of this anniversary date as of the employee's anniversary date.
ARTICLE 11 Hours of Work Reporting Time
11.01	(a) An employee who is called out for
emergency work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or at the Company's option shall be given four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate without being required to work the full period in which case he shall not be considered to have worked any time. If he is entitled to payment at overtime rates as provided for in this
Article for any or all of the time actually worked, and such payment is larger than such four (4) hours pay, he shall receive the larger amount.
(b) Any employee who is working on a call out or is called out for emergency work between 3:00 a.m. and one (1) hour before the start of regular day shift shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours work or at the Company's option, shall be given eight (8) hours pay at his basic hourly rate without being required to work the full period in which case he shall not be considered to have worked any time. If he is entitled to payment at overtime rates as provided for in this Article for any or all of the time actually worked, and such payment is larger than such eight (8) hours pay, he shall receive the larger amount.
11.02	Employees who are required to be on-call will be compensated at the rate of eight (8) hours pay at the employee's regular rate for each seven (7) day period. Where work is required during the on-call periods, such work will be compensated in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement and will be in addition to the on-call payments. On-call assignments will be equitably shared among those employees who normally perform the work within the Minesite Department, unless an acceptable alternate system can be worked out among all of the affected employees.
35
11.03	Necessary overtime will be performed by those employees who are qualified and available to perform such work.
11.04	An employee who works on an hourly rate who reports on time for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate without being required to work the full period. This shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an unauthorized absence or if work is not available for any cause beyond the control of the Company or any labour dispute.
11.05	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours set out herein.
11.06	Hoisting and lowering schedules at a Mine will be arranged to provide approximately eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift, but variations from such schedules not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently shall be disregarded. Any delay greater than fifteen (15) minutes in hoisting employees from underground which is due to necessary repair work or safety considerations or causes beyond the Company's control shall be paid on the basis of straight time only, but such time shall not be considered to be time worked. The daily lunch period for an employee whose work requires him to eat lunch underground shall be one-half (Yz) hour on Company time.
36
11.07	Hoistmen, cagetenders and deckmen on a one
(1)	or two (2) shift basis will be expected to lower their shift and return them to surface without time and one-half (1%) or overtime unless the shift works overtime.
11.08	Eight (8) hours work at his designated working place will constitute a work day for each employee on surface. The lunch period for a surface employee will be one-half (Vz) hour on his own time except that for an employee on continuous operations or two (2) shift consecutive operation, it will be one-half ('h) hour on Company time during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of services.
11.09	The work week shall commence with the day shift on Monday. The work week shall consist of five (5) days except in the case of employees on rotating shifts, the work week will average five (5) days over a longer period.
Overtime
11.10	An employee will be paid one and one-half (T/2) times his applicable hourly rate for any time actually worked on an hourly rate basis in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) work day or forty (40) hours in one (1) week except when such excess is due to change of shift.
11.11	Time allowed as overtime in any work day shall not again be allowed as overtime in the work week. In no case shall an employee be entitled to more than one and one-half (1%) times his applicable hourly rate for any time worked except as hereinafter provided.
37
11.12	An employee who is required to work overtime in excess of tWo (2) hours following the end of his regular scheduled shift or his overtime shift shall be provided with a hot meal, if possible. Additional meals will be provided at intervals of four (4) hours thereafter for so long as such employee remains continuously at work.
11.13	Whenever an employee is held for legitimate extra work or is brought in on his day off or on a holiday, he shall not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to his normal work week.
11.14	(a) Employees will be given forty-eight (48)
hours (which for non-continuous operations shall not include Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) for advance notice of an unscheduled shift change, except for emergencies.
(b)	The Company agrees not to change shift schedules arbitrarily and agrees to provide the Union with as much notice as possible of any shift schedule change.
In the event the Union is provided less than two (2) weeks notice of any shift schedule change, affected employees will be allowed to change their scheduled vacation periods subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations.
38
Shift and Weekend Premium
11.15	A shift differential of Fifty Cents ($.50) will be paid for each hour actually worked on afternoon shift and Sixty-Five Cents ($.65) for each hour actually worked on night shift. An afternoon shift is one which commences between noon and 8:00 p.m. and a night shift is one which commences between 8:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. Shift differential will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime rates.
11.16	An additional One Dollar ($1.00) per hour shall be paid for each hour worked on a scheduled shift on Sunday which is being paid at the employees basic hourly rate. This is in addition to any shift differential applicable.
ARTICLE 12 Recognized Holidays
12.01	The following days are recognized as Paid Holidays:
New Year's Day Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
2 Floating Holidays (12.01)
39
12.02	Each employee not required to work on each of the above-mentioned paid holidays will receive holiday pay at his normal basic hourly rate of pay for a total of eight (8) hours. Such payment shall not be made to an employee if:
(a)	he has been instructed to report for his regular work on such holiday and has failed to do so; or
(b)	he has had less than one (1) month's continuous service with the Company; or
(c)	he fails to work his full regular scheduled shifts immediately before and after the Holiday, with the following exceptions:
(1)	A death occurs in his immediate family (as herein defined).
(2)	His wife gives birth to a child in the twenty-four (24) hour period immediately before or after the holiday, satisfactory proof of which must be furnished to the Company by the employee himself.
(3)	While on his regular job an employee suffers a minor accident which prevents him from working his regular shift on the day before or after the Paid Holiday as required above and for which he does not receive Workers' Compensation benefits for
40
time lost, such accident having been reported by him to his Shift Boss or Foreman and First Aid Department during or immediately at the end of the shift in which the accident occurred.
(4)	If having commenced work on his regular scheduled shifts before or after the Paid Holiday concerned, the employee is prevented from completing such shift because of illness; provided, however, that the employee reports immediately to his Shift Boss or Foreman, At the Company's request a medical certificate will be required declaring the employee unfit for work.
(5)	If the employee is absent on an approved Leave of Absence for Union business and has complied with the provisions of this contract with respect to obtaining leave for such an absence.
(6)	If the employee is referred by his physician to a medical service outside of the Timmins/Matheson District.
(d)	The provisions of this Article 12.02 do not
apply to the Floating Holidays.
41
12.03	(a) Each employee with more than one (1)
month's continuous service with the Company will be granted a Floating Holiday in each twelve (12) month period commencing February 1st. An additional Floating Holiday will be granted within that twelve (12) month period to employees with more than three (3) months continuous service with the Company. Requests for a Floating Holiday must be made to the first line supervisor forty-eight (48) hours prior to the day desired.
(b)	When an employee has worked on a Paid Holiday and has been paid in accordance with Article 12.05, he may request another day off without pay. Requests for such days off must be made to the first line supervisor forty-eight (48) hours prior to the desired day off.
For any given day there will be no more than ten percent (10%) of a department off under (a) or (b) above or off on vacation. Simultaneous requests will be granted on the basis of departmental seniority.
12.04	If an employee reports for work late on a shift immediately before or after the holiday and he is permitted to proceed to his work place, he shall be entitled to an equivalent number of hours of holiday pay as he is paid for the shift for which he reported late.
42
12.05	If any of the above mentioned holidays fall on an employee's scheduled weekly day off, he shall be entitled to payment for such holiday if he is otherwise entitled thereto under the provisions of this Article.
12.06	An employee who is required to work on any of the above holidays shall be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all hours worked on such paid holiday. In addition, each employee will be eligible for eight (8) hours pay at his normal basic hourly rate of pay in accordance with Articles 12,02 and 12.03 of this Agreement. Shifts eligible for such payment will be the night shift beginning the holiday, the dayshift of the holiday and the afternoon shift of the holiday.
For employees working twelve (12) hour shifts the paid holiday for purposes of determining pay will be defined as commencing at 12:01 a.m. on the day of the holiday and continuing until 12:00 midnight of that day.
For continuous operations, the paid holiday will be observed on the calendar day upon which it falls. For non-continuous operations if it is agreed to celebrate the holiday on another day, only hours worked on that alternate day will be recognized for purposes of calculating holiday pay.
12.07	Any hours actually worked by an employee under Article 12.06 or paid at basic rates under Articles
12.02	or 12.03 will be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining whether he is entitled to time and one-half (1%) for any other time worked.
43
12.08	If any of the above-mentioned holidays falls during an employee’s absence on vacation under Article 11, such employee shall, if he otherwise qualifies for holiday pay, receive pay for the holiday and he shall be entitled to another day off, without pay, in lieu of the holiday.
ARTICLE 13 Wages
13.01	The Company and the Union agree that the scale of wages attached and as dated will be maintained during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 14 Bulletin Boards
14.01	No bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills, or other documents relating to the Union or Union activities shall be posted, distributed or left on the Company's property on surface or in the underground workings by the Union or any employees except in accordance with Article 4.05.
14.02	The Company will supply (1) bulletin board in each Change-House and at other locations as may mutually be agreed upon for Union notices.
14.03	Notices which the Union wish to have posted on such bulletin boards shall be submitted to the Company for approval. Notices of Union meetings or social events or appointments of Stewards and Grievance Committeemen will be accepted except that the Company will not approve or post any notice of a controversial nature.
44
ARTICLE 15 Health and Safety
15.01	The Company and the Union recognize the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment and also the shared responsibility placed upon the Company, the Union and each individual employee by the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario and other applicable legislation. It is agreed that the Company and the employees, Union Stewards and Officers and all levels of supervision will cooperate fully to promote safe work practices, healthy conditions and the enforcement of safety rules and procedures.
15.02	(a) A Health and Safety Committee will be
established at each Mine consisting of four (4) Company representatives and four (4) employees elected or appointed by the Union to represent the employees [one (1) from each of the Mine, Open Pit, Mill and Plant Departments],
(b)	The Committee will select its own alternating Chairman and a member of the Safety Departmentwill act as Secretary.
(c)	This Committee shall meet during working hours at least four (4) times a year and not more often than once a month and each meeting may be preceded by a tour of one (1) area of the operation as agreed upon by the Committee.
(d)	The Senior Health and Safety Committee will consist of three (3) Union and three (3) Company representatives, and will meet quarterly.
45
15.03	The Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Company and shall supplement the Company's Accident Prevention Program which is conducted for all employees and the Committee will in no way replace or detract from the carrying out of the program.
15.04	Time spent at committee meetings shall be deemed to be work time for those employees representing the Union, who shall be paid in accordance with the Occupational Health & Safety Act.
15.05	(a) The Committee shall receive minutes of
each meeting. Copies of all Accident Reports and copies of Mechanical, Electrical and Mining Inspection reports by representatives of the Ontario Ministry of Labour will be available.
(b)	The Committee shall have access to “Employers Report of Accident” forms submitted to the Workers' Compensation Board.
15.06	(a) The Department Committee representative
or his designate may, if he so desires, accompany the Supervisor on his investigation of a lost time accident within that department.
(b)	The Department Committee representative or his designate may, if he so desires, accompany the Company Technician to determine dust, gas or noise levels in a specific area.
46
15.07	(a) When an employee has reason to believe
that the work on which he is engaged is dangerous to his health or safety, he will cease the work and immediately contact his supervisor and detail the nature of his concern.
(b)	The supervisor, or his designate, will investigate the employee's concern in the presence of the employee and representative of the employee and a representative of Union Health and Safety Committee for the Department or his designate.
(c)	Where the provision of (b) has been complied with and the supervisor is satisfied that no unusual danger exists the employee will return to his work place unless he has reasonable grounds to believe that an unusual danger exists and he so informs the supervisor as to the grounds for such belief.
(d)	When an employee holds such a belief as set out in (c) then after discussion between the Supervisor and the Department Safety Committee Representative of the Union or his designate, the matter will be referred to the inspector for investigation if necessary.
(e)	Pending any investigation and decision by the inspector the employee will be assigned to such other work as is available.
(f)	On-coming shifts will be advised of all reported unsafe working conditions before proceeding to their working area.
15.08	Attendance of day shift workers at the Provincial Chest Clinic will be scheduled on Company time.
15.09	Appointments for hoistman's semi-annual medical examinations will be made by the Company. Hoistmen will be paid one (1) hour at basic rate for each examination.
15.10	There will be a Worker Health and Safety Representative chosen by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. However, removal of the Worker Health and Safety Representative shall be determined by the Union. The Worker Health and Safety Representative will be a bargaining unit member. Repotting to the Manager of Human Resources, and with full access to the Senior Health and Safety Committee, the Worker Health and Safety Representative will work in conjunction with all personnel related to the Safety Department. Upon removal from the job, the employee shall return to his previous job or exercise his seniority rights in the event his job no longer exists. The Worker Health and Safety Representative shall not incur any loss of seniority while in the capacity of Worker Health and Safety Representative.
The Company is prepared to issue a directive to all department heads whereby in the absence of the Safety Department vehicle, the Worker Health and Safety Representative will have the right to access any department head vehicle for emergency purposes.
48
The Company agrees to train the Worker
Health and Safety Representative to perform his duties effectively. Such training will include instruction in appropriate safety seminars and other educational programs provided to employees of the Safety Department.
The Worker Health and Safety Representative will have access to environment-safety-health (excluding medical) records, and equipment. He will be provided with office space and access to areas of the property to carry out his duties.
Safety complaints raised by the Union which have not been satisfactorily resolved shall be referred to the Worker Health and Safety Representative for prompt investigation.
The Company will also train one (1) employee selected by mutual agreement to serve as an alternate Worker Health and Safety Representative when the regular representative is absent for more than one (1) week.
The primary function of this position is to participate actively in developing and implementing strategies that ultimately reduce accident frequency while providing for a safe and healthy work environment.
The Senior Health and Safety Committee shall develop a job description for the position of Worker Health and Safety Representative within three (3) months of ratification of the Collective Agreement and shall revise the job description on an as required basis.
49
ARTICLE 16 Notices
16.01	Any notices in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
TO THE COMPANY:
ROYAL OAK MINES INC. ■
TIMMINS DIVISION P.O. Bag 2010 Timmins, Ontario P4N 7X7
TO THE UNION:
UNITED STEELWORKERSOF AMERICA 57 Mountjoy Street South Timmins, Ontario P4N 1S6
16.02	Any notices so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
16.03	Either party shall serve notice on the other party of any change of address for service of notices.
ARTICLE 17 General Provisions Union Delegations
17.01	The Company will meet with any Union Delegation(notexceedingsix (6) in number) and not more often than once each month or by mutual agreement d the parties at such time and place as may from time to time be fixed by the Company to discuss any proposals or recommendations of which at least forty-eight (48) hours
50
written notice shall have been given to the Company. Any such proposals or recommendations will be carefully considered and if mutually agreeable will be put into effect. The Company may request the Union to send a Union Delegation for discussion and the Union will do so under the same arrangements as if the Union had requested the meeting.
Training
17.02	Where, in the Company’s opinion, special training programs or courses will help an employee improve and develop skills directly related to his work, the Company will subsidize seventy-five percent (75%) of the tuition of the course providing the following conditions are met:
(1)	That the employee apply in writing through his immediate supervisor to the Human Resouces Department, fourteen (14) working days prior to the course starting.
(2)	The tuition subsidy will be paid only upon presentation to the Human Resouces Department of evidence of successful completion of the course.
(3)	The maximum per employee, per course, per year is Three Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($350.00).
ARTICLE 18 Term
18.01 This agreement shall become effective arulutY 1, 1996 and shall remain in effect until the 30th day of June, 1999.	______________________
"	51
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
Mine Department
Job Job	July
Class Title	1/95
I	Mine Labourer	14.03
3	Service Tractor Operator 14.52
4	Chutepuller	14.78
Motor Operator
5	Underground Car Repair 15.04
8	Pipefitter 1	15.80
Slusher Operator Electric Timber2
Tool Room Attendant Track 2
Trolley Operator
10	Muck Machine Operator	16.32
Pipefitter Leader Repair 1
Scooptram Operator
II	Cagetenderl	16.58
Drill Repair
Shaft Repair Skiptenderl
12	Maintenance Repair 1	16.84
Sanitation
Timber 1 Track 1
13	Driller I	17.10
Driller II
Driller lit Driller IV Driller V
52
Eff. Eff. July July 1/96	1/97
14.38 14.81 14.88 15.33 15.15 15.60
15.42 15.88 16,19 16.67
16.73 17.23
16.99 17.50
17.26 17.78
17.53 18.05
Eff.
July
1/98
15.55
16.10
16.38
16.67
17.50
18.09
18.37
18.67
18.95
Mine Department(cont’d)
			Eff.	Eff.	Eff.
Job	Job	July	July	July	July
Class	Title	1/95	7/96	1/97	1/90
13	Diamond Driller	17.10	17.53	18.05	18.95
ITH Driller Longhole Blaster Operator Maintenance Shaft Repair 1 Timber Leader 15 Maintenance Repair
Leader	17.60 18.04 18.58 19.51
19
21
24
Shaft Leader Maintenance Specialist Licensed Tradesmen Co-ordinator
18.64
19.14
19.92
19.11
19.62
20.42
19.68
20.21
21.03
20.66
21.22
22.08
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES Open Pit Department
			Eff.	Eff.
Job	Job	July	July	July
Class	Title	1/95	1/96	1/97
11	Truck Driver	16.58	16.99	17.50
13	Blaster	17.10	17.53	18.05
	Driller			
	Equipment Operator Mtce.			
17	Heavy Equipment	18.12	18.57	19.13
Operator Shovel Operator
24 Co-ordinator	19.92 20.42 21.03
Eff.
July
1/98
18.37
18.95
20.09
22.08
53
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
Mill Department
Job Job Class Title
Eff. Eff. July July July 1/95	1/96	1/97
1
2
4
7
8
9
10
11
13
14
15
16
17
18 19 24
Assay Labourer Labourer
Tailings Dam Operator Assay8 Sampler Assay7
Crusher Operator 1 Assay6 Lab Leader Tailings Dam Leader Assay5 Assay4 Assay3
Crusher Control Operator Assay2	17.60	18.04
General Solution Operator Assay 1	17.86	18.31
Flotation Operator 1	18.12	18.57
Tailings Rehab Operator Assay Specialist	18.38	18.84
Relief Operator	18.64	19.11
Coordinator	19.92	20.42
14.03 14.38
14.27 14,63 14.78 15.15
15.54 15.93 15.80 16.19 16.06 16.46 16.32 16.73
16.58 16.99 17.10 17.53 17.34 17.77
14.81
15.07
15.60
16.41
16.67 16.95 17.23
17.50
18.05
18.30
18.58
18.86
19.13
19.40
19.68 21.03
54
Eff.
July
1/98
15.55
15.82
16.38
17.23
17.50
17.80
18.09
18.37 18.95 19.21
19.51
19.80
20.09
20.37 20.66 22.08
SCHEDULEOFWAGERATES
Plant Department
			Eff.	Eff.	Eff.
Job	Job	July	July	July	July
Class	Title	1/95	1/96	1/97	1/90
9	1st Year Apprentice	16.06	16.46	16.95	17.80
Blacksmith 3 Carpenter 3 Electrician3 Machinists Mechanic 3 Plateworker3 Plumber3 Welder 3
13	2nd Year Apprentice	17.10	17.53	18.05	18.95
Blacksmith 2
Carpenter 2 Electrician2 Machinist2 Mechanic 2 Motor Mechanic 2 Plateworker2 Plumber2 Welder 2
14	Hoist Operator	17.34	17.77	18.30	19.21
17	3rd Year Apprentice	18.12	18.57	19.13	20.09
Blacksmith 1 Carpenter 1 Electrician 1 Machinist 1 Mechanic 1
55
Plant Department (cont’d)
			Eff.	Eff.	Eff.
Job	Job	July	July	July	July,
Class	Title	1/95	1/96	1/97	1/98
17	Motor Mechanic 1	18.12	18.57	19.13	20.09
Plateworker 1 Plumber/ Tinsmith Welder 1
18 Hoist Operator
w/Compressor Papers	18.38	18.84	19.40	20.37
21	Boom Truck Operator	19.14	19.62	20.21	21.22
Carpenter Specialist Diesel Mechanic Specialist Electrician Specialist Machinist Specialist Mechanic Specialist Motor Mechanic Specialist Plateworker Specialist Plumber Specialist Welder Specialist
23	Licensed Tradesman	19.66	20.15	20.75	21.79
24	Coordinator	19.92	20.42	21.03	22.08
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES Miscellaneous
			Eff.	Eff.	Eff.
Job	Job	July	July	July	July
Class	Title	1/95	1/96	1/97	1/98
2	Janitor	14.27	14.63	15.07	15.82
11	Janitor Leader Postal Expediter	16.58	16.99	17.50	18.37
56
SCHEDULEOFWAGERATES
Miscellaneous
Job	Job
Class	Title
	Eff.	Eff.	Eff.
July	July	July	July
1/95	1/96	1/97	1/98
17 Yard Service Operator 21 Townsite Mtce. Specialist
24 Local Union President Worker Health & Safety Representative
18.12 18,57 19.13 20.09
19.14 19.62 20,21 21.22 19.92 20,42 21.03 22.08
DEFINITION OF A COORDINATOR
The job class called Coordinator is for the person who, in addition to his regular work, plans and coordinates a number of jobs and handles the required paper work. This person has at least six (6) people working for him who will be given instructions by the Coordinator. The Coordinator's role in the disciplinary process is limited to recording absenteeism or reporting other items of concern to the first line supervisor. Only in extreme situations which may jeopardize the safety and well-being of an employee or group of employees, a Coordinator has the right to suspend an employee for the balance of the shift pending a full investigation by the supervisor.
57
TWELVE HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE Hours of Work and Overtime
Work shall be scheduled for the 12-hour shift schedule as per the attached schedule. The Company reserves the right, as per Article 2.01 of the Collective Agreement, to change the 12-hour shift schedule if it deems it is not suitable or is otherwise adversely affecting production.
For the purposes of computing overtime, only those authorized hours worked in excess of 12 hours in any one day or 80 hours in a two week schedule (averaged over the cycle of the schedule) shall be considered as overtime. Clauses in the Collective Agreement relating to this area shall be suspended for those employees affected by 12-hour shifts while they are in effect.
It is specifically understood that hours paid in accordance with the requirements of the statutory holiday schedule of the Collective Agreement shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
Shift and Sunday Premium
A weighted average shift premium would be calculated for the nightshift, based on the existing (current) shift premiums.
Employees on the dayshift (7 a.m. to 7 p.m.) would not receive any shift premium. Employees on the nightshift (7 p.m. to 7 a.m.) would receive 70 cents/hour for every hour worked on that shift.
58
Sunday premiums will continue to be paid as per Article 11.16 d the Collective Agreement. At present, this is an additional one dollar ($1.00)/hour for each hour worked at the employee’s basic rate of pay. This is in addition to any shift differential applicable.
Both Sunday and shift premiums continue to apply only to non-overtime shifts.
Meal Periods
There will be two (2) one-half hour meal periods during each 12-hour shift, to be scheduled no more than five (5) hours apart. As per Article 11.08 of the Collective Agreement, the lunch period for employees on continuous operation will be on Company time, while employees on steady dayshift will have their lunch period on their own time.
Recognized Holidays
i)	Where an employee is not scheduled to work on a statutory holiday, he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at straight time in accordance with Articles 12.01 and 12.02 of the Collective Agreement.
ii)	Where an employee’s regular scheduled 12-hour shift falls on a statutory holiday as listed in Article 12.01, and he is not required to work his shift, he shall be paid eight (8) hours straight time provided all other requirements are met.
iii)	Where the employee's regular scheduled 12-hour shift falls on a statutory holiday as listed in Article 12.01 and he is required to
59
work his shift, he shall be paid at two (2) times his basic rate for all hours worked on that shift in addition to eight (8) hours pay at straight time.
iv)	Floating holidays will continue to be administered as per Article 12.03 of the Collective Agreement. However, where an employee on twelve (12) hour shifts takes the shift off on a floating holiday, he will be paid for twelve (12) hours.
All qualifying periods and working days shall be met as per appropriate clauses in the Collective Agreement.
Vacations
Vacations entitlements as per the relevant sections of the Collective Agreement shall continue to be the same total number of “hours” of time off. For example, Article 10.03 says that “an employee with more than five (5Jyears but less than thirteen (13) years area seniority as of July 1 st, will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks and pay of six percent (6%)...” That same employee, working on a 12-hour shift schedule, will be entitled to a vacation of one hundred and twenty (120) hours and pay of six percent (6%).
Jury Duty
Where the 12-hour shift schedule is in effect and an employee’s regular scheduled 12-hour shift qualifies as per Article 9.05 of the Collective Agreement, he shall be paid the difference between his base rate of twelve (12) hours and the daily jury or Crown witness fee received.
60
Funeral Leave
Where the 12-hour shift schedule is in effect and an employee’s regular scheduled 12-hour shift qualifies as per Article 9.06 of the Collective Agreement, he shall receive pay for the twelve (12) hours. However, the total accumulated hours paid for funeral leave shall total no more than twenty-four (24) hours.
Leave of Absence
i)	Requests for unpaid leave of absence continue as per Articles 9.01, 9.02, and
9.03	of the Collective Agreement.
ii)	Where an employee is on leave of absence for the purpose of attending trade school, he will be paid upon successfully completing his school session, the difference between what his earning would have been had he worked his regular scheduled 12-hour schedule at his base rate of pay and the monies he receives from government agencies, i.e. Unemployment Insurance.
Benefit Plan - Weekly Indemnity
The qualifying “days” for benefits for employees on the 12-hour shift schedule shall be two (2) “days” or two (2) 12-hour shifts. Benefits received after that will be calculated on an “hours of work missed” system and compared to the weekly benefit amount of Unemployment Insurance maximum plus ten dollars ($10.00) which is based on a 40-hour week.
61
a>
K>
12-Hour Shift Schedule
MyWTCBS MTWTFSSMTWTFSSMTWTFSS Crew ANN	DOO	NN. . .DD..NNN. .DD...
Crew 3 D 0	NNN	OD.. .NN. . D D D . . NN...
Crew C	0 D	N N	D D D .	. N N . .	. D D .	.NNN
Crew D	N N	D D	NNN.	. D D . .	. N N .	. DD D
-	Recycles mery 88 Gays
-	Overtime 4 hours every g weeks
-	2 weekends off every gg days
CONTINUITY PLAN
If an hourly rated employee is laid off after March 1, 1976 because mining operations are curtailed or ceased for lack of ore, he will be paid Continuity Pay in an amount determined on the following basis: the employee's age (in full years) on the date of his layoff times his number of years of continuous service with the Company on the date of his layoff times One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) [age x years of service x One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50)]. The “number of years of continuous service” shall be calculated from the date of the employee's last entry into the Company's service. A “year of continuous service”; for the purpose of calculating continuity pay, is a complete year.
An employee will not be entitled to Continuity Pay, if he:
(a)	has less than two (2) years of continuous service with the Company;
(b)	has reached normal retirement age;
(c)	quits;
(d)	is discharged for cause;
(e)	dies;
(f)	cannot continue to work because of reasons of health;
(g)	is laid off for lack of work for any reason other than a curtailment or cessation of operations caused by lack of ore.
63
It is the Company's intention to keep the Continuity Pay Plan in effect until all the mines close. However, no payment will be made if Employment Standards or other legislation requires a severance payment in excess of that provided under this Plan.
GROUP BENEFIT PLANS
As a convenience for hourly rated employees, a summary of group benefit plans is set out below. These plans consist of Sickness and Accident Plan, Disability Insurance Plan, Life Insurance Plan, Pension Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan, and Dental Plan.
Extended Health Benefit, Thirty-Five Cent ($.35) Prescription Plan and Family Vision Care Optical Plan are also provided.
SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
The weekly indemnity benefit will be the “UIC” benefit level plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per week on a 11-4-52 week basis, except that the minimum weekly benefit payable will be Four Hundred and Thirteen ($413.00) dollars.
The Company undertakes to establish a system under which an employee who has satisfied all the requirements for disability payment will be given an advance on Weekly Indemnity claims provided the employee agrees to refund the advance.
The carrier will withhold income tax at source on benefits paid under this plan.
64
The Company will pay One Hundred Percent (100%) of the premium. The Company reserves the right to increase benefit levels above the established minimum at its sole discretion.
Disability Insurance Plan
This plan is applicable to employees actively at work on or after July 1, 1994. Employees will become eligible for coverage under this plan on the first day of the month following completion of four (4) years of continuous service with the Company. Employees must be actively at work to be eligible for coverage under this plan.
Effective July 1, 1995 the benefit will be Eight Hundred and Twenty Five Dollars ($825.00) per month. No deductions shall be made from the benefit amount until earnings from all sources exceed Eighty-Five Percent (85%) of the employee's predisability basic wage rate.
Payments under this plan will commence on completion of all eligible coverage under the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
The Company will maintain its share of contributions to the various benefit plans covering the employee during the first two (2) years an employee is in receipt of benefits under this plan. Payments under this plan will last for the shortest of
■ the duration of the disability
-	death
-	the employee's 65th birthday
65
Disability is defined for the first year to be any disability that prevents the employee from performing his regular duties, and thereafter any disability that prevents the employee from performing any job for which he is suitably trained or for which he could be suitably trained or educated.
An employee in receipt of Workers' Compensation Benefits will not be entitled to payments under this plan.
The cost of the plan will be a shared Eighty Percent (80%) by the Company and Twenty Percent (20%) by the employee. The employee's share of the increase to the monthly premium caused by the change in the plan on July 1, 1990 will be limited to a maximum of Three Dollars ($3.00). Further increases to the monthly premium caused by changes in premium rates will be shared Eighty Percent (80%) by the Company and Twenty Percent (20%) by the employee, except that the employee's premium will be limited to a Ten Percent (10%) increase per year. Any premium cost in excess of this amount will be borne by the Company.
Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan
(a)	Group Life Insurance:
Effective July 1,	1995 Group Life
Insurance per employee will be Thirty-Four Thousand Dollars ($34,000). This benefit will increase to Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000) on July 1, 1998. The Group Life Insurance benefit will replace up to Thirty-Four Thousand
66
($34,000) in 1995 and Thirty-Five Thousand ($35,000) in 1998 of payments required under the Pension Plan in the event of death.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance:
The Company will pay One Hundred Percent (100%) of the cost of accidental death and dismemberment for coverage in the amount of Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000.00) per employee.
Coverage will be increased to Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000) per employee effective July 1, 1998.
(c)	Optional Life Insurance will be made available at One Hundred Percent (100%) employee cost for spouse and dependent children.
PENSION PLAN
The pension plan for hourly rated employees provides for retirement at age 65. Calculation of pension entitlement is as follows:
(a) The basic pension benefit will remain at Nineteen Dollars ($19.00)per month per year of credited service prior to July 1st, 1994.
67
(b)	The basic pension benefit will be increased to Twenty Two Dollars ($22.00) per month per year of credited service after July 1,1994.
(c)	The basic benefit will be increased to Twenty-Three Dollars ($23.00) per month per year of credited service after July 1,
1996.
(d)	The basic benefit will be increased to Twenty-Four Dollars ($24.00) per month per year of credited service after July 1,
1997.
(e)	The basic benefit will be increased to Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per month per year of credited service after July 1,1998.
An employee eligible to receive Long Term Disability Benefits shall accrue credited service for a maximum of Ten (10) years while he is eligible to receive Long Term Disability Benefits.
Full vesting after two (2) years of credited
Service.
Effective July 1, 1994 an employee with Thirty (30) years of credited service and who has reached age sixty-two (62) will be entitled to an unreduced early retirement pension with bridging benefit of Three Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($350.00) per month payable from age sixty-two (62) to age sixty-five (65).
68
Employees opting for early retirement (age 62 or greater) shall have the following benefits continue until age sixty-five (65):
-	Major medical including drugs and vision care
-	Additionally life insurance will be made available as follows:
1)	First year of retirement-$20,000
2)	Second year of retirement - $10,000
3)	Third year of retirement and beyond - a
This pension is in addition to benefits payable under Government Pension Plans. The Company pays the full cost of these pension benefits.
The plan provides for an early retirement option. Inquiries should be made to the Human Resources Department.
MAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE PLAN
Extended Health Benefit, Optical Benefit, and Thirty-Five Cents (350) Prescription Plan coverage. This insurance is designed to supplement the benefits available to employees through OHIP (the provincial medical care insurance). The cost of this benefit will be shared 90/10 by the Company and the employees.
Following are some of the covered expenses:
1)	Prescription drugs; the employee pays the first Thirty-Five Cents (350) on cost of each prescription.
69
2)	Registered private nurse, (in home only).
3)	Physiotherapy(maximum$10.60 pervisit).
4)	Difference in cost between semi-private accommodation and a private hospital room (not a suite) in a public general hospital.
5)	Private hospital charges up to ten (10) days for a maximum of One Hundred and Twenty Dollars ($120.00).
6)	Repair or extraction of natural teeth damaged through accidental injury.
7)	Clinical Psychologist; up to a maximum of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) per year.
8) Speech Therapy (yearly maxi mum of $200).
9)	Eye glasses prescribed by a medical doctor or optometrist to a maximum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) per person in each twenty-four (24) month period.
10)	Vision Care will be made available on an annual basis to dependent children age eighteen (18) and under.
Vision Care will be made available every twenty-four (24) months to dependent children age nineteen (19) to twenty-five (25). A dependent child in this age group is defined as an unmarried dependent
70
who is in full-time attendance at school and not working full time. A dependent child who is physically and / or mentally handicapped, who attains the limiting age, may continue coverage as a dependent provided medical requirements are met.
11)	Beyond the basic chiropractic benefit provided by the government insurance each employee and dependent family member is entitled to an additional Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) per year of coverage.
DENTAL PLAN
Eligibility:
Current employees are eligible the first day of the month following six (6) months of employment if actively at work. The maximum amount payable in a calendar year is One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00)o r the member and for each participating dependent.
If an employee does not join within thirty-one (31) days of becoming eligible then the employee will have to wait one (1) year to be eligible again.
Coverage provided for:
(a)	employee
(b)	spouse including common-law if parties have lived together for at least one year
(c)	unmarried dependent children under twenty-one (21)years old
71
(d)	unmarried children who are full time at a college or university
(e)	dependent children who are disabled by mental or physical handicap.
Coverage:
As of July 1, 1996, the 1993 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule will apply to Level 1: Preventative, Level 2: Restorative and Level 3: Major Restorative Dental Plan Coverage.
As of July 1, 1997, the 1994 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule will apply to Dental Plan Coverage.
As of July 1, 1998, the 1995 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule will apply to Dental Plan Coverage.
Level 1: Preventative
This level is fully paid by the Plan up to the maximum of the applicable Ontario Dental Association fee schedule.
There is no deductible or co-insurance provision (cost-splitting).
1.	Office examination
2.	Scaling of teeth and cleaning
3.	Application of Fluorides
4.	Application of other tooth decay preventing substances
72
5.	Full mouth x-rays
6.	X-rays of upper and lowerteeth - side view
7.	Palliative treatment (treatment to relieve dental pain)
Level 2: Restorative
Effective July 1, 1993 and continuing during the life of this contract this level is paid at Ninety Percent (90%) of the applicable Ontario Dental Fee Schedule after a deductible of Ten Dollars ($10.00) for a single person or Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) for an individual with dependents. This co-insurance and deductible provision does not apply to Level 1 coverage.
1.	Provision of initial amalgam material) porcelain, or plastic fillings	(silver
2.	Replacement of fillings	
3.	Temporary stainless steel crowns	
4.	Periapical x-rays	
5.	Extractions and other surgical procedures normally done by a dentist	
6.	Denture repairs	
7.	Provision and installation of space maintenance to preserve space created by loss of tooth	
a.	Periodontal treatment of diseases gums and tissues of the mouth	of the
73
9.	Endodontic treatment (root canal, nerves and blood vessels)
10.	Drugs, medicines or prescriptions written by a dentist.
Level 3: Major Restorative
This level is paid at Eighty Percent (80%) of the applicable 0ntario Dental Fee Schedule. There is no deductible provision. Estimates should be obtained from the dentist before any major work is scheduled.
1.	The initial placement of dentures.
2.	Replacement dentures will be provided every five (5) years.
Common Accidents:
Only one deductible for all injuries no matter whether or not treatment extends over one year.
Cost of Premiums
The cost of the premiums will be Seventy Percent (70%) paid by the Company and Thirty Percent (30%) paid by the employee.
Dental Recall
The recall period for dental visits will be every nine months.
The above are general outlines of the various Plans only for general guidance. For complete details reference would have to be made to the actual Plans. Plan benefits now in effect will remain in effect.
74
TOOL REIMBURSEMENT
Effective September 1, 1996, September 1, 1997 and September 1, 1998 a Tool Reimbursement of Two Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($275.00) will be made to all eligible employees for the maintenance of their tool kits.
Eligible groups will be:
Mill Maintenance
IndustrialService, Shops and ConstructionCrew Mobile Maintenance
Plant Department Mechanics and Maintenance L.H.D. Maintenance Mechanics Certified Welders
and others who are required to have a full set of tools on their job.
In addition, where a single tool cannot be repaired, and must be replaced and the replacement cost is more than Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250.00), the Company will pay the difference between the replacement cost and Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250.00).
75
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
For the duration of this Collective Agreement the following articles have been agreed to by the Company and the Union:
1.	The successful applicant's name for a job posting will be posted and copies of job postings will be sent to the Union. Applicants will be given a receipt of application.
2.	Senior men for a job posting will be considered when jobs on preferential shifts are filled.
3.	Temporary employees to receive Company benefits when they meet the required qualifications.
4.	Statement of annual earnings to be with vacation cheques.
5.	Shift differentials shall apply to employees working their regular scheduled hours on a recognized holiday.
6.	Floaters may be taken together but only at the supervisor's discretion.
7.	Commencing no sooner than the second pay period following the ratification of this Agreement, all pay for employees covered by this Collective Agreement will be by direct deposit. The Company will ensure that all pays will be deposited in individual employee accounts no later than 2:00 p.m. on pay day with necessary pay information stubs also available at that time.
8.	Phone calls will now be accepted instead of doctor slips; however, the supervisors may request a doctor's slip from the employee for legitimate reasons. Calls should be one (1) hour priorto regular7-3 or 8-4 shifts and two (2) hours before afternoon or graveyard shifts.
76
9.	A monthly sheet showing work rates and shift earnings will be supplied for each contract on a monthly basis.
10.	Advances on pay or adjustment cheques to be made available within forty-eight (48) hours of notice. Privilege of receiving pay advances is not to be abused.
11.	For the purpose of Article 1.02 an emergency situation will be considered to be in existence when there is a significant likelihood of harm to either personnel or equipment or a significant likelihood of an interruption to any process vital to efficient operations.
12.	The Company will forward to the President of the Local Union and the International Staff Representative, by registered mail, a copy of new written policies or procedures as well as amendments thereto, which directly affect the members of the bargaining unit, within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the implementation of such policy or procedure.
13.	The Company and the Union acknowledge that they have a mutual interest in the promotion of apprenticeship training and to this end agree to maintain a joint committee of four (4) members named by the Company and four (4) members named by the Union to make recommendations on apprenticeship training. The Committee will be cochaired and will meet at least quarterly. Minutes of all Committee meetings will be circulated to Committee members and the Local Union President.
77
The Union members appointed to this Committee will be made up of one (1) representative from each of the following trades:
(1)	Electrician
(2)	Mechanic
(3)	Machinist
The Committee's mandate will include the following: -- to identify manpower needs in the organization where advance training may be appropriate;
-- to jointly identify external sources of funding for the desired training;
-- to arrange for the publicity of training opportunities available to employees;
-- to evaluate the effectiveness of the training provided and to assist wherever appropriate with training arrangements.
This committee will be established within three (3) months following ratification of this contract.
14.	The elected President of Local 4440 will be placed on dayshift for the duration of his/her presidency.
15.	The purpose of the Union President's entitlement to three (3) days off per week to attend to Local Union Business under Article 5.19 is to conduct those activities between the Union and the Company which require the President to meet with members of management or to be involved with other Union/Company issues.
78
16.	The Company agrees that if at all possible the Vice president of Local 4440 will be scheduled to work dayshift during the term of his/her office.
17.	This article will confirm our understanding reached during the negotiations where we have agreed that during the life of this Agreement which commences July 1, 1996, any new mining or mineral processing venture that is brought into production by Royal Oak Mines Inc. - Timmins Division within a 100 mile radius of Timmins, will be subject to and included in the Collective Agreement currently in place between Royal Oak Mines Inc. - Timmins Division and United Steelworkers of America. This understanding cannot include any joint venture operations within this radius which are not controlled by Royal Oak Mines Inc. - Timmins Division.
18.	The Company agrees in principle with the concept of the Humanitarian Fund. The Company will continue to offer the option of payroll deduction to employees wishing to contribute.
19.	The Company agrees to maintain the current practice on the scheduling frequency of Health & Safety Meetings.
20.	The Company agrees to provide the employees’ T-4 slips no later than February 15th of each year.
21.	The Company agrees to post all future coordinator positions in accordance with the job posting procedure.
79
22.	This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations that for the purpose of applying Letter of Understanding No. 17, the proposed Matachewan operations will be subject to a separate Collective Bargaining Agreement as may be negotiated between the Company and the United Steelworkers of America.
23.	This will confirm our understanding at negotiations where the Company agrees to establish a Safety Prescription Eyeglass Program, effective July 1, 1997 and continuing during the life of this Agreement.
Whereas the program has yet to be established, the benefit will consist of one (1) pair of safety eyeglass frames selected solely by the Company and / or replacement eyeglass lens as approved by the Company once every twenty-four (24) months, in exchange for damaged, broken or outdated prescription safety eyeglasses.
24.	This will confirm our agreement reached during negotiations that the Company and Union will make joint application to the appropriate Government Agencies for any permits which may be necessary for the averaging of hours as provided for under Articles 11.09 and 11.10 for any shift schedules required by the Timmins Division.
This agreement is in full resolution of any past, current or future issues or liability regarding the averaging of hours or payment for same that have, or may in the future, arise between the parties.
80
Executed in the City of Timmins, this 1 Ith day of July, 3996
E. Szol
On behalf of
ROYAL OAK MINES INC. -

M. Lalonde A P Mitchell R Cloutier C Pollard N J Resetar R A Pineault
On behalf of:
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 4440