Collective Bargaining Agreement
between
Miramar Giant Mine Ltd. and
CAWTCA Canada
Canadian Autoworkers and its LOCAL 2304
November 16,2002 - November 15, 2005
1
ooim.
This Agreement dated the 22nd day ofNovember, A.D, 2002
between
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION
AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW CANADA) AND ITS LOCAL 2304
hereinafter referred to as “The Union”.
OF THE FIRST PART
-and-
MIRAMAR GIANT MINE, LTD.
of the City of Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories.
hereinafter referred to as “The Company”,
OF THE SECOND PART
Supersedesall previous contracts, letters of intent, memoranda of agreement, letters of interpretation.
WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Company to operate its mining property at Yellowknife in accordance with sound business principals, to minimize the effect of its mining on the environment, to promote and foster harmonious relations between the Company and its employees, and to constantly improve the safety and health standards of its operations.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH
that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
2
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS
1.01
The term “employee” or “employees” as used in this Agreement, means all employees of the Company at the Company’s property at Yellowknife, Northwest Territitores, except managerial supervisory, technical and certain other specific personnel described and excluded by the Order of the Canada Labour Relations Board issued on the 03rd day of October, A, D 1994.
1.02
A “grievance” is defined as a violation or an alleged violation of a specific article of this Agreement or of an interpretation of this Agreement.
1.03
“Basic Hourly Rate” is that rate shown for eachjob classification in Schedule “A” of this Collective Agreement plus applicable Gold Premium wage adjustments, if any, as provided under the terms and conditions of Scheduled” Gold Scale.
ARTICLE 2
BARGAINING AGENCY AND RECOGNITION
2.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for all employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions and will continue to do so for the life of tiiis Agreement so long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
2.02
It is not the intention of the Company that employees outside of the Bargaining Unit will do Bargaining Unit work except in the cases listed below. It is recognized however, that staff employees may occasionally become involved in work to a minor degree. (“For example a supervisor may help an employee line up a pipe on a project but is not expected to actually assemble the piping.”)
3
a)	E mergencies for reason of safety or health or to prevent environmental damage or damage to property or equipment.
b)	F or the purpose of legitimate instruction,
c)	In case of breakdowns after all reasonable efforts have been made to locate aid utilize the required type of Bargaining Unit employee.
d)	E xperimentation, after notification to the Union in writing: i' In different ways of doing ajob.
jj)	In ways of operating new or different types of equipment.
2.03(a)
In the event of a violation of Article 2,02 the Company shall pay to the employee, if the grievance is substantiated, an amount equal to the pay had the employee done the job.
2.03(b)
In the event of a violation of 2.02 where no employee has been deprived of an opportunity :o work, and the violation is substantiated, the Company shall pay to a charitable or service organization listed below, an amount equal to the pay had an employee of the right classification done the job, vdlh a minimum of four (4) hours pay. The Company shall send a copy of the letter accompanying each payment to the Union. Payment shall be made to the following charitable organizations:
Canadian National Institute for the Blind (1st quarter of the year)
The Abe Miller Workshop (2nd quarter)
N WT Council for Disabled Persons (3rd quarter)
Salvation Army (4th quarter)
2.04
Work of the type being performed by an employee of the Bargaining Unit will continue to be performed by a member of the Bargaining Unit, if such a classifiedjob is still being performed.
In order to ensure that the work is completed on time, the Company may contract out the work, but such contracting out will not affect thejobs presently held by Bargaining Unit employees. The Company agrees to consult with the Union on contract work in excess of $15,000, bu: reserves the right to make the final decision having in mind the efficient' operations c f its business.
For the putp ose of this article, displacement shall be defined as having been removed from one’sjob classification.
If both parti es can agree as to what person or persons have been displaced, the Company will ensure 1 hat any employee temporarily or permanently displaced by contracting out will not suff er loss of earnings, though he may have to accept other work.
ARTICLE 3
NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION
3.01
There shall be no discrimination or intimidation by the Company or the Union against any employee because of membership, non-membership, Union activity, or lack of Union activity, in any lawful union; nor because of race, creed, colour, sex, nationality, religious or political beliefs or personal prejudice.
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT
4.01
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and to manage its business, in all,respects, in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and alter when necessary the methods, procedures, work rules, and conditions in the interest of efficiency or necessity. Such changes shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall always have the right to hire, discipline, promote, demote, lay affand discharge employees who have completed their probationary period forjust cause.
4.02
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties or any part thereof.
5
ARTICLE 5
TERM OF AGREEMENT
5.01
Subject to /irticle 5.02 this Collective Agreement is effective November 16,2002 and shall expire onNovember 15,2005.
5.02
This Agreement shall remain in effect from its effective date until the 15th day of November 2005 but shall not terminate at the expiration of that period unless three (3) months notice in writing of the termination has been given by one party to the other. If no such nolice is given, this Agreement shall remain in effect until terminated by either party upon notice in writing. Either party may, within the period of three (3) months immediately preceding the date of expiry of this Agreement, by notice require the other party to the Agreement to commence collective bargaining.
ARTICLE 6
PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
6.01
Protective devices and other equipment considered necessary by Mine Management, in consultation with the Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee, to protect employees :ann injury shall be provided by the Company as provided in the following articles.
6.02
Slickers - hi those cases where the Company currently supplies slickers without cost to the employees, the practice shall be continued. In other cases where slickers are deemed necessary by the supervisor they shall be sold by the Company to underground employees at fifty (50%) percent of cost, provided that for a second or later issue, the employee shall return the slickers previously supplied.
6.03
Safety Boots or Shoes - A maximum of one (1) pair of safety boots or shoes at one time per employee for surface, mill or underground will be sold at fifty (50%) percent of cost. The first par of safety boots or shoes will be sold to a new employee at cost. On
6
completion of his probationary period, he will be refunded fifty (50%) percent of the cost. For a second or later issue, the employee will return the boots previously supplied.
The Company agrees to stock CS A approved rubber safety boots and one (1) Style-bf CSA approved leather safety boots. Any safety boots purchased outside the Company’s warehouse must be CSA approved. The Safety and Training Department will specify the type of footwear required for specificjobs or conditions. Any employee who purchases CSA approved Safety Boots off site shall be reimbursed fifty (50%) percent of cost,
6.04	Safety Glasses 6.04(a)
Ordinary -1 te Company will supply the first pair of ordinary safety glasses without cost, which will be repaired at no charge to the employee, and which will be returnable to the Company on termination of employment.
6.04(b)
Prescription - The new employee will be reimbursed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the first pair of prescription safety glasses upon completion of his probationary period.
Employees with seniority who have to wear Prescription safety glasses at work for the first time will be reimbursed fifty percent (50%) of the cost.
The Company will pay one hundred (100%) percent of the cost of repairs to prescription safety glasst s damaged in the normal course of work.
The cost of leplacement safety glasses desired for cosmetic reasons or changes in fashion will be borne by the employee.
6.05
Hard Hats, Lamp Belts, Ebr Muffs, Self Rescuer - will be supplied by the Company where required and will be returnable on termination of employment.
6.06
Gloves- Company will continue to supply quality rubber gloves and sleevesto personnel on certainjobs as in the Mill as protection against chemicals. Leather gloves and sleeves will be sold :o surface personnel at fifty percent (50%) of cost, and rubber gloves and sleeves for underground workers will be sold in the same manner.
6.07
Coveralls, as deemed necessary by the foreman, will be sold to employees at fifty percent (50%) of cos t up'to^armaximum annual rebate of $ 120.00.
6.08
Welder’s Leather Jackets and Pants - when approved by foreman, these items will be sold to the wilder at cost. On completion of his probationary period, he will be refunded fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the articles.
6.09
Ski-Doo Sui s - Ski-doo suits will be sold at fifty percent (50%) of cost to those employees who normally work outdoors in the winter, such as Construction and Pit ■ department employees. For a second or later issue, the employee will bring the old suit to his foreman.
ARTICLE 7
SAFETY AND HEALTH
7.01
The Company and the Union recognize the need for the fullest co-operation on all matters pertaining to safety and health on thejob.
They agree that each has a responsibility to promote safety and health on thejob.
The Company has the responsibility of making available the necessary personal protective equipment for its employees, of ensuring that all operating equipment is properly guarded, that the necessary safety devices are available and in working order, of ensuring that all working places are in a safe condition and that the necessary steps have been taken to ensure that the harmful effects of dusts, fumes, chemicals have been minimized to acceptable levels. The Company will also ensure that its employees are properly trained in the handling of any hazards they might meet.
The Union he 5 the responsibility of ensuring to the best of its ability, that its members abide by the safety rules, both Company and Governmental that apply to their work but will not be held liable for any accident that may occur. It is recognized that the purpose of accident investigation is not to establish blame or liability, but to discover the cause in order to prevent a re-occurrence.
The Union and the Company shall discuss all present and future safety rules whenever either party feels that there is need.
8
7.02(i)
There shall be a Mine Occupational Health and-Safety Committee comprised of six (6) members from the Bargaining Unit and six (6) members from Management. This committee is responsible for, among other things, seeing that there are four (4) days devoted to inspections underground per month and two (2) days devoted to inspections on surface p ;r month.
This Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Company and shall distribute written copies of acoident/incident reports as soon as they are available to the General Manager, Underground Safety and Training Coordinator, Union President and the Chairpersons of the Mine Inspection Services.
7.02(H)
Each inspec don team shall consist of the Safety Supervisor, one (1) supervisor firm the Department being inspected and two (2) Bargaining Unit employees, at least one (1) of whom will be familiar with the conditions, practices and equipment being inspected.
In exceptional situations, the Safety Supervisor may be replaced by another member from Management who shall not be a front line supervisor.
The Company will be responsible for selecting its representatives and the Bargaining-Unit shall be responsible for selecting its representatives.
Any employ ee engaged in this committee working the eight (8), nine (9), ten (10) or twelve (12) hour schedule shall attend such inspections and return to his workplace immediately thereafter.
7.03
The commit ee shall ensure that an investigation of any conditions that could result in serious injur/ or loss of life is conducted. The investigation team shall consist of four (4) persons, two (2) from the Bargaining Unit, one of whom will be a member of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee and two (2) from Management. The investigation team’s report shall include recommendations for remedial or preventative action. Time spent by members of the investigation team shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time. Under no circumstances shall overtime be paid. The Company’s representatives will be responsible for notifying the Union’s Health and Safety Representative and/or the Union’s Co-chair of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, of such conditions as soon as possible. The Union and C ompany representatives will arrange for the time and place of the investigatior.
9
7.04(a)
The time sp ;nt in safety tours, accident/incident investigations and in meetings of the Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall be consideredas*time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time. Under no circumstances shall overtime be paid. It is agreed that time spent under this Article shall be reasonable.
7.04(b)
For the durttion of this Collective Agreement the Company Will assign an individual as a Union Heal h and Safety Representative under the following conditions:
1)	"Tie individual occupying this position shall be selected by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
2)	The position shall not be subject to the posting provisions of the Collective Agreement.
3)	""he employee will be paid atjob class 14.
4)	"lie position shall be a bargaining unit position.
5)	"Tie individual reports to and will be accountable for time and activities to the Superintendent of Health and Safety.
6)	"Tie individual in this position shall be one of the two bargaining unit lepresentativeson safety tours and accident/incident investigations.
7)	"Tie individual in this position shall not be a member of the Union Executive nor the Chairman of the Union’s Health and Safety Committee.
8)	"Tie individual shall be a member on the Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
9)	"Tie individual in this position shall attend Union meetings on a regular basis to update members on his activities. jV'
10)	Failure to abide by the above ancLupon termination of his appointment the employee shall return to his former departmentand classification.
7.05
The Union shall advise the Company of the names of its members of the Mine Occupation il Health and Safety Committee and of any changes required.
10
7.06
The Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall meet once every two (2) -months wit!-the Mine Manager and others deemed necessary by the Mine Manager and the Mine Oc cupational Health and Safety Committee to review reports and recommendations of the Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee with references to unresolved and/or recurring safety and health problems and to discuss other matters pert lining to Safety, Accident Prevention and Industrial Health. Meetings may be held more fi equently by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The committee and Senior Management shall exchange agendas of matters they propose to discuss at least one (1) week prior to the meeting.
This arrangement shall not preclude the holding of meetings on shorter notice to discuss a specific topic which is considered to be of an emergency nature.
7.07
Advanced First Aid coverage will be maintained on the property on a 24-hour basis. An emergency c all list will be posted on each bulletin board. The Company is committed to maintaining the number of first aid trained employees to a level exceeding those specified by M.I.S regulations.
7.08
The Company agrees to provide the Union and the committee with copies of all accident and incideni reports each week. The Company also agrees to provide the Union and the committee vd±±i a copy of the monthly accident summary to the next meeting of the Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee and agrees to make available upon request to the Mine Oc cupational Health and Safety Committee a copy of all stack and dust monitoring lesults.
7.09(a)
Adequate w;ishrooms, lunchrooms, lockers and a place to hang or store work clothes will be provided by the Company and kept in a clean condition. The Company will supply paper towel; , soap and hot water. All drys ’ shall be kept at 20 Celsius, as far as possible. Efcys' will not normally be cleaned by operators.
7.09(b)
Housekeeping and Sanitation- all employees, as well as the Company will observe the rules of good housekeeping and sanitation in all lunchrooms, change buildings, washrooms and working places. Chemical toilets and wash facilities will be located by the Company underground and at satellite projects. The Company agrees to discuss the locations wilh the Union prior to installation.
11
7.09(c)
Mine Rescu 2 training will be given to those people who are medically and occupationally suitableand who volunteer for the training, up to a maximum of five (5) teams. Training will be done for eight (8) hours every two (2) months.
7.09(d)
The Company will make available Emergency First Aid Training to all employees on a voluntary be sis. The Company will ensure that Standard First Aid training is done in accordance'vith M.I.S regulations.
7.10
The Union shall participate in the placement of injured workers through Workers Compensation Assessment Programs.
7.11
Monitoring - The Company and the Union agree that monitoring should be conducted on a regular basis in the workplace to ensure worker’s health and safety. Questions about procedures and methods of monitoring are to be addressed and resolved in the Mine Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
ARTICLE 8
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.01
Underground - Eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours from collar to collar shall constitute a days working shift for underground employees, except that for employees who goto their working pla:es via surface through shaftsor raises other than ‘C’ Shaft, it shall be eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours dry to dry; hoisting and lowering schedules will be arranged to conform to this as nearly as possible.
8.02
Eight (8), nine (9), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours worked at the working place shall constitute a shift. When the foreman instructs an employee to report to him at a place other than his working place, then the working time shall be considered as commencing when the employee reports to the foreman.
For employees on an eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hour shift the work day shall have one-half (1/2) hour meal period on Company time, and two (2) fifteen (15) minute coffee
12
breaks, during which time the employee except those working underground shall continue all supervision of machinery and maintenance services.
For employees working the four by four (4x4) twelve (12) hour shiftschedule, the work day shall co isist of twelve (12) hours at the working place with two (2) one-half( 1/2) hour meal period, and two (2) fifteen (15) minute coffee breaks, on Company time during which time ihey shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of services.
8.03(a)
(i)	An employee shall be paid his basic hourly rate for all work performed during his regularly scheduled shift. An employee will be paid at time and one half (11/2) his basic hourly rate for any time actually worked in excess of eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours in one work day, or forty (40) hours in one week except that an employee who works more than two (2) hours beyond his regularly scheduled eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours shall be paid two (2) times the basic hourly rate for all hours worked beyond the first two (2) hours.
In case any employees are kept after the end of the regular shift due to causes over which they have nc control, such time shall be paid at straight time for the first fifteen (15) minutes, and paid at time and one-half (11/2) if it exceeds fifteen minutes,
(ii)	When an employee works additional hours immediately prior to or immediately after his regularly scheduled twelve (12) hours shift, he shall be paid two (2) times the basic hourly rate for such hours outside his regularly schedule shift. In case any employees are kept after the end of the regular shift due to causes over which they have no control, such time shall be paid for at double time if it exceeds fifteen (15) minutes.
8.03(b)
For the purpases of pay, the work week commences with dayshift on Sunday for employees v'orking on continuous operations and with nightshift on Sunday for employees on non-continuous operations. Detailed schedules for each department shall be posted. F osting of normal work schedules for continuous operations shall be posted for five (5) working days in advance and for normal work schedules for non-continuous operations shall be posted three (3) working days in advance. Failure to post the schedule Viafhthe proper notice shall result in the employee being paid time and one half (l -1/2) for the first shift worked. For employees working on five by two (5x2) dayshift, the regular days off shall be Saturday and Sunday. For employees on five by two (5x2) night drift, the regular day off shall be Friday and Saturday. For employees scheduled on the five by two ’5x2) (staggered shift) the regular days off shall be as per 8.07(c)(i). The scheduled regular days off may be changed by mutual agreement between Company and the Union.
13
Continuous operations are defined as any operation of which at least one (1) shift is scheduled on a seven (7) day per week basis. Shift shall mean one of days, afternoons, nights, graveyards or any other schedule shift.
8.03(c)
3hno case shall an employee be entitled to more than one and one-half (1-1/2) times his/her basic hourly rate for any time worked except as proved for in specific articles of the agreement. The overtime rate is to be computed irrespective of the shift upon which the employee is working at one and one-half (1-1/2) times his basic hourly rate, except as provided in specific articles of this agreement. Overtime rates shall not apply to time worked ty <n employee in excess of his regular work day or work week because of a change of si lift granted at the employee’s request.
8.03(d)
({) When an employee who is absent because of a paid Statutory Holiday, which occurs within the work week:
a)	works more than eight (8), nine (9), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours on a normal work day, he shall be paid overtime in accordance with Article 8.03(a);
b)	works on his regular day off during that week, he shall be paid at the rate of twice (2) his basic hourly rate.
ii)	lost because of an accident covered by Workers’ Compensation provisions shaT be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining whether an employee is entitled to receive pay at one and one-half (1-1/2) times his applicable basic hourly rate for work performed in excess of the scheduled work week.
iii)	Whin a Statutory Holiday occurs on an employee’s regular scheduled day off he shaf be entitled to an additional day off without pay after giving two (2) weeks prior notification, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant. It is agreed that any unused days accumulated under this Axticle will be forfeited by March 1st of each year except that any days requested under this Article and denied shall be carried forward the next year.
8.03(e)
An employee required to work two (2) or more hours of unscheduled overtime immediately following a scheduled shift or an employee called out to work after his scheduled sliift who works four (4) or more hours of unscheduled overtime will be supplied with a meal at Company expense.
14
Individual employees may make arrangements with their Supervisor concerning the meal and its locati on from the following options:
i)	eating a meal on the property during working hours;
ii)	being pa: d an additional one-half (1/2) hour at time and one-half (1-1/2) and be given a voucher for a meal to be eaten on his own time;
iii)	being pa d an additional hour at time and one-half (1-1/2) but not given a meal voucher
8.03(f)
When overti me work is required on surface, such work will be offered in the following order:
j)	To the employee in the classification who ordinarily performs such work in the department
ii)	To any other employee' in the department who is qualified to do the work.
iii)	To any other employee who is qualified.
If more than one (1) employee within that department ordinarily performs such work and it becomes necessary to schedule overtime on more than (1) occasion in a month, the supervisor shall endeavor to divide such work among such employees.
When overtime work is required underground, such work will be offered in the following order:
i)	To the employee in the classification and within the supervisor's crew who ordinarily performs such work;
ii)	To any other employee within the supervior’s crew who is qualified to do the work;
iii)	To any other employee who is qualified.
If more than ene (1) employee within the supervisor's crew ordinarily performs such work and it becomes necessary to schedule overtime on more than one (1) occasion in a month, the supervisor shall endeavor to divide such work among such employees.
8.03(g)
An employee must be given thirty-two (32) hours notice of a change of shift except in the case of an employee who is required to filla vacancy caused by illness or accident of another employee. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 8.03(a), in the event such
15
thirty-two (32) hour notice is not given, the employee shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times the basic hourly rate to all hours work on the first shift of the change.
8.03(h)
If an employ :e is asked to work up to two (2) of his four (4) days off and does so he will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times his basic hourly rate. If he is asked to work more tlian two (2) of his four (4) days off and does so, he will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all additional days or portion thereof.
8.04(a)
If an employee is called out for work at a time other than the beginning of his shift, he shall receive a minimum pay of four (4) hours at the basic hourly rate, or applicable overtime rate of the actual hours worked, whichever yields the greater earnings to the employee.
8.04(b)
An employee who reports for work on his regular shift and who was not told in advance not to report will be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate. This shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an absence.
An exceptior. to this shall be in the case of an emergency shutdown when all reasonable efforts have been made by the Company to inform its employeesby radio, etc., of the emergency, and if an employee still reports for work, he will be paid one (1) hour at his basic hourly l ate.
8.04(c)
In the event t lat an employee is temporarily transferred to work in ajob of a higher classification he shall be paid at the higher rate for all hours worked in that classification with a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
If an employee is temporarily transferred to a lowerjob classificationhe shall be paid at the rate of hii; ownjob classification.
Temporary transfers shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days unless mutually agreed between the parties.
8.04(d)
Employees who are notified in writing to be on standby shall be paid eight (8) hours standby pay at their basic hourly rate of each twenty-four (24) hours standby plus call-out pay for any call-outs. If an employee on standby is not available when called he shall not
16
be paid the standby pay for that day, and he shall miss his next three (3) regular turns on the standby roster.
8.04(e)
i)	It is understood that the provisions of this Article do not guarantee hours of work per day or days of work per week.
ii)	An en iployee whose normal j ob is not available due to inclement weather conditions shall be offered the option of alternate work elsewhere on the property if such work is available.
8.04(0
An employee who sustains an injury while at work and is excused from completing the drift because of the injury shall nevertheless be paid as though he had completed the shift. The Company shall provide transportation to his home in Yellowknife to an injured or ill employee if such employee does not have his own transportation.
8.05(a)
i)	Should an employee be required to work on New Year’s, Good Friday, Victoria Day, l aboriginal Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday (first Monday in August), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, or Boxing Day, he shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of two and one-half (2-1/2) times liis basic hourly rate.
ii)	In addition to the statutory holidays listed in 8.05(a), each employee will receive two (2) paid personal floating holidays. These holidays are to be scheduled between the employee and the Company at their mutual convenience. Eligibility for the paid personal floating holidays shall be the same as eligibility for a statutory holiday.
8.05(b)
Except as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on any Statutory Holiday as provided in Clause (a) above, shall be paid his straight time basic hourly rate for eight (8). nine (9), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours for that day, provided he has worked the qualifying days as per Article 8.05(c)(iv), and in the case of a new employee, that he has also worked for thirty (30) days prior to the holiday.
8.05(c)
An employee shall not be so paid if:
17
i)	1 le is on leave of absence;
j[) He has been assigned or scheduled to work on such holiday but fails to report lor work except for reasons of illness or accident;
iii)	He is receiving, or is entitled to receive, benefits from the Giant Benevolent Society on such holiday after he has received or has been entitled to receive such benefit for more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.
iv)	He fails to work either his full regularly scheduled shift immediately before or after the holiday without the consent of the employer.
8.05(d)
An employee who is receiving or is entitled to receive benefits from the Giant Benevolent Society sha 1 be paid the difference between this benefit and the statutory holiday pay for the first thiity (30) consecutive calendar days that he is receiving such benefit from the Giant Benevolent Society.
8.05(e)
If a Statutoiy Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the next following weekday shall be recognized is a holiday. If QnistnBS and Boxing Day both fall on the weekend, the previous Fr day and the following Monday will be recognized as the holiday.
8.05(f)
During the 1 ife of this Agreement, any day declared as a Statutory Holiday by the Federal Government and/or N.W.T. Labour Standards will be incorporated into the Statutory Holiday previsions of this Agreement.
8.06
Time worked will be calculated in units of one-quarter (1/4) hours.
8.07
The Company has the right to schedule employees working underground (mining) and in related dep;irtments on a continuous or non-continuous basis, therefore, the Company has the right to out into effect shift schedules which alter or exceed the daily and/or weekly hours ofwcrk for the underground (mining) and related departments. (Note: This Article does not ap My to employees working the 4x4 12-hour schedule referenced in Appendix A.)
These shift schedules will incorporate the following:
18
a)	Hours of work and days off for employees on these shift schedules will be ccnsecutive and can occur on any day(s) of the week, except as stated in (c)(i) below.
b)	Hours worked in excess of the daily scheduled hours, or in excess of forty (40) hours per week, or hours worked on the employee’s regularly scheduled days off shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
c)	The shift schedules that the Company has the right to use under this Article are:
i)	5x2 8 hour schedules (staggered days off, one of which must be either Saturday or Sunday)
ii)	4x4 12 hour schedule
iii)	4x2 9 or 10 hour schedule
d) 1 Schedules different from those mentioned in (c) above may be implemented 1 )y mihal agreement between the Company and the Union.	
e)	11 is understood that the provisions of this clause do not guarantee hours of
work per day or days of work per week.
8.08
The Union agrees to join with the Company in co-signing requests to the Government for hours of work variances to accommodate the work schedules contemplated by the Collective / agreement.
ARTICLE 9
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01(a)
Stewards, who must be employees of the Company, will be chosen by the Union. The Union will use its best efforts to have Steward representation from each Department. The total number of Stewards will not exceed one (1) Steward for each fifteen (15) Unionized employees. Further the Union may appoint two (2) additional Stewards at its discretion.
9.01(b)
There shall lie a Plant Grievance Committee consisting of not more than six (6) Stewards, vdfh. representation where possible from each of the Mine, Mill, Mechanical, Electrical, Construction and Pit Departments.
19
9.01(c)
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the Stewards for each department end of the names of the members of the Plant Grievance Committee and of any changes that may occur in the same. The Company shall not be required to recognize the Stewards of the Committee until it has been duly notified in writing by the Union of the persons so selected.
9.01(d) Procedures
Employees nay discuss any complaint with their Shift Boss or Foreman, so that it may be quickly reso .ved if possible. Unless there exists a condition, which may endanger employeesor equipment, these discussions should take place during the supervisor’s visit to the working place, or at the end of the drift. However, should any difference arise between the Company and the Union, or any employee or employees, concerning the interpretatio 1 or an alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such differences without undue delay in the following manner:
Stage One
The employee or employees concerned may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, and in no case more than seven (7) calendar days after the alleged grievance has arisen, present his (their) grievance to his (their) immediate Supervisor, and if he (they) desire (s), may be accompanied by a Steward. The immediate Supervisor must present his reply no more than seven (7) calendar days after the grievance has been presented. The employee or employees then has (have) seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the Company’s reply to accept the decision or proceed to Stage Two.
Stage Two
The employee or employees concerned, accompanied by his (their) Steward may take up the matter with his (their) Department Head, presenting the grievance in writing. The Department Head or his designate must schedule, within seven (7) days, a mutually agreeable tine and date, for a meeting. The Department Head may have a representative from Human Resources or the griever’s supervisor along with other mutually agreeable managemen: or Union Representativespresent at the meeting.
The Company must give its decision no more than seven (7) calendar days after the Second Stage meeting. The Union then has seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the Company’s reply to accept the decision or proceed to Stage Three.
Stage Three
The grievor or grievors together with the Plant Grievance committee, who must have the authority to drop grievances, and if the Union desires a local, district or national representative of the Union, may take up the matter with the Manager or his designate,
20
who must have the authority to grant grievances, with such supervisory personnel immediately involved. Other representatives of the Company may be present if the Company so desires. The complete written record of the grievance, including the decision at Stage-Two, must be presented at that time. The Company has fifteen (15) calendar days after the Third Stage meeting to give its reply in writing. It is agreed that the parties vdll schedule at least one (1) meeting per month to hear outstanding grievances at Third Stage.
The Union then has thirty-five (35) calendar days after receipt of the Company’s reply to accept the decision or advise the Company that they are proceeding to arbitration.
9.01(e)
/my grievar .ce arising out of a discharge will commence at the Third Stage of the grievance procedure. The grievance must be submitted to the Mine Manager or designate no more than seven (7) calendar days after the discharge occurred and the Mine Manager or designate will schedule a special Third Stage meeting within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the grievance.
9.02(a) General
Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation or an alleged violation of this Agreement may be submitted by either party in writing tc the other at Stage Three, with reasonable promptness.
9.02(b)
Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may, at any time, be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
9.02(c)
i)	I 'or Union or employee originated grievances, if the Company does not hear
from the Union within the time limits specified in the Grievance Procedures, it nay assume that the matter has been dropped. If the Union does not hear from the Company within the time limits mentioned above, it may take the natter to the next stage.
For Compary originated grievances, if the Company does not hear from the Union within the time limits mentioned above, it may take the matter to the next Stage.
jq 11 cases involving discharge and suspension the Company must reply wifftin the time period specified in Stage Three (3) of the Grievance Procedure or the grievance will be automatically granted.
21
9.02(d)
The Company and the Union shall agree on forms for the presentation of grievances. All grievance forns shall jtst .the department concerned. The written grievance and the answer shall be as clear as possible.
9.02(e)
Nothing conlained in the Agreement shall limit or impair the right of any individual or group of employeesto present, negotiate, settle or adjust his or their personal complaint with the Company. For a grievance carried to Second Stage or beyond, continuance of the grievance will be at the Union’s discretion.
9.02(f)
The Grievance Procedure shall be carried out on the Company’s property or at such other place as the parties shall mutually agree upon. The time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by the Union for that purpose shall be considered time worked, and payment shall be on the basis of straight time. Under no condition shell overtime rates be paid. The total time to be paid for under this section shall be limited to forty (40) hours per month for the Grievance Committee and any Stewards investigating grievances.
To qualify for this pay, the time spent investigating the grievance or dispute, where the investigation took place, and in the case of a grievance, the name of the grievor shall be entered on a mutually agreeable form which shall be submitted with, the daily time sheet or form not later than within (2) working days.
9.02(g)
If it is necessary for a Steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must arrange with his foreman to be off at a time which vdTL le ist interfere with his work. If an investigation of a grievance involves the Stewards entering any department or section of the mine other than his authorized working plac 2, or if it involves the investigation of the conditions of a working place, or of equipment, he must obtain a permit in writing from: Firstly - the Department Superintendent or Secondly - his appointee. Failing that, a permit in writing will be obtained from the most senior supervisor available within that Department.
9.02(h)
Any written reprimand given by the Company to an employee, will be signed by him and by a Shop Steward who must be present at the time the reprimand is issued, as acknowledgement of its receipt. The Company will have a Shop Steward present from the employee’s department if one is available. A legible copy of any written discipline including a discharge, shall be sent to the Union, The Company will have seven (7)
22
working da> s to complete the investigation of the incident(s) from the time the Company became aware of the occurTence(s) that would warrant disciplinary action. Reprimands will be issue d to the employee within three (3) working days following the completion of the investigation of the incident. These aforementioned time limits can be extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
9.02(i)
The Company will administer discipline in a fair, and as far as possible, equitable manner.
9.020)
The Compaiy agrees to send one (1) copy of all Second and Third Stage replies to the Union office and the Steward involved.
ARTICLE 10 ARBITRATION
10.01
In case any dispute concerning the interpretation or violation of this Agreement is not settled after proceeding through the proper stages of the Grievance Procedures, the dispute may be referred by either party to a single arbitrator not later than 3 5 days of the answer given at the Third Stage. References to an arbitrator shall be in rotation from the list of arbitrators below.
10.02
The list of single arbitrators shall consist of:
Bill Hamilton Stan Lanyon jJugL 4iigh Jamieson
Bruce Greyell
If the arbitrator in rotation is not available for a hearing within sixty (60) calendar days or such longer time as is mutually agreed by the parties, then he will be replaced by the following person on the list. If an arbitrator is scheduled to hear a particular grievance and that grievance is resolved or withdrawn prior to the arbitration that particular arbitrator si tall go back into the rotation in the ordinary way. If none of the arbitrators on the list are available, the parties will attempt to agree on an arbitrator not on the list. If such attempts fail, the Minster of Labour will be asked to appoint an arbitrator.
23
10.03
The arbitrate r shall conduct the hearing in the most expeditious manner possible. To that end:
i)	T he parties shall make every effort to provide the arbitrator with a statement of facts which are not in dispute. The parties will also provide the arbitrator with the grievance presented at Stage Two, the decision of the Company at Stage Three, or, in the case of a difference between the Union and the Company, the written application by the applicant for arbitration stating the difference and the reply thereto by the other party.
ii)	T he parties shall make comprehensive opening statements in which the facts a id issues as each party understands them are fully narrated. To the extent possible, the parties will avoid the formal calling of witnesses, but may do so to deal with disputed facts or to clarify a matter.
iii)	C losing arguments will be concise and to the point, with the use of authorities b iing limited to those offering direct guidance on the issue(s) in dispute.
10.04
In addition to the foregoing, the arbitrator is empowered to make such directions as the arbitrator considers appropriate to ensure the greatest possible expedition, provided always that t le parties are afforded a fair hearing. As examples, the arbitrator may direct in appropria e cases that all or part of a hearing be conducted by telephone conference call and/or by written submissions.
10.05
The arbitrator’s award shall be published to the parties as promptly as possible, and shall state the arbitrator’s conclusions and reasons as briefly as possible. The arbitrator’s award is final and binding on the Union, its members, the employee(s) involved and the Company.
10.06
It shall be the function of the arbitrator to make a decision based on the terms of the Agreement and Appendices. The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, disreg.ird, alter or modify any of the terms of the Agreement and Appendices.
In the event 1 hat the arbitrator decides that he has no jurisdiction to rule on a matter referred to him,the case will be dismissed.
24
10.07
The arbitrator shall, in his decision, specify whether or not the decision is retroactive and the effective date thereof, but in no case shall the decision be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of the Agreement. There shall be no award to either party as to the costs of the arbitration; the Union and the Company shall each pay one-half of the fees and expenses of the arbitrator.
10.08
If a claim is made for back compensation in cases where reinstatement is allowed, it shall include wag;s, overtime and any premiums that the person would otherwise have earned, less any compensation that the person might have received from any source during the period clairred. All claims for compensation in other cases, shall include any wages, overtime and any premiums that the person would otherwise have earned.
10.09
Not withstanding any of the foregoing, the arbitrator may assist the parties in mediating a resolution o 'a grievance, and may make suggestions to the parties in that regard. Where mediation fails, or is not appropriate, an award shall be rendered as contemplated by the foregoing.
ARTICLE 11
NO CESSATION OF WORK
11.01
In view of tie provisions of the Canada Labour Code, and the orderly procedure contained in this Agreement for settlement of any grievance which may arise, both parties agree that:
j) The Company shall not cause or direct any lock out of employees during the 1: fe of this Agreement.
ji)	The Union shall not authorize and no employees either collectively or
individually shall cause or take part in any strike, walk-out, slow-down, or suspension of work of any employee or group of employees during this life of tiis Agreement.
It is understood that this Article shall not affect an employee’s right to refuse unsafe work.
25
\RTICLE 12
SENIORITY
12.01(a)
The Compa iy and the Union agree thatjob opportunity and seniority increase in proportion to length of continuous service as a member of the Bargaining Unit. The factors in determining an employee’s selectionfor ajob shall be based upon his seniority and his skil and ability to efficiently fulfill the job requirements.
12.01(b)
If an employee is transferred or promoted out of the Bargainining Unit, he may return or be returned to the Bargainining Unit within six (6) months of the date he left without any loss of seniority. Such transfers and returns shall be limited to one time only per employee for the duration of this Collective Agreement. The Company will inform the Union in writing prior to any such transfer or promotion.
The Company may temporarily transfer or promote employees to staff positions for the purpose of vacation relief or emergencies with the employee’s consent. The Company shall inform the Union in writing of names and effective starting and ending dates of such transfers.
12.01(c)
The Compa ly will have the right to assign an employee to the position of lead hand if he agrees.
Under the d Erection of a supervisor, a lead hand acts as a leader of a group, or groups of employees working on similar or related work in the same department. He assigns work to the men as directed by the supervisor, and works along with and /or coordinates the work among them.
The lead hand functions as a work leader arid not as a supervisor, except that he will instruct his crew in the safest work methods, and will be on the alert to correct any unsafe conditions. He is not responsible for the disciplinary action or other supervisory functions which are the responsibility of the supervisor to whom the lead hand reports. The lead hand shall be responsible for efficientperformance from the employees he leads and ensure to the best of his ability that all Company and government safety policies are adhered to.
26
12.01(d)
Notwithstanding the actual date they are included in the Bargaining Unit, the seniority date for employees in positions which are added to the Bargaining Unit as result of amendments to the current certification shall be the last date of hire with the Company. This back-c ating of seniority for such employee shall not be used in the calculation of pension her efits.
12.02
All cases of vacancy, promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-offs, and recall will be handled in accordance with 12.01 above.
12.03
An employee shall lose all seniority for any one (1) of the following reasons:
If an employee voluntarily quits.
(b) If an employee is discharged for j ust cause and is not reinstated under the grievance procedure.
If an employee is absent from work for five (5) consecutive work days without notifying the Company and giving a satisfactory reason acceptable to the Company for his absence.
(d)	If any employee with less that five (5) years seniority is laid off for a period in excess of one (1) year.
(e)	If an employee with more than five (5) years seniority is laid off for a period in excess of two (2) years.
(f)	If an employee with more then twenty (20) years seniority is laid off for a period in excess of three (3) years.
(g)	If an employee is laid offand fails to return within fourteen (14) working days after he has been notified to do so by the Company by double registered nail to his last address on record with the Company unless he provides an explanation that is satisfactory to the Company.
(h)	If an employee is laid off and receives a severance payment under Article
22.
0 If an employee is permanently transferred or promoted out of the Bargaining Unit for a period in excess of six (6) consecutive ncnths as per Article 12.01(b).
27
(j) If an employee retires.
12.04(a)
An employee is considered a probationary employee for the first thirty-five (35) shifts worked, and shall have no seniority rights under this Agreement and may be discharged by the Company at its discretion, during this period. The probationary period may be extended by nutraL agreement between the Company and the Union.
12.04(b)
New hires shall be subjected to two (2) performance evaluations during the first thirty (30) shifts worked, one within fifteen (15) shifts worked, the other within thirty (30) shifts worked. The evaluation will be recorded on the form presently in use and will be discussed wth the employee. The form will be signed by the employee acknowledging that he has s een the completed form and added his comments. Each employee will receive a co oy of each of his evaluations.
If the results of the evaluation(s) clearly indicate that an employee is not capable of satisfactorily performing his assigned duties or that his attendance, attitude and safety habits do not meet minimum Company requirements, then he shall be considered subject to discharge by the Company for just cause.
A copy of the evaluation report of those probationary employees, who are clearly not performing satisfactorily, will be sent to the Union within two (2) days,
12.04(c)
Notwithstar iding the above, if the Company does discharge a probationary employee, the employee may, if he desires, be represented by the Union in presenting his case to the Company.
12.04(d)
Studentshired for summer employment shall be considered probationary employees. In the event a student desires to continue employmentpast the vacation period an application must be filed for a permanent position. A successful applicant shall have seniority back dated to the most recent date of hire.
For the purpose of this Article “student” is defined as a person who is enrolled at a recognized educational institution and who is employed during the summer months of May to September inclusive.
Studentsmr y also be hired under this clause at other times with the consent of the tiiicn,
28
12.05
Seniority shill be maintained and accumulated-during:
(i)	Absence due to W.C.B, accident;
(ii)	I ,ay-off;subjectto provisions of Article 12.03;
(iii)	All authorized leaves of absence including but not limited to service in the non-permanent Armed Forces of Canada, jury duty, union activities, and collective bargaining negotiations;
(iv)	Absences due to sickness or non-industrial accidents which shall be equal to seniority to a maximum of three (3) years;
(v) Ik is understood that none of the provisions contained in Article 12.05 will violate the provisions set forth in Article 12.02;
(vi)	1 he six (6) month period that an employee is transferred or promoted out of the Bargaining Unit as per Article 12.01(b),
12.06(a)
When a pemanentjob vacancy occurs at classification six (6) or higher, notice of such vacancy sha 1 be posted for five (5 j working days plant wide, within seven (7) days of the initial date of vacancy. The name of the successful applicant, if any, will be posted within fifteei (15j days of the expiry of the job posting. The successful applicant will assume the r ew position within fifteen (15) days of the selection posting. This period may be extended with mutual agreement between the parties. The notice shall include the drift sup ;rvisor's name and a place for the name of the successful applicant.
12.06(b)
If the vacancy remains unfilled after posting, applications may be accepted from other sources.
12.06(c)
Temporary, 1 ess than thirty (30) calendar day vacancies, may be filled by the Company without recourse to job posting. In the case of a vacancy caused by an employee going on vacation, to trade school or on extended leave, the Company can fill that vacancy for the duration of that employee's absence without recourse to job posting up to a maximum of eight (8) weeks. This period may be extended with mutual agreement between the parties.
29
12.06(d)
If an employee is promoted or transferred to a differentjob, there shall be a mutually ■ agreeable period for the employee to familiarize himselfTherselfvy'ith'thatparticUlar'job.
In the event it is not possible to obtain mutual agreement, the period shall not exceed twenty (20) days. During that period the employee may return volunarity or be returned by the Company to his/her formerjob. Any other employees who may have been appointed to fill any vacancies created by the original promotion or transfer shall revert to their forme rjobs.
12.06(e)
The Comptny will send to the Union a copy of eachj ob posting for a training position and for a permanent position.
12.06(1)
Training - Depending on its requirements the Company will, with reasonable dispatch, post training positions to train employees in Class Six (6) or higher.
The departinentally senior employee applying will be awarded the training position provided that he is suitable. In the event no one within that department is awarded the posting, the most senior employee applying will be awarded the training position, provided that he is suitable. An employee shall only be able to be a successful applicant to one trair ing position at a time. The successful applicant will start his training within a reasonable period of time.
After a suitable training period, the trained employee will be returned to his job at his existing rate of pay.
Employees who have successfully completed the training program will be used in the positions for which they have been trained if there are temporary vacancies as per Article 12.06(c).
The provis ons of Article 12.09 will not be applied to reduce training opportunities for employees The purpose of this Letter of Clause is to provide employees with opportunities for advancement and to provide the Company with trained employees.
12.07
If an employee wishes to transfer from one department to another, he may file a written applicatior with the Personnel Department. In the event of a vacancy occurring in the department to which he wished to transfer, preference shall be given firstly to employees within the department, and secondly to such employees wishing to transfer, before any new employee is hired to fill the vacancy. Once a month a list of transfer applications pending shdl be posted in each department and copies shall be sent to the tMon.
30
It is agreed fiat all applications under the article shall expire on December 3 Is* of each year. The C impany will notify employees who have applied to transfer, when their application has expired-
12.08(a)
In the event of layoffs and rehiring, subject to the Company’s requirements for particular jobs, employees shall be laid off in reverse order of their seniority and shall be rehired in the order of :heir seniority provided they have the skill and the ability to perform the j ob. The Company will notify the Union and the employees involved no less than two (2) weeks prior :o the effective date of the layoff. Employees shall have bumping rights in accordance with their seniority.
The right to bump shall include to bump up or bump down provided the employee has the skill and ability to perform the job. Employees will have one (1) work week to demonstrate that they have the skill and ability to perform the job.
The employee who has been given notice of layoff shall inform the Company within four (4) working days after receiving such notice of his intent to accept the layoff or to exercise his bumping rights by listing thejobs which he is capable of performing. The Company w 11 respond to the employee within two (2) working days. The Company agrees that no new employee shall be hired until all those laid off have been given the opportunity :o recall to their formerjob or to ajob which they are capable of performing. It shall be th s responsibility of each employee to notify the Company of his postal address.
12.08(b)
When an errployee who has received a notice of recall is unable to report for work, he shall immediately notify the Company in writing. When reporting for work, satisfactory supporting evidence for the delay must be presented to the Company by such employee.
Failure to produce such evidence may be sufficient cause for the employee to lose his right to reca 1.
12.09
Nothing in t iis Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from assigning individuals (including students in any part-time employment) to anyjob to try out their cap abilities and/or provide them with special training or experience in preparation for broader assignments with the Company or with associated Companies, and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from promoting, demoting, engaging or dispensing with the services of any such individuals or from directing their efforts from time to time, provided that such assignment does not result in the displacement, demotion or lay-off of any employee.
31
12.10
The Company will use its best- efforts to find employment for employees who are not over the normal retirement age but who have been incapacitated by age, disease or occupational accident. The employee will be given the opportunity and training to learn a newj ob or trade if necessary, in order to be placed somewhere within the Company,
If the employee has worked a minimum of ten (10) years for Giant, and is placed in a lighter dutyj ob at a lower classification, he shall sufferno drop in wages.
12.11
At least once every three (3) months or upon request of the Union, the Company shall make, and give to the Union for posting, an up-to-date seniority list. Each month the Company shall give the Union a list of the previous months terminations and hires.
ARTICLE 13 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01(a)
Any request for leave of absence over three (3) working days must be in writing. An employee may be granted leave of absence for a reasonable time, and for a good and sufficient cause. Granting of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Company.
13.01(b)
The Compar y shall maintain its share of benefits during any approved leave or absences up to a total of fourteen (14) calendar days per year. Arrangements can be made with the Company fir an employee to pay the entire cost of his or her benefits for an approved leave of absence beyond fourteen(14) calendar days.
13.01(c)
If any employee fails to return at the expiration of his or her leave, he or she will be considered terminated, except in unusual circumstances such as illness, accident, transportaticnproblems or weather conditions.
13.02
Hying the life of the Agreement, the Company will grant leave of absence without pay to employees to attend Union functions, provided that this shall not interfere with the efficient cpeatim of the mine or plants.
32
The Union agrees to withdraw not more tbanfour (4) employees from the Underground; three (3) employees from the Mill; two (2) employees from Mechanical and one (1) each from the Electrical, Construction, Open Pit, T,R;P. and Warehouse Department at any one time. The Union agrees to Withdraw not more than two (2) employees from any job category at any one time.
The Union will provide to the Company, at least (1) week prior to the leave, notice in writing of the employees for whom leave is desired.
13.03
At request of the Union, the Company will grant one (1) member of the Union up to one (1) year’s lea ve of absence without pay. For duration of this one (1) year leave the Company will continue to pay the premiums for life insurance, dental and medical supplement 1 lenefits.
13.04
At the request of the Union, the Company will grant leave of absence without pay for up to two (2) employees to attend labour courses each year for a maximum of two (2) months each
13.05
An employee who is pregnant shall be given an unpaid leave of absence for up to one (1) year under the following conditions:
The employee must have been employed for at least twelve (12) months prior to the start of the leave period.
A11 benefits will be suspended except that the employee may maintain the benefits by paying monthly, in advance, the full cost of the premium for the daration of the leave.
Such leave must commence not later than six (6) weeks prior to the expected date of delivery.
iv)	S eniority shall be accumulated.
v)	The leave period will not count as service for pension purposes.
vi)	The employee will return to work at the same wage rate as the classification she held prior to the leave.
33
ARTICLE 14
WAGES
14.01
The scale of wages have been incorporated in Schedule “A” annexed hereto. The gold scale adjustment to wages have been incorporated in Schedule “B” annexed hereto. The gold scale shall increase or decrease all wages listed in Schedule “A” by appropriate percentage as determined from Schedule “B”> The wages listed in Schedule “A” shall not be reduc’d below that level but shall remain at that level for as long as the price of gold is below $499,99 Canadian.
14.02
These scale' of wages shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement, provided however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the Company from making promotional increases or rate increases in job classifications, or granting bonuses whether temporary or permanent. The Union shall be notified within seven (7) days of such increases.
14.03
In the event that it becomes necessary to establish new occupational classifications, the rate set by tf e Company shall be an appropriate rate, having regards to the scale of wages appended to this Agreement.
The Company will notify the Union in writing not less than seven (7) days prior to the establishment of any new occupational classifications and the rate of such. If the Union is dissatisfied with the rate established, it may raise the matter as a grievance commencing at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 15
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL, SPECIAL, PREMIUMS
15.01(a)
For all hours worked at straighttime only on any shiftexcept dayshift, there shall be paid a premium r ite of Seventy-five Cents ($0.75) per hour worked.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate the expression ‘dayshift’ shall have the meaning of all hours worked between the hours of eight (8) am. and four (4) pm. If work
34
is performed partly on dayshift and party on another shift, only those hours worked on the other will be paid at the premium rate.
Saturday/Sunday Pratiiums
15.01(b)
For hours worked on Saturday and/or Sunday at straight time only the premium will be One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) per hour.
15.02
Tradesman and Trades Flelpers when working underground shall receive a premium of Thirty Cents ($0.30) per hour for each hour worked.
15.03
Instructor’s rate will be paid on written authorization from management to employees who are authorized to train in Class 6 or higher. The rate shall be one dollar ($1.00) per hour.
15.04
Employees t; iking regulatory x-rays and medicals off the mine property will be paid at their basic hourly rate for time lost from work. For appointments on work days, the Company will provide transportation to and from appointments if required.
For employees who have their medicals and/or x-rays on their day off or on their off time, they will be paid one (1) hour at their basic hourly rate for each of the medical and x-ray.
15.05(a)
The foliowir g special rates will apply in the Mill:
Pay at the rai e of two (2) times basic hourly rates will be paid for time actually spent in the following works:
j) V/hen workmen are required to work inside a Cottrell Precipitator;
V/hen workmen are required to work inside the Dorrco Dust Collector;
V /hen workmen are required to enter the flues between the Roaster and the Main Stack;
35
iv)
' Vhen workmen are required to work inside the Roaster while removing the bed.
15.05(b)
Pay at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times basic hourly rate will be paid for times actually spent on the following work:
i)	When workmen are required to change or scrape electrodes or remove shorts 'inthe Cottrell Precipitator;
ii)	When workmen are required to open inspection doors or remove casing of the Cottrell or Main Stack Fans for work on interior parts;
iii)	When workmen are required to handle interior parts of the Cottrell Wecipitatorof Dorrco Dust Collector before cleaning;
iv)	When material specifically classed as arsenic and requiring storage in arsenic disposal chambers must be manually dumped into such chambers;
v)	/dandling Dorrco Roaster bed material outside the actual Roaster during scheduled clean-out;
vi)	When cleaning and dressing presses;
The pay referred to in the above selections will be for a minimum. of one (1) hour.
It is undersi ood that changing techniques or practices or conditions shall be cause for review of tiiis Article between the Company and the Union.
15.06
Employees who cannot continue working at their presentjob because of high inorganic arsenic levels in their systems will be given other work within the plant vith no loss of earnings. Il is understood that the transfer to other work is only temporary and that when the arsenic level in his system returns to an acceptable level, the workmen will be given an opportunity to return to his formerjob. If he chooses not to return, his rate of pay will be determined by the rate for the classificationavailable. If the laboratory cannot differentiate between organic and inorganic arsenic with accuracy, then the total arsenic level will b: used. If however, the laboratory is able to differentiate with accuracy organic and inorganic arsenic, then the result for inorganic arsenic will be used. The Laboratory shall be one which is recognized by Health & Welfare Canada.
The acceptable level shall be that recommended by the C.P.H, A Task Force on Arsenic. Earnings shall be averaged over the past three (3) months.
36
ARTICLE 16
BONUS SYSTEM
16.01
The Compar y agrees to continue to discuss and/or explain the productivity bonus system with conceit ed employees and with, the Union when questions arise or when changes are being considered.
It is recogni/ed however, that changes to the bonus system shall be solely a management decision based upon changing technology, equipment and economics. A copy of the monthly calculations will be forwarded to the Union if requested.
ARTICLE 17 TRANSPORTATION
17.01(a)
The followir g is intended to satisfy the need for airfare compensation.
The company shall pay S270 to each employee who has completed eight hundred (800) hours of work.
17.01(b)
The Company shall pay another two hundred and seventy dollars ($270) to each employee wl o has completed one thousand, four hundred (1,400) hours of work,
17.01(c)
Articles 17.01 (a) and 17.01(b) shall be repeated at the completion of all eight hundred (800) hours aid all one thousand, four hundred (1,400) hour intervals.
17.02
When an employee whose family is resident in Yellowknife has completed one of the one thousand, four hundred (1,400) hours, the Company shall pay to the employee five hundred and twenty dollars ($520) for that employee’s spouse and eligible dependents between the years of twelve (12) and eighteen (18) of age, and four hundred and twenty dollars ($42G) for children between the ages of two (2) and eleven (11) and living in the same dwellir g. For purposes of this Article, spouse and dependent shall be those designated under the employee’s insurance benefits.
37
17.03(a)
Notwithstanding Articles 17-.01 and 17.02, it is understood and agreed that the Company may satisfy the cost payment obligations contained therein either by making the stipulated c ish payment, or by providing the employee with an airline voucher. The choice between a cash payment or an airline voucher shall be the choice of the Company in each instmce, provided that the voucher is issued by a major carrier: e.g., Canadian Airlines or Northwest Territories Airlines (or successors). Airline vouchers may be subject to the following conditions:
i) 1 hat they arc the employee’s responsibility if lost or stolen and are non-re fundable;
ii)
iii) 17.04
ihat two (2) weeks advance booking may be required; and ihat they will have no cash value and are non-transferable.
The following will be treated as hours worked for the purpose of calculating entitlement for transportation allowances:
i)
ii)
iii)
iv)
Absence due to accident if benefits are being received by W.C.B.;
Absences due to Union business for a maximum of forty (40) work days, per ; /ear for employees on the twelve (12) hour four by four (4x4) schedule, forty eight (48) days per year for employees on the ten (10) hour four by two (4x2) schedule, fifty four (54) days per year for employees on the nine (9) hour four by two (4x2) schedule and sixty (60) work days per year for employee on 'light (8) hour shifts.
Absences while attending trade school in connection with the N WT Apprenticeship training Program, up to maximum of three (3) months per year. It is understood the employees who are unable to schedule attendance in any one (1) year may carry their maximum over to the next year.
Absence due to sickness or accident for a period of more than (3) consecutive days that is verified by a Doctor in writing. In this case, each day of the absences, including the first and up to a maximum of thirty-one (3 l)calendar 'lays, shall be treated as shifts worked.
38
17.05(a)
If an employee works overtime at the Company’s request, the Company will provide taxi or other suitable transportation to his home or to such nearer place as he designates.
17.05(b)
The Compary will supply adequate transportation to those employees on surface whom must travel to their lunchroom. A vehicle will be provided for the use at all satellite projects.
17.05(c)
If an employ 3e becomes ill while on the j ob the Company shall provide transportation to his home in Yellowknife if such employee does not have his own transportation.
ARTICLE 18 ANNUAL VACATION
18.01(a)
Length of vacation wife, pay: Eight (8) hour shift schedule.
CONT. SERVICE	WORKING DAYS	VACATION PAY
1 -3 YEARS	15	6.0%
4-9 YEARS	20	8.0%
10 -16 YEARS	25	10.0%
17-25 YEARS	30	13.0%
26 PLUS YEARS	35	14.0%
18.01(b)
Length of vacation with pay: Nine (9) hour shift schedule.
CONT. SERVICE	WORKING DAYS	VACATION PAY
1-3 YEARS	14	6.0%
4-9 YEARS	18	8.0%
10-16 YEARS	23	10.0%
17-25 YEARS	27	13.0%
26 PLUS YEARS	32	14.0%
39
18.01(c)
		
1-2 YEARS	12	6.0%
4-S' YEARS	16	8.0%
10-16 YEARS	20	10.0%
17-35 YEARS	24	13.0%
26 PLUS YEARS	28	14.0%
18.01(d)
Length of v ication with pay: Ten (12) hour shift schedule.
CONT. SERVICE	WORKING DAYS	VACATION PAY
1-3 YEARS	10	6.0%
4 - S YEARS	13	8.0%
10-16 YEARS	17	10.0%
17-25 YEARS	20	13.0%
26 PLUS YEARS	23	14.0%
It is understood and agreed that the vacation pay calculations includes the employee's wages durir g the year previous to the date the vacationpay is paid, but does not include any other allowances, e.g. transportation, Northern Heating Allowance. Wages include all remuner ition for hours worked, including premiums, bonuses and the previous year's vacation pay.
18.02
The Company will be the final judge of vacation time, but vacations will be granted as closely as practicable to the time requested by the employees. When two (2) or more employees want to take a vacation at approximately the same time, and all cannot be spared, then the choice will be given to the employee with the most seniority.
If an employee divides his vacations his seniority will only be considered for his first selection. Employee who do not take their vacations for one or more years will be entitled to vacation is follows: The choice will go to the employee who has not taken a vacation for the long ;st period. Where two or more employees have accumulated vacations the most senior employee will have first choice.
The holiday schedule shall be posted each January to enable employees to select holiday time in accordance with this Article. Each employee must make his selection by April 1, or lose his position on the vacation preference list, at which time decisions will then be
4n
based on a first come first served basis. Once an employee selection is approved after April 1, it w; 11 be protected from bumping and the vacation cannot be changed without the agreement of both the employee and the Company.
18.03
Employees £re urged to take their vacation as arranged with their department. Each employee sh all make a one (1) time selection of the following options for the payment of vacation pay.
(i)	Paid on May 15
(ii)	Paid on November 15
(jii) F aid as the vacation is taken and in accordance with the regular pay periods.
If an employee elects this option any prior years accrued vacation pay remaining will be issued in a lump sum on the employee's anniversary date.
18.04
If one (1) or more of the paid statutory holidays falls within any employee's vacation, such statutoiy holidays shall be added to the employee's vacation.
The employee is required to take the time offwith the vacation and shall be paid for the time in the pay period it falls on.
18.05
An employe j may accumulate his vacation for two (2) years.
18.06
An employe 2 with less that two (2) years seniority Will, if he so requests, be granted one
(1)	week vacation leave without pay.
An employee with two (2) or more years seniority will, if he so requests, be granted a two
(2)	week vacation leave without pay.
Such reques .s must be made at the time vacation is requested and the leave shall follow immediatel) after the employees vacation.
An addition; il week of vacation may be granted by the Company as circumstances permit. Such additicnal leave must be arranged in advance and be taken consecutively with vacation and/or vacation leave.
41
The maxim jm length of accumulated vacations or vacation and vacation leave for an employee with less than nine (9) years of service shall be eight (8) weeks.
The maximum length of accumulated vacations or vacation and vacation leave for an employee with nine (9) or more years of service shall be ten (10) weeks.
18.07
A winter vacation bonus of Fourteen Dollars ($14.00) per working day will be paid for vacation taken between November and March, inclusive.
ARTICLE 19
MISCELLANEOUS
19.01(a)
The Company will provide seven (7) enclosed and lockable bulletin boards, to which the Union and the Company will both have a key, for the exclusive posting of noncontroversial notices of Union meetings or Social affairs or appointments of Stewards or Grievance committee members. The bulletin boards referred to will be located at:
Machine Sh op	C*Dry
Ladies Dy	Mill Lunchroom
Mobile Equ ipment Garage	Warehouse
Roaster Control Room	C*Headframe
19.01(b)
For the protection of the Company and the Union, signed copies of all notices, except for a regular or special meeting of the Union, will be delivered to the Company at a reasonable time before copies are posted on the Bulletin Boards.
19.01(c)
The Union will not engage in Union activities outside of the provisions of this Agreement during working hours.
19.02
Automation - The Company will advise the Union in writing sixty (60) days in advance if any processes are to be automated. No employees will be laid off or demoted due to automation. Any reduction in crew strength will be obtained through attrition.
42
19.03
Company Directives - The Company agrees to advise the Union in writing, ten (10) days in advance of any directives, policies, etc., directly concerning the interpretation or application o 1’this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20
NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
20.01
Effective the date of ratification and during the life of this Agreement, each employee who maintairs and resides in a residence in the Yellowknife area, excludingthe camp site, shall receive a Northern Living Allowance as follows:
Employee wish dependents ■	$450.00 per month
Employees without dependents ■	$400.00 per month
The above allowance will be paid monthly.
It is understood that for the purpose of this Article: An employee who has another person or persons enrolled in the benefits program and normally a resident in the same dwelling shall receive the “employee with dependent’s” rate. Dependents leaving the dwelling for such reasons as holidays, schooling, sickness and other temporary absences shall not be sufficient reasons to reduce the employee’sNorthern Allowance.
20.02	Heating Allowance
i)	Effective the date of signing and during the life of this Agreement, each employee who nariribams and normally resides in residence in the Yellowknife arna, except those living in the campsite, shall receive a Heating Allowance,
ii)	Tlte Heating Allowance shall be paid on each scheduled pay day during the months from Septemberto May inclusive.
iii)	Each individual Heating Allowance payment shall consist of a s um equal to the supplier’s published price for a gallon of heating oil on the 15th day of the previous month multiplied by fifty (50).
iv)	Tlie Company shall pay each calendar month to each employee a Northern Energy Allowance to help defer the cost of utilities as follows:
Beginning 01 December 2002 and Thereafter $40.00
43
ARTICLE 21
5?Ac£'
UNION SECURITY
21.01
Every present and future employee to whom this Agreement applies, shall as a condition of employment, complete and sign a Direction to pay Union Dues form, such form as agreed to by the Company and the Union.
21.02
During the life of this Agreement, the Company shall deduct from each member of the Bargaining Unit a s u m equivalentto the Union dues in the amount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect under the Union’s by-laws. Such deductions shall be made from the second pay period in each month and shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary, C.A.W. Local 2304, no later than the fifteenth (15th) day ofthe following month. The Company will, at the time of making each such remittance, name the employe cs from whose pay the deductions have been made, and the amount of each such deduction.
21.03
Notwithstanding any provisions in 21.02, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the C ompany for the dues of any employee, unless there are sufficient wages owing to an employee to cover his or her dues.
21.04
The Company agrees to give each new employee a copy of a list provided by the Union of the Union Officers and Stewards.
21.05
Each January, the Company will provide the Union with a list of hourly rated employees showing the amount of Union dues collected for each employee for the preceding year. The Company shall enter the amount of Union dues paid by each employee on that employee’s T4 slip.
21.06
The Company will make arrangements to introduce a new employee to his/her shop steward, wild iin three (3) working days.
44
ARTICLE 22
SEVERANCEPAY
22.01
An employee whose, employment is terminated by the Company shall, receive severance pay in the amount of forty (40) hours pay at his basic hourly rate for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of three hundred and twenty (320) hours pay.
(i)	Employees eligible for severance pay under this Article, and who desire to relocate out of Yellowknife will be eligible for a maximum reimbursement of $1200 for the purpose of relocating household belongings. To receive reimbursement for the move out of Yellowknife the former employee will be required to provide the appropriate receipts. The relocation cost must be s abmitted within six (6) months from the date of severance, unless the former employee has children in school and in such case this period may be extended to the end of the current school year.
(ii)	E ligible employees will have their basic life insurance maintained for a period of six (6) months following the date of severance.
The number of years of continuous service shall be calculated firm the date of the employee’s last entry into the Company’s service as shown on the last seniority list posted under the terms of this Agreement. A year of continuous service, for purposes of calculating severance pay, is a complete year.
The Company will notify the Union six (6) months prior to any permanent shut-down of the Mine, or parts of the Mine.
An employee shall not be entitled to severance pay under this above formula if he quits or is discharged for just cause or is laid off temporarily. Temporary layoffs shall be a layoff of six months or less and shall include an expected date of return to work at the time of layoff.
22.02
If a Bargain ng Unit employee retires at age 62 or older, or terminates after twenty-five (25) or more years of continuous employment, the employee shall receive severance pay according to the following formula:
The employee’s age (in full years) on the date of his/her retirement or termination, time his/her number ofyears of continuous service with the Company on the date of his/her retirement or termination, times $5.00 (i.e,, age x years or servicex $5.00). The number of years of service will be calculated as laid out in 12.01.
45
ARTICLE 23
BEREAVEMENT PAY
23.01(a)
Upon request, an employee will be granted a leave of absence of up to five (5) working days for the purpose of attending the funeral of a member of his immediate family within the City of Yellowknife.
Upon request, an employee will be granted a leave of absence of up to seven (7) working days for the purpose of attending the funeral of a member of his immediate family outside the City of Yellowknife. If unable to attend the funeral outside of Yellowknife, the employee shall be entitled to the five (5) days.
If he would have otherwise been required to work on one (1) or more of the said five (5) or seven (7) working days, the employee will be paid for eight (8), nine (9), ten (10), hours for each such day(s) at his basic hourly rate.
23.01(b)
For employees assigned to the four by four (4x4) twelve (12) hour shift schedule, upon request an employee will be granted a leave of absence of up to four (4) working days for the purpose of attending the funeral of a member of his immediate family outside the City ofYellowknife.
If he would otherwise have been required to work on one (1) or more of the said three (3) or four (4) working days, the employee will be paid for twelve (12) hours for suchday(s) at his basic hourly rate.
23.01(c)
Immediate family shall be mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, children, legal guardian and grandparents.
23.01(d)
The Company will require suitable proof of attendance at the funeral.
23.02(a)
Court Dub' - Should an employee be required to report for jury duty or be subpoenaed as a witness on his regular work day and produces a satisfactory statement that he did so report, he v\ill be paid the difference between his regular daily earnings at his basic
46
hourly rate (to include any overtime paid as compensation for working a particular shift) and the jury duty pay or witness fees received by him for that day. There will be no compensation for overtime lost to include regularly scheduled days off except the aforementioned drift scheduled overtime.
23.02(b)
Regular daily earnings is the number of hours in an employee’s normal work day (i.e. eight (8), nine (9), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours etc.)
23.03
Governmen t Duties - In the event that any employee cover by this Agreement is elected to any office of the government of the City of Yellowknife, the Northwest Territories or the Federal Government, or is appointed to any commission of the above mentioned governments, such employee will be granted a leave of absence with no loss of seniority for the durat on for such office or appointment for a period not to exceed sixty (60) months.
ARTICLE 24
PATERNITY LEAVE
24.01
The Compar y will grant a leave of absence without pay for up to seven (7) consecutive days to any employee whose spouse or equivalent gives birth to a child. Leaves of absence taken under this article shall commence not later than four (4) days after the birth.
ARTICLE 25 APPRENTICES
25.01
The Union recognizes the wish of the Company to continue its participation in the N WT Apprenticeship Training Program for apprentices in each of the recognized trades that are normally employed by the Company.
All apprentice positions will be posted, but it is agreed that the Company, in its sole discretion, shall establish the qualifications required for successful applicants, Examples of such qual fications include experience in the trade, time worked in the department, government 'equirements, seniority, skill and ability.
47
At no time will the ratio of apprentices to tradesmen in any one trade exceed the ratio of one to one (1 :1), provided there may be at least one (1) apprentice in each trade notwithstanding tie fact that the number of tradesmen in the trade is less than two (2).
25.02
Notwithstandingthe provisions of Clauses 12.08,12.09,12.10 of this Agreement, no apprentice during his apprenticeshipmay apply to fill any job vacancy under thejob posting provisions of this Agreement.
25.03
The length of the apprentice training will be determined by the Apprenticeship Board and will vary from three (3) to four (4) years depending upon the trade. The board, on the advice of the Company, may reduce the normal period of training if it is satisfied that the apprentice has sufficient credits in the form of previous vocational training or a number of years of v/ork experience in that trade.
Upon succe: sful completion of the period of apprenticeship training, an apprentice will, subject to the requirements of operations, be employed as a tradesmen in a trade for which he has apprenticed and for this purpose thejob posting provisions of this Agreement shall not be applicable.
25.04(a)
The wage rates for apprentices shall be as set forth in Schedule “A” hereto.
25.04(b)
An apprentice attending apprenticeship school will receive his regular pay less the training allowance paid by the government.
Should an apprentice fail to pass his trade school examination, and is permitted to repeat, the Company shall not be obligated to further subsidize the apprentice while repeating the examination.
25.04(c)
The Company allowance for the last two (2) weeks of any study session will be withheld until such time as proof of attendance has been received by the Company from the government and the equivalentto the Company allowance for each day of school that the apprentice has missed during that session will be deducted.
The only ex:usable absences shall be those required for a medical reason or Compassior ate Leave.
48
25.04(d)
Apprentices, shall receive any pay increases earned as a result of passing the trade school examinations when the Department Head has seen the successful report from the trade school. The change of rate shall be retroactive to the date on the trade school report.
25.05(a)
It is recommended that all tradesmen should supply themselves with sufficienttools, though not power tools (as per Company recommended tool list) to do their work in their classification.
25.05(b)
All trades helpers who intend to pursue a career in the trade of their choice acquire some basic tools for use in their trade. See Company recommended tool list. Arrangements can be made wi:h the foreman to purchase these through the Company.
25.05(c)
Apprentice Tools - An apprentice will be prepared to supply himself with sufficienttools to do the work at his level.
25.05(d)
i)
il)
25.06
Journeyman will be given the opportunity for training in more than one related trade, but not at the same time, and subject to the approval of the Company, and depending upon the number ofjoumeymen at that particular trade. A related trade shall mean a trade within the same department as the original trade. As an example a mechanical trade and an electrical trade are not related while heavy duty mechanic and welding are related.
Quality hand tools, when broken in the course of work, will be replaced by the Company, within thirty (30) days, with the exception of those covered by manufacturer's warranty. The Company will not be responsible for lost tools.
An inventory of the tradesman’s tool box will be takenjointly by the man and his foreman when a new tradesman is hired on, or an apprentice is promoted to a higher classification. The inventory will be detailed as to make, size, number and condition of the tools.
49
ARTICLE 26
GENERAL TRAINING
26.01
Any employee who desires to take home study course may, prior to commencing such course, make application to register the course with the Company, who will advise the applicant whether or not the proposed course is a work related course and is acceptable to the Company for that individual under the provisions of this Article.
26.02
The Company will, upon successful completion vdth. a passing grade of a work related study course, accepted as per Article 26.01, by an employee, reimburse such employee for one-half (1/2) the cost of such course, for all courses taken by the employee, provided that at the time of completion, the employee shall be in the employ of the Company.
ARTICLE 27
JOINT LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEE
27.01
A Union/Management Labour Relations Committee may discuss any questions affecting the employees or the Company which may be relevant to the working conditions, or the business of the Company, but not matters which fall within the scope of Articles 9 and 10 of this Agreement.
27.02
The Union's Labour Relations Committee shall consist of five (5) members of Local 2304, of whom the Local President or his designate shall be one (1). There may also be a representative of the National Union and any other employee whose presence is appropriate to the subject under discussion and whose attendance has been agreed to by both parties beforehand.
27.03
Meetings of l he Labour Relations Committee may be called either by the Company or the Union and normally shall be held within ten (10) days of being called. Each party will notify the otl er at least seven (7) days in advance of the meeting, of the terms it wishes to raise for discussion. This arrangement shall not preclude the holding of meetings at
50
shorter notice to discuss a specific topic which is considered to be of an emergency nature and requiring the urgent consideration of the Committee.
27.04
The Company will pay the wages of the committee members in attendance who are employees c f the Company at their basic hourly rate only.
ARTICLE 28 BENEFITS
28.01	Life Insurance:
$50,000. The Company will pay 100% of the premium charged’by the insurer for basic life coverage.
28.02	Cur rent Dental Plan
Now in effect with the addition of:
^	I)entures at fifty (50%) percent and periodontics at one hundred (100%)
percent; and
Endodontics (roots) at one hundred (100%) percent.
The Company will pay 100% of the premiums charged by the insurer.
2002	NWT Dental Fee Schedule to apply from January 01,2002.
2003	NWT Dental Fee Schedule to apply from January 01,2003.
2004	NWT Dental Fee Schedule to apply from January 01, 2004.
2005	NWT Dental Fee Schedule to apply firm January 01,2005.
28.03	Pension Plan - Non Contributory
i) The basic benefit will be thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents ($37.50) per year cf continuous service effective November 16,1997.
The supplementary benefit will be twenty-two dollars and fifty cents ($22.50). Supplementary benefit applies from age fifty-five (55) to age sixty-five (65).
51
iii)	Except for employees added to the bargaining unit, by an amendment to the certificate, the number of years of continuous service shall be calculated from the employee’s last entry into the Company service as shown on the last seniority list posted under this Agreement. For employees added to th,e bargaining unit by an amendment to the certificate, as noted in Article
12.01(d), continuous service shall be dated from the time they are included in tiiis pension plan, as agreed between the Company and the Union.
iv)	Unreduced early retirement at age sixty-two (62) or after thirty (30) years of continuous service.
v)	Normal retirement age is sixty-five (65).
v{) Vesting to start after two (2) years of continuous service.
vjj) One thousand, seven hundred (1,700) hours worked provides one (1) year of service.
viii) A death benefit with a minimum value of the pension benefit added after January 01, 1987.
jx) Absence due to Union business for a maximum of forty (40) work days per year for employee on the 12 hour, 4x4 schedule forty eight (48) work days per year for employees on the ten (10) hour four by two (4x2) schedule, fifty four (!>4) days per year for employees on the nine (9) hour four by two (4x2) schedule and sixty (60) work days per year for employees on eight (8) hour s lifts shall be counted as hours worked for purposes of the pension plan.
28.04	Extc nded Health Care
Medicare. The Company will pay 100% of the premiums charged by the insurer.
28.05	Vision Care
The Company shall pay the premium for a plan that plays one hundred dollars ($100.00) each two (2) years for employees and dependents resident in Yellowknife.
28.06	Benevolent Society
50-50 cost s iaringto a Company maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month for each hourly employee until May 31, 2003. Effective June 1,2003 the Company will pay an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the total base rate earnings of all employees in the month prior to the month in which payment is made. The percentage will apply only to base rate earnings and will not apply to premiums such as, without limiting generality, statutory holiday pay, vacation pay, contract earnings, weekend premiums, overtime
52
premiums and shiftdifferentials. The Union will notify the Company of the amount of the employee's contributions.
Signed at the City of Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, this 22nd day of November A.D, 2002.
Dale Paterson
53
SCHEDULE “A”
(BASE RATE PER HOUR)
Schedule "A1 to the Agreement effective November 16, 2002 between Miramar Giant Mine, Ltd. and the Canadian Autoworkers, Local 2304 re: Giant Operations setting out base rates effective as follows:
WAGE GRADE TABLE
Grade	2002	2003	2004	2005
1	$14.00	N/A		
2	$19.77	$21.35	$22.21	$22.87
3	$20.00	$21.60	$22.46	$23.14
4	$20.23	$21.85	$22.72	$23.40
5	$20.48	$22.12	$23.00	$23.69
6	$20.71	$22.37	$23.26	$23.96
7	$20.94	$22.62	$23.52	$24.23
8	$21.18	$22.87	$23.79	$24.50
9	$21.49	$23.21	$24.14	$24.86
10	$21.66	$23.39	$24.33	$25.06
11	$21.77	$23.51	$24.45	$25.19
12	$22.08	$23.85	$24.80	$25.54
13	$22.54	$24.34	$25.32	$26.08
14	$23.14	$27.75	$29.14	$30.59
54
SCHEDULE “A” CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE: NOVEMBER 16,2002
CLASS	’ PIT	MINE	MILL	SURFACE	TRADES	T.RJ>.
1	LABOURER	ALL HELPERS. DRYMAN	ALL HELPERS. LABOURER	LABOURER	LABOURER	LABOURER
2				INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE	14‘. YEAR APPRENTICE”	
				lownrir u« a uu i iiv> APPRENTICE)		
3	ROCKBREAKER		BUCKER III. CLARIFIER MAN, UTILITY PERSON			
4		POWDER MAN. TRAMMER. U/G PIPEFITTER	TAILINGS OPERATOR	INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE (COMPLETED 2nd YR APPRENTICE)		
5	SINGLE AXLE TRUCK DRIVER	TRACKMAN. DRYMAN/BIT SHARPENER. TOOLMAN	MILL OILER, BUCKER II	SINGLE AXLE TRUCK DRIVER	STEEL SHARPENER. 31" CLASS TRADESMAN. 2nd YR. APPRENTICE	
6	DOUBLE AXLE TRUCK DRIVER	CAGETENDER (C-SHAFT)		DOUBLE AXLE TRUCK DRIVER	BOILER MAN (NOT CERTIFIED)	MONITOR OP. TRAINEE. PLANT OP. TRAINEE
7	769 CAT TRUCK DRIVER	MUCKING MACH. OP. UG/TRUCK OPERATOR			.	
8		TRIMBERMAN. RIGGER. SCOOPTRAM OP., U/G CRUSHER MAN. SK1PTENDER	CARBON PLANT OP-FLOTATION OP.			
9	DRILLER. BLASTER	SHAFT MAINTENANCE MAN. MINER, BLOCKHOLER. LONGHOLDE DRILLER, LONGHOLE BLASTER. DIAMOND DRILLER	CRUSHER OPERATOR. COTTRELL OPERATOR, ASSAY PULP BALMAN	FORKLIFT OPERATOR, CERTIFIED INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSEMAN		MONITOR OPERATOR. PLANT OPERATOR
10	D6 OR EQUIVALENT OP.. GRADER OPERATOR	SHAFT LEADER. SCHOOLSTOPE INSTRUCTOR	SOLUTION OPERATOR. ROASTER OPERATOR	D4 TO D6 EQUIVALENT OPERATOR. YARD LOADER OPERATOR	SHOP TMAN	
11			ASSAYER		2"J CLASS TRADESMAN.	
BLACKSMITH. 4™ CLASS STEAM ENG.. 3rd YR. APPRENTICE. 4™ YR.
APPRENCTICE
12	D7 & D8 OR EQU VALENT OP., LOADER OPERATOR		VACUUM TRUCK OP-CHIEF MILL OPERATOR	
■" 13		C-SHAFT HOIST MAN		1*' CLASS TRADESMAN, 3rd CUSS STEAM ENG.
14				JOURNEYMAN. 2^ CUSS STEAM ENG.
HOlSTMAN'yC” Shaft SO.SO/bour differential when tending compressors. Lead Hand holding journeyman's certificate - T0.25/hour over journeyman’s rate. Lead Hand not certified - S0.25/hour over I” Dlass Tradesman's tate. Tradesmen and Tradesmen’s helpers assigned to underground worlc to receive differential of SOJO/hour for each hour worked underground. If a man with a higher wage class than Class 2 is starting on an Apprenticeship Plan he will remain in his wage class until his years of service in die plan catch up to his wage class.
55
Schedule“B”
Gold Scale
When Canadian gold prices “average” in the specified ranges for a fiscal year, then the base wage will be increased by the corresponding percentage for the entire following fiscal quarte •. Wages will fluctuate both upwards as well as downwards by this same formula There will be no limit to the potential upward fluctuation. Downward fluctuationv/ill be as per the same formula however will never go below the base wage as specified in Schedule “A”.
The fiscal Q uarters will be:
1.	January, F ebruary, March
2,	April, May, June
3,	July, August, September
4.	October, November, December
The average gold price will be calculated by daily applying the second London Gold Eix and the Bari: Fix on the Canadian Dollar. The Gold Price in Canadian Dollars will be posted in the Dy on a daily basis.
Gold Range in Canadian dollars	Change to Present Wages
499.99 or less	No Change
500.00 - 549.99	+2%
550.00-599.99	+2%
600.00 - 649.99	+2%
650.00 - 699.99	+2%
700.00 - 749.99	+2%
750.00 - 799.99	+2%
800.00 - 849.99	+2%
850.00-899.99	+2%
900.00 - 949.99	+2%
950.00-999.99	+2%
1000.00-1049.99	+2%
1050.00- 1099.99	+2%
As prices increases in $50.00 intervals. +2.0% per interval,
56
Appendix “A”
Modified Shift Schedule- Mill Between
Miramar Giant Mine Ltd.
Hereinafter referred to as “The Company”
-and-
C.A.W. Local 2304
Hereinafter referred to as “The Union”,
Both parties agree to continue with the four by four (4x4) twelve (12) hour shift schedule for operating employees in the Mill Department. The modifications to the language of the Collective Agreement outlined in this Appendix will apply only to those employees assigned to ihe four by four (4x4) twelve (12) hour shift schedule. It is understood that on the 4x4 schedule the 4 working days will all be on the same shift.
Company - February 4,1992 10:00 A.M.
Amend 1st paragraph to read: Both Parties agree to continue with the four by four (4x4) twelve (12) lours drift schedule for operating employees in the Mill Department. The modificatior s to the language of the Collective Agreement outlined in this appendix will apply only to those employees assigned to the four by four (4x4) twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
General
It is the intention of the Union and the Company to maintain the four by four (4x4) schedule as long as the Mill is operated on a continuous basis. Changes to this schedule may be mad; by mutual agreement of the Union and the Company.
It is the intention of both the Union and the Company that the four (4) on and four (4) off schedule wi 1 result in the same take-home pay for the employees as at the present, and should not c therwise increase Company costs.
57
Letter of Understanding
Between
Miramar Giant Mine Ltd.
(“The Company”) And
C.A.W. Local 2304 (“The Union”) Article 15.01 (a)
&
Article 8.03
The parties as signified above agree by their signatures affixed to this Letter of Understanding that the weekend nightshiftpremium as per Articles 15.01(a) and 8.03 of the Collective Agreement is interpreted as follows;
“Night shif ton a 5x2 non-continuous shift will commence on Sunday night and day shift on a 5x2 ncn-continuous shift will commence on Monday naming. The parties agree that the Sunday nightshift is not eligible to receive the Saturday/Sunday premium. To clarify, the Parties interpret that on a 5x2 non-continuousshift the weekend for the nightshift is Friday and Saturday.”
Dated this 22nd dav of November 2002.
Scott Stringer
Superintendent, Human Rescources
28
Letter of Understanding Between:
Miramar Giant Mine Ltd. (“The Company”)
And
C.A.W. Local 2304 (“The Union”)
Hoist Schedule
The parties .is signified above agree by their signatures affixed to this Letter of Understanding that employees can be scheduled on the Hoist on a six by two (6x2) shift schedule subject to the following;
“For employees on continuous operation, working the six (6) day on and two (2) day off schedule, twice the basic hourly rate will be paid on the sixth (601) day worked only if such day falls within the work week as defined in 8,03 (b), and only if the six (6) days have been worked consecutively.”
“In no case will twice the basic hourly rate be paid of one (1) or more of the six (6) consecutive days falls on one (1) or more of an employees regularly scheduled days cff."
The six and two (6&2) shift can only be changed by mutual agreement between the Parties.
Dated this ;S2nd day of November 2002
59