Collective Agreement
Between
Cluff Mining Saskatchewan
and
Energy and Chemicals Workers Union
Local 48
Begins:
09/01/1992
Terminates:
05/31/1995
00125 (03)
CONTENTS
Purpose.......................
No Discrimination
Scope..............
. Definitions......
Management Rights Union Recognition Union Membership
Union Dues and Check Off...................... 8
Union Committees/Representations.............. 8
Seniority.................................. 11
Northern Preference........................... 13
Promotions and Job Transfers ................. 14
Term Employees and Temporary Employees ....... 16
Layoff & Recall............................... 17
Technological Change.......................... 19
Grievance Procedure........................... 21
Arbitration .................................. 25
No Strikes/No Lockouts ....................... 27
Hours of Work................................. 27
Overtime ..................................... 28
Wage Schedules and Job Classification ........ 30
Annual Vacation and General Holidays ......... 32
Personal Leave................................ 35
Union Leave .................................. 36
Education Leave .............................. 36
Jury and Crown Witness Absence................ 37
Funeral Leave ................................38
Employee Benefits and Retirement Plan.........39
Health and Safety.............................44
Apprenticeship Program....................... 44
Bulletin Boards.............................. 46
Miscellaneous — Transportation................ 46
Call-out......................................48
Medical Certificates......................... 49
Contracting Out ............................. 49
Work by Supervisors ......................... 49
Premiums and Allowances......................  5j)
Duration...................................
APPENDIX A —WageSchedule.....................
APPENDIX B —Wage Progression.................
B-l —WageProgression.............
B-2 — Wage Progression...........
B-3 — Wage Progression...........
B-4 —WageProgression.............
APPENDIX C — Employee Benefits:
Retirement Plan.............. i
APPENDIX D — Memorandum of Agreement
Waiver: Vacation Days Off....i
EMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
'TWEEN:
CLUFF MINING, Cluff Lake (the “Company”)
— and —
ENERGY & CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 48 (the “Union”)
e negotiating committees for the parties hereto have gained collectively and have reached agreement as to ms for a new Collective Agreement.
e terms of the said Agreement are as follows:
“The Collective Agreement between the parties in force and effect until May 31, 1992 shall continue in force and effect until May 31, 1995 amended only to the extent as set forth in Appendix “B” to Appendix “T” both inclusive hereto.”
e Union’s negotiating committee undertakes to :ommend these terms of settlement to the members of ; bargaining unit and the company’s negotiating immittee undertakes to recommend these terms of tlement to the Executive Management of the Company.
VTED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 19th day of igust, 1992.
»R THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
3
September 2, 1992
The proposed Collective Agreement signed by the joi Company/Union Negotiating Committee on August 1 1992, has been ratified by the Union membership.
Mr. Stan Penner President
B.C.W.U. Local 48
September 2, 1992
Mr. Stan Penner, President
Energy, Chemical Workers Union, Local 48.
Cluff Lake, SK
Dear Mr. Penner:
This will acknowledge receipt of your memorandum September 2, 1992, advising that the Union membersb has ratified the Memorandum of Agreement dated Augi 19, 1992 between Cluff Mining and the Union.
This is to confirm that the Executive management Cluff Mining have also approved the Memorandum Agreement. We therefore have a new Collecti' Agreement being the former Collective Agreeme between the parties as now modified by Appendices “I through “T” of the Memorandum of Agreement dat< August 19, 1992.
Yours very truly,
C.D. Gitzel
Human Resources Manager
4
RTICLE1 — PURPOSE
In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations and in consideration of the company’s commitment to provide northern residents with the maximum direct economic benefits, the parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the employees covered by this Agreement, and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of grievances of such employees, without slowdown or stoppage of work.
I	It is a further purpose of these parties to promote and encourage a productive, efficient and harmonious working environment.
TTICLE 2 — NO DISCRIMINATION
I The parties agree there will be no discrimination against an employee by reason of activity in the Union, or by reason of non-activity in the Union or by reason of age, sex, creed, colour, nationality, religion or ethnic background.
I Nothing in this agreement which gives a preference to northern residents shall be construed to be discrimination.
RTICLE 3 — SCOPE
1 This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Cluff Mining, regularly working at Cluff Lake, Sas-
t katchewan, excluding environmental technician, instrument technician, assistant planner, metallurgical assistant, Laboratory technician, mine technician, office and clerical staff, foreman and those above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is expressly understood and agreed that employees of the Company’s Exploration Department and Re-
5
sources Evaluation and Geological Conti Department are not part of the bargaining unit a do not come within the scope of this agreement.
3.2	The parties hereto agree that the relations betwe them shall be governed by the terms of ti Agreement.
3.3	It is agreed that this Agreement contains t complete understanding between the parties for t term of this Contract. Any additions, deletiot changes, amendments or waivers affecting t terms of this Agreement shall only be discussed mutual agreement of the Company and the Uni Negotiating Committee. Any agreements, amen ments, or changes arrived at as a result of su discussions shall become effective upon bei reduced to writing and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE 3A — DEFINITIONS
Parties:
Wherever the word ‘parties’ appears in this Agr« ment, it will mean the Company and the Union.
Regular Rate:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement sh, mean the rate of pay for the employee’s classific tion as set forth in Appendix A excluding ai overtime, any premiums or any allowances wh< soever.
Qualifications:
“Qualifications” wherever that term is used in ti collective agreement is defined as ability, skil experience, training/education, physical fitness ai job performance of an employee.
Gender:
In all cases where the Agreement refers to a perso the reference shall be to both genders (male ai female).
6
udents:
. Wherever that term is used in this Agreement it will mean a person who is employed during his annual break from academic studies, and who plans to continue with his academic studies following his annual break.
RTICLE 4 — MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
!
I	The Union expressly understands and agrees that the Company retains the exclusive right to operate and manage the affairs of the Company provided the rights of the Company shall not be exercised so as to be in contravention or violation of any specific provision or provisions as set forth in this agreement.
RTICLE 5 — UNION RECOGNITION
1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Employees defined in Section 3.1, and both parties agree to bargain collectively and in good faith.
2	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization on Company time or premises.
3	No person shall engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time or premises, except to the extent expressly provided for in the Agreement, or by law.
4	Nothing in this Agreement prevents the Union President or his representative from familiarizing new employees with the Union during non-working hours.
7
ARTICLE 6 — UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.1	Nothing in this Agreement prohibits or interferes any way with an employee’s right to become a remain a member of the Union, and nothi: prohibits or interferes with an employee’s right r to become or remain a member of the Union.
ARTICLE 7 — UNION DUES AND CHECK OFI
7.1	Pursuant To Section 162 of the Canada Labo Code the company shall deduct from the wages each employee affected by the collect! agreement, the amount of the regular union dues.
7.2	The regular Union dues shall be deducted from t employees first regular pay-cheque during ea-month, and the same shall be remitted to the fina cial secretary of the Union by the end of the mon during which the deductions were made exce where unforeseen or unusual circumstances apply
7.3	The company shall at the time of remitting tl union dues so deducted furnish the Union with list identifying the name of the employees fro whom deductions were made and the amount dues deducted from each employee.
7.4	All provisions of the Canada Labour Code sh; apply in respect of compulsory check-off of regul union dues.
7.5	Each employee’s T4 slip shall clearly show tl amount of money deducted and remitted.
ARTICLE 8 — UNION COMMITTEES/ REPRESENTATION
8.1	The Company will recognize a grievance comm: tee consisting of not more than eight ( 8)employei of the Company or alternates who shall be en ployees of the Company, designated by the Unit
8
in writing, provided however not more than four (4) members of the committee shall attend at any grievance meeting. There shall be two (2) representatives from each of the following four (4)De-partments:
(a)	Mine
(b)	Mill
(c)	Maintenance
(d)	Services
Any membership change in the grievance committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
! The Company will recognize an occupational health and safety committee which will be made up of an equal number of representatives from both the Company and the Union.
The Union will designate in writing, the names of eight (8) employees of the company or alternates who shall be employees of the Company as members of the said committee, provided however not more than four (4) such members shall attend at any meeting of the committee. There shall be two (2) representatives from each of the following four (4)Departments.:
(a)	Mine
(b)	Mill
(c)	Maintenance
(d)	Services
The Company will notify the Union in writing of its representatives on the committee.
The appropriate departments of government shall be advised of the creation of this committee and shall be advised of the names of the members of the committee.
1 The Company will recognize a negotiating com-• mittee of not more than eight (8) employees of
9
the Company designated by the Union in writir provided however not more than five (5) membt of the committee shall attend any negotiatii meeting. There shall be two (2) representativ from each of the following four (4) Departments:
(a)	Mine
(b)	Mill
(c)	Maintenance
(d)	Services
The Union will furnish a written list to tl Company giving the names of all members on t negotiating committee. Any membership change the committee will be submitted in writing to t Company.
8.3.1	The Company agrees that members of the Union negotiating committee may travel free of charge and from Cluff Lake to Saskatoon on compai provided transportation, when such travel necessary for the employee to attend negotiatii meetings with the Company. Requests for sue travel arrangements shall be made to tl employee's immediate supervisor at least one we< in advance of the scheduled meeting with tl Company.
8.4	The Union may have the assistance of a represe tative of the National Union, or an authorize Agent of the Local Union, present at any meetii of the above recognized committees with tl Company.
8.5	The Union will furnish a written list to the Con pany, giving the names of all Executive membe of the Union, of the Stewards and the Alterna Stewards and Committee members and Alterna Committee members. This written list will be kej current by the Union. Only those Union membe whose names have been given to the Company, writing, will be recognized by the Company.
10
6 As far as is practical, grievance meetings between the Company and the Union’s grievance committee and meetings of the occupational health and safety committee will be held at the site during normal working hours. A committee member attending
such meetings shall not suffer a loss of regular pay
as a result of attending such meetings.
RT1CLE 9 — SENIORITY
1	Seniority is defined as an employee’s period of continuous service with the Company since his last date of hire.
2	Except to the extent as specifically otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, seniority for all purposes of this agreement may only be exercised within the employee’s Department. The Departments are:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	Plant Department, Mill and Mine Maintenance
(d)	General Services and RPHS & EP
3	An employee on an authorized leave of absence shall maintain his position on the seniority list and shall have his benefits maintained during the term of such leave, but except in the case of an authorized paid leave, during such leave an employee shall not earn vacation pay.
4	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for a period of five hundred (500) hours worked. On completion of this probationary period an employee’s seniority shall be retroactive to date of hire.
5	The terms of this Agreement shall apply to all probationary employees excepting that such probationary employees may be terminated, without recourse to the grievance procedure or arbitration procedure.
11
9.6	An employee's seniority and employment right shall be considered lost by reason of:
(a)	Dismissal for just cause.
(b)	Voluntary resignation.
(c)	Failure to report for work on recall from layof within one week of being notified in writing b double registered mail at his last known addres of the requirement to report for employment. I the time requirement cannot reasonably be met an extension of time may be granted upo> mutual agreement by the Union and th. Company.
(d)	Retirement in accordance with the terms of an: Company pension plan.
(e)	Unauthorized absence from work unless ; reasonable explanation is furnished within threi (3) days of start of such absence.
(f)	Layoff for a period of twelve (12) months.
(g)	Permanent discontinuance of the Cluff Lak< operations.
9.7	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on desig nated bulletin boards by the Company every tbre< (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority list, shall be brought to the attention of the Compan; by written notice from the Union. If no notice i given within thirty (30) days of a posting the saic posted lists shall be deemed to be correct. N< penalty shall be incurred by the Company due t( any action taken on the basis of such inaccurati seniority listing, provided such action was taket prior to receipt of written notice from the Unior that such listing was in error. Where an error ha! occurred the Company shall re-issue correctec seniority lists. Coincidental with the posting of th< new seniority lists on the Bulletin Boards, th( Company will mail to the Union a copy of sucl seniority lists.
12
1 An employee transferred and/or promoted to a permanent position outside the bargaining unit shall retain all seniority held at the time of transfer and/or promotion, and will re-activate such seniority if he returns to the bargaining unit within the three (3) month period following such transfer and/or promotion. If the employee fills a permanent position outside the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months the employee shall lose all retained seniority.
> An employee temporarily assigned to a job outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority and remit regular monthly membership or union dues.
10 Transfer and/or promotion to positions out of scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
RT1CLE 10 - NORTHERN PREFERENCE
'.1 It is acknowledged that the company, on September 29, 1978, entered into a surface lease agreement with the government of Saskatchewan which among other things spells out certain objectives and commitments with respect to the employment of northern residents.
1.2	The parties hereby agree that such steps will be taken as are required to ensure that the objectives and commitments of the surface lease agreement are complied with.
1.3	Whether any agreement exists with the government of Saskatchewan, the parties agree that preference will be given to northern residents in matters of hiring, promotions, recall and training. In the case of a reduction in the work force, preference will be given to retaining northern residents.
13
ARTICLE 11 — PROMOTIONS AND JOB TRANSFERS
11.1	The Company shall determine the number employees in each job classification and if a va ancy in ajob classification is to be filled or to left vacant.
11.2	Jobs will be posted for Company-wide applicatio where:
(a)	A new position is established.
(b)	A permanent day position becomes open.
(c)	A permanent position becomes open at level 5 in the case of the tradesman (non-ticketed) at the warehouse person job classifications, and level 5C in the case of all other job classific tions referred to in Appendix B.
11.3	A successful applicant who has applied und Section 11.2 (c) shall normally be placed at the 5 level provided the employee has been in tl employ of the Company for more than six (i months. Where, however, the employee has hi prior formal training in the position applied for, tl Company in its absolute discretion may place tl employee at a level higher than the 5B level.
11.4	When a vacancy occurs as outlined in Section II. to be filled by the posting procedure, then:
(a)	A job posting, open for ten (10) days, will t placed on bulletin boards. The job titb qualifications, rate of pay, normal woi location, shift work or days, the shift to which successful applicant would initially be assignee and last date for receipt of applications, will t listed in such posting.
(b)	All employees will be eligible to apply f< suchjobs, except for employees who hav been successful applicants on permanent jc
14
postings within the last six (6) months preceding the date of the current posting.
(c)	The six (6) month provision set forth in (b) above shall not apply to Northern residents who may wish to apply for an apprenticeship vacancy as referred to in Article 29.1 of this agreement.
1.5	Written application forms supplied by the Company will be required on all jobs posted. Applications must be mailed or delivered to the Company.
1.6	In filling posted positions, the senior applicant will be awarded the position where he has the qualifications as determined by the Company. If there are no applicants whose qualifications meet the requirement for the posted position, the Company may fill the position from any source.
Where an applicant has been awarded a posted position, and where at any time within a period of five hundred (500) hours worked from the time of his assignment to the position the employee resigns or is determined to be unsuitable, the Company may then fill the position without a further posting, by selecting a qualified person from the list of applicants who had initially applied for the posted position, or from any other source if there is no qualified applicant on the list of those who had initially applied.
1.7	Where the Company determines to proceed with the appointment, the name of the successful applicant will be posted on Company bulletin boards within ten (10) days of the closing date of the job posting. If a posted vacancy is not filled within ninety (90) days, the Company will re-post the vacancy, if the vacancy is still to be filled.
1.8	Time limits for the presenting of a Grievance on Promotions or Job Posting will start from the date of postings of the name of the successful applicant, as per Section 11.7.
15
ARTICLE 12 — TERM EMPLOYEES AND
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
12.1	“Term employees” are employees who are hirer for a specified period of time to perform work of; specific nature or specific purpose where such worl is not a part of the normal operations of thi Company.
The Company will provide the Union with a list o the names of term employees, date of hire, work tc be performed and the expected duration of the worl to be performed.
12.2	“Temporary employees” are employees who an hired to replace employees who are absent fron work due to sickness or accident, vacation authorized leave of absence or for any other reasot which the parties may agree is temporary. A temporary employee may be hired on such basis fo up to ninety days worked of the employee.
12.3	The Company may offer term work or temporary work to any permanent employees who may be laic off and who are eligible for recall. Such laid of employees may accept or reject term work o temporary work for the Company without, in an) way, affecting their recall rights.
12.4	The hiring of term employees or temporary employees is subject to the following limitations:
(a)	Such employees shall be classified anc compensated on the same basis as permanen employees, however, they will only acquire seniority rights as provided below.
(b)	Such employees may be accepted as permanent employees by the Company. In suci case, all hours worked as term or temporary shall be credited toward the probationary period set forth in article 9.4 of this agree ment.
16
(c)	Such employees who have demonstrated to the Company that they are qualified candidates will be given preference for permanent employment.
2.5 Where a temporary vacancy occurs in a “line of
:	progression,” the position will be filled by
assigning, temporarily the senior employee in the next lower job in the “line of progression” to the vacant position provided that employee is qualified to perform the work.
ARTICLE 13 — LAYOFF AND RECALL
3.1	In any reduction of the work-force for a period in excess of seven (7) days, the Company will give employees so affected seven (7) working days notice prior to their layoff. In lieu of the said notice, the Company may elect to pay seven (7) days pay at the employee’s regular rate to the employee laid off.
3.2	In any reduction of work forces expected to last for a period not longer than seven (7) days, the Company will attempt to give employees thus
. affected twenty-four (24) hours notice.
3.3	In the event of a reduction in crew size, permanent
, employees affected shall be laid off in order of their
seniority standings provided the senior employee possesses the qualifications and is willing to perform the work of the laid off employee and has demonstrated he is capable of performing the work at the level of performance of the laid off employee.
3.4	Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their seniority and qualifications to perform the work for which they are being recalled.
3.5	Notice referred to herein shall only apply to an employee who has completed his probationary period.
17
13.6	Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a layoff i caused by an event of force majeure or othe circumstances beyond the control of the Company the layoff notice provisions set forth in this articl shall not apply.
13.7	Employees recalled to work in their normal job wii be considered to have voluntarily resigned if the: do not report for work on the date designated.
13.8	Where an employee exercises bumping right pursuant to Section 13.3, he shall:
(a)	Do so within forty-eight (48) hours of his notie of lay-off and the employee adversely affectei shall be then deemed to have been given th required notice of lay-off and shall then havi forty-eight (48) hours to exercise his bumping rights pursuant to Section 13.3.
(b)	Be paid at the wage for thejob classification t< which he has bumped.
13.9	An employee whose employment with thi Company is terminated as a result of a layof caused by a reduction in the work force shall be entitled to severance pay as provided in Artich
13.10	provided the employee,
(a)	has had two years (3,542 hours) or mori employment with the Company, and;
(b)	has been laid-off and no specific recall date i: given to him at the time of the layoff, and if hf relinquishes his seniority and employmen rights as referred to in Article 9.6 (f) of thit agreement.
(c)	advises the Company in writing within twelve (12) months following the date of his layoff thai he is relinquishing his seniority anc employment rights and is making a claim foi severance pay.
18
3.10	Severance pay shall be paid to an employee who qualifies for the same under this Article on the basis of threequarters (3/4) of one pay period’s pay (i.e. 3/4 cf 77 hours) at the employee’s regular rate at the time of layoff for each full year of seniority at the time of such layoff. Severance pay will be limited to a maximum of twelve (12) times three-quarters (3/4) of one pay period’s pay.
3.11	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of the employee’s seniority and employment rights.
.RTICLE 14 —TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
4.1	The provisions of this Article 14 are intended to assist employees affected by a technological change as herein defined, to adjust to the effects of such change.
4.2	Sections 150, 152 and 153 of the Canada Labour Code do not apply to the Company and the Union or to any person or persons covered by the certification and/or the scope of this Agreement.
4.3	In this section “technological change” means:
(a)	the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized by it in the operation of the work, undertaking or business; and,
(b)	a change in the manner in which the Company carries on the work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
4.4	The procedure for dealing with technological change that is likely to affect the terms, conditions and tenure of employment of a significant number of employees is as follows:
19
14.4.1	The Company will notify the Union of such technological change at least one hundred an twenty (120) days prior to the date on which sue change is to be affected. Such notice shall be i writing and shall state:
(a)	the nature of the technological change;
(b)	the date upon which the Company proposes I affect the technological change, and
(c)	the names, seniority dates and classifications ( the employees primarily affected.
14.5	An employee displaced as a result of technological change will exercise his seniorit rights which are as follows:
(a)	An employee receiving Notice of Layoff sha exercise his seniority to displace ajunic employee in a classification of an equal c lower rate of pay, or the junior employee on job previously held, providing he has th necessary qualifications;
(b)	The displaced employee may then exercis his seniority rights in the same manner £ above unless there are no junior employees t displace or he does not have the necessar qualifications in which case he is subject 1 layoff:
(c)	An employee receiving the Notice of Layo and not exercising his rights under (a) and (l above, will be placed on layoff.
14.6	“Significant” for the purpose of this article shall t fifteen (15%)percent of the total work-force.
14.7	Employees with one or more full year’s seniorit who are on layoff status as a result of Technc logical Change as herein defined may elect to b paid severance pay.
20
4.8	Severance pay may be paid to employees who are laid off or have selected layoff status because of Technological Change as herein defined, at the employee’s election. Severance pay will be threequarters (3/4) of one pay period’s pay (i.e. 3/4 of 77 hours) at the employee’s regular rate at the time of layoff due to the Technological Change, for each full year of seniority at the time of such layoff. Severance pay will be limited to a maximum of twelve (12) times three-quarters (3/4) of one pay period’s pay.
4.9	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of such employee’s seniority and employment rights
4.10	Upon request, the Company will furnish to CEC, the laid-off employee’s skills inventory record and other applicable information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced employee in another job with another employer.
ARTICLE 15 —GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE
15.1	“Grievance” as used in this Agreement is an alleged violation in respect of the interpretation or application of, or compliance with a specific provision or provisions of this collective agreement.
I
15.2	The parties encourage employees to bring any complaints to the attention of the employee’s immediate supervisor for consideration, before a grievance is filed. If after bringing the matter to the immediate supervisor’s attention, the employee is still not satisfied, a grievance may be filed.
15.3	It is the intention of both parties that all grievances shall be processed as quickly as possible at all steps.
15.4	All grievances to be processed hereunder shall be filed in writing signed by the employee and
21
shall set forth the essential facts of the grie’i ance, with reference to how the employee fee] aggrieved, the provision or provisions unde which the grievance is filed, and the redres claimed. Such written grievance shall then fori the basis of the grievance through all the step of the grievance procedure and arbitration proce dure.
15.5	Grievances meeting the above requirements sha be processed in the manner stated below:
Step 1: An employee who feels he has a grievanc as defined above shall continue on his assigne duties. Should he wish to submit a grievance, written grievance shall be prepared and presente to his immediate supervisor. The grievance shall b submitted to his immediate supervisor within fiv (5) scheduled working days (of the employee following the date of occurrence of the inciden giving rise to the grievance. The immediat supervisor shall within five (5) scheduled workin; days (of the supervisor) following receipt of th employee’s submission of the grievance, giv. written reply to the employee. A shop steward ma: accompany an employee when presenting hi grievance.
Step 2: If a settlement is not reached at Step 1, th< employee, along with his shop steward, may withii five (5) scheduled working days (of the employee of the completion of Step 1 present the writtei grievance to the General Foreman of thi employee’s Department. The General Foremai shall reply to the grievance, in writing, within fivi (5) scheduled working days (of the genera foreman) following the date on which the grievanci was received by the General Foreman.
Step 3: If settlement is not reached at the seconc step, the written grievance may, within five (5] scheduled working days (of the employee) aftei
22
the completion of Step 2, be presented to the appropriate superintendent who has responsibility for the Department in which the employee is assigned. The Superintendent shall reply to the grievance in writing within five (5) working days (of the superintendent) following the date on which the grievance was received by the Superintendent,
Step 4: A fourth step grievance meeting may be held at a place to be agreed upon by both parties to discuss an outstanding grievance, provided however such meeting shall occur and a reply shall be given not later than thirty (30) days after the completion of Step 3.
5.6	If a grievance as defined in Section 15,1 above involved a group or groups of employees, the grievance procedure may be commenced at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. The same shall be to a group grievance. Such grievance must be submitted in writing within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance.
5.7	If a grievance occurs as defined in Section 15.1 and concerns the Union as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of Section 15.5, the executive of the Union may within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance, present a written grievance at step 3 of the grievance procedure, except that such grievance shall be presented to the mine manager or his designate and not to a department superintendent.
5.8	If an employee believes that he has been suspended or discharged withoutjust cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within eight (8) days after written notice of such discharge has been sent by double registered mail to the employee’s last known address or after written notice of such discharge has been personally given to him. The Union will be given a copy of such written notice.
23
Where it is not convenient for the suspended c discharged employee to do so, an Executiv member of the Union may present the grievanc signed by the employee to the appropriat Superintendent at Step 3.
Where an employee is suspended or discharged an such action results in the employee being remove from the site, the Union will be notified of sue action. The employee affected will be permitted reasonable amount of time to review the suspensio or discharge with an Executive member of th Union.
Where an employee is required to attend a meetin with the Company in respect of a reprimanc suspension or discharge, he may, if he so wishe: have an Executive member of the Union i attendance at such a meeting provided an Executiv member is available to be in attendance at the time
15.9	The remedy for adjusting a suspension or discharg grievance, if it is determined that any isjustiflec may consist of reinstatement with or without bac pay or with partial back pay, or may consist of pa or partial back payment without reinstatement, c may consist of any other redress appropriate to th circumstances.
15.10	If settlement is not reached atStep3 or Step 4, th grievance may be referred to Arbitration as set fort! in Article 16. The Union shall notify the Compan; of its intent to seek arbitration by written notice served by double registered mail within forty-fiv. (45) days, after the completion of Step 3.
15.11	All time limits for the filing and processing o grievances are mandatory and any non-compliana with such time limits shall result in the grievano being deemed abandoned. Notwithstanding the fore going, the Company and the Union may, by agree ment in writing, extend or waive any time limit.
24
ARTICLE 16 — ARBITRATION
6.1	Any grievance as defined in Article 15 which is not settled under the terms of that Article and which has been processed in a timely manner may, in accordance with the terms of that Article be submitted to Arbitration as hereinafter provided.
6.2	The Arbitration Procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements set out in Article 15.
6.3	Where the parties mutually agree, the grievance may be referred to a single arbitrator for determination, and in such case the single arbitrator will be appointed by agreement between the parties. Where however, the parties do not agree to refer the matter to a single arbitrator and/or where the parties are unable to agree on a person to act as single arbitrator, the grievance may be referred to a board of arbitration as provided for in Article 16.4.
6.4	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one representative each of the Company and the Union, to be selected by written notice given to the other party within fourteen (14) days following notification of arbitration, and one person acceptable to such representatives who shall act as Chairman. If agreement cannot be reached on selection of the Chairman within seven (7) days of the appointment of the representatives the matter shall be referred to one of the following who will be selected by lot by the Union and the Company representatives:
(1)	Francine Chad-Smith
(2)	Robert E. Stromberg
(3)	Ken Stevenson
(4)	Bill Campbell
25
If the Chairman so selected is unable to serve, ther lots will be drawn again and so on until a Chairmar has been selected who can serve.
16.5	No person shall serve as a single arbitrator or on the Board of Arbitration if involved directly in the grievance under consideration.
16.6	When the single arbitrator has been appointed oi the Board of Arbitration has been formed ir accordance with this Article, the arbitrator or board shall meet and hear the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision in writing to the companies not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made on the matter by the parties.
16.7	A decision of the single arbitrator or the decision ol a majority of the Board shall be taken to be the decision and shall be final and binding on all parties concerned. In the event that a majority decision cannot be arrived at by a board ol arbitration, the decision of the Chairman shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
16.8	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to him or it and the decision must be based solely on the provisions of this Agreement.
16.9	The expenses of the single arbitrator or Chairman of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Each party shall be responsible for its own costs other than the costs cf the single arbitrator or the Chairman.
16.10The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not deal with more than one ( 1 ) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
26
ARTICLE 17— NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS
17.1	The Union, its agents, and each employee agrees that there will be no strikes, slow downs or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout.
ARTICLE 18— HOURS OF WORK
18.1	This article shall not be construed as a guarantee of work per day or per week nor as a restriction of the Company’s right to operate or schedule its operations.
18.2	The normal work day shall be eleven (1 1) consecutive hours of work within any consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period broken only for established breaks as outlined in sections 18.4 and 18.5.
18.3	The normal work week for employees shall be seventy-seven (77) hours per week. This is followed by one (I) week off. Shift schedules shall be posted on a bulletin board and notice of any changes shall be provided one (1) work week in advance whenever possible.
Where after a shift schedule has been posted, it becomes necessary to change the employees working hours (i.e. a change from night to day shift or vice versa) the Company will make a reasonable effort to notify the employee of the change as far in advance as reasonably possible.
18.4	Employees will have a one (1) hour lunch period scheduled approximately at the middle of each shift
of work or at the start or end of the shift depending
upon flights. The lunch period in each shift of work shall not be considered as time worked and shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves his work station and shall be deemed to end when he returns to his work station.
27
18.5	Employees will be granted a total of thirty (30) minutes for not more than two (2) rest periods during each complete normal work day. The rest period shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves his work station and shall be deemed to end when he returns to his work station.
ARTICLE 19 — OVERTIME
19.1	The Company shall determine the need for overtime and shall make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. The Company shall endeavor to give notice of overtime as far in advance as practical. An employee may refuse to work an unreasonable amount of overtime, however in all cases of emergency and at shift changes, employees shall be required to work overtime as assigned.
19.2	(a) An employee will be paid two (2) times his
regular rate for any time actually worked in excess of eleven (1 l)hours in one work day
(b) Except to the extent as specifically provided in this agreement, overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked
19.3	Where a change in a work schedule is made for the convenience of the employee (i.e., transfers, promotions), or where, with the consent of the Company an employee arranges to cover another employee’s shift, all regular scheduled hours worked as a result of such change or arrangement shall not be subject to payment at overtime rate notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary
Where the Company schedules an employee to work in excess of seventy-seven (77) hours in one pay period, the employee will be paid tor the excess hours at the applicable overtime rate
28
19.4	A meal will be made available whenever practicable before the employee commences his overtime work
19.5	Overtime work will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among employees normally performing the work in the area or the crew, provided such employees have the qualifications to perform the work. It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime within a particular area and crew will, at any given time, have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is reasonably practicable under the circumstances.
19.6	Where an employee has worked overtime after the completion of his scheduled shift, the employee shall take a minimum of eight (8) hours rest and may elect to take up to twelve (12) hours rest before returning to work.
19. 7 Where an employee having worked overtime after the completion of his scheduled shift finishes his overtime work less than eight (8) hours before the beginning of his next scheduled shift, he will be paid at regular rate for the hours not worked between the beginning of his next regular shift and eight (8) hours after the end of the overtime worked following the previous shift.
19.8	Where in such instances the employee elects to return to work prior to having twelve (12) hours of rest, he shall so advise his supervisor or the supervisor’s designed to that effect. Such advice shall he given no later than by the completion of the overtime work. An employee in such instances will be paid at his regular rate upon returning to work.
Refer to Article 32 for Call-Out Provisions.
29
ARTICLE 20 —WAGESCHEDULES AND
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
20.1	The wage schedule which shall be effective during the term of this agreement shall be as set out in Appendix A attached hereto and the said Appendix A shall form an integral part of this agreement.
20.2	The wage progression schedule which shall be effective during the term of this agreement shall be as set out in Appendix B attached hereto and the said Appendix B shall form an integral part of this agreement.
20.3	Except to the extent as otherwise set out in Section
20.4	and 20.5, a newly hired employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 5C during the first six (6) months of his employment.
20.4	A Journeyman (ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 1A.
20.5	A Tradesman (non-ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid no lower than at Level 5A during the first six (6) months of employment and a Warehouse Person shall be assigned to and paid at level 5A during the first six (6) months of employment.
20.6	Subject to Section 20.7 an employee shall advance to his next succeeding wage level upon satisfactory
completion of the standard time periods set out in
Appendix B, and he shall continue to advance to each succeeding level until he has reached the maximum level for hisjob classification ,
20.7	An employee will move to the next wage level for his job classification where he has successfully completed the training program designated from time to time by the Company.
Where within a period of fourteen (14) scheduled working days (of the employee) following the completion of a time period, the employee has not been assessed as contemplated by this Article, it shall be
30
presumed that the employee has satisfactorily completed the time period.
20.8	An employee when indentured as an apprentice in one of the journeyman (ticketed) classifications as in Section 20.10 shall normally be assigned to and paid at level 5B of the apprentice’s indentured job classification during the first (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the 5B level. Such apprentice shall advance on the wage progression schedule to and including level 2A, except in the case of a plumber/pipefitter apprentice who shall advance on the schedule to and including IB. Thereafter and when the apprentice obtains a trade certificate in his trade, he shall be entitled to the level 1A (journeyman ticketed) job classification wage rate.
20.9	For the purposes of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are recognized tradesman (non-ticketed) job classifications.
-Welder
—Heavy Duty Mechanic -IndustrialMechanic (Millwright)
—Machinist
20.10	For the purposes of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are the recognized
' journeyman (ticketed)job classifications.
—Welder
—Heavy Duty Mechanic —Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Electrician
—	Machinist
—Plumber/Pipefitter
20,1	I Journeyman (ticketed) shall mean certified by the province of Saskatchewan or the equivalent as recognized by the province of Saskatchewan.
31
ARTICLE 21 —ANNUALVACATION AND
21.1	Wherever the term “vacations” is used, it shall mean the combination of annual vacations and general holidays.
21.2	All employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to twenty-one (21) working days of vacation with pay after completing one (1) full year of service and after completing each full year of service thereafter to and including the fifth (5th) full year.
21.3	After completing the fifth (5th) full year of continuous employment, employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
year thereafter
21.4	A full year of service means 1,771 hours worked, less an employee’s vacation entitlement in excess of twenty-one (21) days. Where an employee has not worked 1,771 straight-time hours in a year, any overtime hours the employee may have worked during that year may be used on a straight-time basis for the purpose of accumulating the 1,771 hours referred to herein. Where an employee works less than 1,771 hours in a year, the employee’s pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during the year.
21.5	After the completion of each complete four (4) years of continuous service ( 7,084 hours worked)
GENERAL HOLIDAYS
Full Years of Continuous Service
Vacations/
Holidays
Entitlement
After 11 and each
32
an employee shall be granted a vacation bonus based on seven (7) days' pay at regular rate
Where an employee during any applicable complete four (4) year period works less than 7,084 hours, he shall receive a vacation bonus, but the employee's bonus pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during such period. The vacation bonus shall be paid upon completion of each complete four (4)year period.
Where an employee has qualified for the vacation bonus as provided in 21.5, the employee may request that the said vacation bonus be paid at a time to coincide with his vacation.
11.6	The general holidays listed below form part of the 21 days of vacation:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
11.7	Where an employee works for the whole or part of his scheduled shift on a general holiday (midnight to midnight), the hours worked on the general holiday will be paid at his regular rate plus two (2) times his regular rate.
11.8	Vacation scheduling shall be by Department. The requirements of efficient operations shall be of paramount importance in scheduling vacations, with seniority given all possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to May 1st in each year. Vacation requests received prior to May 1st shall also take precedence over any requests tor personal leave of absence.
33
Without limiting the paramount importance of efficient operations in scheduling any vacations where there are unusual or mitigating circumstances, the company will consider a request by ar employee to take one week (seven (7) days) of his/her vacation at a time other than during £ scheduled vacation shut-down period.
21.9	Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Company from scheduling vacation shutdowns, ol all or any part of its operations. If the Company determines to cause a vacation shut-down it will provide employees affected and the Union with as much notice of such shut-down as is reasonably possible and in any event, with not less than four (4) weeks’ notice.
The four (4) weeks’ notice shall not apply where the shut-down is the result of circumstances beyond the control of the Company. If any such shut-down occurs, employees will take such vacation days as they are entitled to receive and if there is any short-fall, they will be considered as laid-off for the duration of the shut-down, but in such cases the notice provisions as in Article 13 shall not apply.
Where the Company is not able to assign an employee all his earned vacations during vacation shut-down periods, the Company before assigning the employee’s vacations outside the shutdown periods will consider the employee’s preference periods for taking his vacations. Subject to business and operational requirements, the Company will make every reasonable effort to accommodate the employee’s preference.
When scheduling employees who are to remain at the site during shut-down periods, to the extent that business and operational requirements permit, preference for releasing employees for vacation during the said periods shall be given to employees with the highest seniority.
34
21.10Where in the case of a vacation shut-down an employee becomes laid-off for all or part of the vacation shut-down period, the employee’s life insurance, major medical insurance, dental plan,
I vision care insurance and long term disability insurance will continue in effect until the end of the vacation shut-down period or the employee’s recall to work, whichever first occurs. The Company will pay 100% of the premium costs associated with the foregoing.
ARTICLE 22 — PERSONAL LEAVE
22.1	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen ( 14) calendar days without pay provided such leave is requested in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will, among other things, consider the following when deciding to grant or refuse a request for such leave:
(a)	whether such leave will interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(b)	whether a qualified replacement is available to replace the employee during the leave;
(c)	whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the employee;
(d)	whether the request for leave isjustified.
22.2	In case of emergency nature, the Company will waive the fourteen (14) day request in writing requirement as set forth in 22.1.
22.3	Personal leave will not be granted where an employee has accrued vacation time which could be utilized.
35
22.4	Leave for employees with child care responsibilities, including the case of a male employee shall be as set forth in the Canada Labour Code.
ARTICLE 23 — UNION LEAVE
23. I The Company may grant a Union leave of absence for a maximum of five (5) employees for periods up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay in the case of employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union labour seminars, courses or conferences.
23.2	Any leave considered must have been applied for in writing by the employee at least two (2) weeks in advance. Leave requests shall be considered, having regard to whether such leave will interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company.
ARTICLE 24 — EDUCATION LEAVE
24.1	An employee may request a leave of absence without pay to further his education for the purpose of upgrading in his present job or for advancement within the Company, by attending full time classes of instruction.
24.2	Subject to the above, the Company, will give consideration to such request conditional on, among other things, the following:
(a)	the employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
(b)	the leave will not interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(c)	there is a qualified replacement for the affected employee;
(d)	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance, with all details of the instruction course provided;
36
(e)	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company; and
(f)	not more than two (2) employees may be on leave at any one time, and not more than one (1) employee may be on leave from any one department at any one time.
4.3	Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will require that the affected employee actually attend each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness.
4.4	Should the employee return to work following a leave of absence as referred to above, the Company will reinstate the employee in his former job, if the job is still in existence and provided the employee passes the required medical examination.
ARTICLE 25 — JURY AND CROWN WITNESS ABSENCE
5.1	When an employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is called and reports as a Crown witness, he shall be paid the difference between the daily amounts received for such jury duty or Crown witness service, and his regular rate for such day or days provided such day or days were regularly scheduled days of work for the employee.
Where because of flight schedules to and/or from the site an employee, because of Jury or Crown Witness duty loses scheduled hours, (other than on the day or days he actually serves as a Juror or Crown Witness) he shall be paid for his scheduled hours as if he had worked on those days.
5.2	Such differences shall be paid only if the employee presents a written statement to the Company from an appropriate Court officer, showing dates of such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the amounts received for such service.
37
ARTICLE 26—FUNERAL LEAVE
26.1	The Company, upon being notified of a death in th< immediate family, will grant an employee who if scheduled to work a maximum of up to three (3i days paid funeral leave to be taken between the da) of death and one day after the day of the funeral. I is understood that such paid leave will not be granted in instances when an employee who if otherwise eligible for such leave does not attend the funeral, or who does not have immediate famil) matters to attend to in respect of the funeral.
In the case of death of an employee’s spouse oi child, two (2) additional paid funeral leave days may be granted for a total of a maximum of up tc five (5) days paid funeral leave, not in addition tc the three (3) days provided for in paragraph 1 above. The conditions contained in paragraph 1 above shall be applicable.
In addition to any paid funeral leave granted, ar employee may be granted up to an additional three (3) days’ funeral leave on an unpaid basis. Any accrued vacation time may be utilized in lieu o! unpaid funeral leave.
26.2	For purposes of funeral leave, “immediate family” means the employee’s spouse, children, mother. father, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law. brother and sister-in-law, grandparents. grandchildren of the employee and any relative permanently residing in the employee’s household or with whom the employee resides.
26.3	Common law status shall be recognized if the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the employee has notified the Company of the common law status prior to the bereavement
26.4	Pay for funeral leave shall be at the employee’s regular rate.
26.5	Where by reason of funeral leave an employee is to
38
travel to and from the site; and where space is available on scheduled company transportation, the employee may travel on such transportation at no cost to the employee
26.6	Where space is not available as referred to in 26.5 within a twenty-four (24) hour period after the employee has been advised of the death of a member of his immediate family, the company upon being requested to do so, shall make every reasonable effort to arrange transportation for the employee from Cluff Lake to his normal pick-up point
Where such arrangements are made, the company will absorb the cost of the aforementioned transportation.
ARTICLE 27 — EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND RETIREMENT PLAN
27.1	During the lifetime of this agreement, there shall be a group insurance plan and a retirement plan which shall provide benefits for employees as set oyt herein. The conditions respecting the benefits under the said plans shall be as set forth in the plans.
27.2	The benefits under the plan and the responsibility for the payment of premiums shall be as set forth in I to 7 inclusive in this article.
1.	Short Term Disability
1.1	If a disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report for work, up to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period of disability.
1.2	If a disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable from the fourth day after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period
' of disability.
39
1.3	Effective June I, 1986 the benefits will be at 70% of normal earnings to a maximum of the following amounts in respect of a normal work week (77 hours).
(1)	Effective (date of signing) to May 31, 1993 -$915.00
(2)	Effective June 1, 1993 to May 31, 1994 -935.00
(3)	Effective June I, 1994 to May 31,1995 -$960.00
1.4	The Union and the employees agree to forfeit the UIC rebate or reduction of premiums, in that the rebate or reduction is deemed to be in lieu of other benefits.
1.5	Benefits payable under a plan where the employee pays one hundred (100%) per cent of the premiums (employee-pay-all plan) are exempt from income tax. All premiums (one hundred (100%) per cent) for this part of the plan shall be paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
2,	Long Term Disability
2.1	If an employee continues off work due to a non-occupational injury or illness for a period longer than one hundred and five (105) days, the employee is eligible to apply for long term disability to age sixty-five (65) years.
2.2	Benefits under the plan are seventy (70%) per cent of regular earnings, inclusive of other benefits to which the employee is entitled in such circumstance (e.g. Canadian Pension Plan benefits) to a maximum benefit of $3,000,00 per month.
2.3	Long term disability benefits are fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
2.4	Disability is defined as the inability of an employee to perform his own job classification for a period of twenty-four (24) months and thereafter
40
the inability to perform any job for which the employee is suited by reason of education, training or experience.
2.5	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
3.	Life Insurance
3.1	Employees and their families are covered by life insurance as follows:
—	employee - two ( 2 ) times yearly earnings with a minimum of $27,000.00
—	spouse - $3,500.00
—	eachdependent child - $1,500.00
3.2	If the employee becomes totally disabled before retirement, the insurance shall continue until age sixty-five (65) years on a paid-up basis.
3.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the Plan in respect of coverage to twenty-seven thousand ($27,000.00) dollars shall be paid by the Company.
4.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
4.1	Employees are covered by accidental death and dismemberment insurance for accidental death or dismemberment. The same shall be in addition to employee life insurance coverage as in 3 of this article.
4.2	The principal sum shall be $50,000,00 in the case of loss of life. There is to be a schedule regarding dismemberment and loss of sight and/or hearing.
4.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Dental Plan
5.1	A dental plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
41
5.2	The plan shall pay one hundred (100%)per cen of routine dental treatments, expenses and fift> (50%) per cent of major treatments and orthodontic treatment.
5.3	The plan shall pay a maximum in any one (1) calendar year of $1,000.00 in the case of each insured family member.
5.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%)per cent. for this part of the plan, shall be paid by the Company.
6.	Major Medical Insurance
6.1	A major medical plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
6.2	Hospital expenses, one hundred (100%) per cent for semi-private or private accommodations above those paid by the Saskatchewan Medicare Plan will be paid by the major medical plan.
6.3	The plan will pay eighty (80%) per cent of the costs of other services items set forth in the plan.
6.4	The plan will cover hospital costs incurred while outside of Canada to a maximum of $8,000.00.
6.5	PRESCRIBED DRUGS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for prescribed drugs which are not now covered by the Provincial Government Plan.
6.6	EYE EXAMINATIONS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for Eye examinations which were covered by Medicare, and which are not now covered by Medicare.
6.7	All premiums, one hundred (100%)per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
7.	Vision Care Insurance
7.1	A vision care plan covering employees and their family members as applicable shall be in effect.
42
7.2	The Plan will provide the payment on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of regular frames and lenses to a maximum benefit of one hundred ($100.00) dollars per person in any twenty-four (24) month period.
7.3	The Plan will provide for the payment of contact lenses on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of the cost where medically necessary on a one-time basis and to a maximum benefit of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.
7.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company .
8.	Retirement Plan
8.1	There shall be a retirement plan, which shall be amended and/or administered as the case may be to reflect the provisions of Appendix C (Employee Benefits: Retirement Plan) hereto.
8.	2 Upon retirement an annuity shall be purchased for an employee and benefits thereafter shall continue during the employee’s lifetime and in any event will continue to the employee’s beneficiary or estate until one hundred twenty (120) monthly payments have been made.
9.	General
9.1	Eligibility for the various employee benefit plans and retirement plan shall be as provided in the various plans.
9.2	The Company reserves the right to alter or amend the plans but shall not do so without first having consultation with the Union.
9.3	Any conflict between the details set forth in this article and the group insurance plan and the retirement plan shall be resolved on the basis of the provision of the group insurance plan and/or the retirement plan, as the case may be.
43
ARTICLE 28 — HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.1	The Company shall institute and maintain all reasonable and necessary precautions for the health and safety of its employees. All employees covered by this Agreement shall cooperate in the implementation of all such reasonable and necessary health and safety precautions. It is recognized as being the mutual obligation of the Company and the Union to assist in the elimination and prevention of unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices and jointly to assist in the prevention of accidents.
28.2	Committee members shall not suffer any loss cf pay while performing their duties at Cluff Lake as members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
28.3	Employees shall at all appropriate times use such devices and wear such articles of clothing or equipment as are intended for their protection.
28.4	The Company shall supply protective clothing and equipment in accordance with Company policy governing safety apparel.
ARTICLE 29 —APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
29.1	Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled by posting the vacancy as in Article 1 1 of this Agreement. Only those employees who are northern residents shall be eligible for the apprenticeship program.
29.2	Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend necessary formal training, subject to the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
29.3	Employees who are indentured will enter the program at a level as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Saskatchewan Department of Labour.
44
29.4	Apprenticed employees, while taking an approved formal off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular rate, less any Canada Manpower training allowance provided to or on behalf of the employee. Any living away from home allowance or travel allowance paid by the government shall not be deducted by the Company from the employee’s wages.
29.5	Employees who do not attend each session and who do not have a reasonable cause for failing to attend may have their employment terminated by the Company.
29.6	Employees who fail to obtain a passing mark may be afforded an opportunity to repeat the program in whole or in part. Where an employee is not afforded an opportunity to repeat the program (in whole or in part) or where the employee fails to obtain a passing mark after repeating the program (in whole or in part), he will be removed from the program. In such case, the employee will be offered an entry position in any line of progression provided the employee is qualified for the position and provided a vacancy exists at that time.
If no such vacancy exists, where in the Company’s opinion an employee has made every reasonable effort to obtain a passing grade, but nonetheless fails to do so, the employee will be placed on lay-off and recalled if and when an entry position in any line of progression becomes available within a twelve (12) month period, provided the employee is qualified for the position.
29.7	(a) Apprenticeship wages will be shown in
Appendix A.
(b) An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch or after having completed the required months of experience and having demonstrated his capability to perform at that level.
45
29.8	Employees who are not northern residents will be given consideration for entry into the apprenticeship program in a trade, only when there are no applicants for the posted apprentice position.
ARTICLE 30 — BULLETIN BOARDS
30.1	The Company will provide the Union with bulletin boards to be affixed in appropriate places where employees will be able to see and read them. The number of bulletin boards to be supplied by the Company and the locations for affixing such boards shall be agreed upon between the parties.
30.2	Bulletins to be posted shall be restricted to notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union and reports of various committees of the Union.
30.3	Only bulletins authorized by Local 48 Executive will be posted.
ARTICLE 31 — MISCELLANEOUS
31.1	Sufficient copies of the Collective Agreement will be printed to supply the Company and the Union needs. The Company and the Union will share equally in the cost of such printing.
The parties shall agree as to the number of copies to be printed, and the total cost of same before an order is placed with a printer.
31.2	The Company agrees to allow access to the Cluff Lake site to the National Representative of the Union for the purpose of attending to official Union business, provided permission is first obtained from the Company. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
31. 3 Where any Company transportation to Cluff Lake is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay is such that the employee is
46
unable to complete five and one-half (5 1/2) hours of work before the finish of his scheduled shift on the day of the delay, he shall in any event for that day be guaranteed five and one-half (5 112) hours of pay at regular rates for that day.
(b)	Where transportation is delayed on the day immediately following the employee’s scheduled return to Cluff Lake, such that he is unable to complete his full eleven (11) hour shift before the finish of his regular shift on the day of the transportation departure, he shall in any event for that day be guaranteed eleven (II) hours of pay at regular rates for that day. The guarantee set forth herein shall be in addition to the guarantee set forth in (a) herein.
■ 1.4 Where any transportation from Cluff Lake is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay is two (2) hours or less, the employee shall not receive any pay unless the employee works in which case, he shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his regular rate for all hours actually worked during the two (2) hour or less period of delay.
(b)	Where the delay is in excess of two (2) hours, employees will be paid for the delay thereafter, at their regular rate for all hours on that day prior to 7:00 p.m. Where the employee works on the day of the delay, he shall be paid at two (2) times his regular rate for all hours actually worked during the period of delay prior to 7:00 p.m.
11.5 The guarantees of hours and pay set forth in 31.3
.	and 3 1,4 shall not apply in the case of a delay
resulting from a labour dispute or in the case of force majeure.
11.6	Except as otherwise specifically provided in this collective agreement, all notices required to be given by either party shall be given as follows:
47
Cluff Mining P.O. Box 9204 Saskatoon. Saskatchewan S7K 3X5
Attention: Human Resources Manager and
Energy and Chemical Workers Union Local 48
Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan Attention: Local Union President
* A copy of any notice to be given to the Loca Union President at Cluff Lake shall be forwarded t< his normal place of residence.
ARTICLE 32 — CALL-OUT
32.1	An employee who has already left his work are; after completion of his scheduled shift and who i: recalled for work shall be paid at two (2) times hi: regular rate for all hours worked on recall, up to th< starting time of his next scheduled shift, but in an; event he shall be paid for not less than four (4 hours at his regular rate.
32.2	The provisions of 32,1 above do not apply if th< employee is recalled within one (I) hour of th( starting time of his regular shift.
32.3	Where a call-out results in an employee having les: than a total of eight (8) hours rest between the time the employee completes work on a regular shift (o: completion of any overtime following that shift) and the start of the employee’s next regulai scheduled shift, he will be paid at regular rate foi the hours not worked between the beginning of hi: next scheduled shift and the time of his return tc work upon having accumulated a total of eight (8 hours of rest since the completion of his last regulai shift or completion of any overtime following tba shift.
48
iRTICLE 33 — MEDICAL CERTIFICATE — ILLNESS
3.1	An employee before returning to work following an illness or accident shall furnish a written certificate from a qualified medical practitioner or from a public health nurse.
3.2	The Company may at any time require of an employee that he submit to a medical examination by a qualified medical practitioner of the Company’s choice, and in such case the cost of same shall be borne by the Company.
ARTICLE 34 — CONTRACTING-OUT
4.1	Subject only to 34.2 herein, it is agreed that the Company reserves the unfettered right to contract-out work where in its exclusive opinion, it is necessary, economic or expedient to do so.
4.2	The Company, however, will not contract-out work where to do so, directly results in the lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit.
iRTICLE 35 —WORKBY SUPERVISORS
5.1	It is recognized that the duties of a Supervisor are primarily supervisory in nature, therefore, it is agreed that a Supervisor shall not perform work of a quantity which would normally occupy a bargaining unit employee for a full shift on an on-going basis.
5.2	A Supervisor will not perform bargaining unit work to the extent that it directly results in the lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit.
49
ARTICLE 36 — PREMIUMS AND ALLOWANCES
36.1	The following premium and allowances sha apply:
(a) Tool Allowance: Employees who are require to furnish their own tools shall be paid a toe allowance effective from June 1, 1986 for eac pay period as follows:
(i)	In the case of Heavy Duty Mechanics up t $40.00 each pay period.
(ii)	In the case of the Industrial Mechanics u to $35.00 per pay period.
(iii)	In the case of all other employees require to furnish their own tools up to $30,00 fc each pay period.
This said allowance is to cover loss, breakage c replacement of tools. The tools required to b supplied shall be as per the approved tool list. 1 is understood that it may be necessary fron time to time to make reasonable changes to th approved tool list having regard to the nature o the work to be performed by the employee.
Tool allowances as herein provided shall no apply where an employee is to be absent fron work for a period exceeding four (4 consecutive normal work weeks of tha employee due to lay-off, illness/accident, o leave of absence.
In occurrences as described above, thi Company will, based on the employee’ preference, either securely store the employee: tools at the site, or deliver the employees tool: to one of the Company’s normal pick-up points An employee who wishes his tools delivered shall notify the Company as to the norma pick-up point to which he wishes his tool: delivered.
50
«
(b)	Safety Boot Allowance: Employees shall wear approved safety boots at all times while at the work place. Employees other than probationary employees will be granted a safety boot allowance as follows, payable on the employee’s anniversary date of employment.
June 1, 1992 -$100.00 June 1, 1993 -$110.00 June 1, 1994 -$120.00
A probationary employee shall be paid the aforesaid allowance after the completion of his probationary period and annually thereafter on his anniversary date.
(c)	Temporary Foremen: Where the Company
designates an employee as a temporary foreman, the employee shall be paid a rate per pay period as follows in addition to his regular rate:	4	...
Date of Sighing - $73.50 June 1,1993 -$77.00
Where the employee is assigned to such a function during only part of a pay period, but for periods one (1) normal day or more, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
(d)	Rotating Shift Premium: Where the Company assigns an employee to a rotating shift, (necessitating the employee to alternate on day and night shifts) a rotating shift premium of $50.00 per pay period will be paid in addition to his regular rate. Where an employee is assigned to such a shift arrangement during only part of a pay period, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
Employees whose shift rotation is such that they are on two (2) weeks of day shift for every one (1) week of night shift shall be paid two-thirds (2/3) of the said $50.00 rotating shift premium per pay period.
51
(e)	Multi-Skill Premium: Where in the performance of his job, an employee is required by the Company to hold two (2) or more valid Provincial or Interprovincial journeyman ' s tickets, the employee shall be paid a multiskill premium of $ 110 00 per pay period in addition to his regular rate.
(f)	Boiler Operator Ticket Premium: Where in the performance of his job an employee is required by the Company to hold a Boiler Ticket, the employee shall be paid a premium of $25.00 per pay period in addition to his regular rate.
ARTICLE 37 — DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Amend Article 37 as follows:
This agreement shall be binding upon the parties from September 2, 1992 and shall remain in force and effect and from year to year, thereafter, unless either party not less than thirty days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the termination date hereof, gives notice in writing, to the other party to terminate, renew or negotiate revision to this agreement.
CLUFF MINING, CLUFF LAKE.
ENERGY & CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48.
52
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE
Summary of Company Final Wage Proposal
For the Period June 1, 1992 to May 31,1993 (YEAR 1)
1 The wage rates currently in effect shall continue in effect during the first year of the new Collective Agreement.
.2 The S.T.D. rate shall continue at thirty-six (360) cents per hour.
.3 In lieu of a wage rate increase for year 1 of the new Agreement, qualifying employees shall receive gross payments totalling fourteen hundred ($1,400.00) dollars payable in two (2) payments as follows:
A.	)One thousand ($1,000.00) dollars at (date of
signing).
B.	) Four hundred ($400.00)dollars at December 15,
1992.
.4 Except as otherwise provided, in order to qualify for the lump sum payment an employee shall have worked all the normal hours during the year (year 1).
.5 Should an employee work less than the normal hours he shall receive the lump sum payment on a pro-rata basis.
.6 Vacation time and authorized leave of absence shall be deemed to be time worked for the purposes of these provisions.
.7 If an employee does not work all the normal hours during the year (year 1) as a result of being laid-off, he/she shall not suffer a reduction in the lump sum
payment as a result of any normal time lost as a
result of being laid-off
53
1.8 Lump sum payments shall be made no later thai fourteen (14) days immediately following the dat of signing in respect of the first payment; and, m later than December 15, 1992 in respect of th second payment.
2. For the Period June 1,1993 to May 31,1994 (YEAR 2)
2.1	Effective June 1, 1993 the wage schedule (excep the adjustment in respect of S.T.D.) shall bi increased by two (2%) per cent.
Plus:
2.2	Effective June 1, 1993 the adjustment in respect o S.T.D. shall be increased by two (20) cents pe hour to thirty-eight (380) cents per hour.
3. For the Period June 1, 1994 to May 31,1995 (YEAR 3)
3.1	Effective June 1, 1994 the wage schedule (excep the adjustment in respect of S.T.D.) shall b< increased by a further two and one- half (2.5%) pe cent.
Plus:
3.2	Effective June 1, 1994 the adjustment in respect o S.T.D. shall be increased a further two (20) cent: per hour to forty (400) cents per hour.
54
t-ri
tmuiv iJV-.IU’vUUIjIj
Level
June 1,1992
Junel, 1993 2%
1A
IB
2A
2B
3A
3B
4A
4B
5A
5B
5C
21.05 +0.36 =21.41 20.33 +0.36 =20.69 19.49 +0.36 = 19.85
18.65	+0.36 = 19.01 17.81 +0.36 = 18.17 16.99 +0.36 = 17.35 16.16+0.36 = 16.52 15.15 +0.36 = 15.51 14.46 + 0.36 = 14.82
13.65	+0.36 = 14.01 13.30+0.36 = 13.66
21.47	+ 0.38 = 21.85
20.74	+0.38 =21.12 19.88 +0,38 =20.26 19.02+0.38 = 19.40 18.17 +0.38 = 18.55 17.33 +0.38 = 17.71
16.48	+0.38 = 16.86 15.45 +0.38 =15.83
14.75	+0.38 = 15.13 13.92+0.38 =14.30 13.57 +0.38 =13.95
June 1,1994 2.5%
22.01 +0.40=22.41
21.26	+ 0.40 =21.66 20.38 +0.40=20.78 19.50+0.40 = 19.90 18.62 +0.40 = 19.02 17.76 +0.40 = 18.16 16.89 +0.40 = 17.29 15.84 +0.40 = 16.24 15.12 + 0.40= 15.52
14.27	+0.40 = 14.67 13.91 +0.40 = 14.31
1.1
1.2
APPENDIX B
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Levels	Standard Time Periods
IA	60 months and after
IB	54-60 months
2A	48-54 months
2B	42-48 months
3A	36-42 months
3B	30-36 months
4A	24-30 months
4B	18-24 months
5A	12-18 months
5B	6-12 months
5C	Entry-6 months
Notwithstanding the standard time period provided for Level IB, in the case of Heavy Equipment Operators (Mine Department) and Mill Operators (Mill Department) the standard time period for Level IB shall be 54-66 months.
APPENDIX B.1
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B
Mine Department 1A
3A
4A
Job Classification
Heavy Equipment Survey Dry Persons Operators Assistants & Janitors
56
APPENDIX B.2
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Mill Department
xvels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Job Classification
Mill Operators
4A
Dry Persons &Janitors
57
APPENDIX B.3
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Plant Department — Mine & Mill Maintenance
Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Job Classification	Journeymen
Ticketed
1A
IB
__5B
Apprentices
Endentured
IB
5A
Tradesmen
Non-ticketed
IB
__5C
Trades Helpers Maintenance
#-\r ruiuiA u.t
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A SB 5C Job

General Services & RPHS & EP Departments
3A
1
3A
Journeymen Apprentices Warehouse Classification Ticketed Indentured Persons
GeneraLl50 pers Radiation
Operators Samplers
Environmental Samplers & Recreation Assistants
APPENDIX C
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: RETIREMENT PLAN
CONTRTBIJTTONS: The plan currently provides that b; payroll deductions, an employee contributes 5% of th< first $417.00 of monthly earnings, and 4% of the excess The Company contributes 62% of the employee contributions.
The Company is prepared to amend this plan so that
(a) effective June 1, 1993 the company’ contribution would increase to seventy (70% percent, and;
(b) effective June 1, 1994, the company’ contribution would increase to seventy-twi (72%) percent.
The plan will be administered to reflect Article 27.8.2 o the existing Collective Agreement as follows:
27.8.2 Upon retirement an annuity shall b( purchased for an employee and benefit thereafter shall continue to the employee’ beneficiary or estate until one hundred twent; (120) monthly payments have been made.
In order to give effective meaning to Article 27.8.2, th< following administrative practises will apply:
(A)	A11 employees currently in the plan would hav< a one-time opportunity to withdrav contributions from the plan before June 1, 1993
(B)	Subject to (C) below, an employee may no withdraw the contributions made on his/hei behalf by the company, and may only withdraw that part of his/her contributions which are ii excess of the contributions the company ha: made on his/her behalf
(C)	Subject to any applicable law, an employee ma) withdraw or have contributions transferred, i: the employee loses seniority and employmen rights by virtue of Article 9,6 of the Collective Agreement.
60
SUBJECT INDEX
Article
D & D Insurance...........................27.4
.nnual Vacation ...........................21
pprenticeship ..............................29
xbitration..................................16
enefits ....................................27
oiler Ticket Premium.................36.1 (f)
oot Allowance........................36.1 (b)
ulletin Boards .............................30
umping Rights ............................13.8
'all Out....................................32
u heck-Off...................................7
lothes—Safety ............................28.3
'ommon Law Defined........................26.3
'ontracting Out.............................34
town Witness................................25
lental Plan...............................27.5
liscriminadon................................2
lues (Union).................................7
luration of Contract .......................37
lischarge/Dismissal from Company...........9.6
ducation Leave..............................24
light Delays..............................31.3
orce Majeure..............................31.5
uneral Leave................................26
ieneral Holidays .........................21.6
eneral Holiday Pay........................21.7
irievance Definition......................15.1
Irievance Procedure.......................15.5
lealth and Safety...........................28
lours of Work ..............................18
nmediate Family...........................26.2
ob Classification...........................20
ob Posting................................11.2
ob Transfers................................11
ourneyman (Ticketed) ......................20.10
ury Duty....................................25
.ayoff......................................13
eave of Absence..............j.............22
Page
41
32 44
25
39
52
51 46 18
48 8
44
38
49
37 41
5
8
52 12
36
46
47
38
33 33 21 22 44 27 38
30 14 14
31
37 17 35
61
Life Insurance...........................27.3	4
Long Term Disability.....................27.2	4
Lunch-Overtime...........................19.4	2
Lunch Period.............................18.4	2
Management Rights...........................4
Medical Certificate........................33	4
Medical Insurance........................27.6	4
Membership .................................6
Multi-Skill Premium...................36.1(e)	5
Negotiating Committee...................8.3.1	1
Northern Preference........................10	1
No Strike/No Lockout.....................17.1	2
Non-Ticketed Job Class...................20.9	3
Occupational Health & Safety..............8.2
Overtime...................................19	2
Personal Leave.............................22	3.
Premiums and Allowances....................36	5'
Probation.................................9.4	1
Promotions.................................11	L
Progressions - Wages................20.6-20.7	31
—	Mine......................Appendix B.l	5'
—	Mill......................Appendix B.2	5'
—	Plant.....................Appendix B.3	5t
—	General Services..........Appendix B.4	5'
Recall...................................13.4	L
Recognition—Union...........................5
Regular Rate.............................13.1	L
Reinstatemen t - Grievances..............15.9	2'
Rest Breaks..............................18.5	2!
Retirement Plan..........................27.8	4:
Retirement Plan
Memorandum.......................Appendix C 6<
Rotating Shift Premium................36.1(d)	5
Safety.....................................28	4*
Seniority — Definition....................9.1	1
— List..........................9.7	\'.
Severance Pay............................14.8	2
Shift Schedule Change....................18.3	2'
Sick Leave — ShortTerm Disability........27.2	3(
Stewards..................................8.5	1C
Suspension...............................15.8	2:
62
tchnological Change......................14
anporary Employee......................12.2
;rm Employee............................12.1
doI Allowance .....................36.1 (a)
-ansfers ...............................11
ransportation — Delays.............31.3-31.4
nion Activity ............................5
nion Dues — Checkoff......................7
nion Leave...............................23
nion Membership ..........................6
acation Bonus..........................21.5
acation Entitlement ...................21.3
acation Pay............................21.4
acation Scheduling ....................21.8
acation Shutdown.......................21.9
acation Days: Waiver............Appendix D
isioncare .............................27.7
oluntary Termination....................9.6
'age Schedule...................Appendix A
'eekly Indemnity Rate .................27.2
ormal Work Week........................18.3
'ork by Supervisor.......................35
'ork Day...............................18.2
ear of Service ........................21.4
19
16
16
50
14
46
7
8
36
8
32
32
32
33
34 64 42 12 53 39 27 49 27 32
63
APPENDIX D
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN.
CLUFF MINING
(hereinafter referred to as “the Company”),
4
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48
(hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collectiv
Agreement dated September 2, 1992 which may sugge
otherwise, the parties agree to apply Article 21,2, subje'
to the following:
1.	Any employee who is entitled to vacation days cf and has not earned vacation pay entitlement in respei of all those vacation days, may elect to waive h entitlement to those vacation days off in respect c which he is not entitled to vacation pay.
2.	Any employee who intends to make an election I waive as in paragraph 1, shall make such electio within a fourteen (14) calendar day perio immediately preceding April 30 and October 31 c each year.
3.	Either party may give notice of termination of th: Memorandum of Agreement by giving a three (3 months written notice thereof to the other party.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement without writte notice as set forth in paragraph 3 herein shall, in an event, automatically terminate on May 31,1995.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 19th day c
August, 1992,
Forthe Company:	For t h e Union:
C.D. Gitzel
64
S, Penner