| ZOV
betwe No
EM?
■] NO,'.\
I D\.V>
COGEMA
Resources Inc.
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S
July 8, 1999 to
May 31, 2002
1	PURPOSE.................................. 5
2	NO DISCRIMINATION........................ 5
3	SCOPE ...................................5
3A	DEFINITIONS...............................6
4	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.........................7
5	UNION RECOGNITION.........................8
6	UNION MEMBERSHIP..........................9
7	UNION DUES AND CHECK OFF..................9
8	UNION COMMITTEES/REPRESENTATION......... 10
9	SENIORITY............................... 13
10	NORTHERN PREFERENCE..................... IS
11	PROMOTIONS AND JOB TRANSFERS............ 16
12	TERM EMPLOYEES ANDTEMPORARY EMPLOYEES.... 18
13	LAYOFF AND RECALL....................... 20
13	A	SEVERANCE PAY..........................21
14	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.................... 22
15	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE......................24
16	ARBITRATION..............................28
17	NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS...................30
18	HOURS OF WORK........................... 30
19	OVERTIME................................ 31
20	WAGE SCHEDULES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS... 33
21	ANNUAL VACATION AND GENERAL HOLIDAYS..... 35
'22	PERSONAL LEAVE.......................... 38
23	UNION LEAVE............................. 39
24	EDUCATION LEAVE..........................40
25	JURY AND CROWN WITNESS ABSENCE.......... 41
26	FUNERAL LEAVE............................41
27	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND RETIREMENT PLAN.... 43
28	HEALTH AND SAFETY........................48
29	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM ..................49
29A	POWER ENGINEER TRAINING
CERTIFICATIONPROGRAM..
30	BULLETIN BOARDS .
31	MISCELLANEOUS.
32	CALL-OUT..
33	MEDICAL CERTIFICATE - ILLNESS .
34	CONTRACTING-OUT......................... 56
35	WORK BY SUPERVISORS..................... 57
36	PREMIUMS AND ALLOWANCES...............
37	DURATION 0 F AGREEMENT................
APPENDIX A — WAGESCHEDULE.................
APPENDIX B-WAGE PROGRESSION ..............
B.l —WAGEPROGRESSION..............
B.2 — WAGEPROGRESSION.............
B.3 —WAGEPROGRESSION..............
B.4 —WAGEPROGRESSION..............
APPENDIX C — EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
RETIREMENT PLAN...............
APPENDIX D - MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
WAIVER: VACATION DAYS CEF.....
MEMORANDUM 0 F AGREEMENT
RE VACATION PAY (Article 21.4)........
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES:
SUSPENSION OF OPER ATIONS-CLU FF LAKE MINE SITE.............
MEMORANDUM OFAGREEMENT
RE SEVERANCE: SUSPENSION OF
CLUFF LAKE OPERATION..............
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
RE: McCLEAN LAKE......................
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE VACATION BONUS ....................
LETTER OFUNDERSTANDING
R E CONTRACTING OUT & WORK BY SUPERVISORS.
2
57
61
62
65
65
66
67
68
69
71
72
73
75
76
79
80
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. (the “Company”)
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 48-S (the “Union”)
The negotiating committees for the parties hereto have bargained collectively and have reached agreement as to terms for a new Collective Agreement.
The terms of the said Agreement are as follows:
“The Collective Agreement between the parties in , a, \ force and elfect until May 31, 1998 shall continue in force and elfect until May 31, 2002 amended only to the extent as set forth in Appendix “1” to Appendix “75” both inclusive hereto.”
The Union’s negotiating committee undertakes to recommend these terms of settlement to the members of the bargaining unit and the Company’s negotiating Committee undertakes to recommend these terms of settlement to the Executive Management of the Company.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 22nd day of June, 1999.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION:
B. Hickie
D.	Seright L. Buckley J. Corman H. Piercy
E.	Doell
D. Greyeyes
G. Steininger M. Dyck A. Dreher T. Aubichon K. Greenaway E. Lidguerre A. Goodwin
3
July 7, 1999
Cogema Resources Inc. P.O. Box 9204 817-825 45th St. W. Saskatoon, Sask.
Mr. Brian Hickie;
The tentative agreement as signed June 22, 1999 by the t'	bargaining committees of the Union local and company has been
^ ratified by the local union 48S as of this date July 7lh, 1999.
Sincerely;
Murray Dyck President Local 48S Cluff Lake site
July 9, 1999
Keith Greenaway Vice President Local 48S McClean Lake site
Mr. Murray Dyck President CEP Local 48-S Cluff Lake SK
Dear Mr. Dyck:
This will acknowledge receipt of a memorandum dated July 7, 1999 sent by yourself and Mr. Greenaway advising that the union membership has ratified the Memorandum of Agreement dated June 22, 1999 between Cogema Resources and the Union.
This letter will confirm that the Executive Management of Cogema Resources have also approved the Memorandum of Agreement. We therefore have a new Collective Agreement dated July 8, 1999.
Yours truly,
B. Hickie
Manager, Human Resources BH:jy
cc: Keith Greenaway
Vice President. CEP Local 48-S McClean Lake
4
ARTICLE 1 — PURPOSE
1.1	In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations and in consideration of the Company’s commitment to provide northern residents with the maximum direct economic benefits, the parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the employees covered by this Agreement, and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of grievances of such employees, without slowdown or stoppage of work.
1.2	It is a further purpose of these parties to promote and encourage a productive, efficient and harmonious working environment.
ARTICLE 2 — NO DISCRIMINATION
2.1	The parties agree there will be no discrimination against an employee by reason of activity in the Union, or by reason of non-activity in the Union or by reason of age, sex, creed, colour, nationality, religion or ethnic background.
2.2	Nothing in this Agreement which gives a preference to northern residents shall be construed to be discrimination.
ARTICLE 3 — SCOPE
3.1	This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Cogema Resources Inc. regularly working at Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan, and at McClean Lake, Saskatchewan, excluding environmental technician, instrument technician, assistant planner, metallurgical assistant, laboratory technician, mine technician, maintenance planner technician, recreation technician, radiation technician, training technician, safety technician, office and clerical staff, foreman and those above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is expressly understood and agreed that employees ofthe Company’s Exploration Department and Resources Evaluation and Geological Control Department are not part of the bargaining unit and do not come within the scope of this Agreement.
5
3.2	The parties hereto agree that the relations between them shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement.
3.3	It is agreed that this Agreement contains the complete understanding between the parties for the term of this Contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendments
c or waivers affecting the terms of this Agreement shall I l only be discussed by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee. Any agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of such discussions shall become effective upon being reduced to, writing and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE 3A — DEFINITIONS
Parties:
Wherever the word ‘parties’ appears in this Agreement, it will mean the Company and the Union.
Regular Rate:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement shall mean the rate of pay for the employee’s classification as set forth in Appendix A excluding any overtime, any premiums or any allowances whatsoever.
Qualifications:
“Qualifications” wherever that term is used in this Collective Agreement is defined as ability, skills, experience, training/education, physical fitness and job performance of an employee.
Gender:
The parties have wherever possible used language in this Agreement which is Gender neutral. In the event a dispute arises which relates thereto, the relevant language of the preceding agreement shall govern.
Students:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement it will mean a person who is employed during his/her annual break from academic studies, and who plans to continue with his/her academic studies following his/her annual break. A person who has a break of not more than one (1) year in his/her academic studies may be considered a student
6
for the purposes of this definition. Enrolment shall be considered as proof of plans to continue academic studies.
Northern Resident:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement it will mean the definition thereof as contained in any applicable Surface Lease Agreement, Human Resources Development Agreement or any other agreement respecting Northern residents in regards to the respective mine sites, and/or as contained in those agreements as they may be amended and/or replaced from time to time.
For informational purposes the definition of Northern resident as at the signing date of this Agreement is as follows:
A.	A person:
(i)	Who has resided in Saskatchewan’s North for a period of ten (10) years or one half of his or her age, whichever is the lesser; and
(ii)	Whose primary residence, as indicated by Saskatchewan Health Care records or Health and Welfare Canada Medical Services records, has been in Saskatchewan’s North on the date of application for employment by the Operator on the Cluff Lake Project or the McClean Lake Project; or
B. A person who has been designated by the Minister to be a Resident of Saskatchewan’s North.
ARTICLE 4 — MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	The Union expressly understands and agrees that the Company retains the exclusive right to operate and manage the affairs of the Company provided the rights of the Company shall not be exercised so as to be in contravention or violation of any specific provision or provisions as set forth in this Agreement.
7
ARTICLE 5 — UNION RECOGNITION
5.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Employees defined in Section 3.1, and both parties agree to bargain collectively and in good faith.
5.2	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization on Company time.
5.3	Subject to paragraph 2 hereof, no person shall engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time, except to the extent expressly provided for in the Agreement, or by law.
Where it is necessary for a Union Representative to conduct a work related investigation and/or to attend a discipline meeting, he/she shall be allowed time away from work on a non-paid basis, provided the same is approved in advance by his/her supervisor.
5.4	Nothing in this Agreement prevents the Union President or the President’s representative from familiarizing new employees with the Union during non-working hours. Where a new employee has been hired the Company shall advise the Union in writing as to the name of the employee, the employee’s start date, classification and starting wage rate.
Where a new employee has been hired, within a period of the employee’s first three (3) working shifts, the employee’s Supervisor shall introduce the new employee to the Union representative designated in writing by the Union as the Union’s representative for the work area to which the employee is assigned. If the Union representative is not at the mine site during the aforementioned time period, the introduction shall occur as soon as reasonably practical when the Supervisor, the employee and the designated Union representative are simultaneously at the mine site.
8
ARTICLE 6 — UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.1	Nothing in this Agreement prohibits or interferes in any way with an employee’s right to become and remain a member of the Union, and nothing prohibits or interferes with an employee’s right not to become or remain a member of the Union.
ARTICLE 7 — UNION DUES AND CHECK OFF
7.1	Pursuant to Section 70 of the Canada Labour Code the Company shall deduct from the wages of each employee
p affected by the Collective Agreement, the amount of the
iL^ regular union dues.
7.2	The regular Union dues are calculated based on the number of hours worked by each employee during a pay period and such dues shall be deducted from the employees pay cheque for that pay period and the same shall be remitted to the Secretary/Treasurer, Communication, Energy & Paperworkers Union of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario on a timely basis except where unforeseen or unusual circumstances apply.
7.3	The Company shall at the time of remitting the union dues so deducted furnish the Union with a list identifying the name of the employees from whom deductions were made and the amount of dues deducted from each employee.
7.4	All provisions of the Canada Labour Code shall apply in respect of compulsory check-off of regular union dues.
7.5	Each employee’s T4 slip shall clearly show the amount of money deducted and remitted.
9
ARTICLE 8 — UNION COMMITTEES/ REPRESENTATION
8.1	The Company will recognize a grievance committee consisting of not more than eight (8) employees of the Company or alternates who shall be employees of the
r	Company, designated by the Union, in writing, provided,
),U	however, not more than four (4) members of the
committee shall attend at any grievance meeting. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
Any membership change in the grievance committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
8.2	The Company will recognize an occupational health and safety committee which will be made up of an equal number of representatives from both the Company and the Union.
The Union will designate in writing, the names of six (6) employees of the Company as members of the said committee, provided, however, not more than three (3) such members shall attend at any meeting of the committee. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
The Company will notify the Union in writing of its representatives on the committee.
The appropriate departments of government shall be advised of the creation of this committee and shall be advised of the names of the members of the committee.
10
8.3
The Company will recognize a negotiating committee of not more than eight (8) employees of the Company as designated by the Union in writing. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
The Union will furnish a written list to the Company giving the names of all members on the negotiating committee. Any membership change in the committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
8.3.1	The Company agrees that members of the Union's negotiating committee may travel free of charge to and from the mine sites to Saskatoon on Company provided transportation when such travel is necessary for the employee to attend negotiating meetings with the Company. Requests for such travel arrangements shall be made to the employee's immediate supervisor at least one (1) week in advance of the scheduled meeting with the Company.
8.4	The Union may have the assistance of a representative
of the National Union, or an authorized Agent of the Local Union, present at any meeting of the above recognized committees with the Company.
In addition to its negotiating committee as defined in Article 8.3, and its representative as defined in paragraph 1 hereof, the Union reserves the right to have in attendance at a negotiations meeting a subject specialist engaged by the Union to advise the Union with respect to a particular subject matter.
8.5	The Union will furnish a written list to the Company, giving the names of all Executive members of the Union, of the Stewards and the Alternate Stewards and Committee members and Alternate Committee members. This written list will be kept current by the Union. Only those Union members whose names have been given to the Company, in writing, will be recognized by the Company.
11
8.6

A
As far as is practical, grievance meetings between the Company and the Union’s grievance committee and meetings of the occupational health and safety committee will be. held at the site during normal working hours. A committee member attending such meetings shall not suffer a loss of regular pay as a result of attending such meetings.
8.7
(a)	Either party may by notice in writing, request that a Union/Management communication meeting be covened to discuss and consider any relevant topic of significance affecting the company and/or the employees. Such communication meetings shall not be convened more frequently than once each quarter.
(b)	Communications meetings as contemplated by this Article, shall be organized having regard to the following formats:
Format A: being meetings to discuss and consider topics which are considered to be of a site specific nature; and
Format B: being meetings to discuss and consider topics which are considered to be of a policy, practices and procedures nature.
(c)	Either party may request in writing that every other communications meeting be scheduled as a Format B meeting. Where a Format B meeting has been scheduled, a Senior representative of the Company’s Saskatoon corporate office shall be in attendance, and an invitation to attend shall beextended to the Union's National Representative.
(d)	The party making a request that a communications meeting be convened, shall identify the specific topic(s) it wishes to discuss. The other party shall respond to the request in a timely manner, and shall identify any specific topic(s) it wishes to discuss at the said meeting.
12
(e)	Communication meetings as contemplated by this Article shall consist of not more than four (4) representatives from each party, not including the non-site representatives attending Format B meetings.
ARTICLE 9 — SENIORITY
9.1	Seniority is defined as an employee’s period of continuous service with the Company since the employee’s last date of hire. Where two (2) or more employees had been last hired on the same date, the alphabetical letters of the employee’s surname shall determine the initial placement of each of them on the seniority list relative to one another.
9.2	Except to the extent as specifically otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, seniority for all purposes of this Agreement may only be exercised within the employee’s department. The departments are:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS & EP
9.3	An employee on an authorized leave of absence shall maintain his/her position on the seniority list and shall have benefits maintained during the term of such leave, but except in the case of an authorized paid leave, during such leave an employee shall not earn vacation pay.
9.4	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for a period of five hundred (500) hours worked. On completion of this probationary period an employee’s seniority shall be retroactive to date of hire. Any extension of an employee’s probationary period shall only be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
9.5	The terms of this Agreement shall apply to all probationary employees excepting that such probationary employees may be terminated, without recourse to the grievance procedure or arbitration procedure.
13
9.6	An employee’s seniority and employment rights shall be considered lost by reason of
(a)	Dismissal for just cause.
(b)	Voluntary resignation.
(c)	Failure to report to work on recall from layoff within one week of being notified in writing by double registered mail at the employee’s last known address of the requirement to report for employment. If the time requirement cannot reasonably be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement by the Union and the Company.
(d)	Retirement in accordance with the terms of any Company pension plan.
(e)	Unauthorized absence from work unless a reasonable explanation is furnished within three (3) days of start of such absence.
(f)	Layoff for a period of
twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with up to five (5) full years of continuous service
eighteen (18) months in the case of an employee with full years of service between five (5) and ten (10) years
twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with more than ten (10) full years of continuous service.
(g)	Permanent discontinuance of the mine site operation where the employee has seniority rights.
9.7	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on designated bulletin boards by the Company every three (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority lists shall be brought to the attention of the Company by written notice from the Union. If no notice is given within thirty (30) days of a posting the said posted lists shall be deemed to be
14
correct. No penalty shall be incurred by the Company due to any action taken on the basis of such inaccurate seniority listing, provided such action was taken prior to receipt of written notice from the Union that such listing was in error. Where an error has occurred the Company shall re-issue corrected seniority lists. Coincidental with the posting of the new seniority lists on the Bulletin Boards, the Company will mail to the Union a copy of such seniority lists.
9.8	An employee transferred and/or promoted to a permanent position outside the bargaining unit shall retain all seniority held at the time of transfer and/or promotion, and will re-activate such seniority if the employee returns to the bargaining unit within the three (3) month period following such transfer andorpromotion. If the employee fills a permanent position outside the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months the employee shall lose all retained seniority.
9.9	An employee temporarily assigned to a job outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority and remit regular monthly membership or union dues.
9.10	Transfer and/or promotion to positions out of scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
9.11	Where an employee who is on lay-off is offered, and performs work for a period of up to one normal work week (seventy-seven (77) hours) during the lay-off, the employee’s lay-off for all purposes under the Collective Agreement shall be considered to be uninterrupted by virtue of having worked to the extent as herein provided.
ARTICLE 10 —NORTHERN PREFERENCE
10.1	It is recognized that the Company has or will enter into Surface Lease Agreements with the Government of Saskatchewan which do or will among other things spell out certain objectives and commitments with respect to the employment of Northern residents.
The Company shall notify the Union of any new or changed provisions relative to northern resident
15
requirements. Further the Company shall also notify the Union of any changes to the Surface Lease Agreements or other agreements affecting this Agreement between the parties.
10.2	The parties hereby agree that such steps will be taken as are required to ensure that the objectives and commitments of the Surface Lease Agreements are complied with.
10.3	Whether any agreements exist with the Government of Saskatchewan, the parties agree that preference will be given to northern residents in matters of hiring, promotions, recall and training. In the case of a reduction in the work force, preference will be given to retaining northern residents.
ARTICLE 11 — PROMOTIONS AND JOB TRANSFERS
11.1	The Company shall determine the number of employees in each job classification and if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to be left vacant.
11.2	Jobs will be posted for Company-wide applications where:
(a)	A new position is established.
(b)	A permanent position becomes open
(c)	A permanent position becomes open at level 5A in the case of the tradesman (non-ticketed) and the warehouse person job classifications, and at level 5C in the case of all other job classifications referred to in Appendix B.
11.3	A successful applicant who has applied under Section 11.2(c) shall normally be placed at the 5B level provided the employee has been in the employ of the Company for more than six (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the SB level.
16
11.4	When a vacancy occurs as outlined in Section 11,2, to be filled by the posting procedure, then:
(a)	Ajob posting, open for ten (10) days, will be placed on bulletin boards. The job title, qualifications, rate of pay, normal work location, shift work or days, the shift to which a successful applicant would initially be assigned, and last date for receipt of applications, will be listed in such posting.
(b)	All employees will be eligible to apply for suchjobs, except for employees who have been successful applicants on permanent job postings within the last six (6) months preceding the date of the current posting.
(c)	The six (6) month provision set forth in (b) above shall not apply to Northern residents who may wish to apply for an apprenticeship vacancy as referred to in Article 29.1 of this Agreement.
11.5	Written application forms supplied by the Company will be required on all jobs posted. Applications must be mailed or delivered to the Company.
11.6	In filling posted positions, the senior applicant will be awarded the position where the senior applicant has the qualifications as determined by the Company. If there are no applicants whose qualifications meet the requirement for the posted position, the Company may fill the position from any source.
Where an applicant has been awarded a posted position, and where at any time within a period of five hundred (500) hours worked from the time of the applicant’s assignment to the position the employee resigns or is determined to be unsuitable, the Company may then fill the position without a further posting, by selecting a qualified person from the list of applicants who had initially applied for the posted position, or from any other source if there is no qualified applicant on the list of those who had initially applied.
17
11.7	Where the Company determines to proceed with the appointment, the name of the successful applicant will be posted on Company bulletin boards within ten (10) days of the closing date of the job posting. If a posted vacancy is not filled within ninety (90) days, the Company will re-post the vacancy, if the vacancy is still
to be filled.
11.8	Time limits for the presenting of a Grievance on Promotions or Job Posting will start from the date of postings of the name of the successful applicant, as per Section 11.7.
11.9	Where the Company intends to appoint a person to a first line supervisory non-bargaining unit position the Company will for informational purposes post a notice tothat effect for ten (10) days on the bulletin board before making the appointment. It is expressly understood that such positions are not subject to the Collective Agreement, and that the Company in its sole and absolute discretion retains the unfettered right to select a person from any source to fill the position.
ARTICLE 12 — TERM EMPLOYEESAND
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
12.1	“Term employees” are employees who are hired for a specified period of time to perform work of a specific nature or specific purpose where such work is not a part of the normal operations of the Company.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of the names of term employees, date of hire, work to be performed and the expected duration of the work to be performed.
12.2	“Temporary employees” are employees who are hired to replace employees who are absent from work due to sickness or accident, vacation, child care leave, authorized leave of absence or for any other reason which the parties may agree is temporary. A temporary
18
employee may be hired on such basis for up to ninety (90) days worked of the employee. Such period may be extended for the duration of the period the employee is replacing an employee who is absent due to sickness, accident, and child care leave, and for ninety (90) calendar days in all other circumstances identified above. The Union shall be advised of any extension as contemplated by this Article.
12.3	The Company may offer term work or temporary work to any permanent employees who may be laid off and who are eligible for recall. Such laid off employees may accept or reject term work or temporary work for the Company without, in any way, affecting their recall rights.
12.4	The hiring of term employees or temporary employees is subject to the following limitations:
(a)	Such employees shall be classified and compensated on the same basis as permanent employees, however, they will only acquire seniority rights as provided below.
(b)	Such employees may be accepted as permanent employees by the Company. In such case, all hours worked as term or temporary shall be credited toward the probationary period set forth in article 9.4 of this Agreement.
(c)	Such employees who have demonstrated to the Company that they are qualified candidates will be given preference for permanent employment.
(d)	Article 27 (Employee Benefits and Retirement Plan) shall not apply except to the extent the group insurance plan specifically makes provision for coverage in respect of term or temporary employees. In lieu thereof, after the completion of five hundred (500) hours worked, such employees shall be paid an hourly premium based on three (3%) percent of the Level 1B wage rate not including the Short Term Disability (STD) rate. The STD rate shall not apply to Term and Temporary employees.
19
12.5	Where a temporary vacancy occurs in a “line of progression,” the position will be filled by assigning, temporarily the senior employee in the next lower job in the “line of progression” to the vacant position provided that employee is qualified to perform the work.
ARTICLE 13 — LAYOFF AND RECALL
13.1	In any reduction of the work-force for a period in excess of seven (7) days, the Company will give employees so affected seven (7) working days notice prior to their layoff. In lieu of the said notice, the Company may elect to pay seven (7) days pay at the employee’s regular rate to the employee laid off.
13.2	In any reduction of work forces expected to last for a period not longer than seven (7) days, the Company will attempt to give employees thus affected twenty-four (24) hours notice.
13.3
\0

In the event of a reduction in crew size, permanent employees affected shall be laid off in order of their seniority standings provided the senior employee possesses the qualifications and is willing to perform the work of the laid off employee and has demonstrated he/ she is capable of performing the work at the level of performance of the laid off employee.
D
13.4 Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of Qj'b' their seniority and qualifications to perform the work for which they are being recalled.
13.5	Notice referred to herein shall only apply to an employee who has completed his/her probationary period.
13.6	Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a layoff is caused by an event of force majeure or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the layoff notice provisions set forth in this Article shall not apply.
13.7	Employees recalled to work in their normal job will be considered to have voluntarily resigned if they do not report for work on the date designated.
20
13.8
Where an employee exercises bumping rights pursuant to Section 13.3, the employee shall:
\D
(a)	Do so within forty-eight (48)hours of the employee’s notice of layoff and the employee adversely affected shall be then deemed to have been given the required notice of layoff and shall then have forty-eight (48) hours to exercise bumping rights pursuant to Section 13.3.
(b)	Be paid at the wage for thejob classification to which the employee has bumped.
13.9	Where in the case of a vacation shut-down an employee becomes laid-off for all or part of the vacation shut-down period, the employee’s life insurance, major medical insurance, dental plan, vision care insurance and long term disability insurance will continue in effect until the end of the vacation shut-down period or the employee’s recall to work, whichever first occurs. The Company will pay 100% of the premium costs associated with the foregoing.
ARTICLE 13A —SEVERANCEPAY
13.1A An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated as a result of a layoff caused by a reduction in the work force shall be entitled to severance pay as provided in Article 13.2A provided the employee,
(a)	has had one year (2,002 hours) or more employment with the Company, and;
(b)	has been laid-off and no specific recall date is given to the employee at the time of the layoff, and if the employee relinquishes his/her seniority and employment rights as referred to in Article 9.6(0 of this Agreement.
(c)	advises the Company in writing within the time period applicable as set forth in Article 9.6(f), following the date of the employee’s layoff that seniority and employment rights are being relinquished, and that the employee is making a claim for severance pay.
21
O'
13.2A
Severance pay shall be paid to an employee who qualifies for the same under this Article on the basis of one and one-half (1 Vi) pay period’s pay (i.e. 115.5 hours) at the employee’s regular rate at the time of the layoff for each full year of service at the time of such layoff. Severance pay will be limited to a maximum of twelve (12) times one and one half pay period’s pay (ie: 1386 hours).
13.3A Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of the employee’s seniority and employment rights. The Company shall notify the Union of those employees accepting severance pay.
ARTICLE 14 —TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
14.1	The provisions of this Article 14 are intended to assist employees affected by a technological change as herein defined, to adjust to the effects of such change.
14.2	Sections 52, 54 and 55 of the Canada Labour Code do not apply to the Company and the Union or to any person or persons covered by the certification and/or the scope of this Agreement.
14.3	In this section “technological change” means:
(a)	the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized by it in the operation of the work, undertaking or business; and,
(b)	a change in the manner in which the Company carries on the work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
14.4	The procedure for dealing with technological change that is likely to affect the terms, conditions and tenure of employment of a significant number of employees is as follows:
22
14.4.1
The Company will notify the Union of such a technological change at least one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the date on which such change is to be affected. Such notice shall be in writing and shall state:
(a)	the nature ofthe technological change;
(b)	the date upon which the Company proposes to affect the technological change, and;
(c)	the names, seniority dates and classifications of the employees primarily affected.
14.5	An employee displaced as a result of a technological change will exercise seniority rights which are as follows:
(a)	An employee receiving Notice of Layoff shall exercise his/her seniority to displace a junior employee in a classification of an equal or lower rate of pay, or the junior employee on a job previously held, providing the employee receiving the notice of layoff has the necessary qualifications; and where there is a reasonable expectation that the senior employee could perform the job satisfactorily after a job orientation period of up to twenty one (21) scheduled working days he/she shall be provided with such job orientation.
(b)	The displaced employee may then exercise his/her seniority rights in the same manner as above unless there are no junior employees to displace or the displaced employee does not have the necessary qualifications in which case that employee is subject to layoff;
(c)	An employee receiving the Notice of Layoff and not exercising seniority rights under (a) and (b) above, will be placed on layoff.
14.6	“Significant” for the purpose of this Article shall be twelve (12%) percent of the total workforce.
23
14.7	Employees with one or more full year’s seniority who
jv are on layoff status as a result of Technological Change
as herein defined may elect to be paid severance pay.
14.8	Employees who are laid off or who have selected layoff status because of technological change as defined herein shall at the employee’s election be paid severance pay as set forth in Article 13A where he/she elects to receive severance pay.
14.9	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of such employee’s seniority and employment rights.
14.10	Upon request, the Company will furnish to Canada Employment Centre, the laid-off employee’s skills inventory record and other applicable information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced employee in another j ob with another employer.
ARTICLE 15 — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
15.1	“Grievance” as used in this Agreement is an alleged violation in respect of the interpretation or application of, or compliance with a specific provision or provisions of this Collective Agreement.
15.2	The parties encourage employees to bring any complaints to the attention of the employee’s immediate supervisor for consideration, before a grievance is filed. If after bringing the matter to the immediate supervisor’s attention, the employee is still not satisfied, a grievance may be filed.
15.3	It is the intention of both parties that all grievances shall be processed as quickly as possible at all steps. Where discipline is to be applied, it shall be applied within a period of fourteen (14) calendar days of either the occurrence(s) of circumstances giving rise to the discipline or the conclusion of the Company’s investigation relative to the matter. In the event that the employee is not on site during the fourteen (14) calendar day period, the disciplinary form report will be given to an executive member of the Union.
24
15.4	All grievances to be processed hereunder shall be filed in writing signed by the employee and shall set forth the essential facts of the grievance, with reference to how the employee feels aggrieved, the provision or provisions under which the grievance is filed, and the redress claimed. Such written grievance shall then form the basis of the grievance through all the steps of the grievance procedure and arbitration procedure.
15.5	Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in the manner stated below:
Step 1: An employee who feels he/she has a grievance as defined above, shall continue on the employee’s assigned duties. Should the employee wish to submit a grievance, a written grievance shall be prepared and presented to the employee’s immediate supervisor by the employee or by the Union. Where the employee is presenting the grievance he/she may be accompanied by a shop steward. The grievance shall be submitted to the employee’s immediate supervisor within nine (9) scheduled working days (of the employee) following the date of occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance. The immediate supervisor shall within nine (9) scheduled working days (of the supervisor) following receipt of the submission of the grievance, give written reply to the employee with a copy to the Union.
Step 2: If a settlement is not reached at Step 1, the employee, along with the employee’s shop steward, may within five ('5/scheduled working days (of the employee) of the completion of Step 1 present the written grievance to the General Supervisor of the employee’s Department. The General Supervisor shall reply to the grievance, in writing, within five (5) scheduled working days (of the General Supervisor) following the date on which the grievance was received by the General Supervisor.
Step 3: If settlement is not reached at the second step, the written grievance may, within five (5) scheduled working days (of the employee) after the completion of Step 2, be presented to the appropriate superintendent who has responsibility for the Department in which the employee is assigned. The Superintendent shall reply to
25
the grievance in writing within five (5)working days (of the superintendent) following the date on which the grievance was received by the Superintendent.
Step 4: A fourth step grievance meeting may be held at a place to be agreed upon by both parties to discuss an outstanding grievance, provided however such meeting shall occur and a reply shall be given not later than thirty (30) days after the completion of Step 3.
15.6	If a grievance as defined in Section 15.1 above involved a group or groups of employees, the grievance procedure may be commenced at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. The same shall be to a group grievance. Such grievance must be submitted in writing within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance.
15.7	If a grievance occurs as defined in Section 15.1 and concerns the Union as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of Section 15.5, the executive of the Union may within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance, present a written grievance at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, except that such grievance shall be presented to the mine manager or his/her designate and not to a department superintendent.
15.8	If an employee believes that he/she has been suspended or discharged without just cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within eight (8) days after written notice of such discharge has been sent by double registered mail to the employee’s last known address or after written notice of such discharge has been personally given to the employee. The Union will be given a copy of such written notice.
Where it is not convenient for the suspended or discharged employee to do so, an Executive member of the Union may present the grievance signed by the employee to the appropriate Superintendent at Step 3.
Where an employee is suspended or discharged and such action results in the employee being removed from the site, a Union Executive member or a shop steward will be notified without unreasonable delay. The employee
26
affected will be permitted a reasonable amount of time to review the suspension or discharge with an Executive member or shop steward of the Union. The Union will be advised in writing of any discharge of a nonprobationary employee.
Where an employee is required to attend a meeting with the Company in respect of a reprimand, suspension or discharge, the employee shall be informed that he/she has the right to have an Executive member or shop steward of the Union in attendance at any such meeting. If the employee wishes an Executive member or shop steward to be in attendance, the meeting shall proceed with the Executive member or shop steward in attendance. If an Executive member or shop steward is not available, the meeting nonetheless shall proceed.
15.9	The remedy for adjusting a suspension or discharge grievance, if it is determined that any is justified, may consist of reinstatement with or without back pay or with partial back pay, or may consist of pay or partial back payment without reinstatement, or may consist of any other redress appropriate to the circumstances.
15.10	If settlement is not reached at Step 3 or Step 4, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration as set forth in Article 16. The Union shall notify the Company of its intent to seek arbitration by written notice, served by double registered mail within forty-five (45) days, after the completion of Step 3 or Step 4, whichever is applicable in the circumstances.
15.11	All time limits for the filing and processing of grievances are mandatory and any non-compliance with such time limits shall result in the grievance being deemed abandoned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and the Union may, by agreement in writing, extend or waive any time limit.
15.12	Where a Disciplinary Form Report is to become part of an employee’s personnel file, the employee shall be provided with two (2) copies of the same. One copy shall be for the employee’s personal record, and the second shall be for the Union’s files.
27
ARTICLE 16 —ARBITRATION
16.1	Any grievanceas defined inArticle 15 which is notsettled under the terms of that Article and which has been processed in a timely manner may, in accordance with the terms of that Article be submitted to Arbitration as hereinafter provided.
16.2	The Arbitration Procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements set out in Article 15,
16.3	Where the parties mutually agree, the grievance may be referred to a single arbitrator for determination, and in such case the single arbitrator will be appointed by agreement between the parties. Where however, the parties do not agree to refer the matter to a single arbitrator and/or where the parties are unable to agree on a person to act as single arbitrator, the grievance may be referred to a board of arbitration as provided for in Article 16.4.
16.4	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one representative each of the Company and the Union, to be selected by written notice given to the other party within fourteen (14) days following notification of arbitration, and one person acceptable to such representatives who shall act as Chairman. If agreement cannot be reached on selection of the Chairman within seven (7) days of the appointment of the representatives the matter shall be referred to one of the following who will be selected by lot by the Union and the Company representatives:
(1)	Francine Chad-Smith
(2)	Robert E. Stromberg
(3)	Ken Stevenson
(4)	Bill Campbell
If the Chairman so selected is unable to serve, then lots will be drawn again and so on until a Chairman has been selected who can serve.
28
16.5	No person shall serve as a single arbitrator or on the Board of Arbitration if involved directly in the grievance under consideration.
16.6	When the single arbitrator has been appointed or the Board of Arbitration has been formed in accordance with this Article, the arbitrator or board shall meet and hear the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision in writing to the parties not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made on the matter by the parties.
16.7	A decision of the single arbitrator or the decision of a majority of the Board shall be taken to be the decision and shall be final and binding on all parties concerned. In the event that a majority decision cannot be arrived at by a board of arbitration, the decision of the Chairman shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
16.8	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to the single arbitrator or arbitration board and the decision must be based solely on the provisions of this Agreement.
16.9	The expenses of the single arbitrator or Chairman of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Each party shall be responsible for its own costs other than the costs of the single arbitrator or the Chairman.
16.10	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not deal with more than one (I) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
29
ARTICLE 17 — NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS
17.1	The Union, its agents, and each employee agrees that there will be no strikes, slow downs or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout during the term of this Agreement and until the requirements of the Canada Labour Code concerning strikes and lockouts are met.
ARTICLE 18 — HOURS OFWORK
18.1	This Article shall not be construed as a guarantee of work per day or per week nor as a restriction of the Company’s right to operate or schedule its operations.
18.2
The normal work day shall be eleven (11) consecutive hours of work within any consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period broken only for established breaks as outlined jn sections 18.4 and 18.5.
normal work week for employees shall be seventy-
seven (77) hours per week. This is followed by one (1) week off shift schedules shall be posted on a bulletin board”ancf notice of any changes shall be provided one (1) work week in advance whenever possible.
The Company will normally give employees seven (7) days notice of any change in the starting time of the employees shift or commencement day of the employees scheduled work week. If less than seven (7) days notice is given, the following shall apply:
• in the case of a change in the employee’s starting time (except where the change is as a result of another scheduled employee not reporting for work as ' scheduled) the employee affected by the change will be paid two (2) times his/her regular rate for all hours worked on the first shift of such changed schedule.
• in the case of a change in the employee’s commencement day, the employee affected by the change will be paid two (2) times his/her regular rate for all hours worked on the first shift of such changed schedule.
30
18.4	Employees will have a one (1) hour lunch period scheduled approximately at the middle of each shift of work or at the start or end of the shift depending upon flights. The lunch period in each shift of work shall not be considered as time worked and shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves hisher work station and shall be deemed to end when the employee returns to his/her work station.
18.5	Employees will be granted a total of thirty (30) minutes for not more than two (2) rest periods during each complete normal work day. The rest period shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves his/her work station and shall be deemed to end when the employee returns to his/her work station.
ARTICLE 19 — OVERTIME
19.1	The Company shall determine the need for overtime and shall make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. The Company shall endeavor to give notice of overtime as far in advance as practical. An employee may refuse to work an unreasonable amount of overtime, however in all cases of emergency and at shift changes, employees shall be required to work overtime as assigned.
19.2	(a) An employee will be paid two (2) times the employee’s regular rate for any time actually worked in excess of eleven (11) hours in one work day.
(b)	Except to the extent as specifically provided in this Agreement, overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
(c)	Where an employee works on a day that is the employee’s scheduled day off, the employee shall be paid forthe hours worked on that day atthe applicable overtime rate of pay. Those hours, however, shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of determining when overtime becomes applicable in respect of the employee’s subsequent shift schedules.
31
19.3	Where a change in a work schedule is made for the convenience of the employee (i.e., transfers, promotions), or where, with the consent of the Company an employee arranges to cover another employee’s shift, all regular scheduled hours worked as a result of such change or arrangement shall not be subject to payment at overtime rate notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary.
Where the Company schedules an employee to work in excess of seventy-seven (77) hours in one pay period, the employee will be paid for the excess hours at the applicable overtime rate.
19.4	A meal will be made available whenever practicable before the employee commences his/her overtime work.
19.5	Overtime work will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among employees normally performing the work in the area or the crew, provided such employees have the qualifications to perform the work. It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime within a particular area and crew will, at any given time, have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is reasonably practicable under the circumstances.
19.6	Where an employee has worked overtime after the completion of his/her scheduled shift, the employee shall take a minimum of eight (8) hours rest and may elect to take up to twelve (12) hours rest before returning to work.
19.7	Where an employee having worked overtime after the completion of his/her scheduled shift finishes overtime work less than eight (8) hours before the beginning of his/her next scheduled shift, the employee will be paid at regular rate for the hours not worked between the beginning of the employee’s next regular shift and eight (8) hours after the end of the overtime worked following the previous shift.
32
19.8	Where in such instances the employee elects to return to work prior to having twelve (12) hours of rest, the employee shall so advise his/her supervisor or the supervisor’s designee to that effect. Such advice shall be given no later than by the completion of the overtime work. An employee in such instances will be paid at his/ her regular rate upon returning to work.
Refer to Article 32 for Call-Out Provisions.
ARTICLE 20 —WAGE SCHEDULES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
20, I The wage schedule which shall be effective during the term of this Agreement shall be as set out in Appendix A attached hereto and the said Appendix A shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
20.2	The wage progression schedule which shall be effective during the term of this Agreement shall be as set out in Appendix B attached hereto and the said Appendix B shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
20.3	Except to the extent as otherwise set out in Section 20.4 and 20.5, a newly hired employee shall be assigned to and paid at level SC during the first six (6) months of his/her employment.
20.4	A Journeyman (ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 1A.
20.5	A Tradesman (non-ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid no lower than at Level 5A during the first six (^months of employment and a Warehouse Person shall be assigned to and paid at level 5A during the first six (6) months of employment.
20.6	Subject to Section 20.7 an employee shall advance to his/her next succeeding wage level upon satisfactory completion of the standard time periods set out in Appendix B, and the employee shall continue to advance to each succeeding level until having reached the maximum level for the employee’s job classification.
33
20.7	An employee will move to the next wage level for his/ her job classification where the employee has successfully completed the training program designated from time to time by the Company.
Where within a period of fourteen (14) scheduled working days (ofthe employee) following the completion of a time period, the employee has not been assessed as contemplated by this Article, it shall be presumed that the employee has satisfactorily completed the time period.
20.8	An employee when indentured as an apprentice in one ofthe journeyman (ticketed) classifications as in Section
20.10	shall normally be assigned to and paid at level SB of the apprentice's indentured job classification during the first six (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the 5B level. An employee who accepts an apprenticeship position shall in no event be placed on the wage progression schedule more than three (3) levels lower than the level at which the employee was paid immediately prior to accepting the apprenticeship position.
An apprentice shall advance on the wage progression schedule to and including level 2A, except in the case of aplumber/pipefitter apprentice who shall advance on the schedule to and including IB. Thereafter and when the apprentice obtains a trade certificate in his/her trade, the apprentice shall be entitled to the level 1A (journeyman ticketed) job classification wage rate.
20.9	For the purpose of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are recognized tradesman (non-ticketed) job classifications.
-Welder
—	Fleavy Duty Mechanic
—	Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Machinist
34
20.10	For the purposes of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are the recognized journeyman (ticketed) job classifications.
—	Welder
—	Heavy Duty Mechanic
—	Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Electrician
—	Machinist
—	Plumber/Pipefitter
—	Power Engineer 2nJ Class
—	General Maintenance Operator
(possessing journeyman crane and hoist operator certification)
20.11	Journeyman (ticketed) shall mean certified by the province of Saskatchewan or the equivalent as recognized by the province of Saskatchewan. A journeyman (ticketed) who is required by law to be retested shall be compensated for all related out-of-pocket expenses,
' provided the same are approved in advance by the Company.
ARTICLE 21 —ANNUALVACATION AND GENERAL HOLIDAYS
21.1	Wherever the term “vacations” is used, it shall mean the combination of annual vacations and general holidays.
21.2 All employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to twenty—one (21) working days of vacation with pay after completing one (I) full year of service and after completing each full year of service thereafter to and including the fifth (5th) full year.
21.3	After completing the fifth (5th) full year of continuous employment, employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
Vacations/
Full Years of	Holidays
Continuous Service	Entitlement
After 5 years After 6 years After 7 years After 8 years After 9 years After 10 years After 11 years and each year thereafter
21 -4 A full year of service means 1.771 hours worked, less an employee’s vacation entitlement in excess of twenty-one (21) days. Where an employee works less than 1,771 hours in a year, the employee’s pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during the year.
21.5	The general holidays listed below form part of the3>I days of vacation:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day ^
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
.-10
22’days
23	days
24	days . 2 5
25	days/
26	days 3 3 3
27	days
28	days

21.6	AVhere an employee works for the whole or part of his/ ^"^Cher scheduled shift on a general holiday (midnight to ^ midnight), the hours worked on the general holiday will be paid at the applicable regular rate plus two (2) times the applicable regular rate.
36
21.7	Vacation scheduling shall be by Department. The requirements of efficient operations shall be of paramount importance in scheduling vacations, with seniority given all possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to April 1 st in each year. Vacation requests received prior to April 1st shall also take precedence over any requests for personal leave of absence.
The Company will post the vacation schedule on or before April 15,h of each year having regard for the requests received prior to April 1".
Except where unforeseen circumstances arise, and except where a vacation shut-down is implemented, the vacation schedule once posted shall not be altered except by mutual agreement between the Company and the affected employee.
Where an employee requests a change in his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall make the request in writing, and the employee shall be informed within fifteen (15) days of the making of the request as to whether the requested change is approved or denied.
Without limiting the paramount importance of efficient operations in scheduling any vacations, where there are unusual or mitigating circumstances, the Company will consider a request by an employee to take one week' (seven (7) days) of vacation at a time other than during a scheduled vacation shut-down period. Subject to the foregoing, where an employee has accumulated sufficient vacation credits, the Company will make a reasonable effort to schedule the one week referred to herein during the period June 15 to September 15 inclusive.
21.8	Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Company from scheduling vacation shut-downs, of all or any part of its operations. If the Company determines to cause a vacation shut-down it will provide employees affected and the Union with as much notice of such shut-down as is reasonably possible and in any event, with not less than four (4)weeks' notice.
37
The four (4)weeks’ noticeshall not apply where the shutdown is the result of circumstances beyond the control of the Company. If any such shut-down occurs, employees will take such vacation days as they are entitled to receive and if there is any short-fall, they will be considered as laid-off for the duration of the shutdown, but in such cases the notice provisions as in Article 13 shall not apply.
Where the Company is not able to assign an employee all his/her earned vacations during vacation shut-down periods, the Company before assigning the employee’s vacations outside the shutdown periods will consider the employee’s preference periods for taking his/her vacations. Subject to business and operational requirements, the Company will make every reasonable effort to accommodate the employee’s preference.
Where the Company has given notice that a vacation shutdown is to occur, an employee potentially affected, shall advise his/her immediate supervisor within forty-eight (48) hours after notice has been given as to his/her preference for being released for vacation purposes, or for remaining at work (where work is available) during the shut-down period.
Subject to business and operational requirements and the need for the Company to maintain a fully qualified work force, (as may be required during the shut-down), employees with the highest seniority within his/her job on the shift affected shall be afforded the first opportunity of working during the shut-down or of being released for vacation.
The Company shall not be required to absorb any premiums, penalties or any additional costs as a result of an employee exercising his/her seniority with respect to the foregoing.
ARTICLE 22 — PERSONAL LEAVE
22.1
The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay provided such leave is requested in writing at least
38
two (2) weeks in advance. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will, among other things, consider the following when deciding to grant or ,refuse a request for such leave:
(a)	whether such leave will interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(b)	whether a qualified replacement is available to replace the employee during the leave;
(c)	whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the employee;
(d)	whether the request for leave is reasonable.
22.2	In case of emergency nature, the Company will waive the fourteen (14) day request in writing requirement as set forth in 22.1.
22.3	Personal leave will not be granted where an employee has accrued vacation time which could be utilized.
22.4	Leave for employees with child care responsibilities, including the case of a male employee shall be as_set forth in the Canada LabourJfode. j ^ £ i \	3
ARTICLE 23 —UNION LEAVE	"T'T” '	<9 H
23.1
The Company may grant a Union leave of absence for a maximum of five (5)employees forperiods up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay in the case of employees w ho have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union labour seminars, courses or conferences. Where special circumstances apply (e.g. enrolement in the Labour College of Canada program) leave without pay may be granted for a period of up to sixty (60) calendar days.
23.2	Any leave considered must have been applied for in writing by the employee normally at least two (2) weeks in advance, with at least one (1) week in advance only where unusual or mitigating circumstances apply, in the
39
case of a leave of up to fourteen (14) calendar days; and, at least thirty (30) calendar days in respect of a leave requested for a period longer than fourteen (14) calendar days. Leave requests shall be considered, having regard to whether such leave will interfere with the business and operational requirements of the Company.
ARTICLE 24 — EDUCATION LEAVE
V 24.1
nA-
An employee may request a leave of absence without pay to further the employee’s education for the purpose of upgrading in the employee’s present ioh or for advancement within the Company, by attending full time classes of instruction.
24.2	Subject to the above, the Company, will give consideration to such request conditional on, among other things, the following:
(a) the employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
(b) the leave will not interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(c)	there is a qualified replacement for the affected employee;
(d)	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance, with all details of the instruction course provided;
(e)	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company; and
(f)	not more than two (2) employees may be on leave at any one time, and not more than one (1) employee may be on leave from any one department at any one time.
24.3	Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will require that the affected employee actually attend each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness.
40
24.4	Shouldfhe employee return to work following a leave of - absence as referred todbove, the Company will reinstate the employee in the-employee’s former job, if the job is still in existence and provided the employee passes the required medical examination.
ARTICLE 25 — JURY AND CROWN WITNESSABSENCE
25.1	When an employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is called and reports as a Crown witness, the employee shall be paid the difference between the daily amounts received for such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the employee’s regular rate for such day or days provided such day or days were regularly scheduled days of work for the employee.
Where because of flight schedules to and/or from the f site an employee, because of Jury or Crown Witness duty loses scheduled hours, (other than on the day or days the employee actually serves as a Juror or Crown Witness) the employee shall be paid for his/her scheduled hours as if those days had been worked.
25.2	Such differences shall be paid only if the employee presents a written statement to the Company from an appropriate Court officer, showing dates of such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the amounts received for such service.
ARTICLE 26 — FUNERAELEAVE
The Company, upon being notified of a death in the immediate family, will grant an employee who is scheduled to work a maximum of up to four (4) days paid funeral leave, one of which shall be the day of the funeral. It is understood that such paid leave will not be granted in instances when an employee who is otherwise eligible for such leave does not attend the funeral, or who does not have immediate family matters to attend to in respect of the funeral.
In the case of death of an employee’s spouse or child, three (3) additional paid funeral leave days may be
41
26.1
granted for a total of a maximum of up to seven (7) days paid funeral leave, not in addition to the four (4) days provided for in paragraph 1 above. The conditions contained in paragraph 1 above shall be applicable.
in addition to any paid funeral leave granted, an employee may be granted up to an additional three (Sf daysjuneral leave on an unpaid basis. Any accrued vacation time may be utilized in lieu of unpaid funeral leave.
The Company upon being notified of the death of an employee’s blood related Aunt or Uncle, will upon request consider the granting of up to three (3) days unpaid funeral leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. Approval thereof shall not be unreasonably withheld. It is understood that such unpaid leave will not be granted in instances where the employee does not attend the funeral.
26.2	Forpurposes of funeral leave, “immediate family” means the employee’s spouse, children, step children, mother, father, step parents, brother, sister, mother and father-inlaw, brother and sister-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren of the employee and any relative permanently residing in the employee’s household or with whom the employee resides.
26.3	Common law status shall be recognized if the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the employee has notified the Company of the common law status prior to the bereavement.
26.4	Pay for funeral leave shall be at the employee’s regular rate.
26.5	Where by reason of funeral leave an employee is to travel to and from the site; and where space is available on scheduled company transportation, the employee may travel on such transportation at no cost to the employee.
26.6	Where space is not available as referred to in 26.5 within a twenty-four (24) hour period after the employee has been advised of the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family, the Company upon being requested
42
to do so, shall make every reasonable effort to arrange transportation for the employee from the mine site at which that employee is employed to that employee’s normal pick-up point.
Where such arrangements are made, the Company will absorb the cost of the aforementioned transportation.
ARTICLE 27 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND RETIREMENT PLAN
27.1	During the lifetime of this Agreement, there shall be a group insurance plan and a retirement plan which shall provide benefits for employees as set out herein. The conditions respecting the benefits under the said plans shall be as set forth in the plans.
27.2	The benefits under the plan and the responsibility for the payment of premiums shall be as set forth in 1 to 7 inclusive in this Article.
1.	Short Term Disability
1.1	If a disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report for work, up to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period of disability.
1.2	If a disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable
-	Effective to July 7, 1999, twenty-seven and one half (27 Vi) hours after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen (1 5) weeks during any one period of disability.
-	Effective from July 8, 1999, twenty-two (22) hours after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks during any one period of disability.
43
1.3	The benefits will be at 70% of normal earnings to a maximum of the following amounts in respect of a normal work week (77 hours).
(1)	Effective from July 8, 1999 to May 31, 2000
■ $1,100.00
(2)	Effective June 1, 2000
- $1,125.00
1.4	The Union and the employees agree to forfeit the UIC rebate or reduction of premiums, in that the rebate or reduction is deemed to be in lieu of other benefits.
1.5	Benefits payable under a plan where the employee pays one hundred (100%) per cent of the premiums (employee-pay-all-plan) are exempt from income tax. All premiums (one hundred (100%) per cent) for this part of the plan shall be paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
2.	Long Term Disability

2.1	If an employee continues off work due to a nonoccupational injury or illness for a period longer than one hundred and five (105) days, the employee is eligible to apply for long term disability to age sixty-five (65) years.
2.2	Benefits under the plan are seventy (70%) per cent of regular earnings, inclusive of other benefits to which the employee is entitled in such circumstance (e.g. Canadian Pension Plan benefits).
2,3	Long term disability benefits are fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
2.4	Disability is defined as the inability of an employee to perform the employee’s own job classification for a period of twenty-four (24) months and thereafter the inability to perform any job for which the employee is suited by reason of education, training or experience.
44
2.5 All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this
part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
3.	Life Insurance
3.1	Employees and their families are covered by life insurance as follows:
—	employee • two (2) times yearly earnings with a minimum of $30,000.00
^spouse - $5,000.00
—	each dependent child - $2,000.00
/	3.2 If the employee becomes totally disabled before
, retirement and is receiving LTD benefits, the life insurance shall continue until age sixty-five (65) years on a premium waiver basis.
3.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the Plan in respect of coverage to thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars shall be paid by the Company.
4.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
4.1	Employees are covered by accidental death and dismemberment insurance for accidental death or dismemberment. The same shall be in addition to employee life insurance coverage as in 3 of this Article.
4.2	The principal sum shall be $50,000.00 in the case of loss of life. There is to be a schedule regarding dismemberment and loss of sight and/or hearing.
4.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
5,	Dental Plan
%
5.1	A dental plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
45
5.2	The plan shall pay one hundred (100%) per cent of routine dental treatments, expenses and fifty (50%) per cent of major treatments and orthodontic treatment.
5.3	The plan shall pay a maximum in any one (I) calendar year of $1,250.00 in the case of each insured family member.
5.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent, for this part of the plan, shall be paid by the Company.
6.	Major Medical Insurance
6.1	A major medical plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
6.2	Hospital expenses, one hundred (100%) per cent for semi-private or private accommodations above those paid by Saskatchewan Health Services will be paid by the major medical plan.
6.3	The plan will pay eighty (80%) per cent of the costs of other services items set forth in the plan.
6.4	The plan will cover hospital costs incurred while outside of Canada to a maximum of $8,000.00.
6.5	PRESCRIBED DRUGS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for prescribed drugs which are not now covered by the Saskatchewan Prescription Drug Services Plan.
6.6	EYE EXAMINATIONS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for Eye examinations which were covered by Saskatchewan Health Services, and which are not now covered by Saskatchewan Health Services.
6.7	HEARING AIDS: The plan shall pay eighty (80%) per cent of the associated costs not covered by Saskatchewan Health Services.
46
6.8 All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this
part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
7.	Vision Care Insurance
7.1	A vision care plan covering employees and their family members as applicable shall be in effect.
0
7.2	The Plan will provide the payment on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of regular frames and lenses or contact lenses selected in place of eyeglass frames and lenses to a maximum benefit of one hundred and fifty ($150.00) dollars per person in any twenty-four (24) month period.
7.3	The Plan will provide for the payment of contact lenses on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of the cost where medically necessary on a one-time basis and to a maximum benefit of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.
7.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
8.	Retirement Plan
8.1	There shall be a retirement plan, which shall be amended and/or administered as the case may be to reflect the provisions of Appendix C (Employee Benefits: Retirement Plan) hereto.
8.2	Upon retirement the following options shall be available to the employee with respect to funds credited to his/her account at the time of his/her retirement:
/ ■' ^ (a) have purchased for him/her an annuity elfective from '	retirement date
(b)	have the funds transferred to an RRSP account established by the employee
(c)	have the funds remain in his/her existing account, and diredt that an annuity be purchased at any subsequent date permitted by law
(d)	have the funds transferred to a RRIF account established by the employee
47
All the foregoing options are subject to any locking-in of funds which may have earlier been elected by the employee.
9.	General
9.1	Eligibility for the various employee benefit plans and retirement plan shall be as provided in the various plans.
9.2	The Company reserves the right to alter or amend the plans but shall not do so without first having consultation with the Union.
9.3	Any conflict between the details set forth in this Article and the group insurance plan and the retirement plan shall be resolved on the basis of the provision of the group insurance plan and/or the retirement plan, as the case may be.
27.3	Within a period of three (3) months from the signing date of the Collective Agreement, the Company will have prepared an Employee Benefits Plan Booklet which summarizes the Benefits plan referred to herein. The said Booklet will be amended in the event of substantive changes to any part of the plan. Each employee shall be provided with a copy of the said Booklet, and any substantive changes which may be made to any part of the plan.
ARTICLE 28 — HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.1	The Company shall institute and maintain all reasonable and necessary precautions for the heath and safety of its employees. All employees covered by this Agreement shall cooperate in the implementation of all such reasonable and necessary health and safety precautions. It is recognized as being the mutual obligation of the Company and the Union to assist in the elimination and prevention of unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices and jointly to assist in the prevention of accidents.
48
An employee who raises what he/she reasonably believes to be bona fide safety concerns shall suffer no adverse consequences as a result of raising such concerns.
28.2	Committee members shall not suffer any loss of pay while performing their duties at their mine site as members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
28.3	Employees shall at all appropriate times use such devices and wear such articles of clothing or equipment as are intended for their protection.
28.4	The Company shall supply protective clothing and equipment in accordance with Company policy governing safety apparel.
ARTICLE 29 — APPRENTICESHIPPROGRAM
29.1	Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled by posting the vacancy as in Article 11 of this Agreement. Only those employees who are northern residents shall be eligible for the apprenticeship program.
29.2	Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend necessary formal training, subject to the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
29.3	Employees who are indentured will enterthe program at a level as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Saskatchewan Department of Labour.
29.4
Apprenticed employees, while taking an approved formal off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular rate, less any Canada Manpower training allowance provided to or on behalf of the employee. Any 'living away from home allowance or travel allowance paid by the government shall not be deducted by the Company from the employee's wages.
29.5	Employees who do not attend each session and who do not have a reasonable cause for failing to attend may have their employment terminated by the Company.
49
29.6	Employees who fail to obtain a passing mark may be afforded an opportunity to repeat the program in whole or in part. Where an employee is not afforded an opportunity to repeat the program (in whole or in part) or where the employee fails to obtain a passing mark after repeating the program (in whole or in part), the employee will be removed from the program. In such case, the employee will be offered an entry position in any line of progression provided the employee is qualified for the position and provided a vacancy exists at that time.
If no such vacancy exists, where in the Company’s opinion an employee has made every reasonable effort to obtain a passing grade, but nonetheless fails to do so, the employee will be placed on lay-off and recalled if and when an entry position in any line of progression becomes available within a twelve (12) month period, provided the employee is qualified for the position.
29.7	(a) Apprenticeship wages will be shown in Appendix A.
(b) An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch or after having completed the required months of experience and having demonstrated his/her capability to perform at that level.
29.8	Employees who are not northern residents will be given consideration for entry into the apprenticeship program in a trade, only when there are no applicants for the posted apprentice position.
ARTICLE 29A —POWER ENGINEERTRAININ 'ICATION PROGRAM
29A.1 Power Engineei Trainee vacancies as determined by the C rr p shall be filled by % the aca icy as in Article I I of lis Agreement. Preference for filling vacancies in the ower Engineer Training P r l will be extended to employees who are N n residents.
50
29A.2 Trainees will be registered with an educational institution offering a correspondence program relevant to the necessary training (currently the SAIT Power Engineering program is the relevant program).
29A.3 All tuition and course material costs associated for the trainees current level of study will be paid at
V rs	approximately the time of registration by the Company.
.3/ Any necessary supplemental resource material will be
' provided by the Company.
29A.4 Power Engineers will be required to take the prescribed examinations at a location designated by the Boiler and Pressure Safety Branch of the Government of Saskatchewan.
An employee engaged in taking the prescribed examination off-site will be paid at his/her regular wage rate in respect of any scheduled working hours that the employee missed as a result of being required to take the examination. An employee. who writes an exam on his/ her scheduled day off will be paid up to four hours at his/her overtime rate. All associated travel expenses shall be paid by the Company consistent with the Company's expenses schedule. Any examination fees will also be absorbed by the Company.
29A.5 Subject to operational requirements, a trainee assigned to the night shift will be permitted a reasonable amount of study time during normal working hours, but the same shall be limited to one (1) hour per shift. All such study time shall be approved by the trainee's supervisor.
29A.6 The time periods and pay rate progression for trainees is as follows:
Grade XII
Obtain Fireman's certificate Complete utilities training Write first set 4"' class exams Obtain 4“' class certificate Write first set 3"1 class exams, obtain 3"1 class permit, operate utilities independently
5c
5b 6 mo. 5a 6 mo. 4b 6 mo. 4a 6 mo.
3b 6 mo.
51
Write second set S^class exams, acid plant & CX training
Write third set 3” class exams, acid plant & CX training
Obtain 3rd class certificate
2"'1 class permit operate acid plant independently
2nd class permit operate all facilities independently
Total
29A.7 Trainees will be required to meet the time periods as outlined in Article 29A. 6. Where a trainee fails to complete a required level of certificate in the designated time period, the Chief Power Engineer may grant an extension to a time period, where there is a reasonable expectation that the trainee will successfully complete a required level.
29A.8 Where an employee has not been successful in obtaining a passing grade the employee will be offered an entry position in the mill operators progression provided the employee is qualified for the position and provided a vacancy exists at that time.
29A.9 If no such vacancy exists, and where in the Company's opinion the employee has made every reasonable effort to obtain a passing grade, but nonetheless fails to do so, the employee will be placed on lay-off and, where qualified, shall be recalled if and when an entry position in the mill operators progression becomes available within the time period as referred to in Article 9.6(f) of this Agreement.
29A, 10 (a) Power Engineer Trainee wages will be as set forth in Appendix A.
(b) An employee shall advance to the next succeeding wage level immediately after having successfully completed the required exam for the applicable ticket level subject to the operating time requirements of the Boiler and Pressure Vessel Act of Saskatchewan. Any
52
3a 6 mo.
2b 6 mo. 2a 6 mo.
lb 6 mo,
la 6 mo.
60 mo.
trainee operating at a level above his/her current ticket grade as a result of a permit shall be paid at the higher rate of pay for all hours of the work week so worked.
29A. 11 Employees who are not Northern residents will be given consideration for entry into the Power Engineer Training Program only where there are no qualified Northern residents available for filling the vacancy.
29A, 12 An employee, in the Power Engineer Training Program who does not complete the requirements of the program and is subsequently offered an entry level position in the mill operator progression, shall be placed on the wage progression schedule at three (3) levels lower than the level at which the employee was paid immediately prior to accepting the mill operator position.
ARTICLE 30 — BULLETIN BOARDS
30.1	The Company will provide the Union with bulletin boards to be affixed in appropriate places where employees will be able to see and read them. The number of bulletin boards to be supplied by the Company and the locations for affixing such boards shall be agreed upon between the parties.
30.2	Bulletins to be posted shall be restricted to notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union and reports of various committees of the Union.
30.3	Only bulletins authorized by Local 48-S Executive will be posted.
ARTICLE 31 — MISCELLANEOUS
31.1	Sufficient copies of the Collective Agreement will be printed to supply the Company and the Union needs. The Company and the Union will share equally in the cost of such printing.
53
The parties shall agree as to the number of copies to be printed, and the total cost of same before an order is placed with a printer.
31.2	The Company agrees to allow access to the mine sites to the National Representative of the Union for the purpose of attending to official Union business, provided permission is first obtained from the Company. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
31.3	Where any Company transportation to a mine site is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay is such that the employee is unable to complete his/her scheduled shift on the day of the delay, the employee shall in any event be guaranteed pay for all scheduled hours at his/her regular rate for that day.
(b)	Where the employee reports on time and the transportation is delayed on the first and/or second day immediately following the employee’s scheduled return to a mine site, the Company shall pay the employee at the employee’s regular rate, all regular scheduled hours lost up to a maximum of twenty two (22). The guarantee set forth herein shall be in addition to the guarantee set forth in (a) herein.
31.4	Where any transportation from a mine site (defined as plane departure time) is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay is two (2) hours or less, the employee shall not receive any pay unless the employee works in which case, the employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the employee’s regular rate for all hours actually worked during the two (2) hours or less period of delay.
(b)	Where the delay is in excess of two (2) hours, employees will be paid for the delay thereafter, at their regular rate for all hours on that day prior to 7:00 p.m. Where the employee works on the day of the delay, the employee shall be paid at two (2) times
54
the employee’s regular rate for all hours actually worked during the period of delay prior to 7:00 p.m.
31.5	The guarantees of hours and pay set forth in 31,3 and
31.4	shall not apply in the case of a delay resulting from a labour dispute or in the case of force majeure.
31.6	Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Collective Agreement, all notices required to be given by either party shall be given as follows:
Cogema Resources Inc.
P.O. Box 9204 Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7K 3X5
Attention: Human Resources Manager and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union Local 48-S
Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan
Attention: Local Union President
* A copy of any notice to be given to the Local Union President at Cluff Lake shall be forwarded to the President’s normal place of residence.
ARTICLE 32 — CALL-OUT
32.1
An employee who has already left his/her work area after completion of the employee’s scheduled shift and who is recalled for work shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s regular rate for all hours worked on recall, up to the starting time of his/her next scheduled shift, but in any event the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at his/her regular rate.
The provisions of 32.1 above do not apply if the employee is recalled within one (1) hour of the starting time of the employee’s regular shift.
55
32.3	Where a call-out results in an employee having less than
a total of eight (8) hours rest between the time the employee completes work on a regular shift (or completion of any overtime following that shift), and the start of the employee’s next regular scheduled shift, the employee will be paid at regular rate for the hours not worked between the beginning of his/her next scheduled shift and the time of the employee’s return to work upon having accumulated a total of eight (8) hours of rest since the completion of his/her last regular shift or completion of any overtime following that shift.
ARTICLE 33 — MEDICAL CERTIFICATE ILLNESS
33.1	An employee before returning to work following an illness or accident shall furnish a written certificate from a qualified medical practitioner or from a public health nurse. Where the cost of the same is not covered by a third party, that cost will be borne by the Company provided a receipt from the practitioner or nurse is supplied to the Company.
The Company may at any time require of an employee that he/she submit to a medical examination by a qualified medical practitioner of the Company’s choice, and in such case the cost of same shall be borne by the Company.
ARTICLE 34 — CONTRACTING-OUT
34.1	Subject only to 34.2 herein, it is agreed that the Company reserves the unfettered right to contract-out work where in its exclusive opinion, it is necessary, economic or expedient to do so.
34.2
The Company, however, will not contract-out work where to do so, directly results in the lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit.
56
ARTICLE 35 —WORK BY SUPERVISORS
35.1	It is recognized that the duties of a Supervisor are primarily supervisory in nature, therefore, it is agreed that a Supervisor shall not perform work of a quantity which would normally occupy a bargaining unit employee for a full shift on an on-going basis.
35.2	A Supervisor will not perform bargaining unit work to the extent that it directly results in the lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 36 — PREMIUMS AND ALLOWANCES
36.1 The following premiums and allowances shall apply:
(a)	Tool Allowance: Employees who are required to furnish their own tools shall be paid a tool allowance effective from July 8, 1999 for each pay period as follows:
(i)	In the case of Heavy Duty Mechanics up to $50.00 each pay period.
(ii)	In the case of the Industrial Mechanics up to $45.00 per pay period.
(iii)	In the case of all other employees required to furnish their own tools up to $40,00 per pay period.
This said allowance is to cover loss, breakage or replacement of tools. The tools required to be supplied shall be as per the approved tool list. It is understood that it may be necessary from time to time to make reasonable changes to theapproved tool list having regard to the nature of the work to be performed by the employee.
Tool allowances as herein provided shall not apply where an employee is to be absent from work for a period exceeding four (4) consecutive normal work weeks of that employee due to lay-off, illness/accident, or leave of absence.
57
In occurrences as described above, the Company will, based on the employee’s preference, either securely store the employees tools at the site, or deliver the employee’s tools to one of the Company’s normal pick-up points. An employee who wishes his/her tools delivered, shall notify the Company as to the normal pick-up point to which the employee wishes the tools delivered.
In the event a tool as per the approved tool list, does not pass radiation inspection (after cleaning) to allow the tool to be removed from the site, that tool will be replaced by the Company.
An employee shall inform his/her Supervisor of any tool(s) in addition to those identified on the approved tool list he/she has at the site which are necessary for the performance of that employee’s job. Where such advice has been given, such tool(s) shall likewise be subject to this Article.
(b)	Safety Boot Allowance: Employees shall wear approved safety boots at all times while at the work place. Employees other than probationary employees will be granted a safety boot allowance as follows, payable on the employee’s anniversary date of employment.
From June 1, 1997 - $130.00; and, in
subsequent contract years thereafter
A probationary employee shall be paid the aforesaid allowance after the completion of the employee’s probationary period and annually thereafter on the employee’s anniversary date.
I n addition to the foregoing, in the case of an employee whose primary duties require him/her to work outdoors, upon the production of a receipt of purchase, the employee will be reimbursed for the cost of the initial purchase of winter safety boots to a maximum of one hundred thirty ($130.00) dollars. Where after a period of twenty four (24) months has expired from the initial purchase, the employee satisfies the Company that his/ her winter safety boots have become unwearable as a result of normal usage on the company premises, upon
58
the production of a receipt of purchase the Company shall reimburse the employee for the cost of a subsequent purchase to a maximum of one hundred thirty ($130.00) dollars. Reimbursements in no event shall be made more frequently than once in respect of a twenty four (24) month period.
(c)	Lead Hands: Where the Company designates an employee as a temporary lead hand, the employee shall be paid $77.00 per pay period in addition to his/her regular rate. A Lead Hand shall not apply disciplinary measures to another bargaining unit employee on behalf of the Company.
Where the employee is assigned to such a function during only part of a pay period, but for periods of one (1) normal day or more, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
(d)	Night Shift Premium
An employee assigned to work regular hours between 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM will be paid a premium of seventy five ($ .75) cents per hour in respect of all regular hours worked during the said period.
Shift Overlap Premium
A Shift overlap premium of sixty ($60.00)dollars per pay period shall be paid to an employee(s) who is designated to remain at his/her work area until the incoming shift employees have received directions from the designated employee on the finishing shift. The foregoing is in contemplation of a minimum of five (5) minutes and a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes per shift and includes cleanup time.
(e)	Multi-Skill Premium: Where in the performance of his/ herjob, an employee is required by the Company to hold two (2) or more valid Provincial or Interprovincial
v t J journeyman's tickets, the employee shall be paid a
\ Jfl multiskill premium of $ 110.00 per pay period in addition
i ' to the employee's regular rate.
59
(f)	Boiler Operator Ticket Premium: Where in the performance of his/her job, an employee is required by the Company to hold a Boiler Ticket, the employee shall be paid a premium of $25.00 per pay period in addition to the employee’s regular rate.
(g)	Split Shift Premium - Bartenders: Where the Company assigns a Bartender to a split shift, and the employee does not receive a Rotating Shift premium, a split shift premium of $25.00 per pay period will be paid in addition to the employees regular pay. Where the employee is assigned to a split shift during only part of a pay period, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
(h)	Power Engineer Ticket Premiums: Effective from July 8, 1999 where in the performance of his/her job an employee is required by the Company to hold a first or second class Power Engineer (Steam) ticket, the employee shall be paid a minimum premium of $250.00 (inclusive of the Boiler Operator Ticket Premium) in addition to the employee’s regular rate.
(i)	Except as may be otherwise provided in this Article or another Article of this Collective Agreement, all premiums and allowances are payable only in respect of hours worked.
Except for lead hand, shift over-lap, night shift and split shift premiums, for the purposes of this paragraph, vacations and general holidays are considered as hours worked.
60
~x~
ARTICLE 37 — DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement, including the Supplementary Agreement attached hereto, shall be binding upon the parties from July 8, 1999 and shall remain in force and effect until May 31, 2002, and from year to year, thereafter, unless either party not less than thirty days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the termination date hereof, gives notice in writing, to the other party to terminate, renew or negotiate revision to this Agreement.
FOR COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
B.	Hickie	J. Corman	D. Greyeyes
D. Seright	H. Piercy
L. Buckley	E. Doell
FOR COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S
G. Steininger M. Dyck A Dreher
T. Aubichon K, Greenaway E. Lidguerre
A. Goodwin
61
APPENDIX “A”
WAGE SCHEDULE
PERIOD #1
1. For the Period between June 1,1998 and July 8, 1999:
A Subject to the conditions as set forth herein, all employees who at July 8, 1999 continue to retain seniority and employment rights, shall be entitled to a gross lump sum payment as follows; not to be added to the wage schedule:
(i)	employees assigned to job classification l A to 2B inclusive, an amount of $1,500,00
(ii)	employees assigned to job classifications 3A to 4B inclusive, an amount of $1,250.00
(iii)	employees assigned to job classifications 5A to 5C inclusive, an amount of $1,000.00
B.	The following conditions shall apply with respect to the gross lump sum payments:
(iv)	In order to qualify for the whole of the payment, an employee shall have worked all the normal working hours during the period.
(v)	An employee who has worked less than the normal working hours during the period shall receive the payment on a pro-rata basis.
(vi)	Vacation time and authorized leave of absence shall be deemed to be time worked for the purposes of these provisions.
C.	Lump sum payments as contemplated herein shall be made no later than the second pay period following receipt of written notification from the Union that the terms of settlement have been ratified.
62
PERIOD #2
2.	For (he Period between July 8, 1999 and May 31,2000:
(i) An increase in the wage schedule (except the amount in respect of STD) of ”‘>.00%"
(ii)	An increase in the STD amount of $ .06 equaling approximately: 0.25%
(iii)	An increase in the company’s contribution to the Retirement Plan (see Appendix C) of: 0.65%
PERIOD #3
3.	For the Period between June 1, 2000 and May 31,2001:
(i) An increase in the wage schedule {except the amount in respect of STD) of"/2.50%
(ii) An increase in the company’s contribution to the Retirement Plan (see Appendix C) of 0.69%
PERIOD #4
4.	For the Period between June 1, 2001 and May 31,2002:
(i) An increase in the wage schedule (except the amount in respect of STD) of ”2.50%'
(ii) An increase in the company’s contribution to the Retirement Plan (see Appendix C) of: 0.50%
plus
plus
plus
plus
63
WAGE SCHEDULE
Level	July 8, 1999
5.0%
June 1, 2000
2.5%
June 1, 2001 2.5%
1A	25.00 +0.46	=25.46
IB	24.16 +0.46	=24.62
2A	23.15 +0.46	=23.61
2B	22.16 +0.46	=22.62
3A	21.16+0.46=21.62
3B	20.18 +0.46	=20.64
4A	19.19+0.46	= 19.65
4B	18.00 +0.46	= 18.46
5Ar ",	17.18+0.46	= 17.64
___16.22 +0.46	= 16.68
15.81 + 0.46	= 16.27
25.63	+ 0.46 = 26.09 24.76 +0,46 =25.22 23.73 + 0.46 =24.19 22.71 +0.46 =23.17 21.69 +0.46 =22.15 20.68 +0.46 =21.14 19.67 +0,46 =20.13 18.45 +0.46 = 18.91 17.61 +0.46 = 18.07
16.63	+0.46 = 17.09 16.21 +0.46 = 16.67
26.27	= 0.46 = 26.73 25.38 +0.46 =25.84 24.32 + 0.46 = 24.78
23.28	+ 0.46 = 23.74 22.23 +0.46 =22.69 21.20 +0.46 =21.66 20.16 +0.46 =20.62 18.91 +0.46 = 19.37
18.05	+0.46 = 18.51
17.05	+0.46 = 17,51 16.62 +0.46 = 17.08
NOTE: In lieu of retroactivity to June 1, 1998, qualifying employees are to be paid a lump sum payment on a pro-rata basis.
APPENDIX B
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
1.1 Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Standard Time Periods 60 months and after 54-60 months 48-54 months 42-48 months 36-42 months 30-36 months 24-30 months 18-24 months 12-18 months 6-12 months Entry-6 months
1.2 Notwithstanding the standard time period provided for Level IB, in the case of Heavy Equipment Operators (Mine Department) and Mill Operators (Mill Department) the standard time period for Level IB shall be 54-66 months.
APPENDIX B.l
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE Mine Department
Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Job
Classification
1A
I
Heavy Equipment Survey Operators	Assistants
Dry Persons &Janitors
Utility
65
APPENDIX B.2
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B SC
Job Classification
Mill Department 1A I IA
3A
4A
Power Engineer Mill Operators Dry Persons Utility (1' or 2** Class	& Janitors Person
Certificate)
66
APPENDIX B.3
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
o\
Levels	1A
IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B SA 5B 5C
Job Classification
Mine & Mill Maintenance Employee
Journeymen	Apprentice	Tradesmen
Ticketed	Indentured	Non-ticketed
IB
5C
Trades Helpers Maintenance
APPENDIX B.4
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE General Services & RPHS & EP Department
o\
oo
Levels 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Job
Classification
Journeymen
Ticketed
5B
Apprentice
Indentured
3A
Warehouse
Persons
5C
General
Helpers
Operators
3A
5C
Radiation
Samplers
5C
Environmental Samplers & Recreation Assistants
APPENDIX C
BENEFITS: RETIREMENT PLAN
CONTRIBUTIONS:
(A)	The plan currently provides that by payroll deductions, an employee contributes 5% ofthefirst$417.00 of regular monthly earnings, and 4% of regular monthly earnings in excess thereof. The Company contributes 76% of the employees contributions. The approximate effective company’s contribution rate is 3.16% of the employee’s regular earnings.
(B)	The Retirement Plan shall be amended to reflect the following contribution rates:
(i)	Effective from July 8, 1999 the contribution rates shall be:
(a)	Employee contribution: an amount of 4.16% of employee’s regular earnings
(b)	Company contribution: an amount of 3.81% of employee’s regular earnings
(ii)	Effective June 1, 2000 contribution rates shall be amended to reflect the following:
(a)	Employee contribution: an amount of 4.50% of employee’s regular earnings
(b)	Company contribution: an amount of 4.50% of employee’s regular earnings
(iii)	Effective June 1, 2001 contribution rates shall be amended to reflect the following:
(a)	Employee contribution: an amount of 5.00% of employee’s regular earnings
(b)	Company contribution: an amount of 5.00% of employee’s regular earnings
69
(C)	Upon retirement the following options shall be available to the employee with respect to funds credited to his/her account at the time of his/her retirement:
(a)	have purchased for him/her an annuity effective from retirement date
(b)	have the funds transferred to an RRSP account established by the employee
(c)	have the funds remain in his/her existing account, and direct that an annuity be purchased at any subsequent date permitted by law
(d)	have the funds transferred to a RRIF account established by the employee
(D)	In order to give effective meaning to Article 27.8.2, the following administrative practises will apply:
(i)	Subject to (ii) below, an employee may not withdraw the contributions made on the employee’s behalf by the Company, and may only withdraw that part of the employee’s contributions which are in excess of the contributions the Company has made on the employee’s behalf.
(ii)	Subject to any applicable law, an employee may withdraw or have contributions transferred, if the employee loses seniority and employment rights by virtue of Article 9.6 of the Collective Agreement.
70
APPENDIX D
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as “the Company”),
- and -
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S
(hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collective Agreement
dated July 8, 1999 which may suggest otherwise, the parties
agree to apply Article 21.2, subject to the following:
1.	Any employee who is entitled to vacation days off,and has not earned vacation pay entitlement in respect of all those vacation days, may elect to waive entitlement to those vacation days off in respect of which the employee is not entitled to vacation pay.
2.	Any employee who intends to make an election to waive as in paragraph 1, shall make such election within a fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately preceding April 30 and October 31 of each year.
3.	Either party may give notice of termination of this Memorandum of Agreement by giving athree (3)months written notice thereof to the other party.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement without written notice as set forth in paragraph 3 herein shall, in any event, automatically terminate on May 31, 2002.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 22nd day of June, 1999.
For the Company:	For the Union:
B. Hickie
M. Dyck
71
4s
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT RE

ARTICLE 21.4 - COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT


During negotiations for the new Collective Agreement, the parties agreed to amend Article -2T.4 of the Collective-Agreement to read as follows:	/	'
The material elfect of the amendment is to eliminate the provision whereby overtime hours worked were capable of being utiMzed
for the purposes of accumulating up to a full year of service.
In lieu of the aforegoing amendment, each employee who has worked not less than twelve hundred (1,200) straight time hours during any yearending on May 31" (commencing May 31,2000), shall be paid a gross payment of one hundred ($100.00)dollars no later than the second scheduled pay date after May 31".
72
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNTIES RE:
SUSPENSION OFOPF.RATTONS-CT.nFFT.AKE MINE SITE
The following shall apply only to those Cluff Lake mine site employees who have been given notice of lay-off (with no reasonable expectation of being recalled), and; who may be interested in becoming employed at the McClean Lake mine site should a position for which they may be qualified, become available at the McClean Lake mine site:
(a)	Within a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days after being laid-off, the employee shall notify the Company in writing as to any job(s) for which he/she is qualified and which he/she wishes to be considered for in the event a position becomes open at the McClean Lake mine site.
(b)	The Company will advise the President of the Local Union in writing (with a copy to the Local Union Vice President) as to the names of employees who have given notice to the Company, pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(c)	An employee who has been offered, and has rejected an employment offer at the McClean Lake mine site, shall receive no further consideration for any other openings which occur at the McClean Lake mine site.
(d)	Subject to all the applicable conditions set forth in this Memorandum, the qualified employee with the greatest seniority at the Cluff Lake mine site amongst those seeking consideration for a particular position shall be awarded the position.
The following general conditions apply:
(e)	The northern preference provisions of the Collective Agreement, the applicable Surface Lease Agreements; the applicable Human Resources Development
73
Agreements and any other applicable agreements respecting northern residents shall supercede and not be affected by the terms of this Memorandum of Agreement;
(0 Where a position became available at the McClean Lake mine site, qualified employees at that site will be considered prior to consideration being given to former employees from the Cluff Lake mine site.
(g)	The seniority which an employee has accumulated at the Cluff Lake mine site shall not apply at the McClean Lake mine site;
(h)	Notwithstanding paragraph (f) hereof, an employee’s service time at the Cluff Lake mine site, for the purposes only of vacations, severance pay (Article 13.A of the Collective Agreement), employee benefits/retirement plan shall apply;
(i)	This Memorandum of Agreement shall not apply to an employee who has accepted severance pay following his/ her lay-off at the Cluff Lake site;
(j)	An employee who is offered and accepts employment at the McClean Lake site shall make himself/herself available for pick-up at an established McClean Lake site pick-up point;
(k)	Except to the extent as may be specifically provided for in this Memorandum, the Collective Agreement, the Supplementary Agreement signed June 22, 1999 and the Memorandum of Agreement (Re: Vacation Bonus) signed June 22, 1999 shall continue to apply as applicable in all respects.
Dated at Saskatoon this 8lh day of July, 1999.
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 48-S
B. Hickie	M. Dyck
74
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
SEVERANCE PAY RE:
SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS-CLUFF LAKE MINE SITE
1A.	Article 13,1 A - Severance Pay of the Collective
Agreement shall not apply to employees at the Cluff Lake mine site, who are actively employed by the Company at July 8, 1999 and will be laid off as a result of the suspension of operations. Instead thereof, the following shall apply to the aforementioned employees:
(a) the employees will have had one year (2002 hours) or more of employment with the Company;
(b) at the time of lay-off there is not a reasonable expectation the employee will be recalled to work at the Cluff Lake mine site;
B.	Severance pay shall be paid to an employee who qualifies
for the same under this Memorandum of Agreement based on:
One and one-half (1 Vi) pay periods pay (ie: 115.5 hours) at the employee’s regular rate at the time of the lay-off for each full year of service at the time of lay-off.
C. Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as voluntary resignation with termination of the employee’s seniority and employment rights.
Dated at Saskatoon this 8'h day of July, 1999
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 48-S
B. Hickie
M. Dyck
75
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT TO THE:
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”),
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
LOCAL 48-S,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
It is understood and agreed that this Supplementary Agreement shall be read, interpreted, administered and applied as if all its terms and conditions were embodied within the Collective Agreement between the parties to the Collective Agreement.
The Collective Agreement shall be deemed to reflect the following:
1.	Article 7.2: Union dues remittances shall be on an individual mine site basis. That is to say, there shall be a monthly remittance together with the accompanying information required by Article 7,3, in respect of bargaining unit employees at Cluff Lake, and a separate monthly remittance together with the accompanying information in respect of bargaining unit employees at McClean Lake.
2.	Article 7.3: Where an employee has been specifically hired for work at the McClean Lake mine site but for training purposes is assigned to the Cluff Lake mine site, the Union dues in respect of that employee will be remitted with the Cluff Lake mine site remittances in so long as the employee is employed at the Cluff Lake mine site.
3.	Article 8.1: There shall be a separate grievance committee at each of the two (2) mine sites with representation from the three (3) Departments referred to in the Article.
76
4.	Article 8.2: There shall be a separate Occupational Health and Safety Committee at each of the two (2) mine sites with representatives from the three (3) Departments referred to in the Article.
5.	Article 8.3: There shall be one (1) negotiating committee with representation from each of the two (2) mine sites provided however that the maximum number of members as recognized or attending negotiating meetings shall be as set forth in the Article.
6.	Article 9.1: Seniority will be defined as continuous service with the Company since the last date of hire at the mine site where the employee is employed.
7.	Article 9.2: Seniority may be exercised only within the employee’s Department at the mine site where the employee is employed.
8.	Article 9.4: An employee who has been specifically hired for work at the McClean Lake site, but who for training purposes is assigned to the Cluff Lake mine site shall not accumulate seniority at the Cluff Lake mine site. Such an employee when he/she commences employment at the McClean mine site shall for seniority purposes be credited on the McClean Lake seniority list with all time worked at the Cluff Lake mine site.
9.	Article IO: There will be recognition of Surface Lease Agreements at both mine sites. Notwithstanding anything herein or otherwise which may suggest the contrary, it is agreed that in respect of all matters which relate to seniority (including employment and employment related matters) at McClean Lake or Cluff Lake, the Collective Agreement’s provisions are subject to the respective Surface Lease Agreements and/or the Human Resources Development Agreements and/or any agreements with Government which relates to employment and employment matters. The Surface Lease shall prevail over the Human Resources Development Agreement in the event of conflict between those documents.
10 Article 11.0: Jobs will be posted and filled on a sitewide application basis. This Article will be applied to reflect the foregoing. An employee at one mine site may not exercise ortransferhis/her seniorityto the other mine
77
site, but an employee at a mine site who is offered and accepts employment as a newly hired employee at the other mine site, shall retain his/her service time with the Company only for any of the following applicable purposes:
Article 20.0 Relative to Classification assignment and progression on the wage schedule Article 21.3	Vacations/General Holidays
Article 27.	Employee Benefits and Retirement
Plan
Memorandum of Agreement Re: Vacation Bonus
11.	Article 13:Lay-off and recalls will apply on an individual mine site basis, and departmental basis at each mine site.
12.	Article 14: This article shall be deemed to apply with respect to each mine site and without restricting the generality of the foregoing and the percentage identified in Article 14.6 shall apply at each site individually.
13.	Article 21: All provisions with respect to vacations including scheduling shall be deemed to be on an individual mine site basis.
14.	General: Any conflict between anything contained in this Supplementary Agreement and anything contained in the Collective Agreement shall be resolved on the basis of that which is contained in this Supplementary Agreement.
This Supplementary Agreement shall be binding upon the parties in so long as the Collective Agreement is binding upon these parties.
Signed at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 22nd day of June, 1999.
FOR COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
B. Hickie	E.	Doell	D. Greyeyes	H.	Piercy
D.	Seright	L.	Buckley	J. Corman
FOR COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA - LOCAL 48-S
G. Steininger	T.	Aubichon	A. Goodwin	K.	Greenaway
M. Dyck	A. Dreher	E. Lidguerre
78
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as “the Company”)
■ and •
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 48-S (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
RE: VACATION BONUS
It is agreed that the following vacation bonus provision as had been set forth in Article 21.5 between these parties, shall continue to apply to Cluff Lake employees who were in the employ of the Company as of April 28, 1994.
S*
After the completion of each complete four (4) years of continuous service (7,084 hours worked), an employee shall be granted a vacation bonus based on seven (7) days’ pay at regular rate.
Where an employee during any applicable complete four (4) year period works less than 7,084 hours, the employee shall receive a vacation bonus, but the employee’s bonus pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during such period. The vacation bonus shall be paid upon completion of each complete four (4) year period.
Where an employee has qualified for the vacation bonus as provided herein, the employee may request that the said vacation bonus be paid at a time to coincide with the employee’s vacation.
This memorandum of agreement shall be binding upon the parties in so long as the Collective Agreement is binding upon these parties.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 22nd day of June, 1999.
FOR COGEMA RESOURCES INC. FOR COMMUNICATIONS,
ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA - LOCAL 48-S
B. Hickie
M. Dyck
79
DELIVERED BY HAND
June 21, 1999
Mr.Murray Dyck	- and
President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, Local 48-S CluffLakeSK
Gentlemen:
RE: Articles 34 and 35 o f
Collective Agreement
During negotiations for a new collective agreement the parties engaged in discussions relative to Articles 34 and 35 of the collective agreement.
During those discussions the Company representative made certain observations relative to those Articles. Those observations are as follows:
Article34 - Contracting-out
The company re-aftinns its comments that before contracting-out work of ^ a significant nature, that its representatives will advise the Union as to the nature of the work it contemplates contracting-out.
The foregoing shall apply only where there are bargaining unit employees on lay-off (retaining recall rights), sufficient in number and qualifications, such that there would be a reasonable expectation they could perform the work economically and expeditiously if afforded an opportunity to do so.
This undertaking does not limit the company rights as set forth in this Article or otherwise.
Article 35 -Work bv Supervisors
The company re-affirms that the duties of supervisor are primarily supervisory in nature.
The intention is that Supervisors perform bargaining unit work only in cases where the circumstances are such that the supervisor deems it is necessary to do so.
The company undertakes to remind supervisors as to the provisions and limitations set forth in Article 35.
We believe the foregoing summarizes the essentials of our discussions relative to those Articles,
Yours truly,
B. Hickie
Manager, Human Resources BH:jy
cc: Mr. GordonH. Sieiningcr
National Representativc-CEP Union And: All Members of Unions Negotiating Committee
80
Mr. Keith Greenaway Vice-president Communications. Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, Local 48-S McClean Lake SK
SUBJECT INDEX
Article Page
AD & D Insurance........................... 27.2.4	45
Annual Vacation................................ 21	35
Apprenticeship................................. 29	49
Arbitration.................................... 16	28
Benefits....................................... 27	43
Boiler Ticket Premium.....................36.1 (f)	60
Boot Allowance.............................36.1(b)	58
Bulletin Boards ............................... 30	53
Bumping Rights............................... 13.8	21
Call Out....................................... 32	55
Check-Off........................................7	9
Clothes - Safety............................. 28.4	49
Common-Law Defined........................... 26.3	42
Contracting Out..............................   34	56
Crown Witness.................................. 25	41
Dental Plan.................................27.2.5	45
Discrimination...................................2	5
Dues (Union).....................................7	9
Duration of Contract........................... 37	61
Discharge/Dismissal from Company............. 15.8	26
Education Leave................................ 24	40
Flight Delays.................................31.3	54
Force Majeure................................ 31.5	55
Funeral Leave.................................. 26	41
General Holidays .............................21.5	36
General Holiday Pay...........................21.6	36
Grievance Definition......................... 15.1	24
Grievance Procedure.......................... 15.5	25
Health and Safety.............................. 28	48
Hours of Work.................................. 18	30
Immediate Family............................. 26.2	42
Job Classification............................. 20	33
Job Posting.................................. 11.2	16
Job Transfers.................................. 11	16
Journeyman (Ticketed)........................20.1C	35
Jury Duty...................................... 25	41
Layoff......................................... 13	20
Lead Hand Premium.........................36.1 (c)	59
Leave of Absence............................... 22	38
81
Life Insurance ..............................27.2.3
Long Term Disability.........................27.2.2
Lunch-Overtime................................ 19.4
Lunch Period.................................. 18.4
Management Rights.................................4
Medical Certificate..............................33
Medical Insurance............................27.2.6
Membership ...................................... 6
Multi-Skill Premium............................36.1	(e)
Negotiating Committee.......................... 8.3
Night Shift Premium........................36.1 (d)
Normal Work Week.............................. 18.3
Northern Preference............................. 10
No Strikes/No Lockouts........................ 17.1
Non-Ticketed Job Class........................ 20.9
Occupational Health & Safety....................8.2
Overtime........................................ 19
Personal Leave...................................22
Power Engineer Ticket Premium..............36.1 (h)
Power Engineer Training Certification Program ...29A
Premiums and Allowances..........................36
Probation.......................................9.4
Promotions ..................................... 11
Progressions .............................20.6-20.7
-	Mine........................Appendix B. 1
-	Mill.............................Appendix	B.2
-	Mine and Mill MaintenanceAppendix.....B.3
-	General Services.................Appendix	B.4
Recall........................................ 13.4
Recognition - Union...............................5
Regular Rate...................................3 A
Reinstatement................................. 15.9
Rest Breaks................................... 18.5
Retirement Plan..............................27.2.8
Retirement Plan........................Appendix C
Safety...........................................28
Seniority - Definition..........................9.1
- List...............................9.7
Severance Pay............................... 13.2A
Shift Overlap Premium..........................36.1	(d)
Shift Schedule Change......................... 18.3
Sick Leave - Short Term Disability ..........27.2.1
Split Shift Premium........................36.1 (g)
Stewards....................................... 8.5
45 44
32 31
7
56
46 9
59
11
59 30
15
30 34 10
31 38
60 50
57 13
16
33
65
66
67
68 20
8 6
27
31
47 69
48
13
14 22
59 30 43
60 11
82
Supplementary Agreement.......Re: McClean Lake
Suspension................................. 15.8
Suspension of Operations Cluff Lake:
Severance.............Memorandum	of Agreement
Employment OpportunitiesMemorandum of Agreement
Technological Change......................... 14
Temporary Employee......................... 12.2
Term Employee.............................. 12.1
Tool Allowance..........................36.1 (a)
Transfers.................................... 11
Transportation - Delays.................31.3-31.4
Union Activity................................ 5
Union Dues - Checkoff..........................7
Union Leave...................................23
Union Membership...............................6
Vacation Bonus........Memorandum	of Agreement
Vacation Entitlement........................21.3
Vacation Pay................................21.4
Vacation Pay.......... Memorandum	of Agreement
Vacation Scheduling........................ 21.7
Vacation Shutdown...........................21.8
Vacation Days: Waiver...............Appendix D
Visioncare................................27.2.7
Voluntary Termination........................9.6
Wage Schedule.......................Appendix A
Weekly Indemnity Rate.....................27.2.1
Work by Supervisor............................35
W(»k Day................................... 18.2
Year of Service.............................21.4
76
26
83
WWVi|kO\i-‘-t‘NlWWslww«J	t_/i >—» <_/i >—* *—• fO OO —J
OO'-lWN)-^--^'“'J'-)tOC\ij\v0'O\0'O004^ON'J(Xi00b0OUl
October7,1999 11:29	WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT 0012505	Page1of1
JUR‘ •>
FED	X
PROV
PSSRA
'ION
AGREEM. EFF. DATE: AGREEM, EXP. DATE: NO. OF EMPLOYEES:
SIC: 057
1999/07/08
2002/05/31
270
SETTLEMENT DATE: WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE: WAGE REOPENER DATE: STAGE OF SETTLEMENT: DUR. OF NEGOTIATION:
COMPANY:	Cogema Resources Inc.
UNION:	Communications, Energy and Papetworkers Union of Canada
1999/06/22
1998/06/01
B
1
LOCATION:	Cluff Lake, Sask.
COLA:	£ NONE Q DELETED Q EXISTS Q INACTIVE
COMMENTS:
OCCUP.:	Job Class-level5B
HOURS WORKED: PREV. NEG. BASE RATE: DATE	RATE
I 1999/07/08	16.220
1771
15.450 + COLA FOLD-IN AMT: %	DATE	RATE
4.98	I 2000/06/01	16.630
%
2.53
= 15.450 DATE I 2001/06/01
RATE
17.050
%
2.53	|
Lump sum payments	$1,000 to $1,500, depending on classification.
Wage increases	1999/07/08 - 5%, 2000/06/01 - 2.5%, 2001/06/01 - 2.5%
CARRY-OVER FLOAT DATE AMOUNT
CPI TYPE
PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION ***
FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT
(Y, N cr blank)
DATE AMOUNT DATE AMOUNT DATE AMOUNT DATE AMOUNT
*** CURRENT COLA INFORMATION***
# OF CALCS	COMP, FQ

PP # 470026
Cogema Resources Inc. - 306-343-4596 - Nancy Lochner
Will send RRSP plan and Group plans
Diana Foley Nov. 10/99
October7, 1999 09:18	WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT 0012505	Page/of/
FED
PROV
PSSRA
SIC: 057
COMPANY:
UNION:
ON	AGREEM. EFF. DATE:	1999/07/08
AGREEM. EXP. DATE:	2002/05/31
NO. OF EMPLOYEES:	270
Cogema Resources Inc.
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada
SETTLEMENT DATE: WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE: WAGE REOPENER DATE: STAGE OF SETTLEMENT: DUR. OF NEGOTIATION:
LOCATION:	Cluff Lake, Sask.
COLA:	£ NONE
COMMENTS:
Q DELETED Q EXISTS Q INACTIVE
OCCUP.:
Job Class- level 5B
HOURS WORKED: PREV. NEG. BASE RATE: DATE	RATE
| 1999/07/08	16.220
1771
15.450 + COLA FOLD-IN AMT: %	DATE RATE
4.98 I 2000/06/01 \ 16.630
Lump sum payments Wage increases
$1,000 to $1,500, dependingon c Fication. 1999/07/08 - 5%, 2000/00/01 - 2.‘ Sp01/06/01 - 2.5% / /
CARRY-OVER FLOAT
DATE AMOUNT
CPI TYPE
1999/06/22 •1«997!57reS8-

*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION ***
FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT /J	(Y, N or blank)
date /Amount /; date amount date amount date amount
CURRENT POLA INFORMATION ***
# OF CALC0	COMP. FQ
X
\^cA Retirement Income
Eligibility
All full-time, permanent employees will be required to participate in the plan after three months of employment.
„ Contributions
.^""You will be required to contribute hourly by payroll \ deductions, 4.16% of regular earnings. The company will contribute an additional amount equal to 3.81% of your regular earnings.
Effective June 1, 2000 your contribution will increase to 4.5% of your regular earnings and the company will contribute 100% of your contributions.
1 ' Effective June 1, 2001 your contribution will increase to 5% of your regular earnings and the company will contribute 100% of your contribution.
Note: The company’s contributions are 100% locked in until your termination, retirement, or upon your death. Your contributions in an amount equal to the company’s contributions will also be locked in until your termination, retirement or upon your death. However, you are able to withdraw any of your own contributions in excess of the company’s contributions. The plan allows for two free withdrawals/transfers out of the plan each calendaryear after which a $25 charge will be levied.
Termination
Should you terminate your employment your contributions and the company's contributions on your behalf (net of expenses) will be refunded to you. Upon termination it is not necessary to ask for a refund of contributions, you may leave your total contributions in your individual account as long as you wish. If the refund is taken it will be taxed as income in that year. If you transfer the funds directly into another Registered Retirement Savings Plan, the sum transferred will not be taxed under present legislation.
Death Benefits
Should you die before retirement your contributions and the company's contributions (net of expenses) will be refunded to your named beneficiary. Your beneficiary may accept the proceeds in a lump sum or in the form of an annuity.
Retirement Benefits
Your contributions and the company's contributions are invested. At retirement some of the options available to you are as follows:
•	purchase of an annuity;
•	have the funds transferred to a RRSP outside the group plan;
•	have the funds transferred to a Registered Retirement Income Fund (RRIF) account.
If you require assistance regarding the options available, contact the Human Resources Department prior to your retirement.
Individual Counselling
If you have individual questions regarding plan investments or financial planning, you can contact your designated representative in Saskatoon.
08/99
Income Protection
DISABILITY BENEFITS Eligibility
As a permanent full-time employee you are enrolled when you have completed three months of continuous service.
WEEKLY INCOME
If you are disabled and unable to work as a result of an illness or a non-occupational injury you are eligible for weekly income payments subject to the following conditions:
-	if a disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day you are unable to report to work to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period of disability.
• if a disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable after a 2 day waiting period including the first complete scheduled work day you are unable to report to work to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period of disability.
-	the weekly income benefit will be seventy (70%) per cent of current weekly earnings subject to certain maximums per "tour of work" in respect of a normal work week (77 hours).
-	the current maximum is $ 1,100 for each tour of work. Effective June 1, 2000 the maximum will be $1,125 for each tour of work.
-	the weekly income benefit is reduced by loss of income benefits under a government automobile insurance plan, to the extent permitted by law.
" after the waiting period, a disability is considered a recurrence if it arises from the same disease or injury and starts before you have completed two weeks of continuous full-time re-employment.
To receive benefits you must provide medical evidence of
your non-occupational injury or illness immediately upon
becoming eligible for coverage.
Exclusions
No benefits will be paid for:
■	any period of employment with another employer or personal business.
' any treatment rendered for cosmetic purposes only.
■	any period in which you are not participating or cooperating in a reasonable and customary treatment program.
-	a period of confinement in a prison or similar institution.
' disability arising from war, insurrection or voluntary participation in a riot.
or during any scheduled lay-off, vacation or leave of absence.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
If your disability continues and you are still unable to work after 105 days, you will qualify for Long Term Disability Insurance provided proper medical documentation is provided to and approved by the insurer. You will receive 70% of regular monthly earnings to a monthly maximum benefit of $9,000. Evidence of insurability is required on amounts in excess of $6,000. Payments are based on your salary at the time of disability. Benefits will continue until the earlier of recovery or age 65.
The insurance is designed to replace an income when no other source is available. For this reason, payments are reduced by the amount of any disability benefit you might receive from sources such as the Canada Pension Plan or Workers' Compensation. The benefit will also be reduced when income from all sources exceeds 80% of your regular monthly earnings.
All sources of income include:
-	payments from this plan.
-	payments from any other disability insurance or retirement plan available through employment.
-	payments from Workers' Compensation and Canada Pension Plan.
-	payments from automobile insurance benefits where permitted by law.
- payments from any employer but excluding 50% of earnings from a RehabilitationProgram.
Long Term Disability Conditions
To receive benefits you must provide medical evidence of your inability to perform your job; the duties you regularly performed for your employer before your disability started. You must remain under a doctor's care all the time you are receiving these benefits, although not necessarily in hospital.
After receiving disability benefits for 24 months your medical status will be reviewed and benefit payments can only be continued if you are unable to do any work for which you are reasonably qualified by virtue of education, training or experience.
Rehabilitation
Should you take on rehabilitative employment at a time when you are receiving Long Term Disability benefits, arrangements may be made to continue partial benefit payments to improve your financial position while on the rehabilitative program.
The balance of earnings received from an approved rehabilitation plan or program that are not considered under the co-ordination provision are used to reduce a person's income benefit only if those earnings, your disability income and the income described under the offset and co-ordination provisions would exceed 100% of your monthly predisability earnings. If it does, your income benefit is reduced by the amount in excess of 100%.
Exclusions
No benefits will be paid for:
-	disability arising from war, insurrection or voluntary participation in a riot.
-	any 12 month period in which you do not reside in Canada for at least six months.
■ the scheduled duration of a leave of absence or lay-off,
' any period after you fail to participate or co-operate in a rehabilitation plan or program that has been recommended or approved by the insurer.
* a disability arising from a disease or injury for which you obtained medical care before you became insured unless your disability starts after:
-	you have been continuously insured for one year; or
-	you have not had medical care for the disease or injury for a continuous period of 90 days ending on or after the date your insurancetook effect.
-	a period of confinement in a prison or similar institution.
-	substance abuse unless you are participating in a recognized substance withdrawal program.
" any period in which you do not participate or co-operate in a reasonable and customary treatment program.
Recurrence
After the waiting period, a disability .is considered a recurrence if it arises from the same disease or injury and starts
-	within six months after the previous disability ends; or
-	within 24 months after the end of an approved comprehensive rehabilitation program. Rehabilitation plans are not considered under this 24 month provision,
CANADA PENSION PLAN
The Canada Pension Plan provides disability benefits to qualified contributors. The benefit is based on a flat amount plus a percentage of the contributor's pension and an additional amount for the disabled contributor's children.
Any benefits payable in respect of yourself from the Canada Pension Plan established at the time of disability would reduce the amount payable by the Long Term Disability Plan. You must apply for the Canada Pension Plan.
Any future increase you would be entitled to due to indexing of the Canada Pension Plan benefit would not further reduce the amount of Long Term Disability benefits.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
Benefits are payable up to 90% of your maximum insurable earnings. The Long Term Disability benefit will be reduced by the above benefits. If Workers' Compensation pays a higher benefit than the Long Term Disability Plan, you will receive the greater amount.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT
If you are pregnant you may be eligible for maternity benefits.
General
This booklet describes the principal features of the group benefit plan sponsored by your employer, but Group Policy Nos. 42101 and 44484 issued by Great-West Life are the governing documents. If there are variations between the information in the booklet and the provisions in the policies, the policies will prevail. Contact your Human Resources Department if you require any additional information.
This booklet contains important information and should be kept in a safe place known to you and your family.
09/99
\2^ Death Benefits
BASIC LIFE Eligibility
As a permanent employee you are enrolled for basic life when you have completedthree months continuous service.
Schedule of Insurance
2 times annual earnings (minimumbenefit $30,000 to a nonevidence maximum of $300,000 and an overall maximum with approved evidence of $500,000) to age 65; 1 times annual earnings for employees over 65 and under age 70. Coverage terminates at age 70, or if earlier, upon your death, termination or retirement.
DEPENDENT LIFE
Eligible dependents of permanent employees are eligible immediately for dependent life when you have completed three months continuous service. Covered dependents are:
-	your legal or common-law spouse.
-	your unmarried children
-	under age 21 or under age 25 if they are full-time students.
-	under age 21 are not covered if they are working more than 30 hours a week, unless they are full-time students.
-	who are incapable of supporting themselves because of physical or mental disorder are covered without age limit if the disorderbegins before they turn 21, or while they are students under 25, and the disorder has been continuous since that time.
Schedule of Insurance
Spouse	$5,000
Each Child	$2,000
Terminates upon your retirement, death or termination, or when your dependents are no longer eligible.
OPTIONAL LIFE
You and your spouse may each elect up to $200,000 of life insurance in multiples of $ 10,000. Coverage is subject to the satisfactory submission of evidence of insurability.
Your coverage ceases upon attainment of age 65 or upon retirement, termination, or death, whichever first occurs. Your spouse's coverage ceases upon the earlier of the following dates: the spouse attains age 65, you attain age 65, or upon your retirement, termination or death.
Conversion (Basic Life, Dependent Life, Optional Life)
Upon termination of employment, you and your spouse have the privilege of converting life coverage to an individual policy. Evidence of insurability is not required for conversion of insurance. Conversion without evidence of insurability can be done provided application is made, and first premium is paid in full, within 31 days of the date of your termination of employment.
Disability
Should you become totally disabled while insured and before reaching the age of 65, and such disability continues without interruption for at least six months, your life coverage will remain in force without further premium payment. After you have been totally disabled for six months, you should submit the appropriate claim forms to the insurance company. Your premiums will be waived upon satisfactory proof of your disability but only until you have reached age 65, The application must be made within 12 months of becoming disabled. Proof of continued disability may be required each year.
Payments of Benefits
If you die while insured, your life benefits will be paid to the beneficiary you have designated under this policy. You may name anyone you wish as your beneficiary and you may change your beneficiary at any time.
If a covered dependent dies while insured, you will be paid the amount of dependent life benefits.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT Eligibility
As a permanent employee you are enrolled immediately upon commencing work.
Principal Sum- $ 50,000
The accidental death and dismemberment insurance covers you for injuries or death caused in an accident anywhere in the world - 365 days-a-year - 24 hours per day. If within one year from the date of accident such injuries shall result in any one of the following specific losses, the insurer will pay the benefit specified as applicable thereto, provided however, that not more than one (the larger) of such benefits shall be paid with respect to injuries resulting from the same accident.
Loss Schedule
For loss of:	The Amount Payable will be:
Life...........................................The	Principal
Sight of Both Eyes.................. The	Principal
One Hand and
Sight of One Eye...............................The	Principal
One Foot and
Sight of One Eye...............................The	Principal
Speech and Hearing in
Both Ears......................................The	Principal
Sight of One Eye..............2/3 ofthe Principal
Speech or Hearing in
Both Ears.....................2/3 of the Principal
Hearing in One Ear............1/6 ofthe Principal
All Toes of One Foot..........1 /8 of the Principal
Sum
Sum
Sum
Sum
Sum
Sum
Sum
Sum
Sum
For Loss of or Loss of Use of:		
Both Hands or Both Feet				The Principal Sum
One Hand and One Foot				The Principal Sum
One Arm or One Leg		...3/4 oft he Principal Sum
One Hand or One Foot	 Thumb and Index Finger of the Same Hand or At Least		...2/3 oft he Principal Sum
Four Fingers of One Hand			...1/3 of the Principal Sum
For Paralysis of: All four limbs		
(Quadriplegia)	 Both lower limbs		2 times the Principal Sum
(Paraplegia)	 One arm and one leg on the same side of		2 times the Principal Sum
the body (Hemiplegia)			2 times the Principal Sum
“Loss” means, with regard to:		
Hands and Feet:	Actual severance through or above the wrist or anklejoint;	
Arms and Legs:	Actual severance through or above the elbow or knee joint;	
Thumbs and Fingers:	Actual severance through or above the metacarpophalangealjoints;	
Toes:	Actual severance through or above the metatarsophalangealjoints;	
Eyes:	Entire and irrecoverable loss of sight;	
Speech and Hearing:	Entire	and irrecoverable loss of
	Speech and/or Hearing;	
Paralysis:	Total and irreversible Paralysis;	
Loss of Use:	Total and irrecoverable Loss of Use. The Loss of Use must be continuous for twelve (12) months after which the benefit is payable, provided the nerve damage is determined to be permanent.	
Exposure and Disappearance
If loss results from unavoidable exposure to the elements, such loss will be payable under the terms of the Policy.
The insurer will presume accidental loss of life if your body has not been found within one year after having been involved in the disappearance, sinking or wrecking of the vehicle in which you were an occupant at the time of the accident.
Waiver of Premium
Should you become totally disabled from an accident or sickness and waiver of premium has been accepted under the Group Life Insurance Plan, coverage shall continue as long as total disability continues, until the earlier of: attainment of age 65, termination of eligibility or termination of the master policy.
Repatriation Benefit
If you were to lose your life because of a covered accident occurring at least 50 kilometres from your permanent residence, the insurer would pay up to $10,000.00 for the preparation and transportation of your body back to the city of your permanent residence.
Rehabilitation Benefit
If you were paid for a loss described in the Loss Schedule and you needed special training to allow you to work in an occupation that you would not have engaged in except for your injuries, the insurer will pay for that training, under these conditions:
Reasonable and necessary expenses (other than travelling, clothing and ordinary living expenses), up to $10,000.00, occurring within three (3) years from the date of the accident.
Spousal Retraining Benefit
If you were to lose your life because of a covered accident, the policy pays for a formal occupational training program for your spouse so that your spouse can gain active employment.
Payment will be made for expenses incurred for an approved and mutually agreed upon formal occupational training program, to a maximum of $10,000. Expenses must be incurred within 3 years from the date of the accident.
Education Benefit
If you have dependent children, the policy pays tuition fees in case of your accidental death. To qualify, an eligible dependent child must be enrolled as a full-time student in any institution of higher learning beyond the 12th grade level at the time of your death or must enroll within one year following your death.
Payment is equal to the lesser of three percent (3%) of your principal sum or $5,000.00 per year per child for a maximum of four (4) consecutive years, if the covered dependent child remains enrolled as a full-time student.
The insurer must receive proof of the covered dependent child's attendance at an institution of higher learning for each year that a payment is to be made for each child. If your dependent children are not eligible for the Education Benefit, yourprincipal sum will be increased by $1,500.00.
"Institution of higher learning" includes any University, CEGEP, Trade School or College, as defined where you live.
For the purpose of this benefit, "Dependent Child" means natural born children, legally adopted children, step-children, common-law children for whom you have legal custody or any other children dependent upon yourself for support and maintenance in a parent-child relationship as defined under the Income Tax Act, where such children are unmarried and under twenty-five (25) years of age.
Day Care Benefit
If you have dependent children, the policy pays day-care expenses in case of your accidental death. To qualify, an eligible dependent child must eitherbe under age 13, enrolled in a day-care centre or enrolled in a day-care centre within 90 days of the date of the accident.
Payment is equal to the lessor of three percent (3%) of your principal sum or $3,000 per year per child for a maximum of four (4) consecutive years, if the dependent child remains enrolled in day care.
The insurer must receive proof of the dependent child's enrolment in a day care for each year that a payment is to be made for each child. If your dependent children are not eligible for the day care benefit, your principal sum will be increased by $1,500.00
Family Transportation Benefit
If, while on a trip you are confined as an in-patient in a hospital for injuries and are under the regular care and attendance of a legally qualified physician or surgeon other than yourself, and require the personal attendance of a member of the immediate family as recommended by your attending physician or surgeon, the insurer will pay for the expense incurred by the member for transportation by the most direct route by a licensed common carrier to you, but not to exceed an amount of $10,000.00. If transportation occurs in a vehicle or device other than one operated under a licence for the conveyance of passengers for hire, then reimbursement of transportation expenses will be limited to a maximum of $0.20 per kilometre travelled.
"Hospital" means an institution licensed as a hospital, which is open at all times for the care and treatment of sick and injured persons, has a staff of one (1) or more Physicians available at all times and which continuously provides twenty-four (24) hour nursing service by graduate registered Nurses. It provides organized facilities for diagnostics and surgery, is an active treatment hospital and not primarily a clinic, rest home, nursing home, convalescent hospital or similar establishment. For the purpose of this definition, Physicians and Nurses will not exclude a Member of the Immediate Family.
"Regular Care and Attendance" means medical treatment to the extent necessary under existing standards of medical practice for the condition causing hospital confinement.
Seat Belt Rider
When an injury to you results in a payment being made under the Loss Schedule, the benefit amount payable will be increased by 10%, provided that:
a)	such loss occurs while you are a passenger or driver of a private passenger type vehicle; and
b)	the seat belt is properly fastened; and
c)	verification of the actual use of the seat belt must be part of the official report of the accident or certified by the investigating officer.
The driver of the vehicle must hold a current and valid driver's license of a rating authorizing him/her to operate such vehicle and neither be intoxicated nor under the influence of drugs, unless such drugs are taken as prescribed by a physician, at the time of the accident. "Intoxicated" and "under the influence of drugs" are as defined by the local jurisdiction where the accident occurs.
"Seat Belt" means those belts that form a restraint system and includes infant and child restraint systems when properly used with a seat belt.
Home Alteration and Vehicle Modification
If you received a payment under the Loss Schedule and were subsequently required (due to the cause for which payment under the Loss Schedule was made) to use a wheelchair to be ambulatory, then this benefit will pay, upon presentation of proof of payment:
A. the one-time cost of alterations, to your residence, to make it wheel-chair accessible and habitable; and
B.	the one-time cost of modifications, necessary to your motor vehicle, to make the vehicle accessible or driveable for you.
Benefit payments herein will not be paid unless:
(a)	home alterations are made by a person or persons experienced in such alterations and recommended by a recognized organization, providing support and assistance to wheel-chair users; and
(b)	vehicle modifications are carried out by a person or persons with experience in such matters and modifications are approved by the Provincial vehicle licensing authorities.
The maximum payable under both Items A and B combined will not exceed $10,000.00.
Conversion Provision
You may convert to an individual plan of insurance, similar to this plan, subject to the terms and conditions of the insurer's individual program. The maximum principal sum under the converted policy will be $200,000.00 and the rates will be those in effect at the time of conversion. This conversion must take place within 31 days of termination of coverage under the group policy.
To Whom Are Benefits Paid?
Your accidental death benefit will be paid to the beneficiary designated under your applicable Group Life Insurance Plan or to your estate if no such designation is made. Any other benefits are payable to you and are described in the Loss Schedule as a percentage of the principal sum.
Exclusions
The insurance does not cover losses caused in any way from suicide, or any suicide attempt; intentionally self-inflicted injuries; war, declared or undeclared; full-time active service in the armed forces of any country; or travel or flight in any vehicle or device for aerial aviation, other than as provided in the following Description of Hazards.
Limited Air Travel
The insurer will provide insurance against the following hazards (subject to the conditions, limitations and exclusions of the policy):
Air travel coverage is limited. It only applies while riding as a passenger in or on, boarding or alighting from or being struck by a transport aircraft of the Armed Forces of Canada or a similar service of another country, or on any civil aircraft provided that it is not owned, leased or operated by an insured employee or a member of his/her household. The aircraft must be (1) operated by a duly licensed pilot, and (2) have a current unrestricted airworthiness certificate.
Coverage for pilot or crew member is not provided.
Types of Aircrafts
With regard to aviation exposure, the airlines used are as follows:
- Air Sask	(regularly scheduled flights)
- AirTindi	(chartered and regularly
Athabasca Airways Courtesy Air Contact Air
scheduled flights)
(regularly scheduled flights) (chartered)
(chartered)
(chartered)
(chartered)
NorthemDene Air Services (chartered)
Points North Air Services (chartered and regularly
Claim Procedures
To make a claim under this coverage, written notice of the accident must be given to the insurer within 30 days of the accident and written proofs must be submitted within 90 days of the date of the accident. The insurer will provide the necessary claim forms as well as instructions covering other requirements that may aid in a prompt handling of the claim.
If the insurer does not receive the required notice and proofs of loss, the claim may not be considered after the 90 day period has expired, unless there is good reason for the delay. In no event will a claim be considered after one year from the date of the accident if the insurer has not been notified and the necessary forms not completed and submitted to the insurer.
PENSION PLAN
Should you die before retirement your contributions and the company's contributions(net of expenses) will be refunded to your named beneficiary.
CANADA PENSION PLAN
The Canada Pension Plan provides death benefits for all contributors. They include:
a)	a small lump-sum payment to your estate.
b)	monthly payments to a spouse who is over 35 or who has dependent children or is disabled.
c)	monthly pensions for dependent children.
Westwind Aviation
scheduled flights) (chartered)
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
If your death is the result of a job related accident or illness, Workers' Compensation provides death benefits for your survivors. These include:
a)	a lump-sum payment toward the cost of the funeral expenses.
b)	a lump-sum payment to your dependent spouse and a monthly pension to your dependent spouse.
c)	a monthly pension for each dependent child under 18 (continuing to age 21 while the child is regularly attending school) and monthly pensions for a disabled dependent child, regardless of age.
GENERAL,
The life coverage mentioned above is with the Great-West Life Assurance Company.
The accidental death and dismemberment coverage is with the Unum Life Insurance Company.
This booklet describes the principal features of the group benefit plan sponsored by your employer, but Group Policy Nos. 42101 and 42245 issued by Great-West Life for life, dependent life and optional life coverages and Group Policy No. GSR 4373 issued by Unum Life Insurance Company of America for accidental death and dismemberment are the governing documents. If there are variations between the information in the booklet and the provisions of the policies, the policies will prevail. Contact your Human Resources Department if you require any additional information.
This booklet contains important information and should be kept in a safe place known to you and your family.
08/99
Medical, Dental and Vision Expenses
/
Eligibility
As a permanent employee you and your eligible dependents are enrolled when you have completed three months continuous service.
Eligible dependents are:
-	your legal or common-law spouse.
-	your unmarried children
-	under age 21 or under age 25 if they are fill-time students.
-	under age 21 are not covered if they are working more than 30 hours a week, unless they are full-time students.
-	who are incapable of supporting themselves because of physical or mental disorder are covered without age limit if the disorder begins before they turn 21, or while they are students under 25, and the disorder has been continuous since that time.
HOSPITAL
Should you incur hospital expenses above those paid by the provincial plan this plan will pay 100% of semi-private or private accommodation. The plan will also pay out-patient charges.
Should you incur emergency hospital expenses outside of Canada the maximum is unlimited.
If you or any of your dependents are confined in a convalescent hospital the plan will pay a maximum of $5,000 for room and board for any one calendar year, provided the confinement (1) is primarily for rehabilitative and/or convalescent care and (2) follows a 3 day confinement in a hospital as a registered bed-patient.
MEDICAL AND VISION EXPENSES
Covered Expenses
The following services and supplies are covered by
the plan to the extent that they are not covered under your
Provincial Plan. This Plan pays 80% of the following:
-	prescribed private duty nursing care by a registered nurse, provided the nurse is not a member of your family. Maximum benefit per individual is $10,000 per calendar year.
-	services of an osteopath, chiropractor, podiatrist, acupuncturist, dietician, social worker, physiotherapist, psychologist, naturopath or Christian Science practitioner. Maximum of $300 for each type of practitioner in a calendar year.
-	necessary ambulance service, including air, to and from the nearest hospital qualified to handle the case.
-	rental of durable medical or surgical equipment.
■ artificial limbs and eyes, crutches, splints, casts, trusses, and braces.
- addiction treatment centers provided the center provides a recognized substance abuse treatment program, is licensed to provide the program and satisfies the definition of hospital.
treatment by x-ray, radium and radio-active isotopes, oxygen and its administration, blood and blood transfusions.
one eye examination in any 12 consecutive months for dependent children or 24 months for other covered persons.
drugs and medicines including oral contraceptives, requiring the written prescription of a physician, surgeon or dentist and which are dispensed by a licensed -pharmacist. The drug maximum is $15,000 per person per calendar year. Covered expenses for drugs eligible under any government drug plan are limited to any deductible amount and co-insurance you are required to pay for yourself or your family.
- prescribed treatment by a registered masseur (maximum of $10 per visit and 12 visits per year).
hearing aids to a maximum benefit of $1,000 per 4 years.
diabetic supplies
cardiac rehabilitation prescribed by the attending physician within 6 months of the initial treatment. Maximum benefit of $300.
- chronic care provided during confinement in a hospital or nursing home or for nursing home care to a maximum of $25 per day.
myoelectric arms ($10,000 maximum per prosthesis), surgical bras up to twice per year, external breast prosthesis once a year, wheelchair ramp once in a person's lifetime with a maximum of $2,000 and wheelchairs, provided the wheelchairs are necessary to permit independent participation in the activities of daily living.
mechanical or hydraulic patient lifters once every five years with a maximum of $2,000 for each lifter.
incontinence supplies to a maximum of $1,000 per calendaryear.
smoking cessationproducts. Maximum benefit is $1,000 in an individual's lifetime.
custom-made foot orthotics and custom-fitted orthopaedic shoes ($300 maximum per calendar year).
prescribed treatment by a registered speech therapist (maximum of $ 100 per calendar year).
eyeglass frames and lenses or contact lenses selected in place of eyeglass frames and lenses (up to $150 per person) in any 24 month period.
The Plan pays 100% of the following:
■	dental treatment that is necessary to repair damage caused by accidental injury to natural teeth incurred within twelve months from the accident and commencing within 60 days from the accident (100% coverage).
- out-of-country emergency care provided it is required as a result of a medical emergency arising while outside Canada for vacation, business or education; and provided the person is covered by the governmenthealth plan in his or her home province (100% coverage).
■	the maximum amount payable is unlimited for outside of Canada, emergency hospital and/or doctor's expenses, ambulance service, employment of a registered nurse, rental of crutches and appliances or a hospital type bed, cost of splints, trusses, braces or physiotherapy when recommended by the attending physician, emergency dental accident expenses, and prescription drugs. Homeward carriage for burial is limited to a $2,000 maximum,
DENTAL
Payment of Benefits
\
Covered dental expenses are the reasonable charges which you as an employee are required to pay for the following services and supplies received by a covered family member for the necessary treatment of any non-occupational injury or diseases. However, any charges in excess of the amount specified for such services and supplies in the Saskatchewan dental fee guide will be disregarded. If alternate services may be performed for the treatment of a dental condition, the amount included as covered dental expenses shall not exceed the amount specified in such schedule for the least expensive service or supply, which, as determined by the insurance company, will produce a professionally adequate result. Reimbursement of covered expenses will be made in accordance with the current Saskatchewan dental fee guide in effect at the time the expenses are incurred.
The plan pays 100% of Routine Treatment expenses and 50% of Major Treatment and Orthodontic Treatment. The maximum the plan will pay in any one year is $1,250 for each insured family member for Routine and Major Treatment and an Orthodontic maximum of $1,250 per lifetime per dependent child who is at least 6 but not more than 18 years of age on the date the treatment commences.
Treatment Plan
Before your dentist starts a course of treatment, he/she will, upon request, prepare a "treatment plan" - a written report describing his/her recommendations as to necessary treatment and cost.
You will be required to submit a "treatment plan" to the insurance company before treatment commences, for any Routine or Major Treatment expected to cost more than $200, and for all Orthodontic Treatment. This enables the insurance company to determine in advance its share of the cost of the proposed treatment and thus allows you to know the extent of any part of the cost you will have to pay.
If you do not submit a "treatment plan" where required, you may find that your claim, or a portion of it, may not be covered.
NOTE: If the proposed course of treatment does not commence within 90 days, a new Treatment Plan will be required before benefits will be paid.
Orthodontic Treatment Only
Because orthodontic treatment is normally rendered over a long period, in calculating the insurance benefits such expenses are considered to be spread over the treatment period in the manner specified below, regardless of the way in which the orthodontist's bill is actually paid. The Orthodontic Limit is $1,250 per lifetime per eligible dependent child.
Single Charge Basis
If your orthodontist submits a cost estimate showing a single charge for the total treatment, then the single charge is divided by the number of months of the treatment period. This amount is then paid on a quarterly basis subject to the co-insurance.
Itemized Basis
If your orthodontist estimates a separate cost for initial appliances (e.g. braces) the first month's covered expense for orthodontia is considered to be:
1)	the estimated cost of these appliances, or
2)	25% of the total estimated orthodontic covered expense,
whichever is the smaller amount. The remainder of the orthodontic expenses are averaged over the remaining months of the treatment period.
Routine Treatment
Oral examinations and cleaning and scaling of teeth, provided that a period of at least six months has elapsed since the last such service was rendered.
Topical application of fluoride solutions.
Full mouth series of x-rays once every 24 months.
Bite-wing x-rays.
Extraction and alveolectomy at the time of tooth extraction. Dental surgery.
General anaesthesia and diagnostic x-ray and laboratory procedures required in relation to dental surgery.
Amalgam, silicate, acrylic and composite restorations.
Space maintainers for missing primary teeth and habitbreaking appliances.
Endodontics (root canal therapy).
Periodontal treatment.
Major Treatment
Crowns.
Dentures or bridgework. Certain restrictions apply. Initial appliances are covered only when they are required because of the extraction of one or more natural teeth after the person's coverage became effective. Replacement appliances are covered only when:
-	they are required because of the extraction of one or more natural teeth after the person's coverage became effective and the existing bridgework or dentures cannot be made serviceable. If they can, only the expense for the portion of the appliance that replaces the extracted teeth is covered.
-	the existing appliance is at least five years old and cannot be made serviceable.
' a permanent appliance is required to replace a temporary installation made after the person's coverage became effective.
• the replacement is required as a result of an initial placement of an opposing denture while covered.
■ the replacement is required as the result of an accidental injury while covered.
Denture repairs, relines and rebases.
Adjustments to existing dentures after the three month postinsertion care period.
Repair and recementing of crowns, inlays or bridgework.
Procedures involving the use of gold if treatment could not have been rendered at a lower cost by means of a reasonable substitute.
Emergency Treatment
/
Emergency dental care will be provided anywhere in the world. If, while you are travelling or on vacation outside of your province of residence, you require dental care as a result of an emergency, you are entitled to services of a duly qualified dentist in the event of such emergency, and will be reimbursed up to the amount that the plan would have paid had the servicesbeen rendered in your province of residence.
Excluded Services
1)	cosmetic dentistry.
2)	treatment covered by Workers' Compensation Board or publicly supported plans.
3)	charges for services commencing prior to date of coverage.
4)	charges for completing forms.
5)	oral hygiene instruction.
6)	treatment not approved by the Canadian Dental Association or which is experimental in nature.
7)	broken appointments.
8)	dentures which have been lost, mislaid or stolen. Submission of Claims
Charges to be submitted under the Medical, Dental or Vision Plans must be submitted no later than 15 months after the date the service was received.
Survivors' Benefit
In the event of your death, your spouse and/or eligible dependent children will have the Medical, Dental and Vision coverage continued for two years from the date of your death. Thereafter coverage ceases.
Disability Extension
In the event of your disability, Medical, Dental and Vision coverage will continue while receiving Weekly Income benefits and for up to two years while receiving Long Term Disabilitybenefits. Thereafter, coverage ceases.
General
This booklet describes the principal features of the group benefit plan sponsored by your employer, but Group Policy No, 42101 issued by Great-West Life is the governing document. If there are variations between the information in the booklet and the provisions of the policy, the policy will prevail. Contact your Human Resources Department if you require any additional information.
This booklet contains important information and should be kept in a safe place known to you and your family.
08/99 -