COLLE
3
r:~


i '.'Mi'i.O'l i. '» [
SO. c?-.
;
IRON ORE COMPANY
F CANADA
UNITED STEELWORKERS

LOCALS79S
iwaifjniiiwu'i
MEWFO^MJD&UBRADg
00139 (04)
CONTENTS
SUBJECT ARTICLE
PAGE
Arbitration..................
Authority ot the Union.......
Contracting out..............
Discharge cases..............
Duration of the agreement....
Grievance procedure..........
Headnotes....................
Holidays.....................
Hours of work and overtime pay
Leave of absence.............
Legal text...................
Letters of Understanding.....
Management Grievances........
Management Rights............
Notices......................
Preamble.....................
Probationary Employees.......
Recognition of the Union.....
Reporting and Call Back......
Safety & Health..............
Scope of the Agreement........
Seniority....................
Shift Premiums...............
Strikes and Lockouts..........
Vacation with Pay.............
Validity of the Agreement.....
Wages.........................
VIII.. XXII. XX....
X	...
XXVI
VII....
XXIV
XVI.	.
XI	..
XVII. XXV.
IX...
III	.
XIX..
I	...
V	....
IV	..
XIV.	. XVII
II	..
VI	...
XII.	... XXI..
XV.	... XXIII
XIII.	.
...39
.125
.119
...43
.127
...28
.127
...93
...47
..96
.127
.155
...42
...4
.117
...2
...10
...6
...79
....2
...11
.55
125
..82
.126
..56
I
APPENDIX	PAGE
Appendix "A” C.W.S....................................130
Appendix “B” Learner periods	.... ‘I 31
Appendix “C“ Consultative machinery.................‘I 37
Appendix “D” Contracting Out Requirement List.......138
Appendix “E” Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.L.A.)....139
Appendix “F" Welfare Plan.............................140
Appendix “F-1 "...Dental plan insurance...............141
Appendix “F-2”...Retirement Plan......................142
Appendix “G" Air Transportation.......................143
Appendix “H” Protecting Clothing & Equipment 144
Appendix “I" Technological Changes..................149
Appendix “J”....Employment Benefits &
Spouse or Family Status ... 150
Appendix "K”....Supplementary Unemployment
Benefit Plan..........................154
THIS AGREEMENT made this 6th day of January, 1994
BETWEEN
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA, a Corporation duly incorporated, hereinafter called «the Company))
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (Local 5795), a voluntary non-incorporated organization of employees hereinafter called «the Union))
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS by a certificate issued by the Newfoundland Labour Relations Board dated the 14th day of October 1959, the Union is certified as the bargaining agent for «a unit of employees of Iron Ore Company of Canada, Carol Project, comprising all hourly rated production and maintenance employees, except students, supervisors and those above the rank of supervisor)).
ItOUT
Mb! if
NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto mutually agree as follows
ARTICLE
PREAMBLE
1.01- The present Agreement is for the purpose of setting wage rates, hours of work and other working conditions as set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE
SCOPE OFTHE AGREEMENT
2.01	- The words «employee» (he or she) or ((employees)) wherever used in this Agreement shall mean respectively any employee or employees included in the unit of employees specified in the decision of the Newfoundland Labour Relations Board dated October 14th, 1959.
2.02	- The words «student» or «students» wherever used in this Agreement shall mean respectively any person or persons who have been admitted to a college or university and are employed by the Company during the regular
2 ^ :
holiday period of the institution to which they have been admitted for study.	,
3-1
2.03	al ■ Supervisory personnel and employees excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work on hourly-rated jobs where the effect is to deny an employee of the bargaining unit work for which he would otherwise be available. It is understood that the above mentioned excluded personnel will not perform the work of a regular employee of the bargaining unit except where such work arises:
2.03	al (i) - Due to the work being incidental to their duties.
2.03	a) [iil - In emergencies or where an absence would stop work sequences. These ((fill-ins» would necessarily be of short duration.
2.03	al [Nil - For experimental work or to instruct or train employees on new or changing operations.
If supervisory personnel or other employees excluded from the bargaining unit perform work in violation of this paragraph and the job classification and the work can reasonably be identified, the Company shall pay a grievor working in the same job classification, the applicable standard hourly wage rate for the time 3
involved or for four (4) hours, whichever is greater. Should the grievor be an employee who is working outside the job classification as specified above, then the employee working or available for work, with the least overtime in that job classification, should be paid as outlined above. The Union will be advised of such payment.
ARTCLE
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	- The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. The hiring of employees, the location of the plants, the direction of the working forces, the scheduling of working hours and production, the methods and processes used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, and the right to use improved or changed methods, machinery and equipment, and jurisdiction over all operations, plant machinery, tools and employees at its mines and plants are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company, except as specified by the terms of this Agreement.
4
3.02	- The Company has the right to make and alter from time to time reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees. New or modified rules and regulations of general application shall be published ten (10) days after being sent to the Union by registered mail. At the request of the Union, a meeting to explain and discuss these rules and regulations will be held no later than five (5) days before they are put into effect.
3.03	- The Union acknowledges that it is the function of the Company to promote, classify, train, test, transfer and schedule employees, and also the right of the Company to suspend, demote, discipline or discharge any employee for just and sufficient cause. Any exercise of the rights and functions specified in this paragraph and in Paragraph 3.02 in conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure set forth in Article VII and Article X.
5
RECOGNITION OI:THE UNION
4.01	■■ The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the barg;...............scribed.
4.02	- A , ,	3d by this Agreement
must pay dues as indicated in Paragraph 4.04 a) whether or not he wishes to become a member of the Union.	" —"
4.03	■■ The Company and the Union agree that no employee and no member of the family of any employee shall in any manner be discriminated against or coerced, restrained or unduly influenced on account of membership or nonmembership in any labour organization, or by reason of any activity or lack of activity in any labour organization, or by reason of race, creed, colour, sex, age, political or religious beliefs or personal prejudice. j
4.04	a) - The Company will deduct monthly from the earnings of each employee dues authorized by the constitution of the United Steelworkers of America and remit to the financial secretary of the Union by the 15th of the month following deduction.
6
4.04	b) - The Union agrees to indemnify the Company of any recourse in damages or otherwise against the Iron Ore Company of Canada for making the above deduction and payments during the term of this collective agreement,
4.1)	4 c) - Errors in deductions will be corrected on the next payroll. If the employee has terminated in the interim, the Company will be held responsible for reimbursing the correct dues for that employee to the Local.
4.1)	4 d) - New bargaining unit employees will sign an authorization for the deduction, as per the constitution of the United Steelworkers of America.
4.(14 e) - Each month the Company will furnish the Union with a list of employees who have moved in or out of the bargaining unit. Such list will include all pertinent data.
4.05	- There will be no Union activities on Company time or Company work area, except as provided in this Agreement.
4.06	- Bulletin boards will be provided for posting of notices of meetings and/or officers.
7
Any additional notice requires the approval of management.
4.07	a) - The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to employees for authorized Unionjiusiness for an aggregate of sixty (60) weeks (420 days) in any year. Not more than nine (9) employees will be granted leave at one time, except for executive meetings, for which the maximum shall be twelve (12). However, not more than two (2) employees in a classification will be granted leave at the same time except in classifications containing eight (8) employees or less in which case not more than one (1) employee will be granted leave.
4.07	b) - Leave of absence shall be requested at least one week in advance. Request for three (3) days or more must be submitted to the Employee Relations Department. Request for less than three (3) days must be taken to the department supervisor and the employee involved must obtain permission from this person. Such leave will not be arbitrarily denied.
4.07	c) - Leave of absence without pay will be granted for the purpose jiLinstructjjig at Union sponsored courses for IOC and QNS&L employees and the time will not exceed an
8
aggregate total of ten (10) weeks per year for all IOC & QNS&L Ibargaining units combined.
4.08	- The Company will grant full tprne leave to the President of Local 5795 effective as" of the signature date and for the duration of the current Collective Agreement. Such leave shall be with .pay at forty 740) straight time hours per wee'kT including benefits, in fieu of time worked.,
4.09	- The Company will grant leave of absence without pay during the life of this Agreement for the purpose of working full time for the International Union, the Newfoundland and Labrador Federation of Labour or the C.L.C. and local union appointment under the following conditions:
4.09	a) - not more than three (3) employees may be on such leave at one time;
4.09	b) - the leave must be for a period of not less than two (2) months or for not more than the life of the Agreement;
4.09	c) - not more than three (3) such leaves will be granted;
4.09	(I) - the Union agrees to give at least two (2) weeks’ notice, in writing, requesting such leaves or extensions thereof;
4.09	e) - it is understood that request for such leaves or extensions thereof will not be arbitrarily denied; however, the efficiency of operations must be taken into account.
4.10	- Regular scheduled shifts lost by employees for authorized leave of absence on Union business will count as shifts worked for the purpose of computing overtime. Overtime hours refused by employees on account of Union business will not be debited under the provisions of Paragraph 11.04.
ARTICLE
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
^6
5.01	- A probationary employee is one with less
since his mosl recent date of hire. He shall have no seniority rights under this Agreement and the Company shall be free to release such a person. He may discuss with management a complaint, including termination, at a meeting with the assistance of the Union if he so desires.
10
5.02	- If after forty-five (45) calendar days employment since his most recent date of hire, his services are satisfactory in the opinion of the Company, his name shall be placed upon the Company seniority list and classified seniority list where applicable as of the date of his first shift since his most recent date of hire
5.03	- If a probationary employee is rehired within one ('I) year of termination, and if requested in writing at time of termination, he will be allowed to count the last accrued period towards completion of his probationary period.
ARTICLE VI
SENIORITY
6.00	- DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply:
6.00	a) - Laid off - An employee who does not maintain active employment following a reduction.
11
6.00	b) - Reduced - An employee who is removed from his occupation as a result of downsizing within the occupation.
6.00	c) - Displaced - An employee who is
removed from his occupation as a result of a senior employee exercising his seniority into that occupation,	IK—
6.00	d) - Bjjjrip - the process by which an employee exercises his seniority to displace a junior employee in an occupation equal to or lower than his own.
6.00	(3) - Standard Rate of the Job - highest rate attainable in a classification.
6.01	- An employee who has completed his probationary period is placed on the seniority list(s).
There are two types of seniority lists:
6.01	a) - Bargaining unit seniority indicating his most recent date of hire.
6.01	b) - Classified seniority indicating the date the employee was placed in a classified occupation. If more than one employee is placed
12
on the list on the same date they shall be ranked by order of Company seniority. The classified list shall also indicate Company seniority.
6.1)2 - Classified seniority shall include the following job classifications:
6.02	a) - Operations:
1.	Blaster
2.	Drill Operator - Production
3.	Shovel Operator
4.	Mobile Crane Operator
5.	Environmental Technician
6.02	b) - Maintenance:
1.	Automotive Mechanic
2.	Electrician Transmission Maintenance
3.	Carpenter
4.	Electrician
5.	Machinist
6.	Mechanic
7.	Painter
8.	Pipefitter
9.	Welder
10.	Electronic Repairman
11.	Power Engineer
13
6.03	- Each employee shall hold rights in only one classified seniority list at any given time except where the employee has been reduced from another classified seniority list, at which time the employee shall retain recall rights and classified seniority to such job. It is understood that when the employee accepts or declines recall to such job the employee shall then hold recall rights in only one classified seniority list.
6.04-JOBBIDDING
Should an employee wish to move to a job of equal or higher rate the following guidelines apply.	^	,
6.04	a) - The Personnel Department wilJjKist-fl list of all jobs above Job Class 1 for which employees can apply along with the qualifications necessary for each. Such list will include standard rate jobs and learner and apprentice jobs.
6.04	I)) - An employee applying for any of these jobs can submit a “bid” at the Personnel Office at any time while they are an “active” employee and will receive a copy of the bid document.
14
6.04	b) i) - An “active” employee is considered to be one who is not on layoff or not on a L.O.A. of more than 45 days.
6.04	c) ■ In order for the employee’s bid ‘to be accepted the employee must meet the current qualifications necessary for the job. Such qualifications include the appropriate theoretical, practical and physical fitness tests. Should Management decide to change the current qualifications for the jobs, the Union will be advised in advance. An employee who fails to qualify under this article or Article 13 may be accompanied by a person of his choice when reviewing his theoretical test results.
6.04	d) - Accepted bids will be filed in order of bargaining un]|__sem.Qrity. Bids remain in effect until the employee moves to a higher job class than the job he has bid for or is laid-off.
6.04	d) i) - All bids will become null and void on February 1,1994. A posting to this effect will be made 30 days in advance. An employee who had an accepted job bid on file prior to November 1, 1993 shall be considered as qualified if they resubmit the same job bid prior to March 1,1994,
15
6.04	e) - Should a job opening occur the senior active applicant shall be awarded the job.
6.04	f) - Should he accept, the employee will be considered to be in the job as of that date and will be paid the applicable rate. Movement to the new position will take place as soon as possible.
6.04	g) - Applications to bid for a lower-rated job shall be subject to the approval of management who will take into consideration reasons brought forward by the employee. Such reasons will not be arbitrarily denied. Management will allow employees to submit bids for lower-rated jobs if such employees have been actively in the job they wish to leave for a period of five (5) consecutive years. In such cases a replacement must be available.
6.05	- LAYOFF AND BUMPING
Should it become necessary to reduce the number of employees in an occupation the following guidelines shall apply.
6.05	a) - If the reduction in an occupation does not result in any employees being “laid-off” the Company will post a notice five (5) days prior to the reduction stating the numbers and the occupations so affected.
16
-rh '■ 0/ O
6.05	b) - If the reduction in an occupation results in employees being laid-off the Company will] post a notice fourteenJH) days prioj to the -layoff stating the numbers and occupations. Failure to give this notice will result in employees directly affected receiving pay for regular scheduled shifts they would have worked. Any delays of three (3) days or less caused by the displacement procedure or by emergencies or reasons beyond the control of the Company shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
6.05	b) i) - Displacements, reductions or layoffs will become effective at the end of a pay period unless they can be carried out without affecting the employee's normal pay period.
6.05	c) - During the period of notice the affected employee will be contacted in order to determine which non-classified occupation he chooses to “bump” into based on the current required qualifications for the “standard” rate of the job unless he has been employed in the job at the standard rate within the past thirty-six (36) months, in which case, if necessary, the employee shall receive a five (5) day familiarization period should the machinery have changed.
17
15.05	c) i) - Employees who fail to exercise their seniority when contacted during the period of notice will be considered as having accepted their layoff.
6.05	d) - This process continues until affected
employees have either exercised their seniority into equal or lower job classifications or are laid-off.	% 7 C w |
6.05	i!) - In learner classifications reductions or displacements start in the lowest learner period. In order to bump a learner an employee must meet the current qualifications for the standard rate of the job.
6.05	I) - Trades will be reduced by classified seniority in the following order:
6.05	f)(i)- Group I - Training periods 1 through 4;
6.05	f) (ii) - Group II - Training periods higher than 4;
6.05	1) [Nil - J-i, J-2 and Journeymen.
6.05	g) - An employee on L.O.A will be notified if affected by a reduction or displacement. Such employee must exercise his seniority within two
18
days after termination of the L.O.A., otherwise he will be considered as having accepted layoff.
6.05	h) - The personnel record of an employee on LOA whose seniority or qualifications would have resulted in either layoff or recall shall be adjusted accordingly. Such change in status shall not affect an active claim under either the A&S or LTD benefit programs.
6.05	i) - The Personnel Department will make available to employees the necessary qualification information for bumping and recall.
6.06	- SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
There are circumstances during which an employee can bump without a reduction in
6.06	a) - tmployees who, by reason of minor disability, advancing age or other causes, are unaBTe to maintain necessary standards of efficiency or safety for the job mayjae moved to some other job for which they are qualified. Such instances will be discussed with the Union. Employees who bump in this manner do not receive recall rights to the job they vacate.
lA/nrl/fz-vr^n-
19
6.06	a) (i) - It is understood and agreed that an employee may present a grievance if he feels that his qualifications for a job to which he alleges he is entitled have not been properly assessed.
6.06	b) - An employee whose driver’s license is suspended and who is required to operate a vehicle in areas covered by provincial highway regulations. Such employees receive recall right to the job they vacate.
6.07- RECALL
There are two types of recall:	r
6.07	a) - Primary recall. This right is restricted to a job in which an employee was working when displaced or reduced. Such recall remains in force until an employee is recalled to the job or moves to a higher job class.
6.07	b) - Secondary recall. This right is restricted to all non-classified jobs equal to or below the highest job for which an employee maintains primary recall provided the employee meets the current qualifications for the standard rate of the jobs. Such recall remains in effect only while on layoff.
20
6.(18 - VACANCIES
When a vacancy in a occupation occurs the Company will take the following steps in order:
6.138 a) - If the vacancy is in a classified occupation recall by classified seniority starting with the higher group in trades occupations and the highest job class in other occupations.
6.08	b) - If the vacancy is in a non-classified occupation select the senior employee from either job bids or recall.
6.08	c) - The Company may obligate recalled employees to return to the job for which they hold primary recall.
6.08	d) - Due to the details involved the Company will not be liable for any financial obligation as a result of errors arising out of the administration of this article until seven days after the filing of the grievance calling attention to the errors.
6.08	e) ■ Layoff due to curtailment of work shall not constitute a termination provided that the employee notifies the Labrador City Personnel Office within five (5) days of the date of receipt of the recall notice advising whether or not he
21
intends to accept. If he advises that he accepts, he will be obligated to return to work within fifteen (15) days of notice of recall.
6.08	f) - An employee recalled to work for a period of less than forty-five (45) days may refuse such a recall. The employee who refuses such a recall will keep all rights to a subsequent recall. Due to the details involved, the Company will not be liable for any financial obligation as a result of errors arising out of the administration of this paragraph.
6.08	q) - If the Company determines that no applicants qualify through the open posting procedure, then it may fill the vacancy by other means.
6.09	- TERMINATION
An employee shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
6.09	a) - If the employee quits;
6.09	lb) - If the employee is discharged for just and sufficient cause and is not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance procedure;
22
6.09	c)-If he is absent without leave for a period of three (3) consecutive scheduled shifts of work, which case shall be construed as a quit as of the day before the commencement of such absence, unless the reasons which prevented the employee from requesting such leave of absence are judged valid by the company;
6.09	d) - If employee does not comply with 6.08 e) and f);
6.09	e) - Layoff by the Company due to
curtailment of operations for sixty (60) consecutive months;	~
6.09	f) - If an employee is unable to return to work within thirty-six (36) months of the commencement of his non-compensable sickness, injury or other disability, in the case of an employee who has less than two (2) years’ service;
6.0!) g) - If an employee is unable to return to work after exhaustion of Company Long Term Disability benefits in the case of an employee with more than two (2) years’ service.
23
6.10	-TEMPORARYVACANCIES
6.10	a) - Temporary vacancy is created as follows.
6.10	a) i) - An employee who reports himself ill;
6.10	al iil -An employee on L.O.A;
6.10	al Nil - An employee on medical benefits;
6.10	a) ivl - An employee on W.C.C.;
6.10	al v) - Resulting from the process of recall, job bidding and selection and temporary vacancy;
6.10	a) vi] - An employee on vacation;
6.10	alviil-An employee on Extended Vacation.
6.10	b) - To fill a temporary vacancy the department will assign the senior qualified employee in the area as required.
6.10	c) - When it is known that the vacancy will last for a period of more than twenty-nine (29) days, the Company will fill the job by job bid or recall. However, it is mutually agreed that the total period of lime an employee is on annual
24
vacation and extended vacation which is in addition to and taken immediately following annual vacation, will also be treated as a temporary vacancy.
6.11	- EMPLOYEE TRANSFERRED OUTSIDE THE BARGAINING UNIT
In the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be transferred to a staff or supervisory position outside the bargaining unit, he shall retain for a year the seniority date or dates previously acquired while serving in such capacity in the event that he is transferred back to the bargaining unit. This period shall be cumulative. During this period in accordance with Paragraph 4.04 a), the Company will remit monthly ‘to the Financial Secretary of the Local the amount of money the employee paid in accordance with Paragraph 4.04 a) in his last complete month of employment in the bargaining unit.
6.12	-POSTING OFSENIORITY LISTS
The Company will post a bargaining unit seniority list and classified seniority list in suitable locations every February 1st and August 1st and furnish the Union with copies of same. An
25
employee may make a complaint, in writing, to the Personnel Office as to the correctness of his seniority date. Verified inaccuracies and subsequent typographical errors will be corrected (no earlier date than the 1991 seniority listing). Due to the details involved, the Company will not be liable for any financial obligation as a result of errors arising out of the administration of these postings until seven (7) days after the filing of the grievance calling attention to the errors.
6.13	- TESTING
6.13	a) - When practical tests are administered on an employee's shift, they shall be taken on Company time. When an employee takes a practical test on his own time and, by taking such test the employee performs productive work, time required will be reimbursed at straight time rates. When practicable, the Company will endeavour to use the same tester where two (2) or more employees take the same practical test for the same job vacancy. Theoretical tests required for the purpose of meeting job qualifications will be taken on the employee's own time; such tests will be administered as soon as possible.
26
6.13	b) The ‘tests referred to in a) shall be fair, equitable and appropriate to the job. Any employee who does not meet the requirement of one of these tests shall upon request, receive an explanation of where he did not meet the requirement.
6.13	c) - Testing sessions will take place at specific times and results of tests will be available to the employee twenty-four (24) hours after, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, at the Personnel Office.
6.13	d) - With a view to ensuring adequate safety in the administration of practical tests, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to review the testing procedure.
6.13	e) - Employees who fail a practical or theoretical examination required for acceptance of job bid may be re-examined at their request two (2) weeks after the first ‘failure, four (4) weeks after the second failure and eight (8) weeks after the third failure. No further reexaminations will be permitted.
6.14	- A regular employee transferred by the Company from one United Steelworkers of America bargaining unit in the Company to a
27
different United Steelworkers of America bargaining unit in the Company, will not be required to complete a new probationary period as a result of such transfer.
RTICLE1
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01 - Recognizing the importance of full discussion between the supervisor concerned and the employee in clearing up misunderstandings and preserving harmonious relations, discussion must take place between the supervisor and the employee during working hours in order that every effort may be made to settle the employee’s complaints and problems as they arise and within two (2) days from the employee’s request for such a meeting. However, it is understood that at such a meeting, the employee if he so desires, will be accompanied by a grievance committeeman.
NOTE: However, in no case will a grievance be considered beyond the delay provided in accordance with Paragraph 7.04 c).
28
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1 Originate at Step	Time Limits to Originate Grievance	Time Limits of Referral	Heard By	Union Representatives (paid regular wages or 1 hr. on own time)	Company RpnrAsen- tatives	Time 1 imilc for Answer
One - Individual	12 days	5 days	Supervisor	1 Grievanceman	1 Company Official	2 days
Two - Group	12 days	5 days	Superintendent or designate	2 Grievancemen	Supervisor, Employee Relations	2 days
Three - Policy	25 days/interpretation 30 days/CWS	5 days	General Manager or designate |	3 Grievancemen 1 witness	Supervisor, Empioyee Relations, witnesses	5 days
Arbitration |		26 days	Arbitrator			60 days
Note: Infraction reports. Including infractions which could result in discharge, will not be issued later than seventy-two (72) hours from the time the Company has determined there is an infraction. Notice of disciplinary action, including discharge, will not be issued later than forty-eight (48) hours from issuance of the infraction reoort.
7.02	a) - There shall be a Union Grievance Committee, composed of one (1) member for every thirty (30) employees in the bargaining unit, all of whom shall have at least six (6) months’ seniority with the Company. In dealing with the Company, no more than three (3) members may act on the Union Grievance Committee at any one time, one of whom should be familiar with the work of the department in which the grievance arose.
7.02	b) - The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the members of the Union Grievance Committee and of any changes that may occur in same. The Company shall not be required to recognize members of the committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the names selected.
7.03	- The parties agree that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
7.04	a) - Infraction reports, including infractions which could result in discharge, will not be issued later than seventy-two (72) hours from the time the Company has determined there is an infraction.
30
7.04	b) ■■ Notice of disciplinary action, including discharge, will not be issued later than forty-eight (48) hours from issuance of the infraction report.
7.04	c) - No grievance shall be considered if the circumstances occurred or originated more than twelve (12) days (excluding vacations and leaves of absence of more than ten (10) days) prior to the request for a meeting at Step 1.
j -y
7.04	d) - In assessing discipline the Company will not consider any infraction of the same naTnrFffTaf^urreB'more than Qn.e_(l).ygarfrom the current infraction. Should a disciplinary action be reduced through the grievance or arbitration procedure only the resulting discipline will be recorded in the employee's file.
7.05	a) - Should a regular employee feel that his complaint or problem could result in a written grievance, he shall take the following steps in order:
STEP 1
Not later than twelve (12) days after the circumstances occurred or originated or the disciplinary action was issued, the employee shall request a meeting with the supervisor of his section/area. The supervisor will arrange to hold 31
a meeting within two (2) days to discuss the matter with the concerned employee and he shall receive a signed dated copy confirming his request. The employee may be assisted by one (1) member of the Grievance Committee and the supervisor may be accompanied by another Company official. At the request of either party, the supervisor shall be heard. Except when the aggrieved employee is on night shift, this meeting will be convened during his working hours: however, when operations dictate otherwise, the meeting will be held outside working hours. If the meeting is held outside the working hours of the grievance committeeman, he will be allowed one (1) hour at straight time for the meeting. Should the complaint or problem not have been satisfactorily resolved at this meeting and if the regular employee feels that a written grievance is appropriate, he shall obtain from the supervisor conducting the meeting, two (2) copies of a dated and signed form summarizing the result of the meeting which form shall be attached to the written grievance and presented at Step 2, When possible, the supervisor will give an answer to the employee and to the grievance committeeman on the above mentioned form during the meeting, or not later than two (2) days thereafter.
32
STEP 2
Not later than five (5) days following receipt of the answer at Step 1, the employee shall present his grievance in writing (on a form provided by the Company) to his supervisor who will sign and date the grievance in the employee's presence, or to the Employee Relations Department who will do likewise for referral to the department head concerned. The department head or a designated representative, who may be accompanied by other Company officials, shall meet with the Union Grievance Committee and the employee not later than five (5) days after receipt of the written grievance to consider the representations made by the person or persons presenting same and the supervisory personnel involved. The department head shall render his decision in writing not later than two (2) days from the date of the Step 2 meeting. Should no settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned be reached, the next step in the grievance procedure may be taken not later than five (5) days thereafter.
STEP 3
The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance to the Union Grievance Committee who, if they decide to continue the grievance, will 33
forward it by registered mail to Employee Relations for referral to the General Manager. The Union Grievance Committee and the General Manager, or some other person designated by him, shall meet each week to hear grievances submitted two (2) or more days before the date of the meeting. Al this stage, the Union Grievance Committee may be accompanied by a representative of the Local Union and/or International Union if his presence is requested.
Other officials of the Company may also be present at the meeting. At the request of either party, the aggrieved employee shall be heard. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard. Should the Union bring forth witnesses, one will not lose regular earnings to testify at the meeting. The General Manager shall render his decision in writing not later than five (5) days following the date of the Step 3 meeting.
7.05	b) - The Company will inform, when possible, two (2) days in advance but in no case less than one (1) day in advance the Union at Step 2 and Step 3 of the date, place and hour of the hearing of the grievance.
7.05	C) - No Company representative can hear more than one (1) step of the grievance procedure.
34
7.116 - If the grievance is not settled as a result of the meeting referred to in Step 3, and if the grievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement, the grievance may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided in Article VIII below, provided, however, it is hereby agreed that no grievance may be referred to arbitration after a period of twenty-six (26) days from the date of the decision in writing by the General Manager.
7.	CI7 a) - Identical differences arising between the Company and a group of employees shall be taken up at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. Such group grievances shall bear the signatures of all employees involved with the grievance to which the Union may make additions, up to presentation at Step 3. The Union and Company may agree to group individual grievances when the facts alleged are identical and the remedy sought is the same. The Union shall select one of the individual grievances and the decision on this grievance will be applied to the other grievances.
7.67 b) - Differences arising between the Union and the Company regarding the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be taken up at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
35
H>~ I
7.07	c) - Differences arising between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation of the Co-operative Wage Study (C.W.S.) Manual shall be taken up at Step 3 of ffillgrievance procedure. For the application of the this paragraph, the Union's Grievance Committee will be representatives of the Co-Operative Wage Study committee. If a satisfactory settlement of the dispute is not reached within thirty (30) days, the matter may be referred within twenty-one (21) days by either party to arbitration as provided in Article VIII below.
7.07	d) - Upon written request to the Executive Vice-President, the Area Coordinator or his representative may request a meeting to appeal a grievance filed under Paragraph 7.07 b) or 7.07 c). Such request must be forwarded no later than fifteen (15) days from the answer at Step 3 and may be referred to arbitration no later than twenty-one (21) days from the date of the decision of this meeting. Individual or group grievances including discipline or discharge grievances are excluded from this understanding. The Manager, Human Resources, or his representative, and other individuals who normally attend at the Step 3 stage, will attend this meeting.
36
7.08	- The nature of the alleged misinterpretation or violation of this Agreement and the settlement sought shall be set out in the written record of the grievance at Step 2 (or at Step 3 if the grievance is a result of a difference between the Company and the Union) and may not be subject to change after its introduction at Step 3 and any such changes must be set out in writing.
Time Limits
7.09	- Saturdays, Sundays and the day a holiday is celebrated shall not be included when determining the time within which any action is to be taken in Article VII, Article VIII or Article X of this Agreement. Any and all time limits fixed by this article or by Article VIII may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
7.10- Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to deprive any employee of his right to negotiate any of his personal complaints without the assistance of the Union if he so desires. No settlement of a personal complaint shall be in violation of this Agreement, nor shall it be used as a precedent with other grievances.
37
7.11	a)-If it is necessary for the presentation of a grievance that a grievance committeeman or employee be absent during working hours, he must first obtain permission from his supervisor; such permission will not be arbitrarily denied.
7.111)) - Step 2 and Step 3 grievance meetings will be held during the regular scheduled working hours of aggrieved employees except when they are on night shift or when operations dictate, otherwise the meetings will be held outside working hours.
7.111:) - The Company agrees that any grievance committeeman and aggrieved employee who perform work during a regular scheduled shift and who are required to lose time from that shift in order to attend a grievance meeting shall be paid for such time off.
7.11	d) - When Step 2 and Step 3 grievance meetings are scheduled or go beyond the regular scheduled working hours of the grievance committeeman, the grievance committeeman two (2) at Step 2, three (3) at Step 3 shall be paid one (1) hour at straight time rates for such attendance in addition to time lost from their regular scheduled working hours.
38
7.12	a) - The party initiating the procedure provided for in this article and in the arbitration article shall take each step in such procedures within the time limits set forth, or as extended by mutual agreement in writing and, upon failing to do so, the grievance or matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
7.12	b) - In the event of the absence of the authorized agent or agents of either party at any step, it shall be permissible at the expiration of the time specified in 7.05 for the other party to proceed with the next step of the foregoing procedure.
ARTICLE VIII
ARBITRATION
8.01	- Both parties to this Agreement agree that the provisions specified in this Agreement are the sole source of any rights the Union might assert in arbitration and only those management rights that are abridged by specific provision of this Agreement are arbitrable. Any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been
39
properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article VII or Article X and which has not been settled, will be referred to an arbitrator at the request of either of the parties hereto.
8.02	- Should the parties fail to agree on an arbitrator within ten (10) days of receipt of the request for arbitration, the parties shall choose the arbitrator in rotation from the following mutually agreed list of arbitrators:
LIST OF ARBITRATORS
Dr. Leslie Harris Mr. I. Bruce Mr. Dennis Browne Dr. John Scott Dr. Renee F’anjabe
8.03	a) - If the arbitrator chosen in rotation from the agreed list of arbitrators is not available within the time limits set out herein, he will be replaced by the following person on the list and, except by mutual agreement between the parties, will not be used again as an arbitrator until his name returns in the normal order of rotation.
40
8.03	b) - Unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and the Union, the following time limits will be adhered to by the parties:
8.03	b) (i) - it is understood that the hearing at arbitration must commence within thirty (30) days from the date of acceptance by the arbitrator to hear the grievance;
8.03	b) (ii) - the arbitrator will render his decision within sixty (60) days from the date of closing of arbitration hearings.
8.04	- The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
8.05	- The arbitrator shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement so far as shall be necessary to the determination of the grievance and shall not have any power to alter or change in any way the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement; nor shall any past practices or customs become binding unless they are in writing between the Company and the Union. Where the arbitrator
41
determines that an employee has been disciplined for cause, he may review and modify the penalty imposed.
8.06	- The expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid equally by the Union and the Company.
8.07	- Arbitration cases will be processed at the city in which the grievance was filed unless otherwise mutually agreed. Should there be more than one (1) grievance pending at arbitration at the same time, the Company and the Union may mutually agree to have one (1) or more of these grievances processed at the same arbitration session.
8.08	- Discharge cases shall have preference over other cases submitted to arbitration.
ARTICLE! IX
MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
9.01	- It is understood that management may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union Grievance Committee any complaint in respect to the conduct of the Union in its dealings with the Company and, if such complaint by the
42
management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the two (2) parties, it may be treated as a grievance filed under the procedures set out in Article VII (introduced at Step 3) and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
ARTICLE X
DISCHARGE CASES
10.01	al - If an employee who has acquired seniority feels he has been discharged without just and sufficient cause, the case may be taken up as a grievance and processed according to the following provisions which shall be taken in order.
10.01b)- If the employee so desires and before presenting his case as a formal grievance, he may discuss his case with his supervisor with the assistance of a grievance committeeman. The supervisor will be accompanied by another Company official other than the official responsible for settling the grievance at a higher step.
43
10.02	- Such grievance (on a form provided by the Company) must be lodged with the head of his department or the personnel supervisor or Employee Relations not later than two (2) days after the employee has received a written notice of the disciplinary action taken. The department head will arrange a mutually satisfactory time to meet with the employee to discuss the grievance. He may be accompanied by another Company official (other than an official responsible for settling the grievance at a higher step) and the employee may be accompanied by the Union Grievance Committee. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within two (2) days of receipt of the grievance, the grievance may be presented as follows at any time not later than two (2) days thereafter.
10.03	- The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance to the Union Grievance Committee who, if they decide to continue the grievance, will forward it by registered mail to Employee Relations for referral to the General Manager. The Union Grievance Committee and the General Manager, or some other person designated by him, shall meet as promptly as possible and not later than three (3) days from the postmark date
44
of the registered letter to consider the grievance. At this stage, they may be accompanied by a representative of the Local Union and/or the International Union if their presence is requested. Other officials of the Company may also be present at the meeting. At the request of eithei party, the aggrieved employee shall be heard. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard and at this time the aggrieved employee may also be in attendance. At this meeting, decisions in writing made at 10.02 will be presented. The decision of the General Managei shall be given in writing not later than two (2) days after the meeting with the Union Grievance Committee.
10.04	- If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within two (2) days after the closing of the meeting referred to in 10.03, the grievance may be referred within ten (10) days by the Union Grievance Committee to arbitration as provided in Article VIII above.
10.05	a) - The party initiating the procedure provided for in this article and in the arbitration article shall take each step in such procedures within the time limits set forth, or as extended by mutual agreement in writing and upon failing to do so, the grievance or matter in dispute shall be
45
deemed to have been abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
10.05	b) - In the event of the absence of the authorized agent or agents of either party at any step, ii: shall be permissible at the expiration of the time specified in 10.02 to 10.04 for the other party to proceed with the next step of the foregoing procedure.
10.06	- Such grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, or reinstating the employee with compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties. If the matter is not settled through the procedure outlined in this article and is taken to arbitration, the arbitrator will have full jurisdiction to uphold or reject the discharge or change the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension and fix the duration of such suspension. In the event that the arbitrator rejects the discharge or changes the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension, the employee shall be reinstated and paid his wages at his regular basic rate (less amounts earned by him during the time lost) for the time lost since the date of discharge, or for the period of time not covered by the suspension, limited to
46
the scheduled work week for a maximum period of one hundred and eighty (180) days on which he would have been scheduled to work on an eight (8) hour shift or one hundred and twenty (120) days on which he would have been scheduled to work on a twelve (12) hour shift, to which will be added the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Company. On the other hand, should the arbitration be delayed at the request of the Union, the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Union will be deducted from any days to be paid.
HOURS OF WORK AIMD OVERTIME PAY
11.01- The following paragraphs are intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or clays of work per week.
11.02	a) - For the purpose only of computing overtime and not as a limitation upon the scheduling of employees for work, the work week shall be a period of seven (7) consecutive days commencing with the beginning of the day shift
47
on Monday and the work day shall be a period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the beginning of the day shift of the plant as scheduled by the Company.
11.02	b) - Where such a twelve (12) hour schedule applies, it is understood that it will not result in any additional cost to the Company or loss of regular earnings to the employee over the same period with the same coverage.
11.03 al - 8 hour shifts ,
The first four (4) hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any’day or hours worked in excess of forty.(40) m any work week or on assigned days off shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1-k) times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in any day shall be paid at the rate of twice (2) tte regular rate.
i %^'' o o o
Work scheduled and performed on Sunday will be’ paid for at the rate of time and one Work performed on Sunday in excess of eight (8) hours, or in excess of 'forty (40) straight time hours in the work week will be paid for at double (2) time.
f’7l0-0
48
11.03	b) -12 hou^sJiilU,
The first four (4) hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any day shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (l-M) times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in any day shall be paid at twice (2) the regular rate. Hours worked on an assigned day off shall be paid as follows: the first twelve (12) hours at one and one half (1-k) times the regular rate.
Work scheduled and performed on Sunday will be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1-J4) for the first eight (El) hours and double (2) time for all hours in excess of eight (8). Work performed on an assigned day off on Sunday will be paid for at double (2) time rates should the employee have worked eighty (80) straight time hours in the pay period (two weeks). Should he not have eighty (80) straight time hours in the pay period, the first twelve (12) hours worked on his assigned day off on Sunday shall be paid at time and one half (1-h).
11.03	c)-Any time allowed and paid as overtime in any working day shall not be used to compute overtime during the work week and to the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime rates under one provision, they shall not be considered
49
as hours worked in determining overtime under the same or any other provision.
11.03	d) - In any period of overtime which ends with an incomplete half hour (k), that portion of the half hour (y2) will be rounded to a full half hour (y2) for pay purposes.
uj- O - %
11.04	- Overtime hours will be worked on a
volujijjiJ^asi^	of the
service are met and it will be distributed equitably in rotation in each classification where qualifications will permit. Overtime lists will be based on seniority and a list of overtime worked by all eligible employees will be posted. It is understood that an employee who is unavailable for overtime will be debited with the number of hours he would have worked had he been available. It is also understood that employees who consistently refuse overtime may be temporarily dropped from the eligible list and may be reinstated on the list upon request.
’■’I IX O
11.05	- Employees shall be allowed a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes, inclusive-of said eight (8) or twelve (12) hour period and coffee on a reasonable basis. Such periods will not be changed unnecessarily and shall be discussed with the Union in advance. However, where
50
necessary for continuous operations, employees will maintain supervision of their equipment and machines as required.
11.06	a) - Overtime rates shall not apply to time worked by an hourly-rated employee in excess of his regular work day or work week when such time is clue to change of shift of the regular work schedule.
11.06	b) - The Company will endeavour not to reassign an employee such that he works two (2) shifts back-to-back in the same occupation. Should an employee work two (2) shifts back-to-back in the same occupation the second shift will be paid as an overtime shift notwithstanding Paragraphs 11.09 a) and 11.13 c). Should an employee work a second shift back-to-back in another occupation at Company request, that second shift will be paid as an overtime shift notwithstanding 11.09 a) and 11.13 c).
Should the employee work more than five (5) regular scheduled shifts in that week, the second shift referred to above will be considered as a straight time shift for purposes only of overtime payment: for the sixth shift in that week.
51
11.07	- If required for continuous operations, employees will remain on the job at the end of their shift until their relief arrives or until the Company arranges for another relief. Employees should not be required to work more than two (2) hours after the end of their regular shift in such cases and shall be provided transportation by the Company, on request.
11.08	al- For the purpose of ensuring equitable distribution of overtime, the Company will review with the Union, at least once per month if necessary, through the use of a joint committee, overtime records and methods of recording overtime credits. This committee may also review and revise if necessary:
11.08	al (i) - Existing work schedules to ensure the proper distribution of shifts by day, afternoon, night and shifts off. In the distribution of shifts, it is the intention of the parties to respect the structure of the normal week.
11.08	al 00 - Proposed changes in scheduling or the scheduling system.
11.08	al [Nil - The rotation of tradesmen between shop, field and plants.
!>2
11.08	b) ■■ Such schedules or changes mentioned in (i) and (ii) will be posted when possible seventy-two (72) hours prior to the change taking effect.
11.08	c) - Should an employee’s shift schedule be changed without having given him at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of the change, he will be paid at the rate of double (2) time for hours worked on the first shift of the changed schedule, y
53
RATES OF PAY
54
SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01	- Far the purpose of this Article:
12.01	al - All shifts beginning after six (6:00) a.m. and up to noon (12:00) will be day shifts.
12.01	b) - All shifts beginning after noon (12:00) and up to eight (8:00) p.m. will be afternoon shifts, for which a shift premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour shall be paid.'/'/ -7 6 •• *r)
12.01	c) - All shifts beginning after (8:00) p.m. and up to six (6:00) a.m. will be night shifts, for which a shift premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour shall be paid.
fi
12.02	- Shift premiums shall be computed in overtime.
12.03	- Premium time shall be determined by the shift for which the employee is scheduled.
55
RTICLE
WAGES
The Co-Operative Wage Study for Job Description, Classificati^ Administration, dated M; referred to as the «Manual>: this Agreement as AP provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein, provided that reference in the Manual 'to such jobs as trade or craft, assigned maintenance, clerical or technical, group leader, spell hand, testing or inspection, learner, apprentice, instructor, shall not of itself establish existence of such jobs in the operations of the Company or determine that such jobs are within or are not within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
Standard Hourly Wage Scale
13.01 - Effective on March 1,1993, the Standard Hourly Rate for Job Class 1 shall be sixteen dollars and sixty-seven cents ($16.67) per hour and the increment between succeeding job classes shall be twenty-six cents (.260), establishing a Standard Hourly Wage Scale as follows:
66
&II]
Class
March 1.	March 1.	March 1.
1993	1994(1)	11995 (2)
1	16.67	17.27
I	17.53
~3	17.19	17.79
4	17.45	18.05
5	17.71	18.31
6	17.97	18.57
7	18.23	18.83
8	18.49	19.09
9	18.75	I9.35
10	19.01	19.61
II	19.27	19.87
12	19.53	20.13
13	19.79	20.39
14	20.05	20.65
15	20.31	20.91
16	20.57	21.17
17	20.83	21.43
18	21.09	21.69
19	21.35	21.95
20	21.61	22.21
21	21.87	22.47
22	22.13	22.73
23	22.39	22.99
24	22.65	23.25
17.67
17.93
18.19
18.45
18.71
18.97
19.23
19.49
19.75
20.01
20.27
20.53
20.79
21.05
21.31
21.57
21.83
22.09
22.35
22.61
22.87
23.13
23.39
23.65
NOTE: (1) $0.60 fold-in from the C.O.L.A.
(2)	$0.40 fold-in from the C.O.L.A.
(3)	$0.33 fold-in from the C.O.L.A.
57
Feb. 28 1996 (3)
18.00
c.106^
18.52"
18.78
19.04
19.30
19.56
19.82
20.08
20.34
20.60
20.86
21.12
21.38
21.64
21.90
22.16
22.42
22.68
22.94
23.20
23.46
23.72
23.98
13.02	- The standard hourly rate for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall so continue for the duration of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
13.03	- No employee shall be entitled to any wages as set forth in this article unless he is ready, able and willing to perform the duties required in his job.
13.04	- Each standard hourly rate established under Paragraph 13.01 shall be:
13.04	a) -the established rate of pay for all hours paid for on a non-incentive job; and
13.04	b) - the established hourly base rate and minimum guaranteed rate of pay under any incentive applied to the job in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Production and Maintenance Jabs
13.05	- Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for each production or maintenance job, other than a trade
58
or craft or apprentice job, shall apply to any employee during such time as the employee is required to perform such job.
Trade or Craft Jobs .	,	,
C. " I
13.06	- Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for a trade or craft or appreriticejafa shall apply to any employee diirincrthe time such employee is assigned to the respective rate classifications in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Out-of-Line Differentials
13.07	- The Company shall furnish to the Union a list agreed to by the Company and the Union of employees who are to be paid ((out-of-line differentials)). Such list shall contain the following information:
13.07	al- name of incumbent to whom such out-of-line differential is to be paid;
13.07	b) - job title of job on which out-of-line differential is to be paid;
13.07	c) - job classification of such job;
59
13.07	d) - standard hourly rate of such job;
13.07	e) - amount of out-of-line differential; and
13.07	f) - date such out-of-line differential became effective.
13.08	- Except as such out-of-line differential may be changed by the means hereinafter provided, any employee included in 'the list referred to in Paragraph 13.07 shall continue to be paid such out-of-line differential during such time as the employee continues to occupy the job for which the differential was established.
13.09	- If an employee with an out-of-line differential is transferred or assigned to a job having a higher standard hourly rate, then the differential shall be reduced by the amount of the increase in the standard hourly rate.
13.10	- If an employee with an out-of-line differential is transferred or assigned to a job having the same standard hourly rate, then the same differential shall apply.
13.11	- If an employee with an out-of-line differential is permanently transferred to a job having a lower standard hourly rate, then the out-of-line differential shall be cancelled.
80
13.12- If such employee referred to in Paragraphs 13.09, 13.10 and 13.11 shall be returned to the job for which the out-of-line differential was established, the out-of-line differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by other means.
13.13	- When an employee would, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, be entitled to receive his regular rate, he shall also receive any out-of-line differential to which he is entitled.
13.14	- In addition to the means herein provided, increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate out-of-line differentials.
13.15	- Except for the application of the out-ofline differentials, as called for herein, the terms of this Agreement which govern transfers shall apply.
13.16	- In determining out-of-line differentials, no employee shall be listed as an incumbent on more than one job, unless he is regularly assigned to more than one (1) job.
61
Learner Rates
/
13.17- Learner jobs requiring learner rates, due to lack of adequate training opportunity provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be negotiated and made a part of this Agreement.
13.18	- A schedule of learner rates for the respective learning periods of 520 hours of actual learning experience with the Company on jobs for which training opportunity is not provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be established at a level of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale rates for the respective job classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor 2 of the job classification record of the respective job as follows:
13.18	al - Code C: Seven (7) to twelve (12) months.
13.18	al (i) - One (1) learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
13.18	b) - Code D: Thirteen (13) to eighteen (18) months.
82
13.18	b) (i) - A first learner period classification at a level four (4) job classes below the job class of the job; and
13.18	b) [ii] - a second learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
13.18	c) - Code E and higher: Nineteen (19) months and above.
13.18	c) (I)-A first learner period classification at a level six (6) job classes below the job class of the job;
13.18	c) [ii] - a second learner period classification at a level four (4) job classes below the job class of the job; and
13.18	c) [Nil ■■ a third learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job;
13.18	c) tivl - employees who have no related work experience in relation to the respective job, shall serve an additional 520 hours of work in the learner period two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
63
13.19	- The learner periods, as provided in Paragraph 13.18, shall apply to those jobs listed in APPENDIX «B» of this Agreement, except as otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union and so indicated in APPENDIX «B». Learner periods shall apply only to the jobs in Job Class 8 and up, except where the provisions of Paragraphs 13.20 and 13.21 apply.
13.20	- The Company, at its discretion, may apply a learner rate to a learner on any job where another employee other than the learner is on the job, provided the learner rate applied is:
13.20	a) - in case of an employee hired for the
learning job, the standard hourly rate for Job Class 2; or
13.20	b) - in the case of an employee transferred from another job in the plant, the lower figure of:
13.20	b) (I) - the standard hourly rate of the job from which transferred; or
13.20	b) (ii) - the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
13.21	- The learner provisions set forth in Paragraph 13.20 shall apply:
64
13.21	a) - for a period of time sufficient to learn to do the job, provided that such period shall at no time exceed 520 hours;
13.21	b) - only to provide replacements for job vacancies; and
13.21	c) - in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement for filling vacancies.
13.22	- The Company shall furnish the Union on the form set forth as APPENDIX «B» of the Manual, a list of jobs agreed to by the Company and the Union as appropriate for the application of learner rates. Such list may be added to oi deleted from by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The schedule of learner rates set forth in Paragraph 13.18 shall apply only to jobs in this list.
13.23	- Employees’ time spent on a job requiring a learner schedule shall be cumulative.
13.24-Any employee who has qualified for a job through a learner schedule shall not be required to repeat that learner schedule.
65
13.25	- The established learner rate of pay for each learner period classification shall apply in accordance with the learner training periods as defined in Paragraph 13.18. However, an employee whose current rate of pay is higher than the minimum rate of a learner job to which he has acceded, shall maintain his current rate, but not higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned, until such time as the rate for the applicable learner period classification is equal to or exceeds his present rate.
13.26	- Any employee, when assigned to a job on which a learner rate applies, shall be credited in the learner schedule with all time previously worked on such job. It is agreed that such past time shall be computed from the records of the Company. This paragraph applies only to learners.
Training of Employees for Jobs
13.27	- Employees who possess the necessary qualifications and ability shall be eligible for training for the respective trade or craft jobs. Such employees shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement which apply for filling of job vacancies.
66
13.28	- For the duration of this Agreement, the provisions of Articles 5.04, 5.05 b) and c), 5.06,
5.07	and 5.08 set forth in the Manual shall be inoperative and shall be superseded by Paragraphs 13.29 to 13.34 inclusive of this Agreement.
13.29	a) - Employees training through an apprenticeship course in a given trade or craft shall be governed by the company procedure as determined by the Provincial Block Training Program set out by the Manpower Training Division of the Department of Education of Newfoundland and Labrador. Any changes to this procedure during the life of this Collective Agreement will be discussed with the Union in advance. Employees shall be provided with opportunity to receive on the job training in the various areas of the project applicable to his trade and shall advance through the procedure according to the following Schedule:
67
SCHEDULE“A
Schedule of Apprenticeship Progression Based on the Provincial Apprenticeship Program
BLOCKS	BLOCK 1 I BLOCK 2 I BLOCK 3 I BLOCK4								SPECIALIZED | Journeyman	
PERIODS	P-l	P-2	P-3	P-4	P-5	P-6	P-7	P-8	P-9 | P-10 |	
18	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	16 I 18 1 Electronic Repairman	
17										
16	6	7	8	9	10	n	12	14 ■ 16		Auto Mechanic - Machinist - Electrician
15	6	7	8	9	10	11	13 ■ 15			Plant Mechanic - Field Mechanic
14	6	7	8	9	10	12 |14				Wsidsr -Elec. Trans. Mtcs.
13	5	6	7	9	11_	I13				Carpenter. Pipefitter
1C										
11	5	7	9 | 11 Painter							
APPRENTICE | TRADESMAN										
Progression through periods within a block is based on 6 months continuous active employment in the trade or a combination of employment and/or pre-employment credits.
Progression to the next block is based on required time in the trade and successful completion of block training as per the Pikmactei Apprenticeship Program. Pipefitters and Carpenters will advance to IOC Journeymen status after the successful completion of Block III and a minimum of thirty (30) months in the trade. Optional Block IV will be made available to Pipefitters and Carpenters to fulfil Provincial Journeyman requirements.
Electronic Bepairmen will advance to IOC Journeymen status upon successful completion of the Provincial Industrial Instrumentation trade and a minimum of sixty (60) months in the trade.
13.29	b) - Trade or Craft and Assigned Maintenance Convention
In addition to the provisions of the Manual for describing and classifying trade or craft and assigned maintenance jobs, the following shall apply:
13.29	b) (i) - The description and classification shall be carried out in accordance with the Manual.
13.29	b) (ii) ■■ The job classification of trade or craft and assigned maintenance jobs, having been classified as in Paragraph (i) above, shall be increased by six (6) job classes effective March 1,1993.
13.29	b) (iii) ■■ Where a change in an existing job requires a new description and classification for a job on which this Convention has already been applied, such job shall be reclassified in the same manner as that followed prior to the application of this Convention and the provisions of Paragraphs (i) or (ii) above shall apply.
13.30	- An employee training through an apprenticeship course shall be initially assigned to that period of the Schedule of Apprenticeship
69
Progression which is appropriate to his accumulated training and experience.
13.31	- Notwithstanding the provisions of b) and c) of Paragraph 5.05 of the Manual, an employee performing the described work of a journeyman in a given trade or craft but not as an apprentice, who has been determined by means which are fair, equitable and appropriate in relation to the described work of a journeyman to be less than fully qualified, shall be governed by the following:
13.31	a) - such employee shall be assigned to training in the block of the Schedule of Apprenticeship Progression which is appropriate to his qualifications and ability in relation to the described work of a journeyman in the given trade or craft;
13.31b) - such employee when so assigned shall be paid the Standard Hourly Rate appropriate to the period to which assigned, but in any event, not less than as follows:
70
For jobs with the standard rate (including the 2 job class additive) of:
A rate not less than the equivalent to the following number of job classes below such standard rate:
JOB CLASS
4
6
6
6
6
6
13.32	- The provisions of Paragraph 13.35 shall not apply to those employees provided for in a) of Paragraph 5.05 of the Manual.
13.33	- It shall be the Company’s responsibility to provide opportunities for apprentices to assimilate Provincial Block Training.
13.33	a) - Selection for attendance at block training will be made on the basis of total hours in the trade, as per the Provincial Block Training Program.
13.33	b) -In the instance of equal hours worked, the Apprenticeship Committee will recommend to
71
Industrial Training that project classified seniority be used to select the candidate for training.
13.34	- In the event an employee assigned to training through an apprenticeship course fails to qualify for progression at the conclusion of any block, the joint apprenticeship committee will review the areas of weakness and assist in the upgrading of said areas. Should the employee fail to qualify for progression in the same block on a second occasion, he will be removed from the apprenticeship training and must exercise his seniority in accordance with Article 6.05. Any dispute between the Company and employee is subject to the grievance procedure.
13.35	- An employee hired for, or assigned through job posting to any job to which learner rates are applicable shall be governed by the following:
13.35	a) - such employee shall be furnished by the Company with a list indicating the prescribed schedule of work processes and organized related instruction which apply to each learner period, together with the requirement standards which must be fulfilled in order to qualify for such job;
72
13.35	ll) - should such employee consider his qualifications and ability can qualify him for higher than the first learner period rate, he may request within seven (7) clays after being processed as a new hire for, or after being assigned through job posting to, any job to which learner rates are applicable, and shall receive a determination of his qualifications and ability which determination shall be made in a manner that is fair, equitable and appropriate in relation to the described work of a qualified employee in the respective job and the following shall govern:
13.35	b) (i) - if such determination discloses that such employee is fully qualified, he shall be assigned to the Standard Hourly Rate for the respective job; or
13.35	b) (ii) - if such determination discloses that such employee is not fully qualified he shall be assigned to training beginning with that learner period for the respective job which is appropriate in relation to his qualifications and ability as disclosed by such determination.
13.36	- An employee assigned, in accordance with Paragraph 13.35, to any learner period of a job to which learner rates are applicable shall:
73
13.36	a) - progress to the next learner period, if any, of such job upon the completion of 520 hours of actual learning experience, at which time such employee may request, and shall receive a determination of qualifications and ability as provided in Paragraph 13.35 a), in which event the governing rules contained therein shall apply;
13.36	b) - be considered a regular occupant of such job only after a determination of such employee's qualifications and ability, made as provided in Paragraph 13.35 a), has disclosed that he is qualified, and
13.36	c) - receive a determination of his qualifications and ability when requested, as provided in a) of this paragraph, and in any other case, upon the conclusion of the final learner period of the respective job.
13.37	- In the event an employee assigned to training through a learner schedule of a job to which learner rates are applicable fails to qualify for progression to the following period or to the Standard Hourly Rate of such job whichever is applicable, the Company shall indicate in detail to such employee the reason for such failure and advise and instruct such employee in an attempt to enable him to successfully develop the
74
necessary qualifications and ability. An employee failing to qualify as set out herein may opt to qualify in the requirements of the period failed anytime after one ('I) month from the date of the failure. It is understood that a failure under this paragraph constitutes the last failure allowed at any one 520-hour training period.
13.38	- An employee who fails to become qualified for a job to which learner rates are applicable following three (3) consecutive determinations of his qualifications and ability shall be subject to removal from such job, in which case he shall revert to the position he occupied before he was assigned to such learner schedule.
13.39	- Any employee who alleges that a determination of his qualifications and ability has been made improperly or that he has been unjustly dealt with because of any determination which has been made, may file a grievance to be processed under the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
13.40	- The Union shall be consulted regarding:
13.40	a) - The prescribed schedule of work processes and organized related instruction which apply to:
75
13.40	a) (i) - each period of apprenticeship training in the case of trade or craft jobs; and
13.40	a) (ii) - each learner period, in the case of a job to which learner rates are applicable; and
13.40	b) - the requirement standards which must be fulfilled in order to qualify at each period of training in either trade or craft apprenticeships or learner rates jobs.
General
13.41	- Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or Standard Hourly Rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
13.42	- Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
13.42	a) - All hours worked up to forty (40) hours in a week by learners will be taken into account in the computation of the 520-hour training periods.
76
2-. IS '■ r< '■ ■!	:
13,42	I)) - Employees who attend required scheduledjr^ingjDutside working hours will be paitfone (1) hour at straight time rates for each hour in attendance at such training.
NORTHERN ALLOWANCE C •’ Jy - /
13.43	- Effective March 1, 1993 a Northern Allowance of two hundred and forty-seven ($247.00) per month per single status employee and two hundred and sixty-two dollars ($262.00) per month per married status employee will be paid subject to the following conditions:
13.43	a) - One (1) only Northern Allowance per family will be allowed at the married status rate.
13.43	tl) (i) - Eligible employees must have earnings or be on annual or extended vacation in order to receive Northern Allowance.
13.43	b) [iil - Annual or extended vacation pay received at layoff or while on layoff or upon termination of employment is not considered as vacation taken or as earnings for the purpose of Northern Allowance.
77
13.43	b) [iiil - At time of termination employees with regular earnings for less than a full calendar month will receive prorata Northern Allowance for that month based on the number of days in that month to date of termination divided by thirty (30).
13.43	c) - Northern Allowance is not considered as earnings for the purpose of computing vacation pay.
13.43	d) - An employee will be eligible for Northern Allowance following completion of his probationary period and shall be paid on a prorated basis.
13.43	e) - An employee changing «status» as outlined above must notify the Personnel Office of such change.
13.44	- Employees retiring or permanently disabled are eligible for relocation benefits of three thousand dollars ($3000.00) with receipts and five hundred dollars ($500.00) cash payment if they relocate outside the immediate area.
78
REPORTING AND CALL BACK	,
1/ (, ■ o
14.01	al - If an employee reports for work on his regular scheduled shift without having been notified previously not to report and if sufficient work is not available, he shall be given at least f2.uli41.!lQUKS^Pay at his regular rate for that day at the standard rate for his occupation and will be allowed to go home.
14.01	ll) - Should he actually begin work in accordance with his regular job description and ori his regular shift he will be provided four (4) hours work at the prevailing hourly wage of that occupation, after which he may be sent home by his supervisor provided he is so notified before the end of the first half (y2) of the shift.
14.01	c) - If he is offered another job for the full shift, and he accepts, he will be paid the higher rate of the job assignment or his regular rate. Should the employee decline a job in which he can reasonably perform, he will be allowed to go home without pay.
14.01	d) - The above shall not apply in cases where work is not available due to causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
79
ULyf^p
14.02	- Employees cafcti cmitro work outside '■ their normai and regular hours shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at straight time rates or twice (2) the-regular rate for actual hours;!/ worked on the call-out, whichever is the greater.{ Work required under the foregoing circumstances will be confined to work necessitated by the call-out. If, however, employees are informed before the end of their regular shift to commence work before their next regular starting time, the time will be computed continuously with the regular day’s work and the time worked before the regular starting time will be paid for at the applicable rate.
14.03	- Article 14.02 will be applied on the following basis:
«Normal» Overtime will be paid for:
14.03	al - Continuous hours worked following his regular shift.
14.03	lb) - All hours worked in continuity with the start of the next shift, where employee is advised
before end of his preceding shift.
14.03	c) - Work performed on assigned rest days where employee is advised before end of last shift he works before his rest day.
30
14.03	d) - Replacing an absentee for a complete shift or part of a shift and he will be told who he is replacing and the work to be done when he is called or when reporting to work. The employee on regular annual vacation or extended vacation is not considered an absentee.
14.03	e) - The employee called in to work and advised at least four (4) hours before the start of the work and for the day shift he will be advised before midnight.
«Call-0ut» time will be paid far:
14.03	f) - Subject to item d) and item h), employees called after leaving the job, to perform a specific job. Work to be performed will be specified and the employee is expected to work the hours required by the call-out or until he is relieved.
14.03	g) - Employee called on assigned rest day and who is not advised as in e) above and who is not called as a replacement.
14.03	h) - Employee called to work for less than full shift and continues working on regular shift without relief (hours prior to regular shift paid as call out).
81
14.04	- An employee unable to report for his regularly scheduled shift shall advise the Company in accordance with Letter of Understanding, Item #6 - Procedure for Reporting Shift Absence.
RTICLE >
VACATION WITH PAY
15.01	■■ Vacations shall be granted through all the year, based on a schedule worked out by Company and Union representatives with the aim of posting such schedule on or before November 30th.
The schedule may be reviewed periodically as the need arises as to the number of employees to be released; however, except in the case of unforeseen circumstances, the schedule will not be altered without consent of both parties. The objective is to allow the maximum number of employees vacation in the period of their preference based on the operational requirements of the Company. A copy of the posted schedule will be sent to the Union.
82
15.02	■■ Employees shall be allowed annual vacation with pay varying with their number of years of continuous service and prorated with the months actually worked during the year according to the following scale:
Length of	Maximum Days % Factoi
Continuous Service Allowed Vacation of Earnings
01 o	' •,
AfteKl'yeSr’s service	118 days	5.33%
After 2 years’ service	23 days	6.81%
After 3 years’ service	28 days	8.29%
After 4 years’ service	33 days	9.77%
Continuous service shall be defined as commencing on the January 1st immediately following the employee's most recent date of hire and will include any time an employee is on layoff from active employment, during which that employee retained and continued to accumulate seniority.
Annual vacation pay shall be computed by multiplying the employee's gross earnings for the preceding payroll year by the appropriate percentage factor outlined above.
15.03	- Employees, should they so desire and within the guidelines of this article, may choose
83
to split their annual vacation subject to the following criteria:
15.03	;a) - An employee will be permitted to split annual vacation only twice.
15.03	Ij) - Minimum allowable vacation is 7 days.
15.03	c) - Subject to provisions of Appendix “G” the employee may choose to take complete Air Transportation Subsidy on either portion of the vacation.
15.03	d) - Vacation pay will be paid for each portion of the vacation based on the number of days taken.
15.04	a) - Maximum calendar days shall not be reduced as a result of authorized absences due to medical reasons or Union business. Maximum calendar days shall be reduced for any other authorized leave over one (1) month.
15.04	b) - Maximum days allowed vacation shall be reduced, on a prorata basis, by complete months not worked due to layoff but in no case will the maximum days allowed be less than fourteen (14). At time of vacation, an employee will be allowed a leave of absence without pay for any vacation time cut due to layoff, if he wishes.
84
15.04	c) - For each two (2) consecutive days of
unauthorized absence during the year entitling an employee to vacation, the applicable maximum calendar days vacation due an employee, as determined in Paragraph 15.02, shall be reduced by one half (y2) of a day but in no case will the vacation days entitlement be less than fourteen (14) days.	, t
15.04	d) - An annual vacation b qhlis of one hundred and ten dollars HTToTOO) per week fifteen dollars and seventy-one cents ($15.71) foi each day of annual vacation granted will be paid for vacation days taken from October 1st to December 14th and January 16th to May 31st. The vacation bonus will also be paid if annual vacation pay is given to an employee at time of layoff, provided such layoff falls in the above mentioned periods.
15.05	- Vacation pay or the equivalent of his vacation pay without taking such vacation shall be considered as earnings for computing subsequent vacation pay.
$Jf£ - '
15.06	- The Company and employee may agree,\ that the employee shall not take a vacation or ) portion thereof, in which case the Company shall pay to him the equivalent of his vacation pay/ without taking such vacation.
85
15.07	a) - Employees who are eligible for vacation pay may request same up to fifteen (15) calendar days in advance and will receive same not later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the date they are scheduled to proceed on vacation. In cases where the amount of actual vacation pay is not available within the time specified above, employees will receive an approximation thereof, which will be subsequently adjusted.
15.07	b) - Employees who are entitled ‘to vacation upon layoff shall receive vacation pay at time of layoff if the employee so specifies or in accordance with a vacation schedule established prior to his layoff.
15.07	c) - Employees who are eligible for vacation pay will receive same at the time they are discharged.
15.08	- Employees with less than one (1) year’s continuous service, for vacation purposes will receive, upon a break in continuous service, four percent (4%) of gross earnings since their date of hire. Employees with more than one (1) year’s continuous service for vacation purposes will receive, upon a break in continuous service, four percent (4%) of gross earnings since the date of the pay period nearest to their last anniversary
86
date in addition to vacation pay to which they may be entitled under Paragraph 15.02 or whatever is provided by law, whichever is greater.
15.09	- An employee who returns from vacation will be entitled to overtime for clays worked in the week he returns on the same basis as for the same week as if he had not been on vacation and had worked his regular scheduled week.
15.10	;a) - Employees and their immediate dependents will be entitled once per vacation year, provided the employee has acquired vacation rights, to a free return passage Labrador City to Sept-lies or Schefferville via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway. At vacation time and for the same purpose the employee will be entitled to free return transportation, as provided by the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway, for his personal automobile and one (1) space in a “car carrier” for his personal trailer, motor home, camper, canoe or boat on trailer. In the event that the trailer, motor home, camper, camper pick-up or boat on trailer, exceeds the normal limits of the “car carrier”, one (1) space on a flat car will be provided for the trailer, motor home, camper, camper pick-up or boat on trailer. Any charges incurred in excess of 6,000 pounds
87
will be at the employee’s expense. For the purpose of this article the personal automobile may be in the spouse's name. Furthermore, each employee will be entitled to a second free return passage for his personal automobile from Labrador City to Sept-lles or Schefferville via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway.
15.10	b) (i) - Employees on long term disability, Worker’s Compensation and retirees, and their immediate dependents, all of whom must be permanently residing in Labrador City, will be entitled, once per year, to a free return vehicle and passenger pass from Labrador City to Sept-lles or Schefferville via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway.
15.10	b) (ii) - Families of deceased employees shall receive the benefits provided under 15.10b) (i). Such return passage shall continue under the same terms as other benefits entitlement,
15.10	c) - The Company agrees that an employee who is terminated by the Company for medical reasons which prevent his further employment by the Company at Labrador City, or who is retired under Sub-section 3.6 of the Pension Plan, will be provided with free transportation on the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway to Sept-
88
lies for himself, immediate dependents, personal automobile and household effects and one (1) space in a “car carrier” for his personal trailer, as set out in 15.10 a).
15.10	li) - During the term of the current collective agreement, the Company will administer the provisions of Paragraph 15.10 a) as follows:
15.10	d)(i) - the space in the car carrier shall not be more than (5-j4'X7'X18’ in dimension;
15.10	d) [Ml - the automobile may be replaced by an employee’s personal motorcycle or snowmobile with sled and contents:
15.10	d) [Hi] - should an employee decide to utilize the annual transportation provided for under 15.10 a), at one time during his anniversary year rather than at the time of his annual vacation, he may do so only for medical leaves of absences requiring hospitalization.
15.11	-EXTENDED VACATION
15.11	al - Each five (5) year period of completed continuous service with the Company qualifies
89

sM3.
4
the employee for extended vacation (EV) based on five) (5)jA|eeks of EV after five (5), years of service and nine (9}jveeks of EV after ten (10) years of service. Each additional five (5) year period of continuous service, after ten (10) years of service, qualifies the employee for EV based on nine (9) weeks of EV.
15.11	b) - The date of entitlement of the second EV establishes the start of the third five (5) year period of service. The start of each subsequent five (5) year period of service is established in the same manner as the third five (5) year period.
15.11c) - For an employee entitled to EV before signature date of the 1981-1 984 Agreement:
15.11	c) (i) - EV days and pay will be in addition to annual vacation and shall be added to, paid and taken with an employee's annual vacation;
15.11	C) [Ml - all or any portion of EV days entitlement may be cancelled in the year an employee is scheduled for EV pay; if the employee opts for EV days he must specify his option for EV days entitlement at the time he makes application for annual vacation. The employee will receive pay for his full EV entitlement if he opted not to take his EV days entitlement.
90
15.11	d) - For an employee becoming entitled to EV on or after the signature date of this Agreement:
15.11	d) (i) - EV will be paid in full in the six (6) weeks following the end of the pay period in which the service anniversary date completing the 5-year period entitling the employee to EV falls, if the employee so desires. Otherwise the employee will be paid in full at the time he takes the extended vacation time;
15.11	cl) (ii) - all or any portion of EV days entitlement may be cancelled. If an employee wishes ‘to have EV days, they can be scheduled with any one annual vacation of the five (5) years following EV entitlement; however, the employee must specify his option for EV clays entitlement at the time he makes application for annual vacation and Paragraph 15.11 g) applies.
15.11	e) - EV days and EV pay will be calculated in the same manner and will be subject to the same conditions as annual vacation except that a five (5) year base will be used for EV instead of the one (1) year base. The maximum number of calendar days allowed EV multiplied by .29606 will establish the percent (%) of earnings to be granted as EV pay.
91
15.11	f) - EV will be scheduled in accordance with the vacation scheduling procedures that apply to the bargaining unit. The desires of the individual employee will be taken into account insofar as practicable but final allotment must be approved by the Manager to insure orderly operation.
15.11g) - Only in the case of termination will the Company be required to allot EV time or pay in excess of twenty percent (20%) of the employees entitled to EV in the calendar year in question.
15.11	h) - In cases of employment termination due to Technological, Organizational or Operational Changes, extended layoff, death of an employee. retirement (normal, early, special early, postponed) under the Pension Plan Agreement governing this bargaining unit, employees or beneficiaries of deceased employees, so terminated will be entitled to a prorata EV based on the service period completed at such termination date since last previous entitlement date to EV or since hiring date, as the case may be.
15.11	i) - Service Bonus:
For the second and each subsequent year of service completed after February 28th, 1979, and 92
for which an employee receives an annual vacation pay, extended vacation pay will be increased by a 20-hour service bonus. Such service bonus will be paid at the same time as extended vacation pay and at the Standard Hourly Rate of the regular job held at each service year anniversary date in the applicable period of years preceding the date EV is paid.
ARTICLE XV
HOLIDAYS
16.01	a) - For any of the holidays hereafter mentioned, each employee will receive a holiday pay equal to eight (8) times the applicable hourly rate of the job to which he is regularly assigned, exclusive of shift and overtime premiums, provided that the employee is not absent without leave on the scheduled shift immediately preceding or following the holiday:
New Year's Day St. Patrick Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day .
Regatta Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day December 26th.
93
16.01	b) - The above listed holidays shall be observed on the day they occur. Such holiday are regular scheduled shifts for all employees so scheduled. The present practice as defined in the current overtime rules and regulations will apply to work performed by B-hour, Monday to Friday day shift workers. Should a holiday fall on a weekend, for those employees who work a Monday to Friday eight (8) hour schedule, the Company will review its work requirements for the week in question and, if possible, reduce the manpower requirements in these departments on the designated Monday or Friday of the holiday.
16.01	c) - Notwithstanding 16.01 a), an employee on vacation or who is laid off the day following or preceding the holiday shall be entitled to holiday pay.
16.01	d)- To be entitled to holiday pay set out in
16.01	a), an employee must have worked during the course of the two (2) weeks that precede the holiday.
16.01	e) - The date for Regatta Day will be established by the Union advising the Company, by registered mail, not later than May 15th; if the Union does not do so, the date will be fixed by the Company and will not be subject to change.
<14
Employees on a twelve (12) hour shift required to work on a holiday will be paid as follows: 150% of their regular rate for the first twelve (12) hours; 200% of their regular rate for the next four (4) hours; 250% of their regular rate for all hours worked over sixteen (16) hours.
However, in the case where employees would have the right to a higher hourly rate for such hours worked, in accordance with another provision of the Collective Agreement, they will be paid at such higher hourly rate instead of the rate provided for in this paragraph.
16.03 - Holiday pay hours shall be considered as hours worked only to make the hours actually worked after the holiday within the work week (i.e. Monday through Sunday) eligible for overtime. If the holiday falls on a day following the last day worked by the employee in the work week, the holiday pay hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
95
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	^
17.01	a) - An employee may be granted a leave of absence upon submitting a written request to his shift or department supervisor outlining the reasons for the leave and its length. Leaves of absence will not arbitrarily be denied, but management shall have the right to grant leave and determine its length. However, should an employee feel that his leave has been arbitrarily denied, he may refer the matter for discussion with his department superintendent. If the Company denies a leave of absence, the reasons for this refusal will be given to the employee. The only benefits accrued during leave will be seniority and those other benefits the collective agreement specifically states will be accrued.
17.01b) - An employee who is absent for reason of sickness for more than three (3) days shall present a medical certificate covering the time lost upon returning to work.
17.01	c) - The Company will administer «fit to return to work» slips concerning lost time accidents resulting from accidents during working hours and medical leaves of absence
06
requiring hospitalization in a city other than the city of residence on the following basis:
17.01	c) (i) - Accidents during working hours:
Art employee returning to work following a lost time accident provided the normal procedure was followed in conformity with the rules of the Workers' Compensation Commission, will report to the Personnel Office with proof of physical fitness from his attending physician. Should the Company require further evidence of physical fitness through a Company designated physician, the Company will pay for the required examination and will pay the employee at his regular rate for scheduled hours lost resulting from such an examination.
17.01	l:) (iil - Leave of absence requiring hospitalization:
An employee returning to work after hospitalization in a city other than his city of residence will report to the Personnel Office with proof of hospitalization and proof of physical fitness from his attending physician. If the Company requires further evidence of physical fitness, cost of the examination and pay for the time lost, if any, will be handled as in Paragraph i) above.
97
17.02	a) - In case of death in his immediate family, an employee will be allowed three (3) consecutive scheduled 8 hour shifts or two (2) consecutive scheduled 12 hour shifts, based on the day of the funeral, with pay at his basic rate provided he actually loses the time on account of such death.

17.02	b) - The provisions of Paragraph 17.02 a) will apply to an employee who was not scheduled to work due ‘to being on an authorized leave of absence for reason of illness of a member in his immediate family which resulted in the death of that member of his immediate family during the period of the employee's authorized leave of absence.
17.03	- For the purpose of Paragraph 17.02 ((immediate family)) is defined as wife or husband, daughter, son, brother, sister, father, mother, step-father, step-mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, employee's grandmother, grandfather and grandchild.
17.04	a) - During the life of this Agreement, to further an employ££^_£jiu£aTmjiaT.standard, leaves of absence may be grapjedjwjl^hout pay to a. maximum of ten (10) employees at any one
08
time and not more than one (1 )*"per classification, who have at least two (2) years’ seniority in the bargaining unit to attend on a full time basis, a course of studies of at least six (6) months’ duration at a recognized educational institute. Employees must submit a letter of acceptance from the institute not less than two (2) weeks prior to the start of the leave requested. Such leave shall at no time exceed the time required to complete the course of study in that academic year and Paragraph 17.01 shall apply. Seniority will be considered in granting leaves of absence, however, if the course of studies lasts more than one (1) year, renewal of the leave will be considered ahead of new leaves.
17.04	b) - The Company will grant only one (1) additional leave for the whole of IOC bargaining units chain to the first qualified applicant from the bargaining unit which has exhausted its allotment.
17.05	- Maternity leave of absence will be granted to female employees who have acquired seniority in the bargaining unit. Such request for leave shall not be refused by the Company and shall commence between the second-and the fourth month prior to the anticipated date of birth orTRe^hild'anO'R&ll terminate at the latest six
gg
(6) months after the birth but shall not exceed a total of eightJ8]jriflolhs. f -f.fj - O,/ ij?
Such employees shall be restored to their former position if work is available and they are capable of performing the work, provided they return to work as outlined in Article VI. If their former position is not available, such employees may exercise their displacement rights as outlined in Article VI. If the Company hires a new employee to fill a vacancy resulting from a maternity leave of absence, such employee may exercise -any senjpj.tyjjg.hts^hatapply or be laid off without notice at the expiration of the leave of absence.
% -/
JURY DUTY .	,
17.06	- Effective as of the date of the commencement of the Criminal Court in Labrador City, an employee who is summoned for iurv duty or as a witness in a criminal or quasi criminal case in fils courity‘of residence and is required to lose time from his assignment as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one (1) basic day’s pay at the straight time rate of his position for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for jury or court duty for each such day excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations:
100
17.06	a) - an employee must furnish the Company with a statement from the Court of allowances paid and the days on which jury or court duty was performed;
17.06	b) - the number of working days for which jury or court duty pay shall be paid is limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days on an eight (8) hour shift or forty (40) days on a twelve (12) hour shift in any calendar year;
17.06	c) - no jury or court duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is entitled to vacation or general holiday pay. An employee who is scheduled for his vacation while he is acting as juror or witness may re-schedule his vacation in a free period;
17.06	d) - minimum notice of three (3) days, when possible, along with copy of the summons must be furnished to the employee's supervisor.
101
ARTICLE
SAFETY & HEALTH
18.01	a) - The Company, the Union and the employees recognize their obligations and rights according to the laws in force, with respect to matters of safety and health.
18.01	b) - The parties recognize that it is the responsibility of the Company to make necessary provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the work place. In their desire to maintain high standards of safety and health at the work place, the Company and the Union will cooperate in the continuing reduction of risk and exposure with the objective of eliminating accidents and health hazards and in advocating observance of safety rules, procedures and policies.
18.01c) - The Company and the Union agree that in order to achieve high safety standards, proper attitudes must be developed by all concerned due to the primary role of the human element in any sound accident prevention and industrial diseases programs,
102
18.02	a) - There shall be three (3) Union members of the JOSH Committee; one CoChairman, one Assistant Co-Chairman and one member, appointed by the Union. They shall be composed of one representative each of the Mine, Concentrator and Pellet Plant & Services areas and will have work experience in the area they represent.
18.02	b) - The Union Co-Chairman shall be full
time paid at Job Class. 18 plus 4 additives and shall be accountable to the Union President, Should an employee placed in this position hold a higher job class, the Company will maintain that level. The Assistant Co-Chairman and member shall be provided paid leavgj]lupjQ,a maximum of sixteen (16) hours'.per month each for the purposes of attending regular JOSH Committee meetings and shall be accountable to the President during these periods.
181.02 c) - Union members of the JOSH Committee shall be elected by the Union membership for a three (3) year term. During this three (3) year period the Co-Chairman shall serve for a period of eighteen (18) months at which point in time the Co-Chairman shall become the Member, the Assistant Co-Chairman shall become the Co-Chairman and the Member
103
shall become the Assistant Co-Chairman. The Union Co-Chairman shall be considered on a leave of absence from his regular job to which he shall return in accordance with Article VI upon completion of his term.
18.02	d) - The Union shall advise the Company a minimum of two (2) weeks in advance of an absence from the Project by the JOSH Committee Co-Chairman of more than seven (7) consecutive days. Upon such advice the Company shall arrange for a leave of absence without pay for the duration of the absence for the Co-Chairman and a leave of absence with pay as outlined in 18.02 b) for the Assistant Co-Chairman to become Acting Co-Chairman for the same period. During such period the regular member shall be the Acting Assistant Co-Chairman.
18.02	e) - The Union shall appoint and the Company shall provide training to one (1) substitute JOSH Committee person who shall replace the Member at meetings of the JOSH Committee during an absence by the regular JOSH Co-Chairman as outlined in 18.02 d) above.
18.02	f) - Due to the responsibility placed upon the persons who hold these positions, the parties agree that the JOSH Co-Chairman shall not be
104
named to any committee or appointed to any other Union position excepting the Union Executive or the Negotiating Committee. If appointed to the Negotiating Committee, the JOSH Co-Chairman shall request and be granted a full time unpaid leave of absence for the period of negotiations. If elected to the Union Executive, the JOSH Co-Chairman shall not be appointed to replace the Union President. Union Executive duties shall not result in excessive absence from the workplace.
18.02	g) - There shall be three (3) Management members of the JOSH Committee appointed by the Company, These appointments shall be for a maximum three-year period with rotation in accordance with 18.02 c) above.
18.03	a) - In the discharge of its functions the committee shall: consider existing practices and rules relating to safety and health, review and formulate appropriate and necessary suggestions for changes in existing practices and rules, recommend adoption of new practices and rules, review and revise proposed new safety and health programs, review and analyze the cause and means to be taken in case of unsafe acts and conditions, accident statistics and trends as well as noise, dust, fumes, gas, hazardous chemicals,
105
cold and heat reports and make appropriate and necessary recommendations concerning the functions and duties set out above.
18.03	b) - Recommendations of the Safety and Health Committee together with supporting documentation and reasons shall be submitted to the Executive Vice President or his designate for his consideration in order to provide for the safety and health of its employees during working hours and at all times when legitimately on Company property. The Executive Vice President or his designate will advise the committee of the appropriate action to be taken by the Company on the recommendations submitted,
/ V'
Iv *;\/<. '«•
18.04	- A quarterly inspection tour shall be made, each of the l'5TtrrerCBffcentrator and Pellet Plant & Services areas. Such tours shall include the Union JOSH Co-Chairman, the area Union Safety & Health Technician, the representative of the Newfoundland Ministry of Labour - Health and Safety Branch, and up to two (2) members of Management.
18.05	- The JOSH Committee shall hold a monthly meeting at a time determined by the CoChairmen of both parties. Each Co-Chairman shall submit a proposed agenda to the other Co-
106
Chairman at least five (5) days prior to the monthly meeting. The Company Co-Chairman will provide the Union Co-Chairman with minutes of the monthly meeting within forty eight (48) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) following this meeting. Furthermore, should conditions warrant, the Co-Chairmen, by mutual agreement, may call such meetings as they deem necessary.
18.06	- Prior to the monthly meeting, the CoChairmen, or the JOSH Committee designate of each Co-Chairman, may inspect mutually selected work areas in respect of such matters as: accident/incident investigation follow-up; excessive noise, heat, cold and hazardous chemicals, fumes, dust or vibration as they pertain to employees' health; reported unsafe conditions, A report of the inspection shall be prepared by the Company and transmitted to the Union Co-Chairman setting forth their findings.
18.07	- In the case of accidents which result in disabling injury there will be a fact finding investigation and the Company will, as soon as possible but not later than twenty-four (24) hours from the time of the accident, notify the Union Co-Chairman or a member of the JOSH Committee. In the case of accidents which did
107
not, but could have resulted in disabling injury, the Co-Chairmen may attend.
18.08	- Any time a safely hazard arises which the employee and his supervisor cannot resolve, it may be addressed by the appropriate JOSH Committee Co-Chairman and brought to the attention of the area Superintendent. This person will then advise the Union of the appropriate action to be taken by the Company.
18.09	- The Company and the Union will continue their program of air sampling and noise testing. Where the JOSH Committee alleges a significant on the job health hazard due to air pollution or noise, the Company and the Union will also make, such additional noise tests and air samplings as are necessary. A report based on such additional noise tests and air samplings shall be forwarded to the Joint Occupational Safety and Health Committee.
18.10	a) - Should an employee or a group of employees believe that there exists an unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition with respect to the area in which he is working, other than the normal hazards in his work or working area, he shajUiaye thejight: to,jt_0B,j/mnking.and he shall Immediately report the condition to his
supervisor who shall investigate the condition and take steps necessary to correct it.
18.10	b) - If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor, he shall have the right to be relieved from duty on the job in respect of which he has complained and will be assigned to another job at his regular rate, or the rate of the job performed if higher. Should the stoppage of work due to an alleged unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition affect other employees, such employees wilt be reassigned to other jobs at their regular rates, or the rate of the job performed if higher.
18.10	c) - As soon as possible, the JOSH Committee will be called in by the supervisor to inspect the alleged unsafe condition. The employee may be called in at the request of the Committee.
18.10	d)- If the JOSH Committee agrees that the condition was in fact unsafe, the employee shalt be reassigned to the job when the unsafe condition has been remedied.
18.10e) - If the JOSH Committee disagrees as to the safety of the condition, the Union or the Company shall have the right either to file a
109
grievance at Step 3 of the grievance procedure in accordance with Paragraph 7.07 b) or request appropriate governmental intervention.
18.10	f) - A grievance filed under e) above which is advanced to arbitration must be scheduled as soon as an approved arbitrator is available but in any case shall be no later than thirty (30) days from the date the grievance was denied at Step III unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
18.10	g) - Pending resolution of the matter, the Company has the right to offer the work in dispute to another hourly employee who will be advised of the refusal by the regular employee 'to perform the work for safety reasons. If this hourly employee refuses to perform the work in dispute, while awaiting the resolution of the problem by one or the other of the methods set out in e) above, the Company will have the right to continue to have the work performed.
18.10	h) - The Company may present a grievance in the event that Section 18.10 is subject to vexatious or abusive treatment.
18.11	- Protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipment necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the
110
Company in accordance with Appendix “H” or as such prevailing practices may be improved from time to time by the Company. The JOSH Committee may make recommendations with respect to this paragraph.
When the Company introduces new personal protective apparel or extends the use of protective apparel to new areas or issues new rules relating to the use of protective apparel, the matter will be discussed with the members of the JOSH Committee in advance in order for the committee to form an opinion as to the adequacy of the protective apparel and with the objective of increasing cooperation.
18.12	- The Company shall provide adequate first-aid during working hours.
18.13	a) - If time is needed by an employee during his normal working hours to visit the doctor as a result of a work accident and the time for such visit is not compensated for under the Workers' Compensation Act, no loss of pay shall result.
18.13	ll) (i) - Employees shall be allowed a complete annual industrial examination which will be carried out in accordance with the prescribed medical examination.
111
18.13	b) (iil - The examination may be carried out by the physician designated by the Company or by the physician of the employee's choice. Should the employee not use the services of the physician designated by the Company, the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the complete industrial examination through the Company. Where the employee uses the services of the physician of his choice for the industrial examination, the examination results required for employment purposes shall be forwarded to the Company designated physician.
18.13	b) (iii) - The above examinations will be carried out outside the employee's work hours and the employee will be allowed one (1) hour at his regular straight time rate for attendance at such examination. The employee will receive an invoice form from the Company. The form will state that the employee has taken the prescribed examination. On receipt of the invoice the Company will pay the doctor his fee up to the agreed amount prescribed for such examination.
18.13	b) (iv) - Should the Company require an employee to be examined by the Company designated physician during the employee's regular scheduled shift, no loss of pay shall result.
112
18.13	b) (v) - Employees who are required to obtain a Miner’s Medical will be allowed one (1) hour at his regular straight time rate for attendance at such examination.
18.14	a) - A copy of the Company’s report on lost-time accidents and a first-aid station report shall be forwarded to the Union Co-Chairman of the JOSH Committee. Such reports may be discussed at committee meetings.
18.14	b) - When an employee signs a form prescribed by the Workers’ Compensation Commission, a copy of such form, as submitted by the Company to the Commission, will be made available to the Union upon request.
18.14c) - When the Company contests a request for indemnity, the Union will be advised of such contestation.
18.15	- During the life of the present collective agreement, it is the intent of the Company to provide for eye examinations and prescription safety glasses under the following conditions:
18.15	a) - if the employee does not use the services of the Company optometrist, he will be reimbursed a maximum of twenty-'five dollars
113
($25.00) for an eye examination, not more than once a year, upon presentation of a proper doctor's invoice;
18.15	b) - the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the safety glasses through the Company twice per year;
18.15	c) - under the same conditions as b) above, the Company will replace safety glasses broken or damaged on the job.
/ 2 - /
18.16	a) - Should an employee contract an industrial disease from Company work processes which renders the employee unable to imaintain necessary standards of health on the job he was regularly performing, tfm employee will be rpflved to some other job for which he is qualified. The foregoing will also apply to an employee who contracts an industrial disease for which a permanent partial disability is recognized under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
18.16	b) - Should the Company not offer the employee a job of equal or higher rate, the employee will be treated as being laid off and Paragraph 6.05 will apply.
18.16c)- If the employee is treated as being laid off, the Company will maintain the difference 114
between the rate of the regular job held and the rate of the job obtained through the provisions of Paragraph 6.05.
18.16	d)-If an employee refuses a job of equal or higher rate for which he qualifies medically and in accordance with the terms of the collective agreement, he shall be paid the Standard Hourly Rate of the job in which he exercises seniority.
18.16	e) - If there is disagreement as to the employee’s medical condition rendering the employee unable to perform a job under the terms of 18.16 a.), the employee shall be examined by a physician chosen by the employee's physician and the Company designated physician. The medical opinion of the third physician after examination of the employee and consultation with the other two physicians shall decide the matter. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be paid by the Company. Regular wages lost and reasonable expenses incurred by the employee as a result of an examination required by the third physician will be paid by the Company.
18.17	a) - In addition to the Union JOSH Committee members, there shall be three (3) full time paid Health and Safety Technicians, These
115
Technicians will be appointed by the Union but will be directed by and report to Management. They will perform Loss Control duties as part of the Company's Loss Control Program. The Technician's job will be described and evaluated in accordance with the CWS process; however, the H&S Technicians shall be paid at Job Class 18 plus 4 additives should such evaluation result in a lower job class. Should an employee placed in this position hold a higher job class, the Company will maintain that level.
18.17	b) - There shall be no replacements for the Union Health & Safety Technicians who are absent from the job during the term of this Collective Agreement.
18.17	c)-The Union Health & Safety Technicians will be subject to all provisions of the Collective Agreement except for bumping.
18.17	d) - In addition to the Union JOSH Committee members and three (3) full time Health and Safety Technicians, there shall be one (1) Union appointed Environmental Technician classified job as listed in 6.02 a) which will be subject to the normal application of the Collective Agreement.
116
18.17	e) - Health & Safety Technicians shall be considered on a leave of absence from the job they held prior to being appointed.
18.17	f) - Due to the responsibility placed upon the persons who hold these positions, the parties agree that the Health & Safety Technicians and Environmental Technician will not be named to any committee or appointed to any other Union position excepting the Union Executive or the Negotiating Committee. If appointed to the Negotiating Committee the individual shall request and be granted a full time unpaid leave of absence for the period of negotiations. If elected to the Union Executive, the Health & Safety Technician shall not be appointed to replace the Union President. Union Executive duties shall not result in excessive absence from the workplace.
ARTICLE XI
NOTICES
19.01	- Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
117
To the Company:
Iron Ore Company of Canada P.O.Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
To the Union:
Recording Secretary, Local 5795,
United Steelworkers of America 105 Hudson Drive Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V1 L4
19.02	- Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
19.03	- Provisions of this article apply to all articles having time limits.
19.04	- Either party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
118
CONTRACTING OUT
-/
20.01	- The Company will do repair, maintenance and production work with employees of the bargaining unit. Contracting out will be kept to a minimum.
20.02	a) - No employee in the bargaining unit will be laid off or displaced to a lower rated job because of work normally accomplished by the employees in the bargaining unit being contracted out, or such work being performed on site by a contractor. Furthermore, before contracting out such work, the Company will recall, in accordance with 6.07, qualified employees who are laid off or displaced, for such work, provided these employees are available.
20.02	b) - No employee working in a job in the department or departments in which a contractor is employed will be displaced from his department, because of the contractor's work, during the period of time a contractor's employee is working in a similar occupation on site.
Employees working in the department or departments where a contractor is employed will
119
be scheduled for not less than the same number of hours per week as employees in the bargaining unit working in other departments.
20.03	- In accordance with Paragraph 20.04, before the Company finally decides to contract out repair, maintenance or production work, the Company will provide the contracting out committee with detailed information as set out in Appendix “D” so that the Union members of the committee can adequately form an opinion as to whether or not such work should or should not be contracted out. Should the scope of the contractor’s work be changed during the contract period the changes will be treated as a new contract.
20.04	- Not less than ten (10) days before the Company finally decides to contract repair, maintenance or production work which is normally carried out by its regular qualified employees, the Company will notify the Union committee in writing. When the Company cannot give the ten (10) days’ notice, a verbal notice will be given immediately it becomes possible to do so and confirmed by telegram. Within five (5) days of the notice providing the detailed information as set out in 20.03, should the Union committee so request, a meeting of the committee will be held to review this information.
120
20.05	- The committee mentioned in 20.03 shall be composed of four (4) Union representatives and four (4) Company representatives. If a meeting is desired, the Union committee members shall not lose regular earnings while in attendance at this meeting. Upon request, one (1) member of the Union committee will be allowed up to eight (8) hours per month at his regular rate to investigate contracting out complaints in conjunction with a Company representative.
20.06	- Any alleged violation of the provisions of Article XX shall be subject to the grievance procedure and processed in accordance with Paragraph 7.07 b).
20.07	- An individual employee who has been laid off or displaced in violation of the provisions of Paragraph 20.02 may file a personal grievance for the pay he claims to have lost.
20.08	- A contractor working on site under Paragraphs 20.03 and 20.04 will not perform repair, maintenance or production work, not associated with this contract, normally performed by bargaining unit employees. Should this occur an employee may lodge a grievance at Step 2 in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.03 and any claim payable will apply from the date the grievance was filed.
121
20.09	- SPECIAL ACCELERATED ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
20.09	a) Purpose
The purpose of this special accelerated arbitration procedure is to settle expeditiously disagreements relating to contracting out work within the context of Article XX of the Collective Agreement. These provisions are not necessarily related to an announced layoff.
2:0.09 b) Nomination ol the Arbitrators
Both parties agree to name five (5) arbitrators who will be available on request. They must devote the time necessary to carry out their functions and responsibilities.
The expenses of the arbitration shall be paid equally by the Union and the Company.
2:0.09 c) List of Arbitrators
Dr. Leslie Harris Mr. I. Bruce Dr. John Scott Mr. Dennis Browne Dr. Renee Panjabe
122
20.09	d) Arbitration Procedure
Once a written grievance has been filed according to the provision of Article XX, it may be referred to an arbitrator provided for in the accelerated procedure. The following procedure will be followed:
20.09	d) (i)- Once the grievance has been filed, either Co-Chairman of the parties’ Contracting Out Committee will contact one of the arbitrators in rotation so that he may set the grievance hearing as soon as possible. The hearing will take place as soon as the arbitrator has indicated his availability.
20.09	d) [iil - The arbitrator will examine the facts and the parties will proceed with their argument. When one or more witnesses are deemed necessary to clarify facts, they will be heard promptly.
20.09	d) [iiil ■■ If the arbitrator deems it advisable he may visit the site with one or more representatives of both parties.
20.09	d) tivl - If objections are raised during the hearing and if the arbitrator does not rule on them immediately, he will take them under
123
advisement and will rule on them when he renders his decision.
20.09	d) (v) - The arguments of the parties will be heard during the hearing.
20.09	e) - Responsibilities end Duties of the Arbitrator
20.0!) e) (i) - Subject to the foregoing, the arbitrator will render his decision on the bench and will confirm his decision in writing within five (5) days of the hearing.
20.09	e) [iil - The authority of the arbitrator is limited to the application and interpretation of the Collective Agreement and to the grievance in dispute.
20.09	e) (iii) - The arbitrator is prohibited from rendering a decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Collective Agreement. The decision will be binding on both parties and shall not create a precedent.
124
ARTICLE XX
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
21.01	- The Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement.
21.02	- The Union agrees that there will be no strike, picketing, concerted slowdown or stoppage of work during the life of this Agreement.
21.03	- The Union further agrees that it will not involve any employee of the Company, or the Company itself, in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer. An employee who holds a Union position at the Company and is granted a leave of absence under the provision of Article
4.09	is not touched by the above provision in exercising a Union representative function in a difference involving another employer.
125
AUTHORITY OF THE UNION
2:2.01 - The United Steelworkers of America (Local 5795) and its duly appointed or elected representatives agree that they have authority from the members of the said Union to enter into this Agreement and agree that this Agreement shall be binding upon the same Union and/or its members under the Laws of the Province of Newfoundland - Labrador.
VALIDITY OF THE AGREEMENT
23.01	- If any provision of this Agreement was void in view of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Newfoundland -Labrador, the other provisions of the Agreement shall not be affected in any way by such nullity.
126
HEADNOTES
24.01	- Headings, titles and sub-titles for the various paragraphs are not part of the Agreement, nor are they to be construed as such.
ARTICLE XX'
LEGALTEXT
25.01	- The English text is the legal text of this collective agreement.
I ARTICLE XXV
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
26.01	- This Agreement shall become effective on March 1st, 1993 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 2.8th day of February 1996.
26.02	-Within the ninety (90) days preceding the expiration of this Agreement, either party may notify the other party of its desire to negotiate the terms and conditions of a new Agreement.
127
IN WITNESS WHEREOF Iron Ore Company of Canada has caused its corporate seal to be affixed under the hands of its proper officers in that behalf and the duly appointed or elected representatives of United Steelworkers of America (Local 5795) have hereunto set their hands and seals this 6th day of January 1994.
128
IRON ORE COMPANY	UNITED STEELWORKERS
OF CANADA	OF AMERICA, Local 5795
3
—ij
D.C. Ranee
r~
_____
XM.R. Gagnon \ .
4
Young
/j<^Q--^
	
iMt'Blake ~
^ Kean

A. Banfield
A. Huxter


H. Hawco
B. Cole
R. [)oucet
129
PPENDIX “A"
CM-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
(C.W.S.)
MANUAL
for
JOB DESCRIPTION CLASSIFICATION and
WAGE ADMINISTRATION MARCH 1st, 1958
Including C.W.S. Prncedure for handling new or changed jobs dated January 11th, 1990.
130
LEARNER PERIOD FAR CLASSIFICATION ANALYSIS
Division: Labrador City_____________________________________________
JOBS REQUIRING LEARNER	RATE			HOURS AND JOB CLASS FOR i rAnniMO nrniAno LCttniMiiyu rcmuuo	
			NO. OF		
	MONTHS	JOB	LEARNER	520 H.	520 H. 520 H.
STANDARD IlILt	FACTOR 2	CLASS	PtRiODS 1st Per.		2nd Per. 3rd Per.
Agglomerating Attendant (1)	19-24	9			
Blaster	7-12	10	■1	a	
Blaster Line Crew Control Room Operator -	7-12	9	1	7	
Concentrator (1)	31-36	15			
Crusher Operator	13-18	14	2	10	12
Dragiine Operator	7-12	11	i	9	
Drill Operator - Airtrac	7-12	8	i	6	
Dri!! Operator~ Rr£?diLotion	25-30	12	3	6	8 10
Equipment Attendant -Concentrator (1)	13-18	8			
Float Driver	7-12	10	1	8	
Grinding & Crushing MlLGIlUailL ( 1 )	HO 1 O IO-IO	9			
STANDARD TITLE	MONTHS FACTOR 2	JOB CLASS	NO. OF LEARNER PERIODS	520 H. 1st Per.	520 H. 2nd Per.	520 H. 3rd Per
Haulage Truck Driver	7-12	11	I	9		
Induration Attendant (1)	13-18	9				
1 npHinn Dnr>l/ot Hnorotnr i-odumy i uui\ul wpui doji	7-12	p	1	6		
Lox Plant Operator	19-24	12	3	6	8	10
Material Handling Attendant (1)	13-18	9				
Material Handling Attendant						
Senior (1)	13-18	11				
—*■ Mina Attendant	7-12	8				
ro Mobile Crane Operator	13-18	12	2	8	10	
Mobile Equipment Operator	13-18	11	1	9		
Pelletizing Control Operator	25-30	16	2	9	11	
Process Attendant (1)	13-18	8				
Sampler - Analyst (1)	19-24	11				
Senior Attendant - Pellet Plant	19-24	10	3	4	6	8
Senior Attendant -						
Concentrator	13-24	10	2	6	8	
Shovel Operator	25-30	17	3	11	13	15
Track Equipment Operator	7-12	12	1	7		
(1) Leamerperiods to be confirmed
For reference purpose only, the following lists jobs according to job class and indicates standard hourly rate in conformity with Article 13.01.
JOB CLASS	TITLE	Mar 1 1993	Mar 1 1994		Mar 1 1995		Feb 28 1996
1	Janitor	16.67	17.27		17.67		18.00
2	Labourer - Beneficiation Plants Labourer - General	16.93	17.53		17.93		HEP
3	Toolcrib Attendant	17.19	17.79		18.19		18.52
4	Labourer - Maintenance Oil Unloading Attendant	17.45	18.05		18.45		18.78
5	Drill Operator - Jackhammer Steam Cleaner Utilityman	17.71	18.31		18.71		19.04
6	Trackman	17.97	18.57	18.97		19.30	
7	Freight Handler Plant Operator Tire Shop Man	13.23	18.83	19.23		1 9.56	
I
| JuB 1 CLASS	TITLE	mar 1 1993	mar 1 1994	mar 1 1995	Feb 28 1996
8	Rnll nnorji+Qr _ Aiftf3C Equipment Attendant - Concentrator Mine Attendant Process Attendant - Concentrator Truck Driver	1S.49	19.09	19.49	19.82
9	Agglomerating Attendant - Pellet Plant Blaster - Line Crew Compressor Boiier Operator Grinding & Crushing Attendant - Concentrator Hydraulic Crane Operator Induration Attendant Material Handling Attendant - Pellet Plant Loading Pocket Operator	18.75	i 19.35	19.75	20.08
10	Blaster Float Driver Senior Attendant - Concentrator Senior Attendant - reiiet riant	19.01	19.61	20.01	20.34
JOB ULAsS	TITLE	Marl 1393	Marl 1994	Marl 199s	Feb 28 1995
11	Material Handling Attendant, Sr. Draghne Operator - Haulaae Truck-Driver Mobile Equipment Operator Samper Analyst	19.27	19.87	20.27	20.60
	* Painter	20.83	21.43	21.83	22.16
12	Drill Operator - Production Heating and Steam Plant Operator Lox Plant Operator Mobile Crane Operator Track Equipment Operator	19.53	20.13	20.53	20.86
13	* Carpenter	21.35	21.95	22.35	22.68
	* Painter - Letterer	21.35	21.95	22.35	22.68
	* Pipefitter	21.35	21.95	22.35	22.68
14	Crusher Operator	20.05	20.65	21.05	21.38
	* Electrician Transmission Maintenance	21.61	99 91	22.61	22.94
	* Stationary Engineer	21.61	22.21	22.61	22.94
	* Welder	21.61	22.21	22.61	22.94
	JOB CLASS	TITLE	Marl 1993	Marl 1994	Marl 1995	Feb 28 1996
	15	Control Room Operator - Concentrator	20.31	20.91	21.31	21.64
		* Mechanic - Field	21.87	22.47	22.87	23.20
		* Mechanic - Plant	21.87	22.47	22.87	23.20
	16	* Automotive Mechanic	22.13	22.73	23.13	23.46
		* Electrician	22.13	22.73	23.13	23.46
		* Machinist	22.13	22.73	23.13	23.46
GO		PeiletiZiny Control Operator	20.57	21.17	21.57	21 .SO
	17	Shovel Operator	20.83	21.43	21.83	22.16
	18		* Flfirtrnnir Rpnairman	22.65	23.25	23.65	23.98
NOTE: The classification of ea'Ctrjob mentioned represents the true CWS evaluation.
* Indicates Trade jobs.
The rate indicated includes the addition of 6 job classes.
APPENDIX “C ’
CONSULTATIVE MACHINERY .	)
b ''' i
the Executive Vice-President and Human Resources will meet with the officers of Local Union who will be accompanied by the Area Coordinator of the International Union, to exchange views on matters of common interest not covered by this Agreement.
Problems which may arise with respect to the administration of the Apprenticeship Program may also be discussed under this Appendix.
The matters to be discussed must be incorporated in an agenda signed by the president of the Local Union and addressed to the Executive Vice-President with copies to the Manager, Human Resources.
Within seven (7) days of receipt of the agenda, the Company will suggest a date for such meeting to take place.
Such a meeting will also be held at the request of the Company.
Uoonjejguest, fiie Manager,
137
CONTRACTING OUT REQUIREMENT LIST
1. Description of proposed work:
2.	Manpower (including special skills):
3.	Equipment and/or facilities:
4.	Material:
5.	Planned Starting date:______-
Planned completion date
6.	Other remarks:
Signature
138
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
Iron Ore Company of Canada and
QNS&L
Unionized Employees
March 1,1993 139
[PPEMDIX
Iron Ore Company of Canada arid
QN8&L
Unionized Employees
March ‘I, 1993
140
APPENDIX ‘F-1
DENTAL PLAN INSURANCE
Iron Ore Company of Canada and
QNS&L
Unionized Employees
March 1,1993 141
/
/
NON-CONTRIBUtCRY^REREMENT PLAN FOR THE UNI(m/eD EMPLOYEES OF
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
QUEBEC NORTH SHORE & LARRADOR RAILWAY
AND ASSOCIATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
March 1,1993
142
APPENDIX “G ’
AIR TRANSPORTATION
The Air Transportation Benefit is provided, at Company cost, for employees and their families permanently residing at Labrador City, once per year per family at the time of his annual vacation. For married employees, the benefit will be provided for the employee, his wife and their children. Children are defined as not fully employed children under 18 or who are full time students under 24. The Air Transportation benefit will cover the basic cost of air transportation from Labrador City to St. John's, Newfoundland and return, at the lowest applicable cost to the Company had the employee and his family travelled at the same time: 100% of which will be advanced when leaving for annual vacation.
143
PPENDIX “E
Al - The following protective clothing and
equipment will be provided at Company expense
to provide safe job working conditions:
1.	The Company will supply to all employees leather, rubber and cotton gloves as well as mitts, according to the requirements of their job.
2.	Rubber gloves as used by linemen or protective leather mitts will be supplied to electricians.
3.	Leather gloves, jackets, cape sleeves, leg protectors and welder masks will be supplied to welders.
4.	Neoprene gloves will be supplied to employees working with acids or strong detergents.
5.	Rubber gloves, aprons and protective masks will be supplied to laboratory employees.
6.	Life jackets will be supplied to employees working where there is danger of falling in the water.
144
7.	Liners for safety hats will be supplied to employees according to the requirements of their job.
8.	Ear plugs or muffs will be supplied to employees according to the requirements of their job.
9.	Adequate additional protective clothing (waterproof jackets and pants) or rubber boots will be supplied to all employees for weather protection according to the requirements of their job.
The above-mentioned items will be replaced as required provided the worn-out item is returned to the Company.
B)	- Safety hats:
1.	All employees will be supplied a safety hat;
2.	the Company will replace lost hats at employee's expense;
3.	hats broken, damaged or lost at work will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
145
C)	- F a c e masks/Respirators:
1.	Face masks or respirators will be supplied to all employees before working in areas contaminated by dust, gas or fumes;
2.	face masks or respirators lost will be replaced at employee's expense;
3.	broken, damaged or lost masks or respirators will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
D)	- Safely Glasses:
1.	All employees will be supplied one (1) pair of safety glasses;
2.	the Company will replace safety glasses lost at employee's expense;
3.	broken, damaged or lost safety glasses will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
146
E)	- Safety Locks
Safety locks and keys used for lock-out procedure will be supplied to all employees required to use same.
All of the above-mentioned items must be turned in when the employee quits the Company, otherwise he will be charged for these items.
F)	- Personal Protective Apparel
1.	The Company shall provide, on April first of each year commencing on April 1,1994, an allowance in the value of three hundred and thirty-five ($335.00) for welders and two hundred and eighty-five dollars ($285.00) for all other employees, for the purposes of purchasing approved personal protective apparel. There shall be no replacement of lost, damaged or stolen items excepting as provided for in the allowance amount.
2.	Personal Protective Apparel eligible for purchase with the above allowance value shall include:
i)	approved safety footwear
ii)	regular work coveralls
147
iii)	insulated work coveralls
iv)	industrial work shirts and work pants.
3.	The Company shall continue its practice of providing apparel washing facilities at the workplace for coveralls only.
4.	The Union President or his designate and representatives of the Material Management Department and Employee Relations Department shall meet annually for the purposes of reviewing bids and awarding annual supply contracts. The purchase of said protective apparel shall be conducted in a manner so as to maximize available product quality at minimum cost and reduced administrative burden for the Company.
148
APPEND X “If
AGREEMENT ON TECHNOLOGICAL
ORGANIZATIONAL O R
149
APPENDIX “J”
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND SPOUSE OR FAMILY STATUS
1.	For the purposes of application of Company employment benefits, the Company will recognize as spouse, not only legally or religiously married couples, but also upon designation in writing by an employee, filed with the employer, such an employee and a person of the opposite sex, if they have been publicly represented as husband and wife and still are at the time an event occurs that may entitle them to a Company benefit, provided they have been living together
a)	at least one (1) year, if none of them is still married to any other person, or
b)	at three (3) years, if one or both of them is still married to another person,
If the marital union has not been legally contracted, the spouse will not be considered as such if a period of three (3) months has elapsed during which the spouse has not cohabited.
150
In case of divorce or annulment of marriage, the spouse will not be considered as such from the date that the divorce or annulment is declared.
2.	Benefits covered under this appendix include Life and Death or Dismemberment Accidental Insurance, Medical & Hospital Expense Insurance, Pension Plan, Northern Allowance, Air Transportation, Dental Insurance and any other benefits for which family status is of concern, whether or not the persons are employees and whether or not they are covered or not covered under a collective agreement.
3.	There will normally be a waiting period equivalent to the conditions of a) or b) above as required, before the application of the declared status. However, where reasonable proof is provided to the Company of common residence for the periods specified, the waiting period will be waived. In any case within six (6) months of the signature of the Collective Agreement, any declaration of spouse will be effective on the date the declaration is submitted to the Company on the approved form.
151
4.	Company benefits will be applied on the
following principles:
a)	Where both spouses are employed by the Company, it is understood that the Company's intent in the administration of any employee benefit is to avoid overlapping payments to the spouses and/or the dependents if any.
b)	Any person eligible for a Company benefit as company employees is excluded from claiming the same benefit as a dependent of that employee, and neither of them can claim at the same time the benefit as supporting the other as a dependent.
c)	When a benefit is granted as a family benefit such as Air Transportation, it can be claimed only by one of the spouses and the Company liability will not exceed 100% of the amount payable for the whole family, except as set out in c) (i) below.
(i) In the case of the Air Transportation benefit, where commercial tickets are supplied, and where both spouses are employees and they take their vacation and travel at different times, commercial
152
tickets will be provided for each spouse, one of whom will also be supplied with commercial tickets for their eligible children.
d)	Unless spouses that are both employees agree otherwise and notify the Company, a family benefit will be paid to the male employee.
5.	Failure to provide the documentation required to determine dependent status of an employee will result in an employee maintaining single status.
153
APPENDIX “K”
AGREEMENT ON
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT

BENEFIT PLAN
.10
0\ M
il •■ ,,	p n fi/J r
As Amended 1993
154
STANDIN
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.O.Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
President, Local 5795 United Steelworkers of America 105 Hudson Drive Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V1 L4
Dear Sir:
During the term of the Collective Agreement between the parties, effective March 1, 1993, the following
understandings have been reached:
ISSUE #1-STUDENTS
During negotiations, the Company has agreed to
continue its actual practice concerning the hiring of students.
ISSUE #2 - TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES-ARTICLES 6.08e) AND 6.080
To alleviate the impact of the delays mentioned in Articles 6.08 e) and 6.08 f), the Company and Union agree that, when necessary, local.unemployed bargaining unit
employees may be temporarily hired to fill these positions.
Seniority provisions including, but not limited to layoff
and recall notices, do not apply to this work.
156
Temporary employment does not add to or detract from layoff time stipulated in Paragraph 6.09 e) of the Collective Agreement and the contractual benefits that apply
during layoff.
ISSUE #:l -21 DAY PROVISION OF THE WELFARE PLAN
This is to confirm our understanding regarding application of the 21 Day Provision of the Welfare Plan
Appendix to the Collective Agreement concerning submission of an accident or sickness weekly indemnity claim.
a)	It is the intent of the 21 Day Provision to encourage prompt submission of claims for sickness and accident benefits so that evaluation of a claim, including any necessary investigation of the medical and other factual aspects of the claim, can be made in an expeditious manner.
b)	It is not the intent of this provision that any claim be denied for failure to comply with the provision
requirement if such failure did not interfere with the ability of the Company and/or its carrier to establish the medical and other factual aspects of the claim.
c)	No claim will be denied under the 21 Day Provision unless the Company and/or its carrier has made a reasonable effort to investigate the medical and other factual aspects of the claim. Such investigation will involve contacting the claimant’s physician or physicians or other medical source concerning the nature of the disability, number of treatments and nature of treatments or contacting the claimant concerning the same matters.
157
d)	The fact that a claim has been filed after the 21 day deadline will not be the basis for denial of any claim for
benefits with respect to a period of absence subsequent to the date on which such claim was filed.
e)	In the event a claim is filed by mail it will be considered
timely if it is postmarked on or before the twenty-first (21) day of disability.
f)	If the Company’s insurance or Personnel Office is closed on the twenty-first day of disability, a claim will be considered timely if it is presented on the first day thereafter on which the Company’s insurance or
Personnel Office is open.
g)	If a claim is denied pursuant to the 21 Day Provision, the Company and/or the carrier will inform the employee in writing that his claim has been denied because the untimely filing interfered with the employer’s and/or carrier’s ability to establish the medical and factual aspects of the claim. Such letter will inform the employee of his right to have the denial reviewed upon his submission of additional evidence in support of his claim and of his right to file a grievance protesting the denial of his claim.
ISSUE #4 - CANADIAN LABOUR COLLEGE
Once per year, the Area Coordinator or his delegate, will meet with the Manager of Human Resources, or his delegate, to arrange leave of absence without pay to study at the College. This leave pertains to employees of the various bargaining units who have collective agreements with the Company.
158
On agreeing on the leaves to be granted, the following items will be among the factors taken into considerations:
a)	Acceptance of the employee by the College to the course
of studies.
b)	During the term of the collective agreements, the parties
agree that up to six (6) leaves per year will be granted;
bargaining units of 500 or more employees are eligible for a maximum of two (2) leaves per unit, smaller units, one (1) leave per unit.
c)	In past years, the Company has granted two (2) scholarships per year in the amount of $1,250.00 each to the College. The College is responsible for deciding who, among the employees granted leave, should receive the
scholarships.
d)	The Union is to advise the Company of the employees
requesting leave in sufficient time for the Area Coordinator and the Manager of Human Resources to decide on the matter at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date leave is to begin. If notice is late due to unforeseen circumstances, the request will receive full consideration.
e)	The Company will not arbitrarily deny leave but in granting
same, the Company must take into account the requirements of the service.
f)	The Company agrees, that notwithstanding Paragraph
15.04 a) of the Collective Agreement, maximum calendar days of vacation of an employee who has been granted a leave of absence without pay to study at the Labour
College of Canada, will not be reduced as a result of such authorized absence.
159
ISSUE #5 - SEVERANCE PAY PLAN
In the event there is a permanent shutdown of the Iron fj Ore Company of Canada or the Quebec North Shore & is Labrador Railway ((INS&L), the Company agrees to meet with v the Union on this matter and negotiate a severance pay plan.
I
ISSUE #6 ■ PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING SHIFT A B S E NCE-
In order that proper job coverage may be maintained or the necessary replacement obtained, employees who must absent themselves for any reason from their regular shift without having received prior permission to do so, will arrange to contact SECURITY AT 944-2212 prior to the beginning of the shift or as soon as possible. Should the Company require medical certification of an employee’s fitness to return to work, the employee will have two (2) days or as mutually agreed based on doctor availability, after his return to work to provide such certification. The Company will pay for the required examination. Employees who:
a)	Do not carry out the foregoing
b)	Repeatedly make contact after the start of the shift
c)	Absent themselves unduly will be subject to DISCIPLINE
ISSUE #7 - BIDDING DOWN ■ RE; LAYOFF
The Company will allow employees who enter the
Apprenticeship Program or Learner Program to maintain their last job class for displacement purposes at time of layoff.
This exception applies only at time of layoff.
ISSUE ,#it -.CWS.PROCEDURE FOR HANDLING NEW OR CHANGEDJOBS
In order to provide a standard procedure for handling Union claims on the above and to provide for recourse to management prior to possible arbitration, the following has
been agreed as appropriate procedure that should be followed in any future problems related to C.W.S. matters:
a)	When the Union alleges that the Company has created a
new job, or has changed an existing job without advising the Union, or, that a newly created job or a job change has been incorrectly assessed, the Union will notify the Company C.W.S. Chairman in writing, stating their position. Such notification will include any additions or deletions to the job description as well as to the factor level determinations and points for the job classification. In the case of new jobs, the Union will outline in writing the main details of the job so that it will be readily identified.
b)	The Company and Union C.W.S. Committees will meet
within sixty (GO) days to discuss the claim.
c)	If a satisfactory settlement is not reached via b) above, the matter will be sent to the C.W.S. referees who shall meet within ninety (90) days of the referral and render a
161
decision within sixty (60) days concerning their
agreement or disagreement.
d)	If no agreement is reached via c) above, the Company will install any changes it may wish to make as a result of the
discussions and will notify the Union of its final position.
e)	If the Union wishes to grieve, it must do so within thirty
(30) days of d) above setting out its position as specified in Paragraph 7.07 c) of the Collective Agreement. Such grievance will be filed at Step 3 of the grievance
procedure.
f)	If the grievance is not settled in accordance with e) above, the Union may refer the case to arbitration in the same manner as a policy grievance in accordance with the
Collective Agreement.
g)	The decision at procedure Step b) or c) or f) above shall
be effective as of the date when the job was established or the change was installed; or, when a change is added to prior change(s), the decision will be effective as of the date of the most recent change in job content. In no event will the effective date be earlier than sixty (60) days prior to the date on which written notification was received.
h)	Where the Company initiates the action, the Union has thirty (30) days to indicate disagreement and initiate the
procedure outlined in a) to f) above.
i)	Members of the C.W.S. joint committee will not suffer any loss of wages for the time spent at a joint meeting of this
committee during their regular working hours.
162
ISSUE#9-BUS SCHEDULE
This will confirm the Company’s commitment to meet with the Union to discuss proposed changes, other than
minor alterations: to the existing bus schedule.
ISSUE #11)-“B” TEAM
The Company agrees to meet with the Union prior to the start of an overhaul with a view to using unemployed bargaining unit employees residing in the Labrador City area. The aim of this meeting is to alleviate local unemployment through the provision of short term work that may arise on overhauls requiring contractors and to accomplish this in a manner which will not disrupt active employees or the Company’s operation. Because of these considerations the following special measures apply:
a)	Selection of personnel for the occupations required for such overhaul work shall be based on seniority among
those locally resident employees who leave their name for overhaul work with the Personnel Office.
b)	Active employees cannot exercise seniority in order to
avail themselves of this overhaul work.
c)	Seniority provisions including but not limited to layoff and
recall notices do not apply to this overhaul work.
d)	Employment in such overhaul work does not add to or detract from layoff time stipulated in Paragraph 6.09 e) of the Collective Agreement and the contractual benefits that apply during layoff.
163
e)	Except as provided by Law, no benefits arise from vacation, bonuses, transportation or air transportation
subsidy, provisions of the Collective Agreement.
f)	A prorata Northern Allowance will be paid to employees
for all straight time hours worked up to a maximum of forty (40) hours.
g)	Benefits or eligibility to benefits under the Welfare Plan
(Appendix “F:”) and the Dental Plan (Appendix “F-l") apply during the currency of the overhaul work and terminated
as of the last shift worked on the overhaul.
h)	The Pension Plan does not apply.
Employees who accept the work may be called upon to perform functions as agreed at the meeting referred to above. Acceptance or rejection of such short term overhaul work by employees who are listed with the Personnel Office, does not affect recall rights that apply by virtue of the force reduction that originally placed the employee on layoff.
ISSUE#11-VACATION ROTATION
The following shall, subject to Article XV of the Agreement, outline the general procedures to establish and schedule rotating summer vacations. Any error, omission or disagreement arising out of the interpretation of the following shall be referred to the Vacation Scheduling Committee. If not resolved by the Committee, the matter may be taken up in accordance with Article 7.07 b).
a)	The purpose of the vacation rotation system is to provide 50% of the employees in a department (Group A) the
164
opportunity to schedule a summer vacation during odd numbered years and the remaining 50% (Group B) the opportunity to schedule summer vacation during even
numbered years.
b)	The summer vacation period is defined as the thirteen week period commencing with the first Monday following June 15th of the vacation year. Block 1 shall include weeks one through five, Block 2 shall include weeks five through nine and Block 3 shall include weeks nine through thirteen, all periods being inclusive. The Company must allow a minimum of 17% of each classification within a department to schedule their vacation within each of the blocks outlined above.
c)	Employees in the group entitled to scheduling priority that
vacation year shall, on a seniority basis, select their annual vacation. An employee may elect to split their vacation into a maximum of three periods, none of which shall be less than one week in duration. Only one of these may be scheduled during the summer vacation period and must fall entirely within a block as defined in b) above. If splitting, he will only select the second portion after all other employees in his group have made a first choice, and select the third portion after all other employees in his group have made a second choice. Once this process has been completed the alternate groups will select their annual vacation in the same fashion.
d)	It is recognized that due to workforce adjustments,
classifications within departments may, from time to time, not be composed of equal numbers of Group A and Group B employees. In these situations the vacation scheduling shall be conducted in accordance with c) above.
165
If during scheduling any member of the group having priority that year does not have an opportunity to schedule vacation during the summer vacation period, he may chose to displace the next more senior incumbent in their group, who had the opportunity to schedule summer vacation during the previous vacation year, from their scheduled summer vacation period if the junior employee had not had an opportunity to schedule summer vacation the previous year.
e)	In a classification where vacations have exceeded 50% in
the summer period, the Company will, where possible,
maintain that level.
f)	Should production requirements necessitate a temporary
shutdown of the Carol Project, vacations will be scheduled during the temporary shutdown.
g)	Employees scheduling three separate vacation periods will not be awarded leaves of absence or changes to their regularly scheduled shifts during the weeks immediately preceding or following a vacation period of 7 days in
duration.
ISSUE #12-VACATION REPLACEMENT
a)	Should it become necessary to recall less than sixty (60) employees for summer vacation relief, the normal recall procedure will be followed. The normal job vacancy rules will be suspended and such relief will be achieved in the
order outlined below should it become necessary to recall sixty or more employees for summer vacation relief.
i)	Assignment of qualified employees within the
occupation.
166
ii)	As determined by the Company, offer the position to
the qualified employees from within other occupations
by seniority. Should no employee accept the position, the junior employee will be assigned. An employee so assigned shall receive the rate of pay of his regular job or the rate of pay of the job to which he is assigned, whichever is greater.
iii)	The recalling of senior qualified employees laid off from active service with the Company.
iv)	The recall of active qualified employees reduced or displaced from the classifications. The vacancy created by such a recall will be filled as in iii) above.
v)	The hiring of temporary summer vacation relief not
subject to Articles V and VI of the Collective Agreement where temporary status will end at the expiration of the summer vacation period.
vi)	The hiring of summer students as per the Collective Agreement. Summer students may also be hired as the temporary vacation relief mentioned in v) above provided they have the necessary qualifications and the work period does not conflict with their college or uriiversary return date.
vii)	In the case of a job vacancy arising during the term of the summer vacation period, employees working as vacation relief will be subject to normal recall
procedures.
b)	The summer vacation relief period shall be defined as the fifteen (15) week period commencing two weeks before the summer vacation period as outlined in b) of letter Item #11 above, in order to facilitate training and familiarization.
167
c)	Vacation relief occurring during the period outlined in b)
above shall not be considered as temporary vacancies as set out in Article VI.
ISSUE #13-SPECIAL ISSUES
This is to confirm the agreement reached during
negotiations of “special issues” pursuant to Article XX.
After reviewing the issues associated with Article XX the Company agrees with the Union that much of the conflict that arises out of this article result because of a lack of understanding. To this effect we are proposing the following
procedure to monitor these activities:
a)	That each area (Mine, Mill, Pellet Plant, Common Services) would have a management and union representative charged with the responsibility of monitoring Contracting Out issues. The management representative will have the responsibility to review with their counterpart all issues associated with the requirement to bring contractors on site, and the work that is sent outside for repair.
b)	Where further discussion is required, the area manager will meet with the Contracting Out Committee and the area representatives. Normal application of the Collective Agreement will apply if agreement is not reached at this
level.
c)	On an annual basis (January) the Company will sit down
with the Contracting Out Committee and area representatives and document the work planned for that year that involves Contracting Out. Any additional
168
Contracting Out will be kept at a minimum and will be
reviewed in the proposed manner.
d)	Training of new area representatives on the intent of Points a), b) and c) will be done within 30 days of the
appointment.
SNOW CLEARING
The Company will, for the life of this contract, strive to carry out heavy equipment work around the Concentrator and Pellet Plant facilities that is normally contracted out. The extent of this commitment is to the limit of available equipment associated with the operation of the blending and flux yard that can be kept on a cost effective basis to effect work during the winter months. At current production levels this equates to 12 operators. The Company will, under the same conditions, continue the current practice of snow clearing and sanding at the Carol Project.
WARRANTY WORK
On warranty work pertaining to mobile equipment we will maintain our current practice of having one of our maintenance employees assist the service representative. It is not our intention to lease mobile equipment with a
maintenance service agreement.
On other warranty issues, the Company maintains the right to hold the supplier/contractor fully responsible for the quality of work/materials supplied. However, the Company recognizes the Union’s concern that repair work could be ongoing in certain situations and will limit warranty work
169
performed by contractors to a 60 day warranty period. After 60 days I0CC, if qualified, will do the required repair and
charge the contractor accordingly.
FABRICATION WORK
‘The Company intends to continue with its commitment established at the 1987 negotiations which v/as the inclusion of six thousand welder manhours in our annual operating plan to be assigned to previously contracted out fabrication work. Kick plates for the ATO will be fabricated by bargaining unit personnel subject to economic competitiveness.
HAULAGE TRUCK BOXES
All repairs to haulage truck boxes will be done by bargaining unit members; however, the Company maintains
the right to purchase new boxes when required.
DOLOMITE QUARRIES
‘The Company agrees to continue the current practice of utilizing Local 5795 members in the procurement of Dolomite at the Albert Lake and Leila Wynn Dolomite Quarries, including routine road maintenance.
These arrangements do not prejudice the Company’s rights as defined in Article XX of the Collective Agreement.
170
988 LOADER
The Company agrees to review its current practice of seasonal use of a 988 loader in the dolomite quarries, and meet with the Union Contracting Out Committee to discuss the economic viability of alternative uses for the balance of
the year.
GENERAL
The Company agrees to continue its current practice with respect to mobile equipment maintenance, air conditioning repair and fibre-optic repairs for the term of this
Collective Agreement.
ISSUE#14-WELFARE PLAN
This confirms the understanding reached during the
negotiations of the Welfare Plan Appendix for this Collective
Agreement.
The following provisions become effective as of the
signature date of the Collective Agreement.
a)	For LTD benefit calculation purposes, the basic rate of the job held by the employee when he becomes affected by the disease or accident that lead to his long term disability status will be used for the calculation of his standard regular monthly basic earnings if the basic rate of the job held by the employee at the date of the LTD benefits commences is inferior to the rate of the job held by the employee when be became affected by such disease or accident.
171
b)	Conditions for application of Accident & Sickness Weekly
Indemnity Benefit:
i)	the term "hospitalization" includes any hospital bed
confinement due to an injury or sickness that requires the patient to be kept under surveillance for a duration less than eighteen (18) hours;
ii)	an employee disabled at the time of his recall to work
from layoff will be eligible to receive benefits for the balance of the maximum period for which he had started to receive benefits prior to layoff or, the waiting period will start from the last day he was due to report to work and he will be eligible to receive benefits for the maximum period providing the recall date is within a period of six (6) months after the date of layoff, and the recall is for at least forty-five (45) days if, under his collective agreement, he can refuse a recall of less than forty-five (45) days. Benefit payment will be conditional to presentation of a claim form and exhaustion of sickness or injury disability benefits from Unemployment Insurance Commission or from other employment;
iii)	an absence from Canada or the United States not beyond three (3) weeks will not deprive an employee of weekly indemnity benefit providing his disability started and was certified before his leaving Canada and providing satisfactory proof of the continuation of his disability during this period of absence.
c)	For purposes of weekly indemnity, periods of total disability will be considered as separate periods if separated by return to work for at least a continuous period of thirty (30) calendar days in the case of disability
172
due to a related cause and for at least twenty (20) days in the case of unrelated cause.
d)	Any surplus resulting from the optional life insurance and from the optional insurance for death or dismemberment by accidental means will be used to cover any deficit or the premium for the group insurance policy for unionized employees.
ISSUE #15 - TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES
The following is the Company’s intent when it becomes necessary to transfer employees surplus to a
department (Mine, Pellet Plant and Concentrator), as a result of a force reduction:
a)	Volunteers will be selected by Company seniority.
b)	Junior employees will be transferred by Company
seniority.
The aforementioned is not to be construed as a
restriction to Management’s rights.
ISSUE #16 ■ STEELWORKERS' HUMANITARIAN FUND
As agreed during negotiations, for the life of this Collective Agreement, one cent per regular hour worked by bargaining unit employees, will be paid to the Steelworkers’
Humanitarian Fund.
173
ISSUE#17 - QUALIFICATIONTESTING
The Company shall implement a qualifications testing program covering the positions of Agglomerating Attendant, Process Attendant, Indurating Attendant and Material Handling Attendant, as outlined below. The Company will maintain its current practice with respect to qualification requirements for all other positions.
a)	A list of potential test questions for each of the separate
components of the above four jobs shall be prepared by the Functional Training Group. These questions will then be reviewed by representatives of the local Union. Questions agreed upon as reflecting the knowledge required to perform the job shall then be added to the approved list of questions from which the written qualifications test shall be formed.
b)	Employees who are qualified to perform a job rated at higher than or equal to these four jobs shall be required to apply their rights under Article VI prior to accessing the
training referred to in this letter.
c)	The Company shall provide, upon request, reasonable
access to available training materials, facilities and expertise for employees who wish training on another job but shall provide priority access to employees at risk of being reduced or displaced and who are senior to an incumbent in one of these four positions.
d)	Qualification tests will be assembled using only those approved questions applicable to that portion of the amalgamated job performed by the incumbent which the
employee is requesting to bump.
174
e)	A test participant shall be required to correctly answer a
minimum of sixty-five percent (65%) of the questions on the test in order to be deemed eligible for the practical
test.
f)	A practical test shall be conducted by a member of
management in accordance with the general principles
outlined for written tests above.
g)	An employee may request and shall be able to attempt a
qualifications test up to a maximum of three (3) times prior to the designated layoff or reduction date. An employee who fails to qualify may be accompanied by a person of his choice when reviewing his theoretical and practical test results. Such request may be entered without the announcement of a reduction in force.
h)	An allowance in the amount of 16 (sixteen) hours of pay
at the standard straight time training rate for the job for which the qualification test is being administered shall be paid following successful completion of the written test
and certification of practical qualification.
i)	An employee who successfully completes qualification
testing as outlined above shall be deemed as qualified in
accordance with 6.05 c) of this Agreement.
j)	An employee who has successfully completed
qualification testing as outlined above, but has not performed the job, shall not be deemed as qualified for
the purposes of job Ibidding.
175
ISSUE #18-MORTGAGE SUBSIDY
This will confirm the Company’s intent to continue the mortgage subsidy policy for existing and new mortgage
holders for the life of the Collective Agreement.
Effective January 1,1991 all employees, regardless of dependent status, will be eligible to apply for the Iron Ore Company of Canada Mortgage Subsidy Program. As of the same date, the program will be amended to provide a maximum of fifteen (15) years’ interest subsidy to new participants.
ISSUE #19-HYDRO RATE
This confirms the Company’s intent to reimburse employees for any increase in utility cost as a result of hydro rate increases during the life of the current Collective Agreement regardless of the ownership of the Power Utility Company.
Reimbursement will be in the form of a cash payment
in the last pay period of each year.
ISSUE#20-SIGNING BONUS
This will confirm agreement reached during recent negotiations to provide a signing bonus in the amount of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750) per each.employee active at the date of ratification of this Collective Agreement. ,
176
ISSUE #21-LOCAL ISSUES
#1 -Hot lunches
a)	Second lunch when working double shift
b)	Hot or cold beverage with the hot lunch.
c)	Quality of hot lunches, greater selection and posting of menu. ^ ^ v .
An employee who works more than two (2) hours of overtime immediately following his regular shift will receive aJioyunGh; if he/she continues to work beyond four (4) hours of overtime a cold lunch will also be provided. Where it is known in advance that the overtime will be over four (4) hours, both lunches will be delivered at the same time.
The employee working overtime and who qualifies for a lunch will be given a choice of a hot (coffee or tea) beverage or a cold (soft drink or y% pint of milk) beverage with a hot lunch. With the cold lunch a cold beverage will be supplied.
The menu will allow choice of a hot lunch from two (2)
main meals and two (2) alternates.
Menu selections will be varied and posted every two (2)
months.
The Union may select one (1) person to bring problems
regarding quality and selection of lunches to the attention of Employee Relations who will arrange a meeting with the supplier where necessary.
177
If practical, the Company v/ill endeavour to have two (?.) suppliers available for the supply of lunches.
#2 - House Rents
For the life of the present Collective Agreement, there will be no increase to monthly rental rates of houses and apartments rented by employees in Labrador City.
#3 - Lunchroom and Washroom Conditions
During the course of negotiations, the parties agreed that lunch rooms and washrooms should be properly
maintained and equipped in an adequate fashion.
It was further agreed that the maintenance of the lunch room and washrooms conditions would be subject for discussion between the parties during the term of the Agreement.
#4 - Food Warming Equipment on Non-Mobile Equipment
The Company agrees to maintain food warming equipment presently on the non-mobile equipment
(shovels & drills & loading pockets) in the Mine area.
#5- Fuel Oil Subsidy
The Company shall arrange, during the life of this Agreement, a bulk purchase agreement for employees currently receiving the freight subsidy on fuel oil. Such
178
arrangement shall be maintained until such time as the price reduction resulting from the arrangement is less
than the current freight subsidy, at which time the subsidy program shall be reinstated. The November 1993 bulk purchase discount shall be $.10/litre.
Yours truly,
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
179
January__________February________March
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1			1	2	3		5			1	2	3	4	r
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	13	I4	15	16	17	18	19	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	20	21	22	23	24	25	25
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	27	28						27	28	29	30	31		
30	31																			
Anril	Mav	June
July___________August________September
S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	
					1	2			2	3	4	5	6					1	2	3
3	4	5	6	7	8	9		8	9	10	11	12	13		5	6	7	8	9	10
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	11	12	13	14	15	18	17
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28	29	30	31				25	26	27	28	29	30	
31																				
October	November December
April	May	June
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T		S	S	M	T	V/	T	F	S
			2										2			3		5	6	7
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	15	16	17	13	19	20	21
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
27	28	29	30	31			24	25	26	27	28	29	30	29	30	31				
8z