000149 (03)
Work safely today, be here tomorrow.
1
1
4
8
9
10
10
11
11
12
15
17
19
21
22
30
31
32
34
39
40
45
46
46
47
51
51
52
53
54
55
59
59
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
1
2
2
3
4
5
6 6 6 6 6
7
8 9 9 9 9 9
40
10
11
12
13
14
15
16 16 16 16 16 16 17 17
Purpose of Agreement Union Recognition Technological Change No Discrimination Management Rights No Strike - No Lockout Grievance Procedure Step One Step Two Group Grievance Stewards and Grievance Committeemen Arbitration
Suspension and Discharge Seniority
Application of Seniority Probationary Employees Special Training Change of Status Leave of Absence Maternity Leave
Safety, Health and Acc ide nt Prevention
Bulletin Boards
Copies of Agreement
Disabled Employees
Hours of Work
Overtime
Overtime for Trades Overtime for Non-Trades Overtime for Mine Department Emergency Call-out Planned Overtime Premiums Tool Allowance
61
63
67
67
72
76
77
78
80
82
83
84
84
85
85
86
86
86
88
89
90
90
92
93
94
95
95
109
111
114
115
116
117
Article
18
19
20 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 22
23
24
25
26 27 27 27 27 27 27 27
27
28
Reporting Allowance Paid Holidays Vacations Wages
Standard (i.e. Basic) Hourly Wages Cost of Uving Allowance (COLA) Out-of-tine Differentials Temporary Transfer Leamer Rates General
Block Release Training Trades Training Union Security Notices Jury Duty Departments
Labour-Management Committee
Insurance Benefits
Voluntary Early Retirement
Pension Plan
Group Life Insurance
Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
Long Term Disability Insurance Plan
Supplementary Health Plan
Dental Care
Duration
Appendix “A”
Appendix "B”
Appendix "C"
Appendix "D"
Appendix "E“
Appendix “F Appendix "G"
Appendix "H"
THIS AGREEMENT
made this 8th day of May 1991
B^WEEN
BRUNSWICK MINING AND SMELTING CORPORATION LIMITED Mining Division
(hereinafter called the "Company”)
AND
LOCAL 5385
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
ARTICLE 1
Purpose of Agreement
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth provisions relating to the safety, welfare and health of employees, as defined in Section 2,01, to establish wage rates, hours of work, and other conditions of employment, prompt disposition of grievances and the efficient operation of the Company’s business. This recognizes that it is the duty of the Company, the employees and the Union to w-operate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the said purpose.
1.02	Both parties mutually agree that in the interest of the promotion of industrial peace and the elimination of interruptions of work they will abide by and observe the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 Union Recognition .
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all its employees at its Mining Division, Mines and Concentrator in Gloucester County as well as those employees at the Stockpiling and shiploading operations at Dalhousie, New Brunswick, save and except the following: Shift Bosses, Labour Bosses, Chief Operators, Assistant Electrical Foreman, Assistant Mechanical Foreman, Foremen, and other personnel above these ranks, Ofce and Clerical Personnel including Messenger Clerk, Engineering Department Personnel, temporary construction project personnel, watchmen and Security Personnel, prospectors and all others excluded under the Labour Relations Act. of New Brunswick.
2.02	‘Employee(s)” as used herein shall mean employee(s) as defined in Section 2.01.
2.03
a)	Work which is regularly performed by bargaining unit employees will continue to be performed by bargaining unit employees provided that the manpower, skills, materials and equipment are available to satisfactorily complete the work efficiently and in the required time.
b)	When the Company intends to contract out work regularly performed by bargaining unit employees it will notify the Union Contracting-out Committee in writing one week in advance of sending out tenders. This notification will contain details of the area and the nature of the work to be performed. For the purpose of administration, the Company will designate a representative through whom contracting-out notices will be channelled.
Within one week after receiving the notice the Union Contracting-out Committee can request that a meeting be held with the Company if the committee believes that work will be assigned contrary to the collective agreement. The purpose of the meeting will be to discuss the work and whether bargaining unit employees or employees on layoff could be utilized in its performance.
The Company shall be represented by the individual designated by the Company to administer this article, or his replacement, and the department representative(s).
c)	No employee will be laid off, lose their employment, be demoted or have a reduction in the regular hours of work, as a result of contracting out.
d)	Where the procedure set out in 2.03 b) cannot be used because equipment breakdowns or similar circumstances require the immediate use of a contractor the Company will verbally notify a member of the Union Contracting-out Committee as soon as possible following the occurrence.
e)	The Company will continue to provide training for the rubbermen and to other employees as required to eliminate the use of contractors in the performance of non-mechanical splices of conveyor belts except in cases of emergency that would cause delays in operation or for purposes of training.
f)	The Company will advise all contractors of its policies with respect to safety, health and the environment and will require them to comply with these policies.
g)	The Union Contracting-out Committee will be
notified when a contractor arrives on the Company property as to work location, number of people employed and the job to be performed. The committee will also be notified when the contractor completes the job, reduces or increases their manpower, and leaves the property.	,
2.04	The function of a supervisor is to organize and T direct the work of his crew, therefore supervisors will not perform bargaining unit work except for purposes of training, experimentation or instruction or in emergencies when bargaining unit employees are not immediately available and only for the time required where the safety of employees could - be affected, damage caused to the Company’s property or the continuation of operations interrupted.
3
Grievances arising as a result of the alleged violation of this section shall be initially handled at Step II of the grievance procedure. In attendance at the meeting shall be the department head or his delegate, the supervisor concerned, the grievor(s) and his steward. The Union President or his delegate shall have the option of attending. The decision orjudgment of the department head shall be rendered following the Step II meeting with all parties in attendance.
2.05
a)	The Company will continue to provide at the Union’s disposal an office.
b)	Union President: The parties agree that it is in the interest of the employees, the Company and the Union to find solutions to labour relations problems that may occur during the life of this Collective Agreement. It is with the purpose of ensuring the best possible relations between the parties, that the Company pay the president of Local 5385 wages based on his regular weekly schedule, to pursue activities in order to promote good labour relations.
2.06	Technological Change Program
For purposes of the program, "technological change” means the automation of equipment, or the mechanization or automation of operations, or the replacement of equipment or machinery or process modifications due to technological development which results in the displacement of an employee from his regular job.
The displacement of an employee from his regular job will not be considered to have resulted from a technological change if such displacement is caused by
4
depressed business conditions, shortage of raw materials, fault of the employee, relocation or replacement of machinery or equipment which is not the direct result of a technological change in such machinery or equipment, strike, slowdown, breakdown, sabotage, or an Act of God.
When the Company intends to introduce a technological change the following shall apply:	^
a)	Prior Notice
The Company will notify the Union in writing at leas; four (4) months in advance of the proposed technological change and the notice shall indicate:
I,	the nature of the proposed change;
2.	the date on which the change could take effect;
3.	the number of employees who could be affected;
4.	the possible effects of the technological change on tne employees concerned; and
5.	the names of employees who may be eligible for pre-retirement as per section g).
During the notice period, jobs vacated may be filled
on a temporary basis if necessary.
b)	Company-Union Meetings
On request, Company and Union representatives / will meet for the purpose of discussing, in general r k terms, the probable effects of the technological o' V change on the employees involved.
Other meetings if necessary will be held with the minimum delay prior to commencing the technological change to review the specific application of this program for employees who may be eligible for assistance benefits.
5
c)	Eligibility
To be eligible for assistance benefits under this program, an employee must:
i)	have completed his probationary period, and
ii)	be displaced from his regular job due to a technological change.
d)	Maintenance of Rate Benefit
An eligible employee will be entitled to have his basic hourly rate maintained at the hourly rate he was receiving at the time of his displacement; duration of the benefit pe iod to be one (I) week for every one and one-half (I1h) months of service with the company with a maximum benefit period of forty-two (42) months.
e)	Displacement Procedure
In order to diminish by all possible means the effects of technological changes on the job and income security of an employee the Company agrees that when an employee is displaced from his regular job through the application of the technological change program he will have the opportunity to:
i) displace another employee according to section
9.03	a) of this collective agreement, or
t*f r
.of /! i'O
V
jjr
V7
be eligible for training on a job with an equal or lower classification provided he has the seniority to displace an employee in that job title classification and provided that within that training period he can meet the job specifications ana be trained to perform the job chosen.
6
The maximum training period allowable under this clause is three (3) months.
0
After the training period, provided he fills the requirements for the job, he will displace the most junior employee in that job. v	O
Severance Pay
$
A.
\
If, as a result of a technological change, an employee loses his employment with the Company and provided he is eligible for benefits under this program, he will be entitled, at the time of termination, to severance pay. The amount of this pay will be the highest of the following calculations.
1.
Eighteen dollars ($18) for each month’s service completed at the Company since his last hiring, or
2. Six dollars ($6.00) multiplied by the age of the ^ employee, multiplied by the number of years '\Z, service at the Company since his last hiring /rtf'-($6.00 x age x year!; of service)	"
3. The benefit described in article 27 (Early Retirement Plan).
g) Technological Change Account
The Company will continue to maintain a Technological Chan e Account which will be used to pay tile costs benefits as provided for in section 2.06. At the end of each pay period, the Company will credit this account with two cents (20) fo reach hour worked by the bargaining unit employees during the said pay period up to a
7
maximum credit of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,00) per year. The Company will continue to credit the amount mentioned above, subject to a maximum credit of Two Hundred and Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($225,00). If this amount should decrease, the account will be credited again by the Company as mentioned above.
In January of each year, the Company will provide the Union with a statement showing the amounts credited, the amounts paid out and the net worth of the Technological Change Account.
Any benefit under this program will be paid out of the Technological Change Account. In the event that the amounts indicated in the account are insufficient to provide full benefits for employees who are eligible for them at any point in time, a prorated indemnity or similar arrangement will be made by the parties.
h) This program is subject to the grievance procedure and arbitration. On request from either party, the application and administration of this program may be discussed.
ARTICLE 3 No Discrimination
3.0I	It is agreed that there will be no discrimination by the Union or the Company because of affiliation or non-affiliation with any Union or because of race, colour, creed, sex, age, physical disability or national origin. It is further agreed that there will be no solicitation of membership or other Union activity during working hours,
8
except as provided in this Agreement. Nothing in this article can be construed to prohibit employees from casual discussion of Union affairs.
The Company and the Union recognize that, following discussions, unresolved cases of sexual harassment may be referred to the Human Rights Commission.
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
4.01	The Union recognizes that it is the function of Management to direct the operations and the work forces of the Company, subject to the limitations of this Agreement.
4.02	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing Section 4.01, the following rights are included:
a)	To determine the products, schedules of production, methods, sequence and location of operations.
b} To determine the numbers and jobs of employees required at any place from time to time for any and all operations.
c)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
d)	To make, alter and amend reasonable rules of conduct and procedure for employees.
e)	To be the judge of the qualifications of the employees, which judgment shall not be arbitrarily applied.
9
f)	To discharge, suspend or discipline employees for just and reasonable cause, and also to hire, transfer, promote, demote and to assign employees to shifts.
4.03	When judging the qualifications of employees, the Company will consider all the facts relevant to the job concerned and will exercise its judgment in a bona fide manner and on an objective basis.
ARTICLE 5
No Strike - No Lockout
5.01	During the term of this agreement the Union agrees that there shall be no strike, work stoppage or slowdown. In the event of any such strike, work stoppage, slowdown or other interference the Union shall promptly order its members to cease such strike, work stoppage or slowdown and use all means within its power to end the same at the earliest possible time. Any employee who participates in any such strike, work stoppage or slowdown shall be subject to discipline.
5.02	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement, however, shall be construed as interfering in any way with the Company’s right to extend, limit, curtail or shut down the operations.
ARTICLE 6 Grievance Procedure
6.0I	The purpose of this Article is to establish procedures for discussion and settlement of grievances. The Company
10
will not make any settlement contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.
6.02	Should any difference arise concerning the application, interpretation or an alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement between the Company and any employee or the Union then the employee (assisted by a steward if he so desires) is urged to attempt to settle the difference with his foreman or shift boss. Failing settlement the following procedure shall apply:
Step One
6.03	The employee concerned, assisted by a steward, shall present his grievance in writing to his foreman or shift boss within six (6) days of its occurrence. Within six (6) days of the presentation of the grievance the foreman or shift boss with his superior shall discuss the matter with the employee and the steward and, if the matter is not satisfactorily resolved, he shall reply to the grievance in writing within a further six (6) days.
Step Two
6.04	Notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter may, within six (6) days after the decision at Step One has been or should have been given, be given by the Grievance Committee to the Superintendent Personnel Services or someone designated by him to handle such matters at Step Two. The representation in writing presented at Step One shall be presented at Step Two by not more than three (3) members of the Grievance Committee.
The Superintendent Personnel Services or his delegate, will be accompanied by the Department Head or
11
his delegate. The employee(s) and/or the supervisor concerned with the matter shall be present at this meeting separately, if so required by the Company or the Union. An International Representative of the Union may also be present at this meeting. The Step Two meeting will be held within ten (10) days from the date upon which the Superintendent Personnel Services received written notice of the matter as above set forth and he shall give his decision in writing on behalf of the Company within six (6) days after such meeting. Failing any satisfactory settlement within such six (6) day period, the matter may be referred to arbitration by giving written notice to the Company within fourteen {14) calendar days from the expiration of such six (6) day period.
Group Grievances
6.05	Where two (2) or more employees have complaints relating' to the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement which are sufficiently common in nature that they may conveniently be dealt with together, such complaints shall constitute a group grievance and shall be handled as follows:
a)	If less than five (5) employees working under the same foreman are directly concerned in a group grievance the matter shall be initially submitted at Step One.
b)	If less than five (5) are directly concerned but all do not work under the same foreman, or if five (5) or more from one (I) department are directly concerned in a group grievance, the matter shall be initially submitted at Step Two.
c)	If more than two (2) employees are directly
12
concerned but all do not work in the same department the matter shall be initially submitted at Step Two to one of the Department Heads concerned or someone designated by him to handle such matters.
d)	A group grievance shall be presented by a maximum of five (5) employees directly concerned assisted by the appropriate number of Stewards or Grievance Committeemen as permitted in the various steps.
Should the five (5) employees directly concerned be from the same crew, then the grievance shall be presented by a maximum of three (3) employees who are directly concerned.
6.06	Any difference which arises directly between the Union and the Company concerning the application, interpretation or an alleged violation ofthe provisions of this Agreement, instead of following the procedure hereinabove set out,-may be submitted in writing by either of the parties to the other with opportunity to be provided within six (6) days for oral discussion between the Executive of the Union and Management Representatives designated for that purpose by the Company. The Union International Representative may attend this meeting. Failing settlement of such difference, the reply of the respondent will be given within six (6) days after such meeting.
6.07	In the event that any difference concerning the application, interpretation or an alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall not have been satisfactorily settled under Section 6.06, the matter may then, by notice in writing given by one party to the other within twenty-one (21) days from the giving of the decision
13
of either party, be referred to arbitration as hereinafter provided. If no decision is given within the applicable period allowed above for the purpose, notice of arbitration may, be given within twenty-one (21) days after the expiration of such period.
6.08
a)	In determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the two steps of the Grievance Procedure or in Section 6.06, Saturdays, Sundays, and the recognized paid holidays shall be excluded.
b)	Any and all grievance replies shall be given to the grievor(s) and steward. The time limits specified at each step of the grievance procedure as set out in this article will take effect from the date and time the reply was given.
6.09	Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
6.1	0 If advantage of the provisions of this Article is not taken within the time limits specified herein, or as extended as set out in Section 6.09 above, the matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned and cannot be reopened.
6.11	The Company shall advise the Union in writing of the names of Company representatives from time to time authorized to deal with grievances under this Article. The Union will be notified of any additions or deletions,
14
Stewards and Grievance Committeemen
6.12
a)	The Union may choose Stewards to assist in processing grievances and to otherwise represent the Union and the Company will not discriminate against an employee for the exercise of these duties. These Stewards must have completed their probationary period provided for by Section 9.07. Their number in the aggregate shall not be more than one (I) for each thirty (30) employees.
b)	A Steward will suffer no loss ofwages at his regular basic rate for time spent, up to two hours per month, while attending the Stewards’ monthly meeting. These meetings shall be held at a regular scheduled time which is convenient to the Company. If a steward is not scheduled to be at work during the time such meeting is held but is present at the meeting, he shall be remunerated at his regular basic rate for the time spent, up to a maximum of two (2) hours but this time shall not be considered as time worked for purposes of calculating overtime.
6.13	For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives, a Grievance Committee will consist of not more than three (3) members selected by the Union plus an international Union Representative who may attend. Members of the Grievance Committee will not lose pay for the time spent during regularly scheduled working hours attending scheduled meetings called by the Company representatives.
6.14
a)	If it is necessary for the employee or a steward or
15
a member of any recognized union committee to take time off during working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance, permission will be granted provided that mutually satisfactory arrangements have been made with the supervisors concerned including the supervisor in charge of the section he wishes to visit if his investigation involves leaving his own working place. me employee shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regular working hours.
b) If a grievance is referred to arbitration the Intemational Representative or his delegate may interview the grievor(s) and/or witness(es) at the minesite at a time mutually agreed. The grievor(s) and/or witness(es) shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent at such interviews during his regular working hours,
6.15	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of names of stewards and committee members from time to time appointed or elected and the Company shall not be required to recognize any stewards and committee members not named in such a notice. A revision of the names of union stewards and committee members shall be remitted to the personnel office and posted on bulletin boards and in underground lunchrooms in January and June of each year.
6.16	If a supervisor in the regular performance of his duties desires to discuss any matter with an employee for any reason and at any time, the employee shall, if the supervisor is accompanied by another management representative be entitled to be accompanied by a steward.
16
However, in a case where the matter to be discussed might lead to disciplinary action, the employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by a steward.
ARTICLE 7 Arbitration
7.01	In any case in which an arbitration shall be required under this agreement, the arbitrator shall be selected in rotation from the following panel:
1.	Mr. Chris Collier
2.	Mr. Eugene McGinley
3.	Mr. Don McLean
4.	Mr. John Larlee
7.02	Any member of the panel who having been requested in his tum to act as Arbitrator shall be unable or unwilling to act shall not again be requested to act until his name comes up again on the regular rotation of the panel.
7.03	Arbitrations shall be heard in the Bathurst area or at such other place as the parties shall mutually agree upon in writing.
7.04
a) me issue(s) raised in the written grievance and in the written reply(ies) thereto, or in the case of a difference directly between the Union and the Company, the issue(s) raised in the written representation by the applicant for arbitration and in the reply thereto by the other party, shall be presented to the Arbitrator and his award shall be confined to such issue(s).
17
w
j
!\
b)	Written warning will be completely removed from an employee’s record ten (10) months from the receipt of such warning.
c)	A suspension notice, or a letter in lieu of suspension will be completely removed from an employee’s record twelve (12) months from the receipt of such notice or letter.
d)	Employees will be entitled to examine their disciplinary record upon request to the Personnel Department.
e)	The parties shall submit to the Arbitrator only the facts relevant to the grievance concerned and shall not submit any previous authority to the Arbitrator except at the hearing.
f} Warnings and suspensions or letters in lieu of suspension which have been stricken from an employee’s record shall not be raised at an arbitration hearing and the Arbitrator will not accept them at any time, under reserve or otherwise.
7 .05 The expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne in equal shares by the Union and the Company.
7.06	No cost of arbitration or cost concerning witnesses shall be awarded to or against either party.
7.07	At the parties' request, during a hearing, the Arbitrator may cause any witness to appear or request that the site where a grievance originated be visited, if circumstances of the case so require.
18
7.08	The finding of the Arbitrator as to the facts and as to the interpretation or application of the provisions of the agreement shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no case shall the Arbitrator be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
7.09	Any objection regarding the arbitrability of a matter must be raised by one of the parties no later than Step Two of the grievance procedure in order to be receivable by the Arbitrator.
7.10	Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
7.11	me Arbitrator shall be requested to give his award within a period of thirty (SO) days after the close of the hearing.
ARTICLE 8
Suspension and Discharge
8.0I
a)	The Company shall not take disciplinary action without first warning the employee in writing unless the circumstances justify immediate suspension or discharge. In the event of a claim that an employee has been suspended or discharged unjustly or unreasonably the grievance shall be filed at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) days after the disciplinary action complained of.
b)	If disciplinary action is to be taken, the employee and the Union must be informed of such action within seven (7) days from the date of the infraction,
19
or under exceptional circumstances as soon as possible after the Company discovered all the facts concerning the infraction. The Union Executive will be informed of the reasons of such exceptional circumstances. The Union Executive will be notified in cases involving suspension or discharge.
c} Copies of suspension and discharge notices and of letters in lieu of suspension shall be mailed to the Union.
d) The Company will advise a Union officer at least one day in advance of any disciplinary interview meeting scheduled to be conducted by the Superintendent or his delegate. At the request of the employee a Union officer may attend such meetings. This advance notice can be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.02	If it is determined or agreed at any step in the Grievance Procedure or decided by an Arbitrator that an employee has been suspended or discharged unjustly or unreasonably, the Company shall reinstate him with no loss of seniority and it shall pay the employee his wages at his regular basic rate plus any applicable shift or Sunday premiums and paid holiday pay had he been working together with a continuation of all benefits, or by any other arrangement as to remuneration which is just and equitable in the opinion of the Arbitrator if the matter is referred to such Arbitrator.
20
ARTICLE 9 Seniority
9.01	The “Seniority” of an individual employed by the Company means the length of his accumulated service at Brunswick Mining and Smelting Corporation Limited, Mining Division, since the date of his last entry into the bargaining unit, except as expressly provided herein.
In a case where two employees enter the bargaining unit on the same day, the employee’s age will be the determining factor in establishing seniority.
9.02	Seniority of an employee shall be completely lost only if he:
a)	quits, or
b)	is discharged or otherwise terminated failing reinstatement through the grievance procedure, or
c)	is laid off for a period in excess of:
-eighteen (18) months, if seniority on layoff was less than I year,
-twenty-four (24) months, if seniority on layoff was between I and 2 years
-thirty-six (36) months, if seniority on layoff was	(,«
more than 2 years,
-forty-eight (48) months, if seniority on layoff was more than 15 years, or
d)	abandons his job for a period of five (5) regularly scheduled shifts without contacting the Company in accordance with procedures set out in Article 10.08.
21
Application of Seniority
9.03	In recognition of the Company's responsibility for efficient operations it is understood and agreed that ability to perform the job is essential and shall apply in a layoff, rehire, promotion or demotion, however:
a) i)
In any case of reduction in the work force (except a layoff of five (5) days or less) the junior employee in the job classification being affected by the reduction will exercise his seniority rights and will be entitled to preference provided he has the ability, knowledge, skill and physical fitness to do the job concerned, and provided further that an employee may displace another employee having less Company seniority and is the most junior in that job. To displace an apprentice or learner the employee exercising his seniority rights must possess at least the same level of training on that particular job.
When, due to the application of this article, an employee will be required to transfer to or from the Dalhousie operation, the employee concerned may either exercise his rights under this article or he may displace the junior employee in another job at the site where he worked prior to the layoff.
ii)	In the case of a reduction in the work force of five (5) days or less where the need for the reduction is known at least sixty (SO) minutes prior to the beginning of the shift and where less than ten per cent (10%) of a crew is affected, the senior employee having the greater
22
seniority in a job in his crew shall be retained at work, except where development mining groups in the underground operation are involved. in which case for reasons of efficiency, the groups will be maintained.
Where the reduction is not known at least sixty (60) minutes prior to the shift or where more than ten percent (10%) of a crew is affected, then the following will apply:
In case of a reduction in the workforce of five (5) days or less, beginning on the second day after the end of the shift in which the need for the workforce reduction occurred, the employee having the greater seniority in a job in his crew shall be retained at work, except where development mining groups in the underground operation are involved, in which case, for reasons of efficiency, the groups will be maintained.
iii)	Notwithstanding the provisions of article 9.03
a)i), in the case of a reduction in the work force for a period of more than five (5) days, but less than twenty-one (21) days, the Company will notify the Union Executive at least five (5) days in advance of the" particular situation, At this meeting, the Union will be provided with the detailed related information and the following shall apply:
The employee having the greater seniority will be entitled to preference provided he has the ability, knowledge, skill and physical fitness to do the job concerned, and provided forther that
23
^ / an employee may displace another employee / having less Company seniority and is the most ^ y junior in that job.
Upon completion of the above mentioned period, the employees concerned shall be returned to their previous job, schedule and crew.
Furthermore, all employees not retained at work during this period of time will also be returned to their respective job, schedule and crew.
iv)	Following the application of article 9.03a)i), any employee who has fully exercised his bumping rights and would otherwise leave the property will be eligible for training on a job, excluding those jobs listed in Appendix E, unless the employee has previously performed the job at full capacity and the job has not changed to the degree that the employee’s experience is no longer valid and provided he has the seniority to displace the most junior employee in that job and further, provided that during a period of two months the employee can be trained to perform the job chosen.
b)	Subject to 9.03 a)i), the order of layoff in the trades groups will be as follows:
- First (in reverse order of seniority) those employees within the apprenticeship programme who have not completed their requirements of time in the trade:
24
-	Second (in reverse order of seniority) those employees who have exceeded the apprenticeship requirements of time in the trade but have not progressed into the improver job classes;
-	Third (in reverse order of seniority) employees in the improver and journeyman job classes.
In the case of a reduction in the workforce affecting tradesmen, the status of the apprentices pending certification will be determined and if certification is to proceed then the employee(s) will be treated as a journeyman.
a)	In any case of promotion or demotion the employee having the greater seniority will be entitled to preference provided he has the ability, knowledge, skill and physical fitness to do the job concerned. The Company will judge the qualifications of the employees concerned in accordance with Sections 4.02(e) and 4.03.
b)	When filling vacancies for apprentices the Company will accept employees who do not meet the requirements of experience, provided they meet the other requirements for selection and further provided that their number shall not exceed one (I) in every three (3) vacancies to be filled. In order to assist and encourage employees to qualify to meet the requirements for selection as apprentices, the Comoanv will recommend correspondence and other training programmes and, if approved in advance, will reimburse one hundred percent (1^00%) of the costs of tuition and required texts for employees who successfully complete these programmes.
9.04
25
c)	An employee who has completed the time required to reach the standard hourly rate in the trade but who has not qualified by successful completion of written and practical examinations relevant to the trade shall be assigned to a classification which is four (4) job classes below the standard hourly rate for the trade or craft. Within the five hundred and twenty hour (520) period after reaching the required time in the trade or, in the case of a new employee, from the date of hire, the employee may attempt to qualify for the standard hourly rate by completing the written and practical examinations relevant to the trade. If successful, the employee shall be assigned to the standard hourly rate for the trade or craft. if unsuccessful, the employee shall remain at the job classification which is four(4) job classes below the standard hourly rate. The employee may request a re-examination but the interval between such examination shall not be less than one thousand and forty (1040) hours.
d)	The Company shall allow an employee a trial period; however it is recognized that continuity and efficiency of operations and the nature of certain jobs will not permit that in all circumstances. \Nhen a trial period is allowed, it shall be up to fifteen (15) shifts in any one case.
9.05
a) If a permanent vacancy (except in a labourer’s classification) should exist on a job, the Company will inform the employees so that any interested employee(s) may indicate to the Company his (their) desire to be promoted. A notice to this effect stating the number of vacancies will be placed on the bulletin boards for a period of six (6) days. All
26
applicants will be given full consideration by the Company as per sub-section 9.04 a) of this Agreement. Employees who are off sick, on vacation or approved leave of absence, and wish to indicate to the Company their desire to apply for any jobs which could become vacant during their absence must notify the Personnel Department by registered mail or in person. This notice will only be valid for the duration of the particular absence referred to above. Such employees may, within one (I) week of their return to work, also make application for a job which was posted during the last month of their absence. The Company will take into consideration the shift schedule and the level for the Mine Department. Names and seniority dates of successful applicants shall be posted no later than fourteen (14) calendar days after expiration of such six (6) day period and the Company will endeavour to place these employees on the job within two (2) weeks. The successful applicant will receive the required training to fulfill the complete scope of the job. For the purpose of this Section, a job shall be deemed to be vacant if the previous incumbent has been transferred to another job or has voluntarily left the employ of the . Company or his services have been terminated, or jj if it is a new position.	\)
b} A vacant job, or a job which is temporarily vacant -due to sickness, accident, leave of absence, t vacation, during the job posting procedure or during the application of the technological change program, may be filled on an interim basis in order to maintain efficiency. However, beginning on the second day, the senior employee shall be given preference to fill the job on an interim basis on his
27
crew, provided he has the ability, knowledge, skill and physical fitness to do the job concerned. During such time as he fills the job it shall be considered to be his job classification for the purposes of assigning overtime work to him or, in his absence, to another employee, in accordance with the provisions of Article 16. If an employee substitutes in any Department on any job for purposes other than training, he shall receive the rate for the job or his regular rate, whichever is the greater. However, should an employee request to fill a job on a temporary basis, he will be paid the rate of that job. Upon completion of such interim period the employee concerned shall be returned to his previous job, schedule and crew.
c)	Employees are required to submit separate applications for each job posting.
d)	The successful applicants for posted vacancies will be obliged to take the job for which they applied.
9.06	.
a) For the period of time for which an employee retains Company seniority from the date of layoff for lack of work as provided for in Section 9.02(c), he shall have preferential rights for returning to work in a regular job if it will be vacant for more than thirty (30) shifts, in accordance with the following provisions:
, or!Those .most recently laid off shall, to the extent of
Sy j the numbers required, be sent notices by registered A mail stating the job available and the proposed / * starting time; the employee will have fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing to express his
28
intention and will have to report to.work within thirty (30} days of such mailing date unless the starting time has been extended by the Company. The persons who report shall, if they are qualified and physically able to fill the jobs available, return to work in the inverse order to that in which they were laid off.
The Company shall not be required to take back any person who fails to report in accordance with the notice sent to him. A copy of such notice shall be supplied to the Union.
b) In the event of a reduction in the work force for a period of more than five (5) days the Company will notify each of the employees to be laid off in advance, in accordance with the following schedules:
1)	Where the layoff will not exceed thirteen (13)
weeks or if it exceeds thirteen (13) weeks but involves less than twenty-five (25) employees -one week’s notice.
2)	Where the layoff will exceed thirteen /13\	_
Between IO% and 20 employees
Number to be laid off Over 25 but less than 10% of employees
20i to 50 employees 501 or more employees
eight (8) weeks twelve (12) weeks sixteen (16) , .
The posting by the Company of notices advising all employees of the proposed layoff will constitute
29
notice as required by I) and 2) above for all employees affected including those employees displaced in accordance with Section 9.03(a) by employees who would otherwise have been laid off.
Notwithstanding the posting of the Company notices advising all employees of the proposed layoff, an employee actually leaving the property on layoff must have been notified at least one (1) week in advance.
In the event that less than the period of notice as set out above is given, the Company will pay to the employees who are laid off the difference between their actual earnings for the period of notice and what they would have earned had they worked their regular hours at their basic hourly rate, provided however that they must have been available for work.
The provisions of this section 9.06(b) shall not apply to employees hired for a temporary period or to probationary employees or in the case of a layoff for causes beyond the control of the Company, and also will not apply for employees on layoff that may be recalled in order of seniority for temporary work at Dalhousie.	r
g / 4.*
Probationary Employees yyp ‘
4.V
9.07	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement an employee shall be considered to be a probationary employee and he shall have no seniority until he has actually worked three hundred and sixty (360) hours during continuous service with the Company, at which time he shall become entitled to Company seniority
30
dating from his last hiring. In the case of students hired for temporary periods, the calculation of the three hundred and sixty (360) hours shall commence after they have applied and been accepted as regular employees. An employee upon completion of his probationary period will be inducted into union policies and provisions of the collective agreement by the President of the Local or his delegate.
9.08	A probationary employee may take advantage of
the Grievance Procedure except in the case where his employment has been terminated.	q.
Special Training	\
9.09	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate in writing to the Union, the names, the nature and length of time of training of those individuals who, on their own volition, are to be given special training or experience in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company, not exceeding at any one time twenty (20) ' employees, and to promote, demote and transfer such individuals, engage, retain, or dispense with their services and direct their efforts from time to time free from limitations provided for in this Agreement; provided, however, that the employment of any such individual shall not affect the rights of any employee covered by this Collective Agreement.
9.10	The Company will prepare lists of the employees showing their seniority dates since the date of their last entry into the Bargaining Unit according to Section 9.01 of this Agreement. These lists shall be revised and posted on
31
February 1st, June 1st and October 1st of each calendar year. Six (6) copies of the above mentioned lists shall be sent to the Union. These lists will remain posted for a period of fourteen (14) days for the express purpose that any employee may make a complaint as to the correctness of his seniority date.
Change of Status
9.11	The transfer of an individual in the employ of the Company to the bargaining unit shall be allowed as long as this transfer does not affect the rights of the employees who are part of the bargaining unit.
It is, however, agreed that an employee transferred out of the bargaining unit may, during a period of six (6) months, return to the bargaining unit, to the job, schedule and crew he held before his transfer provided he would not have been displaced in accordance with 9.12 b).
9.12
a) An employee including labour classification may make application in writing to the Personnel Office, for a transfer to another position or work area or shift in his job classification, except as provided in 9.12(b). when vacancies occur in an employee’s job on another shift or in another area the Company will consider these applications in order of seniority and, where a transfer will not adversely affect the efficiency of the operation, will fill the vacancy from these applications in order of seniority and thereafter will post the job of the employee so transferred. Employees transferred under this provision will not be eligible to make another application for transfer for a period of six (6) months.
32
Applications for transfer will be valid for a period '
six (6) months from the date of the application. V
T'\
b) If a vacancy exists in a trades group job (other than' / an apprentice job) and if there are applications for transfer to that job then, prior to utilizing the job posting procedure, the job will be filled by the s®I!L^citialified .applicant. Should there be no applications on file the vacancy will be posted in accordance with Article 9.05(a). If there is an application for transfer and no vacancy occurs within a period of six (6) months of the date of the application, then on September 1st and March 1st of each year all applications received during the preceding six (6) month period will be processed, in order of seniority, within the following four (4) weeks and each applicant will be transferred to a job in the area for which he applied providing that:
(i)	the employee displaces the most junior employee in the area to which he is transferring, and
[ii)	the employee who is replaced has worked in that area for at least one year, and
(iii)	the employees displaced by the transfer procedure shall have preference, by order of seniority, to any vacancy created by this procedure. Furthermore, the employees displaced shall have the right to make application for transfer six (6) months from the date the employee was displaced.
(iv)	Successful applicants shall not be eligible to
apply for another transfer for a period of one (I) year.	.
33
Applications for transfer will be valid for a period of
six (6) months from the date of the application.
For the purposes of this article the areas are defined as follows:
Concentrator
#2 and #3 Shafts (combined)
U/G Mobile #12 Surface U/G Mechanical
Engineering Construction U/G Electrical
ARTICLE 10 Leave of Absence
10.01
a)
An employee who gives a reason satisfactory to the Company, will be granted a leave of absence without pay provided he can be spared. Any leave "'f absence permitted must be in writing and signed 9 ary authorized Company representative. A copy of this authorization will be given to the employee.
The Company will grant a leave of absence without pay to an employee who wishes to increase his knowledge by following an approved educational traini'1S „.c.Qutse.. This-.»^ve of absence will not exceed' ten (10) consecutive months and not more than six (6) employees will be granted leave of absence under this clause at any one time.
Upon returning to work, the employee will return to his former job, schedule and crew provided the employee has not been displaced in accordance with Section 9.12(b).
34
Temporary vacancies which arise following application of this Section will be filled in accordance with Section 9.05(b).
I0.02
a)	An employee who has been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union Conventions or conferences shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. The Union will inform the Company of the name of the delegate or delegates and request leave of absence in writing
y at least two (2) weeks in advance. Only two (2)
' employees at any one time may be granted such a leave of absence.
b)	Leave of absence for members of the Union Executive, Union Committees, Union Stewards and employee(s) appointed to Government Boards and Commissions will be granted provided:
1)	three (3) days’ notice in writing has been submitted by the Union to the Personnel Office and
2)	provided such employee can be spared.
3)	Under exceptional circumstances the three (3) day notice required under sub-section I above may be waived.
10.03	If the Company is given at least one (I) month’s notice in writing, a leave of absence will be granted to an employee, notto exceed six (6) in number, to attend the Union’s Labour Seminar, provided such employee(s) can be spared.
35
10.04	If the Company is given at least two (2) weeks written notice and if the employee concerned can be spared, a leave of absence will be granted to enable him to attend the Canadian Labour College.
10.05	The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absence without pay for one (I) year to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union or Union Affiliate. Not more than two (2) employees may be absent on such a leave at any one time.
I0.06	On the death of a member of an employee's immediate family the Company will grant a leave of absence as follows:
-- Five (5) days on the death of an employee's spouse, child or parent.
"U / - Four (4) days on the death of an employee’s \r) ' • v brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law or " / \ grandchild.
-- One (I) day on the death of an employee's grandparent.
The leave must be taken on the scheduled shifts immediately following the date of death. me employee will be paid for 8 hours at his basic hourly rate. Evidence may be required of the employee’s entitlement to pay under this section.
In the case of the death of an employee's brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the Company will grant to this employee a leave of absence of one (I) day to allow him to attend the funeral and if he would have otherwise been required to work on such day, he will be paid for eight (8) hours for such day at his basic hourly rate.
36
For the purpose of Section 10.06, sister-in-law and brother-in-law shall be limited to the spouses of the employee’s brothers and sisters and the brothers and sisters of the employee’s spouse.	. ...<,-
me Company shall grant a leave of absence of one (I) day without pay for the birth or adoption of a child.
10.07	An employee desiring to return to work after an unauthorized absence must give at least twelve (12) hours notice to the Company of his intention, at which time he shall be told if and when to return. An authorized leave of absence is one in which permission has been given by the employee’s supervisor, or failing that, any other senior supervisor in his department.
10.08	An employee who is not able to report for work must advise the Company by calling the Company Gatehouse one {1) hour before the beginning of his/her shift. This notice by the employee will be recorded on a Company form which will indicate the time of the employee’s phone call and the reason(s) given by the employee for not being able to present himself at work and the date of return to work. A copy of this form will be supplied to the employee. An employee, who for reasons beyond his control cannot advise the Company of his absence, shall not be subject to Section 9.02(d). If it is impossible to advise the Company as above-mentioned, the employee concerned must give the Company a satisfactory reason for his failure to phone and/or for his failure to report for work. In all cases, the Company will have the right to consider the reason(s) given for failure to advise and/or for failure to report for work in order to decide, subject to the grievance procedure, if the reason of his absence should be considered as authorized.
37
10.09	When an employee is returning to work after an extended absence (more than five (5) days) due to illness or an accident, he shall report to the Company’s Medical Office for clearance to return to work, or in the absence of the Company’s Medical Doctor, the employee will be allowed to return to his regular job upon presentation of -a medical certificate signed by a medical doctor subject to an examination by the Company Medical Doctor at the earliest opportunity.
An employee who visits the medical centre at the request of the Company following the completion of his shift will be paid in accordance with Section 16.01 and will be provided with transportation if necessary.
10.10
a)	i) me Company shall help an injured employee in
writing up his First Aid Treatment Report and his claim form for the Worker’s Compensation Board (Form 6). The employee shall receive a copy of the Report(s) which shall be signed by a representative of the Company and the employee.
ii) me employee shall receive a copy of the Company’s report to the Worker’s Compensation Board (Form 7).
b)	In the event that approved Worker’s Compensation benefit payments are unduly delayed, the Company agrees to advance monies, if requested by the employee, against such benefit payments after fourteen (14) days. However, consideration will be given by the Company in circumstances where an employee requires an advance within the fourteen (14) day period.
38
c)	When an employee’s compensation claim is contested, the company will advise the compensation committee and the employee concerned.
d} If requested by the employee, the Company agrees to advance monies, equivalent to Weekly Indemnity Benefits, against potential Worker’s Compensation benefits, after fourteen (14) days of the accident or illness.
Maternity Leave
I0.II	An employee who is pregnant is entitled to a maternity leave provided she has a medical certification from her doctor proving her pregnancy and the approximate date of delivery.
The pregnant employee can cease working from approximately six (6) weeks preceding the expected date of delivery unless that the employee and the Company agree to extend this period. The Company can require from the pregnant employee, who is still working, a medical certificate stating that she can work.
The employee will return to her previous job, schedule and crew approximately eighteen (18) weeks following the beginning of her maternity leave unless she and the Company agree to extend this period. An employee returning to work after a maternity ieave must provide a certificate from her doctor stating that she can resume work.
-) /’ \ u
39
ARTICLE II
Safety, Health and Accident Prevention
11.01	The Company and the Union recognize the benefits
to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment and also the responsibility placed solely on the Company by the Mining Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, the Industrial Safety Act, and other applicable legislation. It is agreed that the Company and the employees, Union Stewards and officers, and'. alt levels of supervision will cooperate fully to promote ,safe work practices, health conditions and the Company will enforce safety rules and procedures.
A Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee composed of a maximum of three (3) Company representatives and a maximum of three (3) employees selected by the Union will hold a meeting once a month.
This committee will meet for the purpose of studying factors which have been or could be an impairment to safe workina_conditions and of making recommendations to the Company. Members of the committee will be supplied with a summary of proceedings of the meetings.
This committee complements the Company’s Accident Prevention Program which is conducted for all employees and the committee will, in no way, replace or detract from the carrying out of that program.
The Company undertakes to study any recommendations submitted by the committee and,
1.02
a)
c)
d)
40
if the recommendation is found reasonable, to put it in application as soon as possible in order to ensure continued maximum safety for employees.
e)	The Company undertakes to inform the committee when introducing new equipment, processes or operating procedures.
f)	The Company will comply with the regulations of the Occupational Health and Safety Act with regard to biological, chemical and physical agents in the work place and will continue to make the safety data information for all such substances readily available.
g)	The Company shall acquaint an employee with any hazard to be found at the place of employment in connection with the use, handling, storage, disposal and transport of any biological, chemical or physical agent.
11.03
a)	Once a month an inspection will be conducted in each underground area of the Mine Department, in the Concentrator, in the Main Repair Shop and in the No. 6 Mine and in the Quarry. This inspection will be made by a representative of the Company and an employee working in the area to be inspected and designated by the Union.
b)	Should an accident occur or condition exist which could result in injury to or threaten the health of an employee, the committee representing the Union and another employee working in the area accompanied by a representative of the Company, will be allowed to visit the scene of the accident or
41
condition immediately and to question any eye witness of the accident or condition.
c)	In the event that environmental conditions in the workplace require an investigation by the environmental technician, he may be accompanied by the department safety representative from that area (who has been trained in the taking of such
measurements) and who shall suffer no loss of earnings for the time spent.
d)	Crew safety meetings will be scheduled at least once each month and a copy of the minutes of these meetings will be given to the designated
i	Union representative on the crew.
11.04	An employee may refuse to do any act at his place of employment, where he has reasonable grounds for believing that the act is likely to endanger his health or safety or the health or safety of any other employee. In such case he must immediately stop the operation and without delay inform his foreman. The employee shall not have to resume his work unless he has received instructions from the foreman stating that he is satisfied with the situation of the machine or equipment but if the employee still considers the work unusually dangerous to his health or safety he may again refuse and will not have to resume work until the Company has contacted the area safety representative immediately and he discusses the matter with the foreman.
Before any other employee is assigned to that work he must be advised by his supervisor of the concerns of the previous employee.
42
If an employee feels he is unjustly treated because of the application of this section, the Mining Act or the Occupational Health & Safety Act, he may immediately file a grievance at Step One of the grievance procedure.
For the Joint Safety Committee’s interpretation of this Section, refer to Appendix “D"
11.05	Upon ratification of the Collective Agreement, the Company will pay to each employee, who has completed his probationary period (excluding students), the sum of $75.00 for a clothing allowance. This allowance will be provided to each employee on the first pay period in July for each year of the Collective Agreement.
The Company will continue its present practice of providing protective devices, special wearing apparel and other clothing that the Company considers necessary to protect employees from injuries, risk to health and unusually severe working conditions which are not part of an employee's normal work.
The following is a list of protective clothing to be supplied by the Company:
M.H. Operations &
Mine Department Concentrator Maintenance
Safety Hats Glasses Respirators Muffs & Plugs Belts (Miners)
Safety Hats Glasses Respirators Ski-doo Helmet Forklift Operator
Clip-on sunglasses 2 pairs oilers per where necessary year
Safety Hats Glasses Respirators Asbestos Suits Welders Equipment Lineman’s Gloves from tool crib
43
M.H. Operations &
Mine DeDartnfentn c e n t r a t o r
Goggles 1 pair of oilers for Shaft & Cage Tenders every 6 months #6 • Oilers &
Boots from Tool Crib for Truck Drivers on crusher clean-up
*Oilers in Tool Crib for conditions outside normal work
Hip Waders
Reagents - acid suits, aprons, gloves, lace shields
Trial Boot Program, employee purchases boots and Company rubber coated them
Dewatering & Grabs - Asbestos Mitts
*Rubber boots & oilers in Mill Tool Cribs
Maintenance
Gloves and throw away coveralls -Mechanics -jobs where clothing could be destroyed
*Oilers in Tool Cribs including carpenter shop and yard
*The number of oilers in each tool crib will be increased where necessary. These oilers will be issued to employees who are occasionally required to work outside their normal work area under wet or severe conditions.
Provide gloves at 50% of cost.
Safety locks supplied as required.
First hat liner at no charge and replaced at no charge upon return of worn out liner.
Heavy Duty protective winter clothing will be provided in Tool Cribs as necessary for issue to employees who are occasionally required to work outside their normal work area under severe weather conditions.
44
ARTICLE 12 Bulletin Boards
12.01	The Company agrees to provide the Union with bulletin boards and dispensers as follows:
3 in the mill
2 at the plant gate
I in the carpenter and
I in the surface shop area
I in the mine dry No. 12
I at the quarry
I at the new shop dry
I at the labour dry
I inthe tire repair shop
I in the rubber and sandblast shop
I in the administration building
I in the assay lab
I in the #2 & #3 hoistrooms
1 at Dalhousie
These bulletin boards shall be for the exclusive posting of notices of Union meetings, social affairs or any reasonable, non-controversial business matters. of the Union. Each notice, excepting regular notice of Union meetings, shall be submitted to the Company for approval before posting.
12.02	In view of this method of informing employees, the Union or its members shall not otherwise post or distribute any kind of literature upon the working premises of the Company.
45
ARTICLE 13
Copies of Agreement
13.01	The Company and the Union desire every employee to be familiar with the provisions of this agreement and his rights and duties under it. For this reason the Company will print the agreement in French and English and will give a copy to each employee. Following the signing of this agreement, the Company will distribute xerox copies of it to all stewards and union committeemen.
14.01	T he Company will use its best endeavors to employ, at work for which he is qualified, an employee who has suffered a disability because of an occupational accident or sickness.
An employee who returns to work after an absence due to an occupational accident or sickness, shall return to the job he occupied immediately before his absence, and if he cannot do this job he shall have preferential rights to displace, if necessary, any employee who has less seniority provided that he has the ability, knowledge, skill and physical fitness to do the job concerned. In cases of displacement, the most junior employee in that job will be displaced.
14.02	An employee who returns to work in accordance with the provisions of this Article 14 and is unable to perform his previous job shall continue to be paid at the standard hourly rate for that job if he performs a job which is at a lower standard hourly rate. He shall continue to receive the higher rate until such time as a job becomes available at the same or a hj}Jher rate than the rate which he is being paid. However, the employee shall have the option to exercise his rights under Section 9.05(a).
ARTICLE 14 Disabled Employees
46
ARTICLE 15 Hours of Work
15.01	Nothing in this Article is a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
15.02
a)	A day is a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the start of the employee’s shift. An employee’s basic work day is eight (8) consecutive hours of work in such twenty-four (24) hour period, broken only by the lunch period provided for in Section 15.05.
b)	Usual shift starting times are:
8:00 A.M.
4:00 P.M.
5:00 P.M.
8:00 P.M.
12:00 AM. (Midnight)
and deviations of up to one hour before or after these times may occur. If the Company intends to establish a regular shift schedule outside of the above provision it will notify the Union in writing in advance of implementing the new schedule.
15.03	A week is seven (7) days beginning on Monday at 8:00 a.m.
15.04
a)	Shift schedule changes shall be posted not later than Thursday of the week preceding that in which the change is to take effect. Otherwise overtime will apply for the first non-scheduled shift as long as the overtime clause does not apply for that shift.
47
This Section will not apply as a result of the application of Section 10.02(b) of this Agreement.
b)	If an employee’s shift schedule is changed after Thursday and as a result his days off are changed he shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on the days which he would have had off. However, after Sunday midnight the Company shall not change an employee’s days off.
c)	No shift schedule will require employees to work a combination of shifts in one week except as required by the continuous shift schedule, or due to a transfer to or from the compressed work week.
In the event that an employee’s shift schedule is changed after Thursday, he will be paid at a rate of time and one-half (11h) for all hours worked on the first shift worked following the change.
d)	An employee’s days off will be consecutive except where schedules are separated by one day off only.
e)	Upon completion of scheduled maintenance shutdowns, if it is mutually agreeable between all, of the employees concerned and their supervisor, shift schedules may be re-arranged for the balance of the week. However, the provisions of articles 15 and 16 pertaining to overtime will not apply. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to employees on Production and Development.
lt additional employees are required to complement a crew on a shutdown, preference will be given by
48
order of seniority to the qualified employees in the crews from which the employees are to be taken.
15.05 Eight (8) hours work on his job will constitute a work day for each employee on surface. Each employee will be entitled to a thirty (30) minute lunch period on Company time however, it is recognized that due to the nature of the work or because of unforeseen circumstances an employee may be required to continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of services.	(l
r, 0 17 0
15.06	Lowering and hoisting schedules1 for the
underground will be arranged to provide eight (8) hours collar to collar. Variations of up to ten (10) minutes in hoisting time which do not occur regularly shall be disregarded. When necessary repair work is being carried out, or because of consideration of safety or cause beyond the Company’s control, employees are delayed for more than ten (10) minutes, these employees shall be paid on the basis of time and one-half rates (11h) and shall not be considered as having worked that time. Where the cause ofthe delay is within the control ofthe Company, such time shall be paid at time and one-half (1/2).	:
15.07	7 XV/
a)	Work schedules will provide for forty (40) hours'fter
week or, in the event of continuous or semi-continuous schedules, an average of forty (40) hours per week for all employees. However, in the event of transfers to or from the compressed work week schedule, deviations from a forty (40) hour schedule may occur. Where these result in the employee being scheduled less than forty (40) hours in the week of the transfer he may, if he so requests, be scheduled to work the hours
49
necessary to make up forty (40) hours outside of the compressed work week schedule.
b)	Any employee who is at the improver level, or higher, according to the CWS manual and has worked six (6) consecutive months on continuous shift schedule, may request to be replaced by another employee in the same category trained in the same area, who is working on a non-continuous shift schedule.
Preference will be given in order of seniority to the qualified employees on a non-continuous shift schedule in the area to fill the vacancy. In the event there' are no volunteers, the most junior qualified employee in the area will be assigned to the shift schedule provided he has less seniority than the employee requesting to be replaced.
The Company shall not be required to replace more than two (2) employees per trade per month.
15.08	Where an employee works seventeen (17) consecutive hours or more he shall not be required to work before eight (8) hours have elapsed and where he returns to work at the end of the eight (8) hour period, and completes his next regular shift, he will receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate regardless of the hours worked.
Where such employee works in excess of nineteen (19) hours and as a result his next regular shift will start less than five (5) hours from when he finishes the overtime, he will not be required to work that next shift and will be paid for it at eight (8) hours times the hourly rate which would have been applicable.
50
ARTICLE 16 Overtime
16.01. The Company shall pay an employee one and one-half (1-1/2) his basic rate:
a) For all hours worked or part thereof by such employee(s) in a day in excess of eight (8) hours except as provided in section 15.06 or, at the request of the Company, following the end of his regular shift, or
. b) For all hours worked or part thereof by such employee(s) in a week in excess of forty (40) hours, or
c)	For all hours worked or part thereof by an employee at the request of the Company on any of his scheduled days off.
16.02	Time allowed as overtime in any work day shall not again be allowed as overtime in the work week. In no case shall an employee be entitled to more than one and one-half (1-1/2) his applicable hourly rate for any time worked except as set out below.
16.03	When overtime work is required the Company will assign it in the following manner:
a)	OVERTIME FOR TRADES
1) i) Except as provided for in 16.03(e), for overtime up to eight (8) hours, preference will be given to the employee(s) who is actually ^^^ing the job at the time of the asign^ment.
51
ii)	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned in order of seniority to other qualified employees in that trade in that crew on the crew overtime list.
iii)	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned to the junior qualified employee(s) in the crew where the overtime is required.
2) For unplanned or emergency overtime in the case of a tradesman who is the only one of a particular trade in that crew, preference will be given to the employee(s) who is actually performing the job at the time. In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime it will be assigned in order of seniority to the qualified tradesman in the section. If the qualified tradesman in the section is unable to work the overtime it will be assigned to the junior qualified tradesman in the section. An employee, who is the only tradesman in a section, will not be obliged to work overtime until the Company, time permitting, has offered the overtime to other qualified employees in a crew in another section, whose names appear on the crew overtime list.
b)	OVERTIME FOR NON-TRADES
1.	Except as provided for in 16.03(e), for overtime up to eight (8) hours, preference will be given to the employee(s) who is actually performing the job at the time of the assignment.
2.	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work
52
the overtime, it will be assigned in order of seniority to another qualified employee(s) in the same classification in the crew on the crew overtime list.
3.	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned in order of seniority to other qualified employees in the crew on the crew overtime list.
4.	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned to the junior qualified employee(s) in the crew where the overtime is required.
c)	OVERTIME FOR MINE DEPARTMENT
1.	For overtime up to eight (8) hours, preference will be given to the employee(s) who is actually performing the work at the time ofthe assignment.
2.	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work
the overtime, it will be assigned in order of seniority to the qualified employees in that job in that crew on the crew overtime list.	.
3.	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned in order of seniority to other qualified employees in that crew on the crew overtime list.
4.	In the event the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned in order of seniority to other qualified employees in another crew on the level who have signed the crew overtime list.
53
5.	In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, it will be assigned to the junior qualified employee in the job in the crew where the overtime is required.
d)	EMERGENCY CALL-OUT
Overtime call-out will be assigned as follows:
1.	In order of seniority, to the qualified employee(s) in that classification who have signed the crew overtime list in the crew where the overtime is required.
2.	In order of seniority, to the qualified, employees in the area who have signed their crew overtime list.
3.	If the employee(s) who indicated his availability for overtime on the overtime list is unable to work, then the junior qualified employee(s) in the crew where the overtime occurs will be required to work.
The crew overtime list, except as provided for in 16.03(e), will operate on a weekly basis and will be in effect for the period commencing Friday, 8:00 A.M. to the following Friday, 8:00 AM. Employees wishing to indicate their availability for overtime may do so by signing up for the day(s) for which they wish to volunteer no later than 12:00 noon on the Wednesday prior to posting the overtime list, All overtime lists will bq.posted on Thursday of each week.
-^V'An employee who is called for work after entering the \yr ( gate house upon completion of his regular scheduled ■ |'J shift shall be given four (4) hours pay at one and one-half {1-1/2) times his base rate without being
54
required to work the full period. If an employee is required to work in excess of four (4) hours he will thereafter be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his base rate until he completes his callout job or until the commencement of his next shift, whichever shall first occur.
An employee on call-out may be required to work on another job of emergency nature during his call-out. If the other job will extend beyond the initial four (4) hour call-out period, then the employee may complete the job if he so desires. If the employee does not wish to complete the job another employee will be called in. The employee will be obligated to stay until his replacement arrives. An employee will be required to work only on jobs not already scheduled and of an emergency nature.
An employee who works in excess of four (4) consecutive hours on a call-out will be excused from his next scheduled shift if such next scheduled shift commences within eight (8} hours ofthe completion of his call-out. In the event that such employee wishes to work his next scheduled shift he will be allowed a break of ten (ICI) hours following completion of his call-out and will, upon returning to work be provided with work until the completion of his shift or, if he requests it for a full eight (8) hours.
e)	PLANNED OVERTIME
Planned overtime will apply in the Materials Handling & Maintenance Department and for all the trade groups as follows:
Planned overtime will be assigned for reasons of safety
55
to the employee(s) who last performed the job if he is on his regular day(s) off, or if he is unable to work, to the employee(s), in order of seniority, who normally performs the job and who is on regular day(s) off. In the event that the employee(s) is unable to work the overtime, preference, in order of seniority, will be given to the qualified employee(s) on that crew. In the event that the above employee(s) is unavailable, preference, in order of seniority, will be given to the qualified employee(s) from another crew. Planned overtime is where a notice of sixteen (16) hours is given. The assignment of planned overtime in the case of a tradesman who is the only one of a particular trade in that crew will conform to this Section 16.03(e) but adjusted in accordance with the order of distribution set out in Section I6.03(a)(ii).
f)	1. For the purpose of Article 16, a crew is that group of employees who report to and are supervised and directed by one supervisor. Occasional assignments to work for other supervisors will not affect an employee’s status in a crew, nor will the fact that some crews have one senior supervisor and one or more subordinate supervisors change the fact that it is one crew. Employees who are uncertain as to which crew they belong are expected to find out.
Condensed composite crews reporting to one supervisor will be given preference for overtime if the assignment is made when the employee(s) is on the site. Employees will be called out to perform work when no qualified employees are available on the site.
2. An employee who has been assigned to another
56
4.
5.
6.
16.04
a)
b)
job because work is not available in his own classification will not, for the purposes of overtime assignment, displace another employee who regularly performs that job.
Overtime worked in excess of eight (8) houi_ any day will be voluntary.
An employee will not be required to work in excess of sixteen (16) hours overtime in any week except in cases where no other qualified employee is available. The Company will exhaust all efforts to find a replacement.
An employee will not be obliged to work overtime on his days off.
For the purpose of (6.03, the sections are defined as follows:
Mill Maintenance Electrical U/G Mechanical Engineering Construction U/G Mobile Plant Mechanical Surface Mobile
Overtime will not be paid when, as the result of a promotion or demotion or the application of seniority rights under this Agreement or voluntary transfer, an employee moves from one shift to another and the shift to which he moves starts within the same twenty-four {24) hours as his preceding shift.
If overtime is assigned contrary to the provisions of section 16.03 the affected employee(s) will be given
57
the opportunity to work an equal number of overtime hours at a time mutually agreeable to the employee and the foreman. Work assigned under this provision will not be subject to the provisions of 16.03. This overtime will be worked within sixty • (60) days from the time the employee(s) is successful in acquiring the right to the overtime assignment.
16.05
a) 'c If an employee is required to work overtime in ^/excess of a regular eight (8) hour shift he will be provided a lunch during the first hour of overtime period, and every four (4) hours thereafter. Employees required to work overtime following the night shift (12:60-8:60 A.M.) will be supplied with a hot breakfast, Monday through Friday.
b) Except as provided for in 16.05(a), if an employee is required to work overtime he will be provided a lunch after the first four hours of overtime worked and every four hours thereafter.
16.06 Any overtime work occasioned by employees who mutually agree, and with the approval of their Department Head, to exchange shifts for day-off purposes shall be paid for at the basic hourly rate of each employee concerned. The Company will not be responsible for problems arising from such exchanging of shifts.
16.07
a) The Company will provide transportation to their regular weekly residence to employees who have no means of transportation after unscheduled overtime only.
58
b) The Company will provide transportation if required, to their regular weekly residence for employees who work planned overtime immediately following the end of their regular
I7.0I	A shift premium of fifty cents (500) will be paid for each hour actually worked on afternoon shift and sixty cents (600) for each hour actually worked on night shift. An afternoon shift is one which commences between 3:00 P.M. and 8.00 P.M. and a night shift is one which commences between 8:00 P.M. and 2:00 AM. Shift premiums will not be paid for the hours an employee work& at overtime rates.	'
17.02	A premium of half (1/2) time his basic hourly rate shall be paid for each hour actually worked by an employee between 8:00 AM. Sunday and 8:00 AM. Monday.
Tradesmen will be paid forty cents (400) an hour differential for all hours worked underground.
For the purposes of this Collective Agreement the portion of the No. 3 Shaft Ore Handling System which is excavated in rock will be considered as “underground”.
17.04 Each employee in a trade is required to have the
scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 17 Premiums
17.03	Tradesmen’s Differential:
Tool Allowance
59
tools as specified by the Company for that particular trade. The Company may update this list as conditions change.
In order to offset the cost of this requirement, the Company will pay each employee in a trade, on October first of each year, twenty percent (^20%) of the value of tools specified on the list of tools on each October 1st. The first verification to be made on September 15th each year.
To be eligible for the tool allowance an employee must have been employed by the Company in the trade for a minimum of six (6) months prior to each October 1st and must possess the tools required at the appropriate stage of training.
The Company will offer to purchase any tools that are removed from the tool list on a percentage basis. The tool in question would be depreciated by twenty per cent (20%) per year and the purchase price would be made on that basis, i.e., a $30. tool would be depreciated by $6. per year.
The Company will continue its practice of allowing purchase of tools through payroll deduction by installment plan if requested by an employee.
ARTICLE 18 Reporting Allowance
8.01	If the work for which the employee was scheduled to report is not available or if there is no substitute work for him which is within his reasonable capacity to perform, he shall be paid nevertheless for four {4) hours of work. The •ate of pay will be the base rate for the job he was scheduled to report on, plus any shift premium that applies.
60
The Company shall not be liable for reporting allowance if it has notified the employee not to report for work at least eight (8) hours in advance of his scheduled reporting time.
ARTICLE 19 Paid Holidays
19.01	The following shall be considered as paid holidays for all employees whether worked or not:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Whenever any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will, subject to the requirements of the operations, endeavour to schedule the following Monday as a day off in lieu of the holiday.
The Company requires sufficient employees to maintain continuous operations on statutory holidays. Only those employees absolutely necessary to maintain the continuous operations will be required to work. ■
19.02	An employee, excluding a student or a probationary employee, in each twelve (12) month period from June 30th in each year shall receive three (3) floating holidays to be taken as follows:
a)	at any time mutually agreeable to the Company
61
and the employee, or
b)	if requested prior to Thursday of one week, on any day or days in the following week unless another employee in the crew has previously been granted his floating holiday on that day or days.
19.03	All holidays shall be considered to begin at 8:00 AM. on the holiday and extend to 8:00 AM. the following day. •
19.04	Subject to Section 19.06 each employee shall receive his basic rate for eight (8) hours for each of the above holidays (including the floating holidays), however, if such employee is required to work beyond eight (8) hours on the holiday he shall receive his basic rate for an equivalent number of hours in addition to the pay to which
19.05	An employee required to work on' any of the holidays referred to in Section 19.01 shall be paid two times his regular hourly rate, plus applicable shift premiums, in addition to his holiday pay.
19.06	In order to qualify for payment for the above holidays (including the floating holidays), the employee must have completed his probationary period and must have worked on the holiday and the full scheduled shift on the day immediately preceding and the full scheduled shift on the day immediately following the holiday, if scheduled to work on any of these days, exceptions to this being an absence due to vacations, death in the immediate family, permitted leave, proven illness, jury duty or crown witness, approved leave of absence. In case of layoff an employee will be paid only for the holiday which may fall within sixteen 06) calendar days following his last day worked.
he is entitled under Section 19.05.
62
The conditions set out in this section will not apply if the Provincial highways between Brunswick Mining and the employees’ residence are completely blocked due to a snow storm. This will be confirmed with the Provincial Department of Highways.
The provisions set out in this section do not apply to Section 19.05 above.
19.07	When a paid holiday falls within the vacation period of an employee he shall, in lieu of such paid holiday, receive one additional day’s vacation with statutory holiday pay for such day. If an employee is required to work on Statutory Holidays, he shall be given the option to add any of these days to his annual vacation or they can be taken as floaters subject to article 9.02(a) and (b). An employee, if he so desires, can receive the full payment for a statutory holiday according to section 19.05 or by written request delay the payment of the statutory holiday pay until he actually takes his annual vacation or floaters.
19.08	Where it meets the requirements of the operation and provided that at least fifty percent (50%) plus one of the employees who are affected so request, the Company will agree to the exchange of a scheduled shift to a time which is preferable to the employees. However, such an exchange in shift shall not result in any additional costs to the Company.
ARTICLE 20 Vacations
20.0I	Every employee, who on June 30, September 30, or December 31 of any year, has been in the continuous service of the Company for:
63
a) Less than one (I) year, shall be entitled to a vacation in accordance to the Employment Standards Act at the rate of four percent (4%) of his earnings for the period of continuous service from the date of last hiring up to June 30, September 30, December 31, or
b)	^ OneJILygar, but less than four (4) years shall be 0 entitied to a vacation of twn (9) weeks, with pay at ) the rate of four percent (4%) of his earnings for the
twelve (12) months ending June 30, September 30, ^ December 31, or
c)	^ Four M years but less than nine (9) years, shall be f r^entftied to a vacation of three (3) weeks, with pay
\. at the rate of six percent (6°.4>) of his earnings for d o""°the twelve (12) months ending June 30, September 4	r:; ' -30, December 31, or
d)	Nine (9) vears but less than fourteen (14) years, shall be entitled to a vacation of four (A weeks, with pay at the rate of eight percent (8%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30, September 30, December 31, or
Fourteen (141 years but less than eighteen (18) years, shall be entitled to a vacation of four& weeks with pay at the rate of nine percent (9%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30, September 30, December 31, or.
f) Eighteen (18^ vearg but less than twenty-six (26) years, shall be entitled to a vacation nf five weeks with pay at the rate of eleven percent (11%) J of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30, September 30, December 31, or
64
g)	Twenty-six (26) years or more, shall be entitled to
avacation of six fesTweeks with pay at the rate of twelve percent (12%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30, September 30, December 31.
For the purpose of this Article, earnings shall include the vacation pay of the previous year.
20.02	An employee leaving the service of the Company will be entitled to the vacation pay due to him according to section 20.01 above.
20.03	Inasmuch as reasonably possible, the Company will attempt to schedule vacations so that they will immediately follow or immediately precede the employee’s normal weekly days off.
20.04
a) Employees who wish to take vacation between June 1st and September 15th will be required to apply in writing to their foreman before May 1st, stating their first and second preference. The preliminary vacation schedule for the crew or area will be posted on or before May 10th. Employees who are not scheduled on their first or second preferred vacation period may re-apply before May 25th. The final schedule will be posted on May 30th.
Employees who wish to take their vacation after September 15th must apply before August 31st and the schedule will be posted on or before September 15th.
After posting of the final schedules, they may not
65
be disrupted by employees who have not made the required application within the time limits.
If an employee fails to make application within the time limits because of a justifiable absence, he will be fitted into the vacation schedule taking into account his preferences and the requirements of the operation.
b) The Company will arrange vacation periods at such times as it finds most suitable having regard to the wishes and the seniority of the employees and the requirements and efficiency of operations. Preference will be given to regular employees for assignment of vacation relief.
20.05	The Company shall not oblige any employee to take his vacation during a shut down of operations, except during the months of July and August for a maximum of two (2) weeks.
In order to meet the requirements of the operation, preference to work will be given in order of seniority to the employees in their own classification in the following order: crew, level, block or area.
Block - supervised by a captain.
The areas are defined as follows:
U/G Mechanical Dalhousie Concentrator U/G Electrical #12 Surface
425m, 575m Levels U/G Mobile 725m Level U/G Mobile 850m Level U/G Mobile IOOm Level U/G Mobile Engineering Construction
#2 & #3 Shaft combined
66
20.06	All employees will be allowed at their request to divide their annual vacations on a weekly basis subject to sections 20.04 and 20.05 above.
20.07	After July 1st of any year, the Company will pay vacation pay upon request by the employee.
ARTICLE 21 Wages
21.01	The Co-operative Wage Study (C.W.S.} Manual for Job Descriptions, Classification and Wage Administration, dated May 2nd, 1967, and herein referred to as the “Manual" is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix "‘A”, and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein, provided that reference in the Manual to such jobs as Trade or Craft, assigned maintenance, clerical or technical, group leader, spellhand, testing or inspection, learner and apprentice, shall not, of itself establish existence of these jobs within the Company’s Operations, or determine that such jobs are included of not included in the Bargaining Unit.
21.02	The job of each employee shall be described and classified and a rate of pay shall be applied to each employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Standard (i.e. Basic) Hourly Wages
21.03
a) As stipulated in Article 21.03(b) of the collective agreement which expired on June 30, 1990, the standard hourly rate for Job Class 1 will be
67
increased by four cents (4c) establishing the following
hourly wage	rates:		
	Standard		Standard
Job Class	Hourly Rate	Job Class	Hourly Rate
I	$13.40	12	$15.215
2	13.565	13	15.38
3	13.73	14	15.545
4	13.895	15	15.71
5			
6	14.225	117	116.04
7	14.39	18	16. .205
8			
9	114.72	29	16.535
10	14.885	21	16.70
11	15.05	22	16.865
Effective beginning with the first shift upon ratification, the standard hourly rate for Job Class I will be increased by one dollar and fifteen cents ($1.15). The job class increment will be increased by three and one-half cents (31hc) to twenty cents (20c) establishing the following hourly wage rates:
Class	Standard Hourly Rate	Job Class	Standard Hourly Rate
I	$ 14.55 A p	12	$ 16.75
2	14.75^100^	13	16.95
3	14.95	14	17.15
4	15.15	15	17.35
5	15.35	16	17.55
6	15.55	17	17.75
7	15.75	18	17.95
8	15.95	19	18.15
9	16.15	20	18.35
10	16.35	21	18.55
11	16.55	22	18.75
68
Effective July 1, 1991, the standard hourly rate for Job Class I will be increased by thirty cents (300). The job class increment will be increased by one cent (1c) to twenty-one cents (210) establishing the following hourly wage rates:
Job Class	Standard Hourly Rate	Job Class	Standard Hourly Rate
1	$ 14.85	12	$ 17.16
2	15.06	13	17.37
3	15.27	14	17.58
4	15.48	15	17.79
5	15.69	16	1800
6	15.90	17	18.21
7	16.11	18	18.42
8	16.32	19	18.63
9	16.53	20	18.84
10	16.74	21	19.05
11	16.95	22	19.26
Effective November 1, 1991, the standard hourly rate for Job Class 1 will be increased by thirty cents (300). The job class increment will be increased by two and one-nalf cents (2!h0) to twenty-three and one-half cents (23!h0) establishing the following hourly wage rates:
	Standard		Standard
Job Class	Hourly Rate	Job Class	Hourly Rate
1	$15.15	12	$17.735
2	15.385		17.97
3		13	
5	15.02	16	118.44
6	116.09	17	18.675
7		18	
9	16.795	20	119.38
10	117.03	21	19.615
11	17.50	22	20.005
69
Effective July 1, 1992, the standard hourly rate for Job Class 1 will be increased by thirty-five cents (35c). The job class increment will be increased by one cent (1 c) to twenty-four and one-half cents (24Hc) establishing the following hourly wage rates:
	Standard		Standard
Class	Hourly Rate	Job Class	Hourly Rate
	$ 15.50	12	$18.195
2	15.745	13	18.44
3	15.99	14	18.685
A	16.235	15	18.93
5	16.48	16	19.175
6	16.725	17	19.42
7	16.9 7	19	19665
8	17.215	20	2119.91
9	17.46		
10	17.705	21	20.40
11	17.95	22	20.645
Effective November 1,1992, the standard hourly rate for Job Class 1 will be increased by twenty cents (20c). The job class increment will be increased by one and one-half cents (I1hc) to twenty-six cents (26c) establishing the following hourly wage rates:
	Standard		Standard
Job Class	Hourly Rate	Job Class	Hourly Hate
2	$15.70	12	$18.56
3	15.96	13	19.08
	16.22		
4		14	
5	16.48	16	19.60
6	17.00	17	19.86
7			
8	17.52	18	20.38
9	17.78	20	20.64
10	18.04	21	20.90
11	18.30	22	21.16
70
Effective July 1, 1993. the standard hourly rate for Job Class 1 will be increased by fifty cents (500). The job class increment will be increased by a half cent ('htf) to twenty-six and one-half cents (201htf) establishing the following hourly wage rates:
Job Class	Standard Hourly Rate	Job Class	Standard Hourly Rate
1	$16.20	12	$19.115
2	16.465	13	19.38
3	16.73	14	19.645
4	16.995		19.91
5	17.26	16	20.175
6	17.525	17	20.44
7	17.79		20.705
8	18.055	19	20.97
9	18.32	20	21.235
10	18.585	21	21.50
11	18.85	22	21.765
71
Cost of Living Allowance (COLA)
For the purpose of this Agreement:
1.	The Consumer Price Index means the Canada Consumer Price Index (1971x 100) (C.P.I.) which is published each month by Statistics Canada, hereafter identified as C.P.I.
2.	An amount proportional, if necessary, to a percentage amount by which the Consumer Price Index exceeds five percent (5%) for the period January 1991 to January 1992, will be added to the basic hourly rate for a job class I; this will take effect and the amount will become payable at the first pay period following publication by Statistics Canada of the Consumer Price Index for the month of February
1992.
3.	An amount proportional, if necessary to a percentage amount by which the Consumer Price Index exceeds five percent (5%) for the period January 1992 to January 1993, will be added to the basic hourly rate for a job class I; this will take effect and the amount will become payable at the first pay period following publication by Statistics Canada of the Consumer Price index for the month of February
1993.
72
4.	An amount proportional, if necessary, to a percentage amount by which the Consumer Price Index exceeds four percent (4%) for the period January 1993 to January 1994, will be added to the basic hourly rate for a Job Class 1 ; this will take effect and the amount will become payable at the first pay period following publication by Statistics Canada of the Consumer Price index for the month of February 1994.
5.	The actual date of such adjustment shall be the first pay period following the publication of the C.P.I.
6.	In case Statistics Canada should not publish the appropriate C.P.1. before or at the beginning of the period mentioned in 21.03 (b)2, any adjustment required by the appropriate index shall be in-effect at the beginning of the pay period following its official publication.
7.	The continuity of the COLA depends upon the availability of the Consumer Price Index which is published each month by Statistics Canada in its current format and on the same basis {1971=100), unless otherwise agreed upon by both parties.
73
21.04	Effective on the dates specified in Section 21.03, all employees shall have their rates of pay adjusted as follows:
a)	If the employee is not receiving an out-of-line differential prior to the dates specified in Section
21.03,	the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the standard hourly rate for that employee’s job, as provided in Section 21.03.
b)	If the employee is receiving an out-of-line differential prior to the dates specified in Section
21.03,	the rate of pay of such employee shall be increased by the amount by which the rate for Job Class I has been increased, as provided in Section 21.03 and the following shall govern:
1)	If the employee’s new rate resulting from such increase is greater than the standard hourly rate for the job, as provided in Section
21.03,	the amount by which such employee’s new rate is greater than the rate provided in Section 21.03, shall become such employee’s new out-of-line differential (which shall replace the former out-of-line differential) and shall apply in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2)	If the employee’s new rate resulting from
such increase is equal to or less than the' standard hourly rate for the job, as provided in Section 21.03, the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the standard hourly rate for the job, as provided in Section 21.03, and the former out-of-line differential shall be terminated.
74
21.05	As of the date the Standard Hourly Wage Scale becomes effective, the standard hourly rate for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall so continue for the duration of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
21.06	Each standard hourly rate established under Section 21.03 shall be:
a)	The established rate of pay for all straight time hours paid for on a non-bonus job; or
b)	The established minimum rate of pay for purposes of the minimum guarantee under any bonus plan.
21.07	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for each job shall apply to any employee during such time as the employee is required to perform such job.
21.08	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for each production or maintenance job, other than a trade or craft or apprentice job, shall apply to any employee during such time as the employee is required to perform such job.
21.09	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for a trade or craft or apprentice job shall apply to any employee during the time such employee is assigned to the respective rate classifications in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
21.10	The Company shall furnish the Union on the form set forth as Exhibit "E“ of the Manual, a list of jobs agreed
75
to by the Company and the Union as appropriate for the application of learner rates. Such list may be added to or deleted from by mutual agreement ofthe Company and the Union, The schedule of learner rates set forth in Section 21.21 shall apply only to jobs in this list.
Out-of-line Differentials
21.11	The Company shall furnish to the Union a list agreed to by the Company and the Union of employees who are to be paid out-of-line differentials. Such list shall contain the following information:
a)	Name of incumbent to whom such out-of-line differential is to be paid.
b)	Job Title of job on which out-of-line differential is to be paid.
c)	Job Classification of such job
d)	Standard hourly rate of such job.
e)	Amount of out-of-line differential
f)	Date such out-of-line differential became effective.
21.12	Except as such out-of-line differential may be changed by the means hereinafter provided, any employee included in the list referred to in Section 21.11 shall continue to be paid such out-of-line differential during such time as the employee continues to occupy the job for which the differential was established.
21.13	If an employee with an out-of-line differential accedes to a job having a higher standard hourly rate, then
76
the differential shall be reduced by the amount of the increase in the standard hourly rate.
21.14	If an employee with an out-of-line differential is moved to a job having a lower standard hourly rate, then the out-of-line differential shall be cancelled.
21.15	If such employee referred to in Section 21 .13 shall be returned to the job for which the out-of-line differential was established, the out-of-line differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by other means.
21.16	When an employee would, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, be entitled to receive his regular rate, he shall also receive any out-of-line differental to which he is entitled.
21.17	In addition to the other means herein provided, increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate out-of-line differentials.
21.18	Except for the application of the out-of-line differentials as called for herein, the terms of this Agreement governing transfers shall apply.
Temporary Transfer
21.19	If an employee substitutes in any Department on any job for purposes other than training, he shall receive the rate for the job or his regular rate, whichever is the greater.
Except as provided in Article 9.03(a), an employee may not be involuntarily displaced from a JOb in his own classification in his crew by another employee for whomj work is not available in his own classification.
77
Leamer Rates
21.20	Learner jobs requiring learner rates have been negotiated and have been made part of this Agreement. The Company will add any other jobs if it is necessary.
21.21	A schedule of learner rates for the respective learning periods of 520 hours of actual learning experience with the Company on jobs for which training opportunity is not provided shall be established at the level of the standard hourly wage scale rates for the respective job classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor 2, of the job classification record of the respective job as follows:
a)	CODE "C" - Seven to twelve (7-12) months.
One learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job, and
b)	CODE "D" - Thirteen to eighteen (13-18) months,
1.	A first learner period classification at a level four (4) job classes below the job class of the
job,
2.	A second learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
c)	CODE "DM and higher - Nineteen (19) months and above.
I. It is the intention of the parties that an employee acceding to a job in this category
78
shall have spent a minimum of one (I) year as a helper to the job or on other related jobs. Any employee with less than one (I) year’s required experience shall have his learner period extended by remaining in the third learner period classification for an additional period equal to the time he lacks.
2.	A first learner period classification at a level six (6) job classes below the job class of the job.
3.	A second learner period classification at a level four (4) job classes below the job class of the job; and
4.	A third learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
21.22	Employee’s time spent on a job requiring a learner schedule shall be cumulative. Periods of less than eight (8) hours will be counted toward completion of a learner schedule. Periods of less than eight (8) hours shall be paid for at the job rate.
21.23	Any employee, who has become established on a job prior to the date of this Agreement, shall not be required to requalify for such job by means of the procedures provided by this Agreement.
21.24	Any employee who has qualified for a job through a learner schedule, shall not be required to repeat the learner schedule for that particular job.
21.25	The appropriate learner rate level, to which any employee acceding to a job requiring a learner schedule
79
shall be assigned, is determined by crediting the employee with all time previously worked since July 1st, 1964:
a)	On the job under consideration; and
b)	On any job which provided related trairfng opportunity for the job under consideration.
21.26	The established learner rate of pay for each learner period classification shall apply to an employee in accordance with the learner training periods as defined above. However, an employee whose rate of pay prior to the assignment to a job having a learner schedule is higher than the minimum rate of learner job to which he has acceded shall maintain his rate but not higher than the job rate, until such time as the rate for the applicable learner period classification is equal to or exceeds his present rate.
21.27	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
21.28	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that
a)	The Union recognizes that incentive is paid for effort and performance. me Company agrees to develop and maintain an incentive system for conventional development, mechanized
General
\
80
development and production mining. The above bonus shall be calculated and paid twice monthly.
An employee wishing to enquire about his bonus calculation can be accompanied, if he so desires, by a member of the Bonus Committee in order to review such matter with the Company. In any event, such matter can also be reviewed by the Company and the local Union President or the Bonus Committee, if requested by the employee.
Up-to-date information on bonus rates will be readily accessible and available for examination to employees affected by those rates. Rate changes or new rates will be introduced only in the period following the date such rate changes or new rates are posted. Copies of the posted rate changes or new rates will be given to the Bonus Committee.
In the case of special incentive contracts not covered above, the rate and its duration will be communicated in writing to the employees concerned.
b)	An employee wishing to enquire about his bonus calculation may file a “Bonus investigation” form with his shift boss, which shall be processed by the Company within a fourteen (14) day period.
If further clarification is required, the employee may submit the matter to the Bonus Committee. The Bonus Committee with the employee and a representative of the Union Executive in attendance may discuss the matter with senior Mine Department officials if required.
81
Block Release Training
21.30
a)	When an employee goes on Block Release Training the Company will pay the difference between the Canada Manpower payment. and the wages the employee would receive on a regular forty {40) hour week at his basic rate.
During the period of the Block Release Training, in the event of a Civic Holiday or suspension of classes, the employee will not be required to report to the mine site to maintain his earnings. The employee will not be eligible for any overtime for the period between the completion of his work on his last scheduled day and his first scheduled shift after the Block Release Training. However, after 4:00 P.M. of the last day of the Block Release Program, he will be eligible for “call-outs”.
■ b) The starting rate of an employee on the Apprenticeship programme shall not be less than job class four (4).
c)	The following procedure for scheduling tradesmen on Block Release will apply:
Class A - Any indentured apprentice who has not successfully completed the C.W.S. examination.
Class B - Any indentured apprentice whose level of experience is greater than his theoretical level and who has not successfully completed the C.W.S. examination. (Le., individual has 3 years experience in the trade and only completed Division I).
82
Class C	Indentured apprentices who have
successfully completed the C.W.S. examination and can gain financially by completing divisional examination (i.e., Industrial Mechanic at Job Class 12 who would, on successful completion of his divisional exams, go to Job Class 16 plus 2 earlier than if he had allowed the time to elapse under the C.W.S. program).
Class D	indentured apprentices who are at top
rate (journeymen rate) due to successful qualification under the C.W.S. program.
d)	Employees on Block Release training who are required to travel outside of Bathurst will be provided a payment of $40. per week above the Canada Manpower allowance for living expenses. Mileage will be paid at Company rates for one trip per week to and from the training site.
The registration fee will also be paid by the ^ Company.
Trades Training
21.31 A journeyman will be paid the top rate for the job upon receipt of his journeyman’s certificate from the New Brunswick Department of Labour. This payment will be retroactive to the date the employee had completed the hours and obtained the required skills in the trade, provided the final examination had been passed by the employee, otherwise the date of certification will be used.
83
ARTICLE 22 Union Security
22.01	During the term of this agreement, the Company will deduct from the earninas of each employee in the bargaining unit on a weekly basis, an amount in accordance with the constitution of the United Steelworkers of America.
22.02	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any liability or action arising out of the operation of this Article.
ARTICLE 23 Notices
23.01	Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be delivered personally or given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
To the Company:
Brunswick Mining and Smelting Corporation Limited Mining Division P.O. Box 30)
Bathurst, N.B. E2A 3Z8
To the Union:
The Secretary, Local 5385 United Steelworkers of America P.O. Box 5I2 Bathurst, N.B. E2A 3Z4
84
23.02	Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
23.03	Either party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
ARTICLE 24 Jury Duty
24.01	When an employee is required to serve as a juror or is subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness, the Company will make up any loss in the regular pay of such employee while serving on Jury Duty or as a witness.
ARTICLE 25 Departments
25.01	For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement the Departments shall be as follows:
a)	Concentrator
b)	Mine
c)	Plant Engineering Services
d)	Materials Handling & Maintenance
e)	Purchasing
0	Safety
85

/
T'l
ARTICLE 26
Labour-Management Committee
26.01	Matters of mutual interest which are not proper subjects to be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure may be discussed by the Labour-Management Committee.
This Committee shall be made up of no more than five (5) representatives from each party and will meet at least six (6) times per year at dates to be mutually agreed.
VVhen requesting a meeting, the party making the request will submit an agenda for consideration. A copy of the Minutes of the meetings will be given to each member of the Committee within seven (7) days following the meeting. These minutes will indicate the Company’s intentions with regard to time required to complete any work or to meet any commitments. Should delays occur, the reasons will be communicated to the Union Executive.
ARTICLE 27 Insurance Benefits
27.01	The plans consist of a Voluntary Early Retirement Plan, Pension Plan, Group Life Insurance, Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan, Long Term Disability Insurance Plan, Supplementary Health Plan and Dental Plan.
Voluntary Early Retirement Plan
1.	This plan is in addition to, but not part of, the employees’ pension plan.
2.	In order to be eligible for benefits in accordance with this plan, an employee must be at least sixty (60) years of age and have at least twenty (20) years of continuous service.
86
3.	An eligible employee may apply in writing to the Company for benefits under this plan.
4.	The benefits in accordance with this plan will be as follows:
a)	The eligible employee shall be entitled to an allowance o£ $19.00 ‘per month for each year of service. This '^^rance will be paid in the same manner as the employee’s pension until he reaches age 65 or until his death, whichever occurs first.
b)	An additional allowance of $150 per month will. be paid from the first day of the month following retirement and until the employee reaches age sixty-five (65) or until his death, whichever occurs first.
c)	This plan will pay a monthly life annuity from age sixty-five (65) which will be an amount equal to the monthly reduction of the normal annuity (V. of 1% per month of early retirement) attributable to the early retirement.
d)	The employee will continue to be covered by the Supplementary Health, Dental and Life Insurance Plans until he reaches 65 years of age. Benefits of the aforesaid plans are subject to the provisions of the collective agreement in effect at the time of retirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations except that the coverage in accordance with the life insurance plan will be equal to the full basic coverage which will be reduced only when the employee reaches 65 years of age. The Company will make all
87
contributions necessary to provide coverage under the foregoing plan.
5.	If an employee’s application is accepted, he will retire on the first day of the month approved for retirement.
6.	Benefits in accordance with this plan are in addition to the benefits provided for by the Canada Pension Plan and are not limited or reduced by the aforesaid benefits or the payment of benefits in accordance with the unemployment insurance plan of Canada. However, an employee eligible for this plan will not be eligible for any benefits in accordance with the Weekly Indemnity Plan and Long Term Disability Plan.
7.	The employee’s application for benefits provided by this plan shall constitute a voluntary separation.
8.	The particularities of this plan must comply with any fiscal and human rights legislation as well as any other applicable legislation.
9.	The present plan is only applicable to employees who meet the requirements during the life of this agreement.
This plan is in addition to the benefits payable in accordance with the government’s pension plan.
The Company will make alt contributions necessary to provide coverage under the foregoing plan.
Pension Plan
Effective on the first of the month following ratification of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall amend the
88
•y
Pension Plan as follows: cg |
This plan provides a pensiorfat'normal retirement age (age 65) of $25.00 per month for each year of credited service after January I, 1966.	'ef ‘
• t I , t i
Effective July 1,1992, this plan’ will provi^ a'' pension at normal retirement age sixty-five (65) of $27.00 per month for each year of credited service after January 1,196.
In all cases of early retirement (before sixty-five (65) years of age), the terms of the plan will apply with a reduction of one quarter of 1% for each month preceding the normal date of retirement. Payment of the reduced annuity will be effective on the date of retirement.
This pension benefit is in addition to benefits payable under Government pension plans.	. cp , ‘
The Company pays the full cost of this benefit.
Group Life Insurance {i' <	■
-+ X/j <	"
Effective on the first of the month following ratification of the collective agreement, the basic life coverage will be $40.000. and in the case of accidental death and \ dismemberment, will be an additional $40,00.
Upon retirement or age sixty-five (65), whichever happens \ first, and each year thereafter, the employee’s basic insurance will be reduced by twenty percent (^20%), however a seven thousand dollar ($7,00) coverage will be maintained.
The Company pays the full cost of the above benefits.
89
^ 'L
Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
^"

?X"
&
Effective on January I, 1991, for employees actually at work on that date, Four Hundred and Eight Dollars ($408). v, / ^
N i.i...% •/ i t- '
Effective on January I, 1992, for employees actually at work on that date, Four Hundred and Twenty-five Dollars ($425). (
i 11
$
Effective on January I, 1993 for employees actually at work 1 f on that date, Four Hundred and Forty-five Dollars ($445).
The benefit is payable for a single period of disability starting on the first day of an accident or hospitalization, and on the fourth day in the case of an illness, during a period of thirty-nine (39) weeks for a single period of disability.
rX
This plan will be registered with the Unemployment Insurance Commission in accordance with paragraph 64(4) of the Unemployment Insurance Act and any reduction paid in accordance with this act will belong entirely to the Company in view of the other advantage awarded.
This benefit is not payable if the Worker’s Compensation Act covers the disability.
A waiver of monthly premium will be granted for any period where an employee is eligible for benefits. f' , ?{C-
The Company pays 80% of the cost of the Plan, and the employees 20%.
Long Term Disability Insurance Plan
Employees shall be entitled to monthly benefits in accordance with the Company’s Long Term Disability Plan.
90
Payment of these monthly benefits will start after the expiration of the weekly benefits (39 weeks) and following payment of any Unemployment Insurance Commission benefit. These monthly benefits will be paid during a maximum of two (2) years provided that the employee is completely disabled and that he is incapable of performing his job.
The two year period will include the duration of the weekly benefits (39 weeks) and any payable Unemployment insurance benefit.
Payment of benefits will be extended beyond the two years until age sixty-five (65) provided that the disability of the employee keeps him from doing any kind of work.
This plan allows for monthly benefits to be equal to the amount which, added to the disability benefits initially paid in accordance with the Canada Pension Plan will represent sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the monthly salary calculated at the employee’s hourly rate upon disability. However, in no-circumstances shall the benefits
exceed:
4'i 0 ..
' \

One Thousand Dollars ($1000) effective the first of the month following ratification of the collective agreement.
Eleven Hundred Dollars ($1100) effective July 1, 1992/):-.'. • td
Where an employee after having made application does not meet the requirements to receive the disability allowances paid in accordance with the Canada Pension Plan, the plan shall pay an amount of $50 per month until he resumes work or until he fills the necessary requirements to receive the Canada Pension Plan disability allowances.
91
This benefit is not payable if the Worker’s Compensation Act covers the disability.
The Company pays 80% of the cost of the Plan, and the employees 20%.	•
The Supplementary Health Plan provides benefit: as per, the Blue Cross Group Health Package Plan 13S with; Special Benefits.
, The Plan provides for supplementary hospital benefits, . prescription drug benefits with a co-pay, and 100ok of extended health benefits subject to the maximums and terms provided in the Plap. lncl^d^ in the extended health benefits are:ft . -	v.. • ..i J /
/	* '	' J
'I/ Wara and private room accomrgbdatton
•	Private duty Nurse, up to $5,00 per 12 month period
•	Diagnostic and x-ray services
•	Physiotherapy, up to 20 treatments per 12 month period . Blood and blood plasma
-	Physician services out of province
•	Accidental Dental
•	Prosthetic appliances, up to $75 per 12 month period
•	Equipment Rental ■ Oxygen
•	Professional Ambulance
-	Ostomy supplies
-	Special Ambulance Attendant
•	Orthopaedic Shoes, up to $80 per 12 month period i - Molded arch supports
"/- Hearing Aids
•""- Vision Care, up to $100 for glasses, per 24 month period
-	Contact lenses, up to $20 per 24 month period
Supolementarv Health Plan
92
-	Eye examinations, up to $20 per 24 month period (Dependent children benefits on a 12 month base period)
-	Physchologists care, 80% of fee up to ^$30 per person
per 12 month period
-	Chiropractor, up to ^$30 per family per year
-	Acupuncture, up to ^$30 per family per year
Also covered is the cost, excluding the co-pay, of certain life sustaining drugs which may not legally require a prescription, as per the terms of the Plan.
If an employee dies while insured for dependents’ health insurance coverage, his/her dependents will continue to be insured for up to a maximum of twelve (12) months. Coverage will cease on the remarriage of the dependents spouse.
The Company pays 80% of the cost of the Plan and the employee 20%.
Dental Care
A Dental Care Plan provides benefits as per the Dental Plan F of Blue Cross. Payment is in accordance with the current year schedule of dental fees.
The Plan provides for up to 80% of the cost of basic preventive and restorative treatment, basic periodontics, dentures, crowns and fixed bridge restoration, to an annual maximum of $1,50.
Admissible expenses for malocclusions and orthodontic treatment will be covered up to 50%, to a lifetime maximum of $1,50 for each person insured.
me Company pays 1^00% of the cost of the Plan.
93
ARTICLE 28 Duration
28.01 This Aqreement shall remain in effect until February 28,1994. and shall be automatically renewed thereafter for successive periods of twelve (12) months unless either party requests the negotiations of a new Agreement by giving written notice to the other party not less than thirty (30) calendar days and not more than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement or any renewal thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed this 11 th day of June, 1991.
BRUNSWICK MINING AND SMELTING CORPORATION LIMITED Mining Division
J. R. Schnarr H. S. Scott
B.	A. Dumville
L. S. Urbanoski •
F. W. Hermann
C.	J. Roy
A.	J.Luce
J.	E. LeBraceur
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 5335
B.	Doucet A. Ross L. Roy
K.	k-vine L Stever
D.	Chiasson W. Bass.
R. Young P. Best
94
APPENDIX ‘A’
C.	W.S. Manual
APPENDIX "B"
The “Compressed Work Week” supplementary agreement is incorporated into and forms part Qf this Collective Agreement and its provisions are subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures set out herein.
95
APPENDIX “B
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK Supplementary Agreement
between
BRUNSWICK MINING AND SMELTING CORPORATION LIMITED MINING DIVISION
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 5385
DATED MAY 8, 1991
96
APPENDIX "B"
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK PREAMBLE
The “Compressed Work Week” will apply to those employees who are presently working on regularly scheduled twelve hour shifts.
The “Semi-Compressed Work Week” will apply to employees who are working on regularly scheduled twelve (12) hour shifts covering twelve hours per twenty-four hour day, seven days per week. This definition will be used for article 16.03(e) otherwise the Compressed Work Week will apply.
Continued operation of this “Compressed Work Week” requires that a majority of fifty percent (50%) plus one support it in any vote. Votes may be held at the request of the Union but not more often than once in any six (6) month period.
Further implementations of this “Compressed Work Week” will require a majority vote of fifty percent (50%) plus one of the individuals in favour of a trial period. Before the end of the trial period, if both parties agree, another vote can be held to continue the schedule. The majority in favour at this time should be fifty percent (50%) plus one.
The success of the “Compressed Work Week” program depends on the co-operation of employees to request overtime work to replace individuals who are absent. This will be accomplished by means of a Spare Board which will be completed two (2) days in advance of any set of shifts.
97
If the most junior employee volunteering for a job is not available for work for good reason, that employee must contact the Company giving the name of the qualified employee who will be replacing him on the spare board.
If there are no volunteers on the spare board and if the designated employee is not available for work for good reason, the designated employee must contact the Company giving the name of the qualified employee who will be replacing him on the spare board.
Co-operation in this respect is essential
Payment for time worked will be made according to hours worked each week.
Application to the Department of Labour must be made before proceeding with a schedule change. Approval by the Minister of Labour is necessary
The Company reserves the right to schedule all its employees on an eight (8) hour shift during any shutdown or emergency period.
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK AGREEMENT
Brunswick Mining and Smelting Corporation Limited (Mining Division), at the request of Local 5385 United Steelworkers of America agrees to institute a 12-hour shift schedule. The continuation and success of this “Compressed Work Week’’ is contingent on meeting the following conditions:
I.	There will be no increased costs to the Company.
98
2.	The new schedule must not be a factor in lessening efficiency with the work force.
3.	The schedule will provide for an average forty-two (42) hour work week.
4.	The Union or the Company can withdraw from the “Compressed Work Week’ with a fourteen (14) day notice to the other party.
If the “Compressed Work Week” is terminated and employees revert to 8-hour shifts, then the existing collective agreement will rule. The clauses of the collective agreement affected by the “Compressed Work Week” are listed below and both-parties agree to amend them in the following manner:
9.07 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this 1\9reement. an emolovee shall be considered to be a probationary employee’ and shall have no seniority until he has actually worked three hundred and sixty (360) hours of continuous service with the Company, at which time he shall become entitled to Company seniority dating from his last hiring. In the case of students hired for temporary periods, the calculation of the three hundred and sixty (360) hours shall commence after they have applied and been accepted as regular employees.
An employee- upon completion of his probationary period will be inducted into union policies and provisions of the collective agreement by the President of the Local or his delegate.
99
10.06 On the death of a member of an employee’s immediate family the Company will grant a leave of absence as follows:
- Five (5) days on the death of an employee’s spouse, child or parent.
_ Four (4) days on the death of an employee’s brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law or grandchild.
“ One (I) day on the death of an employee's grandparent.
The leave must be taken on the scheduled shifts immediately following the date of death. If a “Compressed Work Week" employee would have otherwise been required to work on one (1) or more of the said days he will be paid
for twelve (12) hours for such day(s) at his basic
hourly rate up to a maximum of forty (40) hours on
the death of his spouse, child or parent;
-thirty-two (32) hours on the death of his brother,
sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law or grandchild;
-eight (8) hours on the death of his grandparent.
In the case of the death of an employee’s brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the Company will grant to this employee a leave of absence of one (I) day to allow him to attend the funeral and if he would have otherwise been required to work on such day, he will be paid for eight (8) hours for such day at his basic hourly rate.
100
For the purpose of Section 10.06, sister-in-law and brother-in-law shall be limited to the spouses of the employee’s brothers and sisters and the brothers and sisters of the employee’s spouse.
Evidence may be required of the employee's entitlement to pay under this section.
The Company shall grant a leave of absence of one (I) day without pay for the birth or adoption of a child.
(0.08	An employee who is not able to report to work
must advise the Company by calling the Company Gatehouse at least two (2) hours before the beginning of his “Compressed Work Week” shift. This notice by the employee will be recorded on a Company form which will indicate the time of the employee's phone call and the reason(s) given by the employee for not being able to present himself at work and the date of return to work. A copy of this form will be supplied to the employee.
An employee, who for reasons beyond his control cannot advise the Company of his absence, shall not be subject to Section 9.02(d). if it is impossible to advise the Company as abovementioned, the employee concerned must give the Company a satisfactory reason for his failure to phone and/or for his failure to report for work. In all cases, the Company will have the right to consider the reason(s) given for failure to advise and/or for failure to report for work in order to decide, subject to the grievance procedure, if the reason of his absence should be considered as authorized.
15.02
a)	A day is a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the start of the employee’s shift. An employee’s basic
101
work day is twelve (12) consecutive hours in such twenty-four (24) hour period for those working on the “Compressed Work Week”, broken only by the lunch periods provided for in Section 15.05.
15.05 Twelve (12) hours work on his job will constitute a work day for a “Compressed Work Week” shift worker. Each such employee will be entitled to two thirty (30) minute lunch periods on Company time, however it is recognized that due to the nature of the work or because of unforeseen circumstances an employee may be required to continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of services.
15.07
a)	The Company will post a schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours a week for all employees on “Compressed Work Week”. An employee assigned to the “Compressed Work Week” schedule shall work one (I) week of three (3) shifts per week and one (I) week of four (4) shifts for the purpose of making an average work week of forty-two (42) hours. The three and four shift weeks will not necessarily alternate.
16.0I	The Company shall pay a “Compressed Work Week’’ employee one and one-half (1-1/2) his basic rate:
a)	for all hours worked or part thereof by an employee on “Compressed Work Week’ in a day in excess of twelve (12) hours, or
b)	for all hours worked or part thereof by an employee on “Compressed Work Week” in a week in excess of the scheduled thirty-six (30) or forty-eight (48) hours.
102
c)	for all hours worked or part thereof by an employee at the request of the Company on any of his scheduled days off.
16.03	(This section replaces 16.03 of the Collective Agreement).
a) If overtime is required for employees working the compressed work week it will be assigned in the following manner:
(i)	in accordance with the Spare Board
Procedure, or
(ii)	appoint another employee.
Employees whose names appear on the spare board shall be available two (2) hours in advance of the normal shift starting time.
b} An employee who has been assigned to another job because work is not available in his own classification shall not, for the purposes of assignment of overtime, displace another employee who regularly performs that job.
c) An employee will not be required to work in excess of sixteen (16) hours overtime in any week except in cases where no other qualified employee is available. The Company will exhaust all efforts to find a replacement.
d} An employee will not be required to work in excess of sixteen (16} consecutive hours in a 24 hour period.
103
e) For overtime up to four (4) hours in areas working the “Seml-Compressd Work Week”, preference will be given to employees actually performing the job. For overtime exceeding four (4) hours, section 16.03(a) will apply.
17.01	For those employees working on the “Compressed Work Week”, a shift premium of fifty cents (^) will be paid for each hour actually worked between the hours of 4:00 P.M. and midnight and sixty cents (600) will be paid for the hours actually worked between the hours of midnight and 8:00 A.M. Shift premiums will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime rates.
19.02	Each employee, excluding a student or a probationary employee, in each twelve (12) month period from June 30th in each year shall receive three (3) floating paid holidays, to be taken at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee. “Compressed Work Week shift workers” shall receive a total of twenty-four (24) hours pay for these holidays which may be taken at the employee’s option in two payments of twelve (12) hours each.
19.04	Subject to Section 19.06 each employee shall receive his basic rate for eight (8) hours for each of the above holidays (including the floating holidays), however, a “Compressed Work Week” employee required to work beyond 12 hours shall receive his basic rate for each hour worked beyond this 12 hours in addition to any other pay to which he is entitled.
20.01 Every “Compressed Work Week” employee, who, after June 30th, September 30th or December 31st of any year, has been in the continuous service of the Company for:
104
a)	Less than one (I) year shall be entitled to a vacation in accordance to the Employment Standards Act at a rate of 4% of his earnings for the period of continuous service from the date of last hiring up to June 30th, September 30th, or December 31st, or
b)	One (I) year, but less than four (4) years shall be entitled to a vacation of two (2) calendar weeks, with pay at the rate of four percent (4%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, or
c} Four (4) years, but less than nine (9) years shall be entitled to a vacation of three (3) calendar weeks, with pay at the rate of six percent (6%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, or
d)	Nine (9) years, but less than fourteen (14) years shall be entitled to a vacation of four (4) calendar weeks, with pay at the rate of eight percent (8%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, or
e)	Fourteen (14) years, but less than eighteen (18) years, shall be entitled to a vacation of four (4) calendar weeks with pay at the rate of nine percent (g<>k) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, or
f)	Eighteen (18) years but less than twenty-six (26) years shall be entitled to a vacation of five (5) calendar weeks with pay at the rate of eleven percent (11%) of his earnings for the twelve (12)
105
months ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, or
g)	Twenty-six (26) years or more, shall be entitled to a vacation of six (6) calendar weeks with pay at the rate of twelve percent (12%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending June 30th, September December 31st.
For the purpose of this Article, earnings shall include the vacation pay of the previous year.
Employees on “Compressed Work Week” may split their vacation on a weekly basis.
Except as amended by this supplementary agreement, the provisions of the collective agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SPARE BOARD
The spare board is to be used to designate individuals who will be available to work overtime in cases of absenteeism among the regularly scheduled shift crews.
1.	Employees may volunteer to spare at a time convenient to them.
2.	Employees are scheduled as spares
The spare board will show the jobs that have to be filled and will permit employees to indicate which shifts they wish to cover. The spare board will be operated in the following manner:
106
1.	Volunteers must sign up on the spare board for jobs for which they are qualified at least two (2) days in advance of the set of shifts to be covered. After this time the supervisors will designate spares in vacant spots. The designated spares will be those employees who will have just completed the day shift schedule.
2.	Spares must be available by phone two (2) hours in advance of the normal shift, starting time.
3.	Spares may indicate willingness to be available for both day and night shifts.
4.	Employees must advise the Company of any change in telephone numbers.
Overtime shall be assigned from the spare board in the following order:
a)	in order of seniority to the employee(s) in the job.
b)	in order of seniority to the qualified employee(s) in the classification.
c)	in order of seniority to the qualified employee(s) outside the classification.
d)	to the junior qualified employee(s) who will perform the work.
If the junior qualified employee cannot work for good reason he must advise the Company of the name of the individual who will replace him.
107
In the event that the junior qualified employee fails to indicate a replacement the Company will appoint another employee.
An employee will be assigned to the job classification which was indicated to him at the time he was called except if he is required to work in his own classification.
The success of the “Compressed Work Week” relies heavily on the success of the spare board.
When overtime is required involving compressed work week employees for reasons other than absenteeism, it will be offered to employees whose names are on the spare board in the following manner:
i)	employees in order of seniority in the job,
ii)	employees in order of seniority in the same classification,
iii)	other qualified employees in order of seniority.
108
APPENDIX “C
Grievance Commissioner Procedure
.01 Within ten (10) days of receipt of notice of arbitration under Sections 6.05 or 6.08 of the Collective Agreement the parties may agree to refer the issue to a Grievance Commissioner as set out below.
.02 The Grievance Commissioner shall be selected in rotation from the panel of arbitrators as set out in Section 7.0I of the Collective Agreement. The Grievance Commissioner shall have the same powers and be subject to the same limitations as an arbitrator except as expressly provided in this Appendix.
.03 The Grievance Commissioner Procedure has been established as an expeditious means for the effective disposition of unresolved grievances.
.04 The decision of the Grievance Commissioner shall only be applicable to the case in question and shall not constitute a precedent nor be used by either party as a precedent in future cases. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collective Agreement, the decision of the Grievance Commissioner shall:
(a)	be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, and
(b)	be confined to the grievance referred to him.
.05 The Union and the Company shall each be responsible for one-half (1/2) of the fees and
109
expenses of the Grievance Commissioner.
.06 One day each month shall be set aside for Grievance Commissioner hearings.
.07 When an issue is referred to a Grievance Commissioner he shall be provided with the following information:
(a)	The written grievance at Step Three
(b)	The written reply of the Company at Step
Three, and
(c)	No later than ten days before the hearing,
concise and brief written representations on which the parties intend to rely. (These will be supplied to the other party also.)
.08 The purpose of the hearing is to clarify the issues or facts in dispute. At the hearing the parties may make representations or adduce evidence to support their case as described in .07(c). But, the intention of the parties to ensure speed and informality is paramount. Counsel will not be used, preliminary objections will not be allowed, the Grievance Commissioner will not be obliged to follow rules of evidence and post-hearing submissions will not be permitted.
.09 The Grievance Commissioner must render his decision in writing without reasons to both parties within seven (7) days of the hearing. Reasons may be requested by the parties and, if so, shall be delivered separately and shall not be part of the decision.
110
. lo This procedure is established on a trial basis and either party may notify the other of any dissatisfaction, whereupon discussions will be held to attempt to modify the procedure.
APPENDIX 'D'
Joint Safety Committee Interpretation of
Occupational Health and Safety Act Articles 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23
1 9 An employee may refuse to do any act at his place of employment where he has reasonable grounds for believing that the act is likely to endanger his health or safety or the health and safety of any other employee.
20(1) Any employee who believes that an act is likely to endanger his or any other employee’s health or safety, shall immediately report his concern to his supervisor, who shall promptly investigate the situation in the presence of the employee.
20(4) Where an employee has made a report under subsection (1) and the matter has not been resolved to his satisfaction, he shall refer the matter to a committee or where there is no committee, to an officer.
Step One • Employee and Supervisor
Step Two Employee, Supervisor, Safety Rep (Sub-Safety or Member of J.S.C.), second or third line supervision. At Step It all internal resources at disposal of those involved should be used in an effort to resolve the situation.
111
Step Three - Joint Safety Committee.
Step Four - If the Joint Safety Committee’s decision is not acceptable, or if the Joint Safety Committee cannot reach agreement, then the matter will be referred to a government official.
Note: Record of Refusal must be forwarded by supervisor to Joint Safety Committee specifying nature of concern and resolution arrived at.
19 No employee shall be disciplined by reason of the fact alone that he has refused to act if his refusal to act is authorized by subsection 19 and he complies with subsection 20(1).
Loss of wages resulting from a refusal to do alternate work pending resolution of a concern identified under 19 shall not be regarded as disciplinary action.
21 (2) Where an employee has refused to do an act at his place of employment pursuant to section 19, the employer shall not assign another employee to perform that act, unless that other employee has been advised by the employer of such refusal and the reasons therefore and of his rights under the act.
When an employee has refused to do an act for reasons set out in 19, a supervisor will not ask another employee to do the act until he has given careful consideration to the concerns expressed by the first employee.
Any subsequent employee requested to perform a job which another employee has refused also has the right to refuse.
112
23	\/\/here an employee has reasonably refused
to do an act pursuant to section 19, his right to refuse is protected under section 21 and he has not been reassigned to do, other acts or work under section 22, the^ employer shall pay that employee the same wages and grant him the same benefits as he would have received if he had not refused to do the act.
24{1) No employer or union shall
(a)	take any discriminatory action against an employee, or
(b)	threaten to take any discriminatory action
against an employee or intimidate or coerce any employee,
because the employee has sought the enforcement of this Act, the regulations or an order made in accordance with this Act or the regulations, or has acted in compliance with this Act, the regulations or an order made in accordance with this Act or the regulations.
24(2) A reassignment under section 22 is not discriminatory action under this section.
113
APPENDIX E
An employee wishing to exercise his rights under section 2.06 e) ii) will be excluded from the jobs below unless he can prove that he has sufficient pertinent
experience.	Laboratory Technician (Assay) Laboratory Technician (Met) Flotation Operator All Trades Classifications Stationary Engineer Boiler Attendant Rubberman Diamond Driller Hoistman Miner (Jackleg) Miner (Alimak) Miner (Borehole Slash) Miner Mobile Shovel Operator Equipment Operator (Plant) Rotary Drill Operator
114
APPENDIX “F
In consideration that all tradesmen will be expected to perform work to the full scope of their job, a two (2) job class additive will be paid to all tradesmen at the journeyman level.
FULL SCOPE
During the life of this Agreement, all tradesmen will be expected to perform work to the full scope of their job.
If an employee is trained in a particular trade, he is expected to complete all tasks that he has been trained to perform in that particular trade.
An employee paid in a trade job classification is expected to do the full scope of that job. During the life of this Agreement, there is no intention to have tradesmen who are certified in more than one trade performing work outside of their current trade classification.
Full scope for each trade will be defined by the curriculum of the N.B. Department of Advanced Education and Training. Tasks will be assigned according to an examination of the primary nature of the job.
All trades currently recognized by Brunswick Mining will continue to be recognized. Those trades are Industrial Mechanic, Pipefitter, Welder, Instrumentation Repairman, Heavy Duty Mechanic, Industrial Electrician, Carpenter, Painter Decorator, Machinist and Blacksmith.
DISPUTE SETTLING MECHANISM
Any dispute arising out of the allocation of work under the
115
application of full scope shall be dealt with as follows.
During the time required to settle the dispute, the work shall be performed by the person (trade) to which it was originally assigned.
Step I
Discussion of the application between the tradesman and his immediate supervisor. Failing settlement,
Step ii
Discussion of the application between the employee, a union trades committee representative and the senior trades supervisor for the area in dispute. Failing settlement,
Step m
Submitted to an Arbitration procedure (referee, commissioner, arbitrator).
APPENDIX "G"
Manpower requirements to operate the metallurgical pilot plant will be filled on a temporary basis. The senior employee in the department will be given preference to fill the job on an interim basis provided he has the ability, knowledge, skill and physical fitness to do the job concerned. Upon completion of the job, the employee(s) concerned shall be returned to his previous job, schedule and crew.
116