AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
NVI MINING LTD.
MYRA FALLS OPERATIONS
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS LOCAL 3019
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
Page 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article— Definition..............................Page
1	..... Preamble...................................4
2	.... Employees Covered by This Agreement.......4
3	....Union Recognition...........................6
4	....Term of Agreement..........................10
5	.... Rights Reserved to Management............. 11
6	.... No Discrimination.........................12
7	....Lockouts or Strikes........................12
8	.... Union Activities on Company Time..........13
9	....Bulletin Board.............................15
10	...Leave of Absence...........................16
11	...Safety.....................................19
12	...Seniority, Lay-offs, and Recall............30
13	...Settlement of Dispute......................40
14	...Wages......................................45
15	...Hours of Work..............................46
16	...Overtime and Special Pay...................48
17	...Statutory Holidays.........................53
18	...Vacation...................................56
19	... Pension, Health & Welfare.................60
20	... Underground Contract Committee............66
21	... Union Security............................67
22	... General Provisions........................70
23	...Apprentices and Training...................71
24	...Technological Change.......................78
25	... Bus Transportation........................80
26	... Red Circling..............................80
........Wage Schedule “ A..........................81
Appendix "A-Job Classifications....................82
Appendix “B” - Entry Level Positions...............84
Page 2
Letters of Agreement:
Camp Accommodation...........................85
Discriminationand/or Harassment..............86
Camp Committee ..............................88
Assignment of Work...........................89
Hot Mealsfor Mill Crews......................90
Employee Evaluations.........................91
Letters of Intent:
Printing of CollectiveAgreement...............  92
Voluntary Early RetirementAllowance.............93
30Year Retirement Supplement....................94
Early Retiree Benefit Coverage................  95
increase Pensions Paidfor Current Pensioners...... 96
Union Health and Safety Representative..........97
Funding of Pension Benefits.....................98
Benefit Booklets................................99
Entry Level Positions..........................100
...... Health and Safety Manual...............101
Joint SkilledTrades Committee..................102
Equalized Pay Periods..........................103
Underground Contract Payments..................104
Hours of Work / Shifts.........................105
RetirementAllowance............................106
Life Insurance and AD&D........................107
Contracting Out Grievances....................108
Health Coverage for Retirees over age 65 ......109
Page 3
Article 1 PREAMBLE
The parties to this Agreement recognize it is in their mutual interestto promote, as fully as possible, conditions of safety to the employee, economy of the operation and protection of property. These conditions can best be maintained by harmoniousrelations betweenthe Company and the employees and by the settlement, in an amicable manner, of all disputes which may arise. The Company and the employees shall cooperate fully for their mutual benefit.
To assist facilitation of the above, a monthly Union-Management meeting will be convened to discuss all issues of mutual importance. Agenda items will be exchanged three days prior to each meeting.
Article 2
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
2.01	Employee Defined
The term employees as used in this Agreement shall include all hourly rated employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies covered by the certification who are engaged in mining, treatment and transportation operations related to the Myra Falls Operations of the companies except those employees in a confidential, supervisory, technical, executive, security or clerical capacity.
The term supervisory as applied to employees as herein designated includes (without restricting the generality of the expression) foreman, shift bosses, and employees of the
Page 4
companieswho have the authority to hire or discharge.
Words in this agreement imparting the masculine gender shall
be understoodto also apply to female employees.
2.02	Temporary Promotion to Staff
An employee who is replacing a member of staff to meet the needs of the operation in such circumstances as vacation replacement or special projects for a temporary period up to a maximum of sixty (60) consecutive calendar days, shall be considered a member of staff. Upon completion of such a temporary period he shall return to the group classificationthat he left.
In the case of promotion to staff, the employee will cease to accumulateseniority after sixty (60) calendar days, but will retain his previous seniority should he return to the bargaining unit.
Hourly employees who may be used under the terms of this clause will be chosen for their qualifications and will be termed designated employees. These employees will not be required to administer discipline. These individuals will be approved by the Mine Manager and their names will be supplied to the Union. The Company will provide the Union the dates and names of employeeswho work as a designated employee on a monthly basis.
The time restrictions in this clause may be waived by mutual consent of the Company and the Union under special conditions.
2.03	Students
The Company may employ students in reasonable numbers from time to time, provided that no employee shall be demoted, laid off, discharged, or have his recall delayed to make place
Page 5
for a student, nor shall promotion within the bargaining unit be adversely affected.
Article 3
UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Certification
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions; and the Company will continue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Supervisor Working
The Company recognizesthat it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of foreman to perform work which is currently being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except under emergencyconditions, the purposeof training, instruction, or for metallurgical research.
It is understood that the working foreman (supervisor) shall attempt at all times to have a member of the bargaining unit assist him in any emergency. An emergency shall be defined as a major disruption in production, or where there is danger to life or limb.
3.03	Contracting Out
The Company will not contract out work which is normally performedby employees in the bargainingunit, except to make
Page 6
the operation more efficient, and will not do so if it has the
result of layoff or reducing the rate of pay of employees who
have the ability to perform the work.
Prior to contracting out, consideration by the Company will be given to utilizing employees on layoff. An employee recalled under this clause will not receive notice of further layoff but will return to layoff status at the conclusion of the work assignment. It is understood that the Company will determine whether the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work. Greater consideration will be given to longer-term assignments. The Company will review each situation on its own merits.
The Companyshall endeavourwherever possibleand practical to have it's sub-contract work performedby a unionshop. When the Company decides that the contracting out of work on site isnecessarythe Unionwill'besoadviseda minimumoffourteen (14) days in advance. When the contract has been awarded the Union will be advised in writing a minimum of seven (7) days in advance of the work start date.
The written advice shall contain the following information:
1.	Name of originator of the contract advice
2.	Name of contractor
3.	Nature of the work to be contracted, including if the work is expected to be covered by warranty, and any rationale why the work is not being performed by the existing workforce.
4.	Approximate number of contractor’s emplyees.
5.	Approximate start date and duration of the job, including the expected shifts to be worked. ,
6.	Union affiliation, If applicable.
The Company will ensure all contractors receive a safety
Page 7
orientation prior to the commencement of the work for which they are engaged.
The parties to this agreement recognize that under certain emergency situations the time limits mentioned above can be waived.
At the monthly Union-Management meetings identified in the preamble, a certain portion of each meeting will be dedicated to the topic of contracting out. Contracting out discussions will include the future use of contractors that is known at the time of the meeting and also the use of contractorsthat has transpiredduring the previousmonth.
3.04	Paid Education Leave
The Company agrees to pay into a special CAW Leadership Training Fund three cents ($0.03) per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Such leave will be for the upgrading of employee's skills in all aspects of trade union functions. Paymentshall be made on a quarterly basis into the trust fund established by the National UnionCAW, effectiveAugust 15th, 1997.
Cheques should be made payable to:
3.05	Social Justice Fund
The Company agrees to pay into the CAW SocialJustice Fund, the purpose of which is to provide financial assistanceto such entities as food banks, registered Canadian charities,
CAW Leadership Training Fund CAW Family Education Centre RR#1, Port Elgin, Ontario NOH 2C0
Page 8
international development and relief measures to assist innocent victims of droughts, famines, and other dislocations.
Subject to the following conditions, the Company will make quarterly contributionsto such a fund equal to one cent ($0.01) for each straight time hour worked.
The Company will make these quarterly payments provided that:
1.	the Union maintains the fund as a non-profit corporation under the Canada CorporationsAct, and ensures that all necessary steps are taken to maintain the corporation in proper legal standing and that all requirements of the Act are met;
2.	the Union maintains the registration of the non-profit corporation under the Income Tax Act of Canada in good standing;
3.	the Union maintains a favourable IncomeTax Rulingfrom the Federal Department of National Revenue that all contributionswhich the Company makes to the non-profit corporation are tax deductible;
4.	the Union provides the Company with annual audited financial statements of, and summaries of each year's donations made by the non-profit corporation;
(a)	the objects, by-laws and resolutions of this nonprofit corporation should limit it to making the following types of financial contributions:
(b)	contributions to other Canadian non-partisan charities that are registered by the Canadian International DevelopmentAgency (CIDA), or any successor body that performs like functions,
Page 9
(c)	contributionsto any Canadian or international non-partisan efforts to which other Canadian charities that are registered under the Income Tax Act are also making contributions, or
(d)	contributionsto any non-governmental and nonpartisan development group recognized by CIDA and registered as a charity under the Income Tax Act.
Article 4
TERM OF AGREEMENT
4.01	Term
This Agreement shall be in force for the period from July 1, 2004 to and including March 31, 2008. Thereafter, the agreement shall continue in full force and effect from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend the agreement at the expiration of any yearly period is given by either party. Subsections 50 (2)& (3) of the Labour RelationsCodeofB.C. are excluded from operation under this Agreement.
4.02	Status During Negotiations
During any period when negotiations are being conducted between the parties for the renewal of this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
(a)	The Union commences a legal strike;
(b)	The Employer commences a legal lockout; or
(c)	The parties enter into a new or further agreement. Page 10
4.03	Effective Date
Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and conditions of this agreementshall become effectivefrom the date of signing of the CollectiveAgreement by both parties.
Article 5
RIGHTS RESERVED TO MANAGEMENT
5.01	Management Rights
The Union recognizesthe right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement provided; however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees. Changes made to rules and regulations shall be posted and a copy of such changes sent to the local Union.
5.02	Obligation to Operate
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties, or any part thereof.
5.03	Rights to Hire, Discharge and Select
The Company shall have the right to hire, discipline, demote and discharge employees for proper, just and reasonablecause. The selectionof lead handsand all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the Company's decision.
Page 11
Article 6
NO DISCRIMINATION
6.01	No Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discriminationagainst any employee by reason of his l egitimate activities as a member of the Union.
The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part or by any members towards any employee of the Company.
The Parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia as per Letter of Agreement - Discriminationand/or Harassment.
Article 7
LOCKOUTS OR STRIKES
7.01	ProhibitionAgainst Work Stoppages
The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union, nor any representativeof the Union, nor any employee shall in any way authorize, encourage, or participate in any strike, walk-out, suspension of work, or a slow-down against the Company during the life of this Agreement.
7.02	Pickets Lines
No employee(s) will be subject to disciplinary action nor will action betaken againstthe Union if an employee or employees
Page 12
honour a lawful picket line as permitted under the Labour Code
of British Columbia.
Article 8
UNION ACTIVITIES ON COMPANY TIME
8.01(a) Union Officers & Meetings
Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen will be designated in writing by the Union to the Company. For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives, the Grievance Committee will consist of not more than three (3) members as designated by the Union.
When the legitimate business of a Grievance Committeeman or Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen require him to leave his job or department, he shall first receive permission from his foreman or department supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performanceof these duties during his regular working hours.
8.01(b) Meetings
Meetings between the Company and the Union will be held during working hours. Such meetings will be scheduled at the convenience of the Company, the Union and the employee.
8.01(c) Union Meetings
The Union will be allowed access to facilities at the mine for the purposes of conducting meetings. Subject to the requirements of the Operations, the Company shall grant a maximum of two (2) Union Officials, as outlined inArticle 10.03, time off work to attend any one meeting. Employeesscheduled
Page 13
to work will not be given permission to attend the foregoing meetings.
The Union must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, as to the date and time of the meeting and the names of Union Officials to attend.
8.02	Union Access to Property
A Union representative or representatives shall be permitted entry to the Company's property subject to the decision of the Company as to the number of such representatives to be granted such entry at any one time. Such Union representative or representatives shall be granted permission to use camp and cookhouse facilities, but the Company reserves the right to determine on what basis and for what period of time such permission shall be granted.
8.03	Pay For Union Business
The Companyagreesto paythe Unionthe amount of $3300.00 per month for the purpose of conducting Union business. Effective April 1, 2005 the amount will be $3500.00 per month. Effective April 1, 2006 the amount will be $3750 permonth. Effective April 1, 2007 the amount will be $4000.00 per month.
8.04	Grievance Committee Chair
In the event the Grievance Committee Chair does not have a dayshift job, the Company and Union agree to assign the Grievance Committee Chair to the next posted job for which he is qualified. If the employee is posted to a lower paidjob he shall retain his hourly rate of pay. Ifthe new posted job receives undergroundproduction bonus,the GrievanceCommitteeChair will be paid his normal undergroundproduction bonus, up to a
Page 14
maximum of the rehab bonus rate, for time spent at the mine site conferring with the Company on grievance matters.
8.05	Union Office at Mine
The Company agrees to make available at no cost to the Union, an office space for the exclusive use of the Unionon the ground floor of the main administration building. This office will be utilized by all Union officials (i.e. President, Grievance Chair, and OHSC Co-chair).
Article 8.06 Approval of Union Leaves
The Company will continue to honor requests for local union officials for short term leaves on an as need basis on the written request of the Local Union President or his designate.
Article 9
BULLETIN BOARD
9.01	Bulletin Board
The Company agreesthat bulletin boardsand distribution boxes will be made available in the Dry(s), H-W and Lynx surface shops, Powerhouse, Spit, Cookhouse and Concentrator for Union purposes, provided that the use of the boards shall be restrictedto the posting of notices regardingthe businessaffairs, meetings and social events of the Union. All notices must be approved and signed by a member of the Local Union Executive. The Union agrees that the bulletin boards will not be usedfor any matters not relating directly to Union business.
Page 15
Article 10
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Union Officers Right to Leave of Absence
An employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union necessitatinga leave of absence, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, providedthat it does not exceed a period of three (3) years upon making proper application in writing to the Company. Such leave will be renewedon written application by the Union.
10.02	Time Spent on Leave
The time spent as a delegate of the Union or on other authorized leave of absence for Union purposes as set forth in 10.01 of the Article shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority standing or vacation time entitlement.
The Company shall not be required to grant this leave to more than a total of three (3) persons and no more than one (1) from each department at the same time and for not more than a total for all persons of seven hundred and eighty (780) working days in one (1) year.
10.03(a) National & International Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend National or Internationalgatherings will be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Not more than four (4) employees from any one department or seven (7) employees in total from all departments may take such leave at any one time.
The Union must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, of such leave.
Page 16
Not more than a total of one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a year need be granted for this purposeand no individual leave will exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days.
10.03(b) Local Union Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend local union gatherings including negotiations, labour arbitrations or committee meetings with the Company will be granted leave of absence without pay for this purpose.
10.04	Employee Leave
Any employee, on written notice setting forth good cause, may, at the discretion of the Company, be granted a leave of absence without pay. Such leave may be extendedwhen similar notice setting forth good cause is supplied. Whenever a leave of absence or extension is granted or denied, the employee shall be notified in writing. The Company agrees to consider such requests in an equitable manner and such leaves shall not be unreasonably withheld.
10.05	Bereavement Leave
In the case of death in the immediatefamily of any employee, the Company will grant the employee a paid leave cf absence of three (3) regularly scheduled shifts, provided the leave is taken within seven (7) calendar days of the death. If the employee attends the funeral at a place other than Vancouver Island, he will be granted a total of four (4) days paid leave of absence.
Immediate family shall mean Mother, Father, Spouse, Children, Step-Children, Brothers, Sisters, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Grandparents and grandchildren. Effective the date of ratification, immediate family will be expanded to include Brother-in-law, Sister-In-law, and Spousal Grandparents.
Page 17
One (1) extra day leave of absence, with pay, and one (1) extra day leave of absence without pay, will be granted if the employee attends the funeral at a place outside British Columbia.
The above leave days will only be granted if the Company is notified of the leave requirement.
10.06	Absenteeism
Recognizingthat excessive absenteeismby employeescreates staffing and scheduling problems, the Parties agree:
The Company will institute a 24 hour per day phone-in message service. Employees are requiredto phone in at least one hour prior to the commencement of their shift, to inform the Company they will not be reportingfor work and the reasons for same.
Where an employee demonstrates a pattern of absenteeism such as repeated Mondays, Fridays, etc., the Company will give written notice to the employee inclusive of documentation of the said pattern, with a copy of same to the Union. Such notice will require the employee to provide a medical certificate for any future incidents or repetitionof such pattern until an employee has gone six (6) clear months without repeating the pattern. The Company will pay any medical costs associated with such a request.
Court, Jury Or Fire Fighting Duty
If an employee is summoned or subpoenaed for jury selection or jury duty or as a witness, or conscriptedfor fire fighting duty, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence with
Page 18
(a)
(b)
10.07
pay, which will be the difference between his regular pay and the monies received. The employee must providethe Company with a statement of payment. In such cases of absence, employeesmust providethe Company notificationwithin three (3) working days of absence. In case of fire fighting, if notification is not possible, the fire fighting certificate will be accepted in lieu of written notification.
10.08	Maternlty/Parental Leave
Maternity and Parental Leave will be granted as per the Employment Standards Act of British Columbia.
10.09	Educational Leave
Consistent with Company operating needs, the Company will consider an employees request for educational leave for up to one (1) year without pay. The employee must apply for the leave in writing at leasttwo (2) months priorto the requested start of the leave. The employee will provide the Company with written confirmation of registration from the educational institution.
Article 11 SAFETY
11.01	Occupational Health and Safety Committee
The following terms and conditions will apply for the Occupational Health and Safety Committee:
Page 19
11.01(a) Purpose of Occupational Health & Safety Committee
The purpose of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee is to encourage all employees to share a common goal of improving health and safety in the workplace.
The Committee provides a mechanism through which workers can contributeand provide insight into the formulation of health and safety policies and programs,the assessmentof equipment and processes, ergonomics, and the setting of safety goals and objectives.
The Committee will promote an atmosphere of co-operation and will strive to reach consensuson health and safety issues and make recommendations which are agreed to by the entire committee.
The Committee will conduct monthly inspection tours and subsequent meetings, review past inspections, review accident and near miss investigation reports and minutes of previous meetings, make recommendations to correct hazardous conditions, investigate all unsafe conditions and promote compliancewith relevantgovemment legislation affecting health and safety at the mine. The Committee will be involved in the design and delivery of occupational health and safety training and awareness programsfor all employeesto minimize adverse workplace impacts on employee health.
11.01(b) Structure Of Joint Health & Safety Committee
The committeewill be composed of equal representationfrom the Company and the Union and shall be representativeofthe areas in which they work. Therefore, the structure of the Committee is as follows:
Page 20
COMPANY
Company Safety Committee Chairman (safety department)
Mine Department representative (2)
Lynx (1)
H-W (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
Union
Union Safety Committee Chairman Mine Department representative (2)
Lynx (1)
H-W (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
11.01(c) Responsibilities of O.H.S.C.
The Committee shall carry out the legislative responsibilities mandated underthe MinesAct Code of B.C.
In addition, the Committee shall collectively work to provide advice and insight into the resolution of workplace health and safety issues through activities such as:
j) review of health and safety programs, goals and objectives
jj) review of accident investigationsand injury statistics
Page 21
11.01(d) Monthly Inspection Tours
Monthly inspections will be conducted in each area by the Company Chairman (or his designate), Union Chairman (or his designate) and the appropriate representatives from the department concerned (one (1)from the Company, one (1)from the Union); except an employee from the spit, appointed by the Union, together with a representativeof the Company will conduct monthly safety inspections of the spit area.
The Committee shall inspect as many locations in the mine as the Committee deems appropriate.
After the completionof the inspectiontour, those representatives conducting the tour will meet with the management representativeresponsiblefor that area to discuss the findings of the inspection. The inspection tour representatives will complete an inspection tour report outlining their findings and the remedial action to be taken and forward to the Committee for review at the monthly meeting. Safety hazards notedduring inspectiontours will be correctedwithin 30 days or by the date agreed by the O.H.S.C.
11.01(e) Meetingsof the O.H.S.C.
The Committee will meet once a month to review and make recommendations related to:
i)	inspection tours
ii)	accident investigations
iii)	safe work practices, methods and procedures
iv)	health and safety training
v)	health and safety concerns raised by employees and management
Page 22
OHSC representatives on shift at the time of the meeting will be allowed to attend the meeting.
11.01(f)	Minutesof O.H.S.C. Meetings
The secretary of the Committee will prepare minutes of the monthly meetings which will be signed by both co-chairmen. A copy will be sent to the following:	
i)	Mine Manager
N)	Union President
Hi)	Department Heads
iv)	District Mines Inspector
v)	Post on bulletin boards
vi)	National Union
11.01(g)	Recommendations of the O.H.S.C.
Where immediate compliance cannot be accomplished, the Company shall ensure that the recommendation has been complied with by the next Occupational Health and Safety Committee meeting. Where compliance cannot be accomplished by the next monthly meetingof the Occupational Health and Safety Committee, the Company will document in writing, with copies to the Union Safety Committee Chairman, the reasons for non-compliance along with future plans for compliance.
11.01	(h) Notification of Joint Investigations
The Company and Union agree that it is of the utmost importance to ensure that all lost time accidents, near miss incidents and/or dangerous occurrences are thoroughly
Page 23
investigated in the interests of future prevention.Therefore all lost time accidents, near miss incidents and/or dangerous occurrences will bejointly investigatedby the designated union and management personnel from the Occupational Health and Safety Committee who shall have access to any and all information available and equipment necessary in the completion of the investigation and will be copied with all reports and findings resulting from such investigations.
Joint investigation reports will be signed by both Committee co-chairmen and a copy sent to the following:
i)	Mine Manager
ii)	Union President
iii)	District Mines Inspector
iv)	Post on bulletin boards
11.01	(i) Accident and Near-Miss Investigation Reports
These reports shall contain the following:
(a)	The place, date and time of the incident;
(b)	The names and job titles of persons injured, if applicable;
(c)	The names of witnesses;
(d)	A brief description of the incident;
(e)	A statement of the sequence of events which precededthe incident;
(f)	The identificationof any unsafe conditions, acts or procedureswhich contributed in any manner to the incident;
(g)	Recommended corrective actions to prevent similar occurrences;
(h)	The names of the persons who investigatedthe incident.
Page 24
11.01(j) Right to Accompany Inspectors
Where a government inspector conducts an inspection at the mine, and that inspection is directly related to the health and safety of the employees, a Union safety committee representativemay, at the Union's discretion, accompany the inspector on his tour.
When such an inspector arrives at the mine the Company shall notify the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate. Should the inspector submit a written report related to such an inspection, a copy of same shall be provided to the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate.
11.01	(k) Access to Log Books
The OHSC will haveaccessto log books keptfor maintenance and safety of equipment and all hourly employee time sheets for the purpose of performing their duties.
11.01(1) Disclosure of Information
The Company will notify the Union of hazardous substances or chemicals used at the mine. Wherever possible, thefollowing would be includedwith notification.
(a)	The chemical breakdown;
(b)	Proper handling techniques; and
(c)	Necessary training for safe handling.
11.01(m) Time Spent by an Employee
The time so spent on any of the aforementioneditems in article 11.01, necessitating loss of time by employees delegated by the Union, shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time plus an amount equal to the employee's normal underground production bonus,
Page 25
if applicable. Productionbonus will only be paid to employees who normally receive production bonus. Under no conditions will overtime rates be paid.
11.01(n) Education and Training
The Company and the Union agree that all employees receive sufficienttraining in order that they may perform their work in a safe manner and minimize adverse workplace impacts on employee health.
11.01(o) Other Relevant Legislation
Notwithstandingthe foregoing, any provision of the Collective Agreement pertaining to occupational health and safety, the MinesAct or relevant legislationthat is superior to the foregoing shall take precedence.
11.02	Employee Obligation
Employees must obey all safety rules and report at once any unsafe practice or condition to their supervisors for correction as quickly as practicable.
11.03(a) Safety Protection Equipment Supplied
The Company will supply safety protection equipment to its employees as required. Company supplied safety equipment will be as follows:
Eye protection (non-prescription)
Hard hats Hearing protection Dust respirators Miner's belt Safety belts and lines Tag out locks
Page 26
Lineman's gloves and boots Painter's masks Aprons and face shields Safety asbestos gloves Welder's leathers Slickers Gloves
11.03(b) Replacement of Safety Protection Equipment
Upon presentationof safety protection equipment which is no longer serviceable due to normal wear and tear, the Company will provide new items as required.
11.03(c) Boots, Coveralls & Slickers
The Company will provide employees the following items as required through a program as determined by the Company:
i)	Coveralls
The Company will provide a coverall program that will provide mechanical and millwright employees with a maximum of five (5) pair of coveralls in the system per week, and all other employees with a maximum of three (3)pair of coveralls in the system per week. Employees involved in long hole loading or shbtcreting will be provided four (4) pairs of coveralls In the system. Employees electing not to participle in the coverall exchange programwill be granted three (3) pairs of coveralls annually.
ii)	Boots
Employeeswill be provided with one (1) pair of rubber safety boots every six (6) months. Employees may purchase additional rubber safety boots at cost less fifty (50) percent.
Page 27
Employees may choose the option of purchasing approved leather safety boots in lieu of their rubber safety boot issue. The Company will reimbursethe employee for the cost of the leather safety boots, to a maximum of $125 per year, upon proof of purchase. EffectiveApril 1,2005 the maximumwill be$175 peryear. EffectiveApril 1,2007 the maximumwill be$200 peryear.
11.03(d) Prescription Safety Glasses
The Company will provide prescriptionsafety glasses to those employees who require them. Prescriptionsafety glasses will be replaced upon proof of prescription change or damage. Prescription safety glasses will be supplied through a programme as determined by the Company.
11.04	Injured Worker Provision
An employee who is injured during working hours and who is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at their regular rate of pay.
Such employee shall be provided with transportation to their doctor or hospital and to their home.
11.04(b) Modified Work Program
The Company agreesto maintaina ModifiedWork Program. The current program entitled “Modified Work Program”, datedAugust1,2003 will remain in effect. The programwlll not be modified without prior consultation with Union representatives.
11.05	P.C.B.’s
No employee will be requiredto work on equipment where he will have direct contact with P.C.B.’s.
Page 28
11.06	Gas Testers
Gas Testers shall be available to all operators as required by the Mines Act for testing underground mobile equipment and mobile headings. In addition, other employees may obtain gas testers on a sign out basis from the Company. These shall be returned to the Company at the end of the shift.
11.07	Access for Union Safety	Committee Chairman
The Company agrees that the Union Safety Committee Chairmanor his designateshall have access to all areas of the mine. When legitimate safety concerns require him to leave his job he shall first receive permission from his supervisor. Such permission shall not unreasonably be withheld. In the event of an emergency, he will inform the Safety Department of his intentions.
11.08	Driving From Mine Site
No employee working in excess of ten (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period will be permittedto drive a company vehicle from the mine site. Prior to agreeing to work the overtime, the employee shall be notifiedof whether or not transportationwill be provided. In the event that transportation is not provided, camp accommodation shall be provided.
11.09	Workers' Compensation Claims
The Company and the Union agree to advise the other party as to the nature of any protest or appeal relative to W.C.B. claims. The Company agrees further that any protest to any employee's claim shall be separate from the workers' compensation forms.
11.10	Access to Medical Records
The Company agrees that an employee shalfhave access to their first aid/medical records.
Page 29
Article 12
SENIORITY, LAY-OFFS AND RECALL
12.01	Seniority Defined
Seniority is established on the basis of the individual's continuous service with the Company accordingto the records of the Company. The parties recognize that job opportunity shall increase in proportion to the length of company service.
12.02	Probationary Period
Seniority of each employee covered by the Agreement will be established after a Probationary periodof two hundred and forty (240) scheduled working hours.
During this 240 hour probationary period, the employer may terminate an employee's employment for performance which in the opinion of management, is inadequate.
The parties may agree to extend the probationary period.
The Company will notifythe Union within three (3) working days of the termination of any employees under this provision.
All probationaryemployees shall receive a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarizationand safety orientationon their new job. The Union will be provided an opportunity to meet and address new employees during this period of time.
12.03	Temporary Hires
A person originally hired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill or to participate in a special assignment of work may be discharged when his employmentat such special trade, skill or assignment comes to an end. The employee, however,
Page 30
will receive two (2) weeks notice in writing of such lay off or pay in lieu of notice or portion thereof. Employees hired under this clause are covered by the entire CollectiveAgreementwith the exception of Article 12.
It is not the intent underthis article to avoid the hiring of regular full time employees when such are justified for ongoing regular work. The “special assignment” designation will not be used to avoid the above but only be utilized for assignments not in the normal compliment.
12.04	Application Of Seniority
All promotions,transfers, filling of vacancies, layoffs and rehiring after layoffswill be done strictly in accordancewith the principles set forth in 12.01 provided the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work required. The Company will consider an employee's request for work assignments within their job classification. One of the considerations will be seniority.
12.05	Maintenance of Seniority 12.05(a)
Seniority will be accumulated and maintainedfor one (1) year during:
Occupational injury;
Illness or non-occupational injury;
Authorized leave of absence;
and will be maintainedthereaftersubjectto Article 12.05 (c). 12.05(b)
Seniority will be maintainedand accumulated during:
j) Absence due to lay-off up to twelve (12) months with less than three (3) years seniority.
Page 31
ii)	Absence due to lay-off up to eighteen (18) months with three (3) to five (5) years seniority.
iii)	Absence due to lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months with more than five (5)years seniority.
12.05(c)
Seniority will be maintainedfor four (4) years from the date of absence due to authorized leave of absence, injury or illness. Employees granted leave for Union business (Article 10.01) will retain their seniority for the duration of the leave.
12.05(d)
During periods of accumulating and/or maintaining seniority, the benefitsto the CollectiveAgreement that apply are outlined under Article 19.
12.05(e)
Seniority standing will be lost if an employee:
i)	voluntarily quits
ii)	is discharged for cause and is not reinstated
iii)	is recalled to work and does not report within the limitsas per Article 12.14
iv)	is absent and the seniority retention period has elapsed as per Article 12.05 (b) or 12.05 (c)
v)	is absent without permission for a period of four (4) consecutive scheduled shifts of work, unless the employee provides a reasonable excuse for the absence.
12.06	Job Postings
If it is determinedthat a job vacancy exists as described under Appendix "A,J ob Classifications, and it is to be filled, the following procedure shall apply:
Page 32
All job vacancies expected to last thirty (30) working days or
more (except those created by vacation, illness or injury to a
maximum of three (3) months) will be made known by posting on Notice Boards for eight (8) consecutive days excluding Statutory Holidays. The posting will include the following:
i) * location of job vacancy
li) shift
iii)	job classification
iv)	rate of pay
The successful job applicantwill be placed in the postedjob as soon as possible. The Company and Union will review situations when the employee has not been placed inthe posted job within one (1) month of the close of posting.
* Location means the following specific work areas within the Myra Falls Operations-Underground HW, Underground Lynx, and Underground Price, Mill, Surface, and Discovery Terminal. The specific work location indicated on job posting only represents the initial work assignment. Subsequent work requirements for the job may require the employee to work in any work area of the Myra Falls Operations.
12.06(b)
Vacancies will be filled as per Article 12.04 from among the applicants who apply within the time during which the notice is posted and from those applicants who have pre-bid as per Article 12.06 (c),
A successful applicant shall have a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarization in the new job and to demonstrate that he has sufficient ability to perform the work required. At any time duringthe period of familiarization the employee may elect to return to his previousjob classification.
Page 33
12.06(C)
An employee, prior to leaving or during vacation or authorized leave (including absences for illness or injury) will have the rightto pre-bid on up to two (2) upcoming position vacancies on a form provided by the Company and shall beconsidereda candidate for the vacancy as herein provided. Successfulpre-bid candidates must accept the job if they are awarded the posting.
12.06(d) Vacancies within Classifications
Within three (3) months of ratification, the Union-Management committee will jointly develop a framework for identifying and filling work assignments within job classifications. The Committee will produce a list of identifiableroles within the classifications that are eligible for this process. It is understood that this list may be amended by mutual agreement from time to time during the life of this Agreement as the need arises. The Committee will develop a formal “Expression of Interest” that employees must complete if they are interested i n an identifiable role within a classification. Infilling vacancies under this clause, the principles set out in Article 12, particularly12.04 above, shall apply. This process will only apply to vacancies expected to exceed thirty (30)days in duration.
12.07	Time Required In Posted Positions
An employee who has been hired or has successfully bid on a job posting will not be eligible to bid on anotherjob posting for six (6) months.
The Company and Union may agree to waive the time restrictions by mutual agreement.
Page 34
12.08	Temporary Vacancies
The Company is not required to consider seniority in the case
of non-permanent promotions not in excess of thirty (30) working days or in the case of non-permanentdemotions not in excess of seven (7) working days. Such periods may be extended by mutual agreement.
An employee occupying a job on a temporary basis shall, when his occupancy of the temporary job ends, return to his previous job classification.
The Company will give first considerationfor such job vacancies to persons who have applied for job training for the job in question underArticle 12.08.
12.09	Return To Previous Position
A temporary move from one job classification involving no change in rate shall not be considered as a promotion or demotion. If an employee is absentfrom his normaljob because of sickness, accident or authorizedleave, but is not transferred, he shall on his return be restoredto the job and location within the job classification that he previously held.
12.10	Lay Off
In the event of a reductionof employment levels (except in the event of a temporary layoff as per Article 12.12) the Company will layoff in inverse order of Company seniority within affected classifications.
An employee displaced from his classification may displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or another position, provided he has sufficient ability to perform the work required, or elect to be laid off from the Company.
Employeesshall be provided a period of up to one shift cycle
Page 35
for familiarization and to demonstrate that they have sufficient ability to perform the work required.
Apprentices shall be laid off in accordance with their seniority within their trade group.
Should an apprentice not have the seniority to retain employment within his trade group, he may elect to exercise his seniority to displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or a position he has the ability to perform the work required.
The Company and the Union shall meet no later than one (1) month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Employeesmustexerci se their rightsunderArticle 12.10 within seven (7)working days of being informed of such displacement or they will be deemed to have elected lay off.
Employees shall maintain recall rights as per Article 12.05(b) and 12.13.
Employees may opt to receivetheir earned vacation pay in the week preceding the lay off
12.11	Notice of Lay off
The Companyagreesto provideemployeesaffected with notice of lay off as perthe EmploymentStandardsAct of B.C. or failing such notice pay in lieu thereof or a portion thereof at the employee's basic hourly rate cf pay.
12.12	Temporary Lay Off
During a temporary reductionor layoff caused by circumstances beyondthe control of the Company, the provisionsofArticle12 will be waived for a period not exceeding three (3) days. Any available work in these circumstances will be assigned to the
Page 36
senior employee on the shift involved who is capable of
performing such work.
The parties may agree to extend the period of time to be waived.
12.13	Recall
When it is necessary to increase the forces, employees on recall will be re-employedas closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off. Employees are eligible for recall to the positions from which they were laid off or reduced from or to any entry level position, providedthey have sufficient ability to performthe work required.
It shall be the responsibility of the laid off employee to notify the Company of any change to their current address and telephone number. Such notificationshall be by registeredmail.
The Company will notify laid off employees of the date of recall by registered mail at the last known address on file with the Company. Inthe event that an employee fails to reportto work within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the registered notice, the employee shall lose the right to re-employment.
12.14	Permanent Layoff, Shutdown or Closure
In the event an employee is permanently laid off as a result of: |) a permanent shutdown of the Company’s operation or a departmentthereof;
H) Closure or partial closure of the mine; iii) A re-organizationof the Myra Falls Operations that results in a reduction of the work force; employees will be laid off as per Article 12.11.
The Company agreesto provide employees affected with notice as per Article 12.12.
Page 37
The Company and the Union shall meet no laterthan one month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Employees may opt to defer collection of their severance pay and retain recall rights as per Article 12.05 (b) and 12.14. Employees may elect to be paid severance in lieu of recall rights any time during the recall period or be paid severance when his recall rights expire.
Eligible employees who elect to be paid a severance, will be paid the greater of four calendar weeks of basic hourly rate of pay or $800.00 per year of service calculated to the nearest full month of service from his most recent date of hire.
To qualify for this severance payment, the employee must be actively employed, on vacation or in receipt of Worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits. Employees on long term disability will not qualify for severance but shall continue to receivelong term disabilitybenefitsunderthe terms of the long term disability plan.
Employees, upon receipt of severance payment, will have severedthe employee/employer relationshipand forfeited any and all rights under the Collective Agreement, including the right to recall.
The Company will make availablethe services of the Industrial Adjustment Service to employees affected by a permanent layoff.
12.15	Seniority Lists
The Company will prepare seniority lists of all employees and present them to the Union within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement. These lists will be posted and the Company will notify the individual involved and the Union of any revision of seniority.
Page 38
Said lists will commence with the most senior employee, carry
on downwards to the most junior employee, and contain the
following information:
(a)	Employee's name and payroll number;
(b)	Employee's starting date;
(c)	Employee's regular classification
Probationaryemployees will also be shown inthe same manner. Additional revised lists will be furnished to the Unionevery three (3) months and be posted on the bulletin boards in all departments.
12.16	Disabled Employees
The Company and Union may mutually agree to waive the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement to place a permanently disabled employee who is unable to return to or retain their normal job as the result of a work related injury or illness. This is providedthat a position is available that meets the needs of the operation and the abilities of the employee.
The parties agree that the circumstances regarding disabled employees are unique and require individual discussion between them. That being the case, prior to any layoff of personnel that will or might involve disabled employees, the Company will meet with representative of the Local Union to discuss the impact that any such layoff will have on disabled employees. The goal of those discussions will be to minimizethe impact of the layoff on disabled employees, taking into full consideration the needsofthe Company andthe requirement that employees (including disabled employees) have the skill, ability and physical fitness to perform the jobs and duties at hand, and recognizing the Company's responsibility to accommodate disabled employees.
Page 39
Article 13
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE
13.01	Grievance Procedure
The Parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their foreman as soon after they originate as possible. Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regardingthe interpretation of a violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
The Parties recognize that the employee may have a Union Representativepresent during any disciplinary discussions if the employee so requests.
13.02	Stepl
Within ten (10) days after the alleged grievance has arisen, or within ten (10) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may present the grievance either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failingsettlementto the employee'ssatisfaction within three (3)days, the employee may proceed to Step 2
13.03	Step2
Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompaniedby his steward and a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his Department Superintendent. The Department Superintendent shall reply in writing within two (2) days of the presentationof this grievance
Page 40
under Step 2. Failing satisfactory settlement at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
13.04	Step 3
Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee, accompaniedby the Grievance Committee, may take the matter up with the Manager or his delegate. The Union Grievance Committee, may be accompanied by a representative of the Union. Prior to submission to the Manager there shall be a written statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section or sections of the Agreement, which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement, within five (5) days by the Manager, either party may, on giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the other Party, refer the dispute to arbitration.
13.05	Dismissal, Suspension & Group Grievances
Grievances involving the dismissal or suspension of an employee(s) and grievances of a general or group nature may be initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure provided they are submitted within ten (10) days of the time the dispute arose.
13.06	Company Grievances
The Company shall have the rightto refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of an alleged violation of the Agreement to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7)daysofthe submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to a Board of Arbitration constituted in accordance with this Agreement.
Page 41
13.07	Time Limits 13.07(a)
In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.07(b)
If the Union does not proceed to the next step within the time limits provided, the grievance shall be considered as dropped and cannot be re-opened.
If the Company does not reply within the time limits provided, the grievance shall automatically advance to the next step of the grievance procedure.
13.07(C)
Time limits for initiating steps two and three for employees working the 4 x 4 shift will be extended to eight (8) days.
13.08	Time Off for Grievances
If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must receive permissionfrom hisforeman or shift boss. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
13.09	Single Arbitrator
It is agreed between the Parties that in the case of any arbitration, if both Parties agree, the case will be handled by a single arbitrator as follows:
Page 42
(a)	The arbitrator shall be chosen within five (5) working days following receipt of a written notice to arbitrate. He shall be chosen by the Parties from a panel listed by letter of mutual agreement and after the first choice the next and subsequent choice will be in order of listing.
(b)	If either party in the case of any given dispute does not wish to submit that particular dispute to a single arbitrator, the arbitration procedure for that dispute will revert to the three man arbitration procedure as outlined.
(c)	The single arbitrator shall proceed under the same collective agreement conditions as set out for the three (3) man arbitration and will have the same powers.
13.10	Arbitration Boards
If either party wishes the dispute to be heard by a three (3) man board ratherthan a single arbitrator, the Board shall consist of three (3) members: one (1)to be selected by the Company, one (1) by the Union and a third mutually acceptable person who shall act as chairman to be chosen from the same panel.
In the event that the Union and the Company are unable to agree upon the selection of the third member of the Board, the Industrial Relations Council of British Columbia shall be requestedto appoint such a third member. The decision of the Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof in respect to an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the Parties, but in no event shall the Board have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect.
Each Party shall pay the expense of the member of the Board of Arbitration chosen by it and all expenses incurred in
Page 43
connection with the presentation and preparation of its case, provided that the Parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
13.11	Working During Disputes
In the meantime, and in all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employee or employees and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension must continue to work until a final decision has been reached, but where an employee or employees has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigatedand settled. If the claim is made within five (5) working days that an employee or employees has or have been unjustly discharged, the case shall be dealt with according to this Article and if it's proven that he or they have been dischargedwithout proper cause, he or they shall be reinstated.
13.12	Arbitrators Listed 13.12(a)
Arbitrators will be selected from the following list by rotation:
1.	Colin Taylor
2.	David McPhillips
3.	Nicholas Glass
13.12(b)
Either party to this agreement has the right to remove the name of one arbitrator from the above list during the term of this agreement. Removal requires, however, a minimum of thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
Page 44
13.12(c)
The rotation selection can be altered by mutual agreement between the parties. In the event of a termination arbitration, the next available arbitrator will be selected.
Article 14 WAGES
14.01	Wages Rates
The wage rates listed in Wage Schedule “ A and the job classifications listed in Appendix A are agreed upon by both parties and are part of the Collective Agreement.
14.02	New or Changed Job Classifications
If any new job classifications are established, or if there is a significant change in the job classification(s) set forth in Appendix “A, or if any job classification(s) have been overlooked in this Wage Schedule “A, the parties hereto are agreed to negotiate a rate for the Job(s) in question.
If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, then the dispute will be settledthrough the Grievance andArbitration procedures of this Agreement.
14.03	Lead Hands
A lead hand premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour will be paid to employees specifically designated to lead two or more employeeson special jobs or on trades crews. EffectiveApril 1,2005 the premium will be one dollar ($1.00) for all hours actually worked.
Page 45
14.04	Qualification for Journeymen
To qualify for the journeyman rate the employee must have a recognizedCanadian ProvincialCertificate in the trade for which he was hired.
14.05	Pay Days
Wages will be paid by bank deposit every second Friday and employees will be provided with an itemized statement of same.
Article 15 HOURS OF WORK
15.01	Work Week Defined
The work week shall be the	period between 11:30 p.m. on
Sunday evening and 11:30 p.m, on the succeeding Sunday evening. The Company agrees to use its best endeavour to place as many employees as practicable on a Mondayto Friday work week.
15.02	Coffee Breaks
All employees will be allowed a reasonable opportunity for a coffee break, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, twice during each shift. These coffee breaks shall be arranged so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
15.03	Dry to Dry
In the case of all underground employees within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, eight (8) or (10) hoursfrom Dry to Dry shall constitute a shift.
Page 46
In the case of all surface employees on non-continuous operations, eight (8) hours from 7:30 AM to 3:30 PM, on the job, or ten (10) hours from 7:30 am to 5:30 pm, on the job
shall constitute a shift. A paid thirty (30) minute lunch period shall be provided during the shift. The lunch period shall be taken so as not to interfere with normal work sequences. Employees may utilize up to a maximum of 15 minutes at the end of their shift for clean up. The amount of clean up time taken depends on whether the employee showers or not.
15.04	Continuous or Semi-ContinuousShifts 15.04(a)
In continuousor semi-continuousoperationsthe hours of work shall consist of a scheduled average forty-two (42) hours per week, or in the case of the ten hour shift schedule, thirty five (35) hours per week.
15.04(b)
Hours of work for employees required for full twenty-four (24) hour coverage on seven (7) days per week shall be for (4) shifts of twelve (12) hours rotated among the employee and they will be provided room and board in accordance with the Letter of Agreement regardingAccommodation and Meals for 12 hour shift employees
15.05	Changes to Shift Schedules
Notice of any change in regular shift schedule must be given to an employee by Thursday of the week previousto the week of the schedule change, except in the event of replacementfor an employee absent without sufficient noticean/or emergency situations. Notice mgst be sent to the Union of any change of schedule involving four (4) or more employees in any one (1)
Page 47
department. Inthe case of continuousoperation, notice will be given by the second last working day of the working cycle prior to the change of regular shift.
15.06	Rest Between Shifts
An employee shall be entitled to eight (8) hours rest between his regular shifts. Should such an employee be recalled to work before such eight (8) hours elapse (a call-out), the employee shall be considered as still on his previous shift and shall be paid at overtime rates as per Article 16.06.
In the event that an employee's regular shift begins before the prescribed eight (8) hours has elapsed since the end of a previouswork period, he shall not report to work until the eight hours has elapsed. The employee shall be paid regular wage rates for those hours between the start of the regular shift and the end of the prescribed rest period. Such payment will be conditional upon the employee reporting for work and completing the shift following the end of the rest period.
Article 16
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
16.01	Time and One-Half Defined
One and one-half (1 1/2) the employee’s rate shall be paidfor all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week and for all work performed on an employee's regular designated day of rest. For employees working a (10) hour schedule, one and one-half (1%) times the employees rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled day, and for all work performed on an employee's regular designated day of rest.
Page 48
16.02	Double Time Defined
Double the employee's basic rate shall be paid for all work
over eight (8) hours on days of rest and all work over ten (10) hours in one (1) day. For employees working a ten (10) hour schedule, double the employee's basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest.
16.03	Continuous or Semi-continuous Shifts
Those employees whose schedule averages forty-two (42) hours per week as per Article 15.04 shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) times their rate for all time worked in excess of an average of forty (40) hours in any one (1 )week (i.e. two (2) hours per week). In addition, one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled hours per day or on a regular assigned day of rest. Double the employee's basic rate shall be paidfor all overtime exceedingtwo (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest. For employees thus affected, the Union hereby agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the Labour Board for approval of a work schedule averagingforty-two (42) hours per week.
16.04	Standby Time
Electricians and mechanics who are required to stay in camp on standby time shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at overtime rates over and above the daily wages to which they were otherwise entitled.
16.05	Overtime Pyramiding
Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
Page 49
16.06	Call-out
An employee reporting to work on a call-out shall be paid at applicable overtime rates for hours actually worked or four hours straight time whichever is the greater.
In the event that the employee is called out from town, he shall receive an additional one (1) hours pay at straight time. This paragraph shall not apply when an employee is asked before completing his regularshift to continue work beyondthe end of that shift.
16.07	Overtime Meals & Camp Charges
An employee who works overtimethat is expectedto last more than two (2) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift may elect to choose one of the following:
j) an established unpaid lunch break and a hot meal
or
H)	a paid fifteen (15) minute break and a meal
voucher in the amount of twelve dollars ($12.00). The break shall be arranged so as not to interfere with the normal work sequences.
If an employee continues to work six (6) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift, an additional meal voucher of the same value will be provided.
An employee who works unscheduledovertime will be provided with camp accommodations, if required at no extra cost.
16.08	Reporting Pay
An employee who reports to work as scheduledwithout having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available will be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular base rate.
Page 50
An employee who is in transit to work on company supplied transportation and who is unable to report for work due to circumstances beyond his control and where no alternative transportation is provided will be eligible for four (4) hours pay at straight time. To be eligible for this paymentthe employee must submit his name and payroll numberto the vehicle driver who makesthe decisionthat the transportation providedcannot proceed to the work site.
16.09	Rate Retention
If an employee is transferred to a higher or lower paid job for four (4) hours in any one (1) day he shall be paid at the higher rate for the full shift that day. An employee transferred to a higher paid job for less than four (4) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the higher rate for the time so employed if it is not lessthan one (1) hour but shall otherwise be paid his usual basic rate.
The above shall not apply to job assignments for the purpose of training under supervision.
16.10	Weekend Premiums
A premium of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour over the applicable base rate will be paid for all time worked on regularly scheduled shifts falling on Saturdays and Sundays. This premium shall not applyfor hoursworked at overtime rates.
16.11	Shift Differential 16.11(a)
It is mutually agreed by the Parties hereto that an additional fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift differential will be paid to all employees for all work performed on afternoon, twilight and midnight shifts.
Page51
16.11(b)
Shift differentialrates will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime.
16.12	Tool Allowance
All journeyman, apprentices and trades helpers shall receive thirty cents ($0.30) per hour worked as a tool allowance. Effective April 1, 2005 the amount shall be forty cents ($0.40). Efective April 1, 2006 the amount shall be forty five cents ($0.45). Efective April 1, 2007 the amount shall be fifty cents ($0.50). Tool Allowance will not apply to overtime shifts.
16.13	Irregular Shifts
Employees traveling and working irregular eight (8) hour shifts or on call-outs that do not coincide with the bus service will receive a subsidy of forty dollars ($40.00) per working shift.
16.14	Fair Distribution of Overtime
The Company agrees to fairly distribute overtimeopportunities among those employeeswithin the classifications willing to work overtime.
16.15	Trades Premium/Differential
Effective April 1,2006, tradesmen will receive a trades, premium/differential of0.25forall hoursworked. Effective April 1, 2007, the premium/ differential will be Increased by $0.25 (for a total of $0.50)
Page 52
Article 17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
17.01	Statutory Holidays Defined
All work performed on the following days shall be compensated for at two and one half (21/2) times the base rate:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day B. C. Day
17.02	Floaters
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
After completion of one (1) year’s service, each employee will be entitled to two (2) floating holidays per year, subject to the same limitations as in Article 18.04. Effective April 1, 2007 the entitlementwill be three (3) floating holidays per year.
This will remain in effect only until such time as an additional statutory holiday has been declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments. At that time, the entitlement will be reduced to two (2) floaters per year.
This must be applied for at least five (5) working days prior to the requiredtime off for continuousoperations and at leasttwo (2) working days prior to the requiredtime off for all others. It is understoodand agreed that floating holidays must be taken or be paid out at the end of the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulatedto future years.
Page 53
17.03	Pay for Statutory Holidays
Employees not working on the holiday set out in 17.01 of this Article shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
17.03(a)
When a holiday falls on a regular assigned day off, the next scheduled shift will be considered as the holiday for the employee concerned.
17.03(b)
To qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday.
17.03(c)
An employee unable to work his scheduled shift or shifts due to personal sickness will qualify for statutory holiday pay by presentingto the Timekeeper a medical certificate duly signed by a doctor stating the employee's illness prevented him from working his scheduled shift. This medical certificate must be provided within ten (10) calendar days of their return to work.
The Company will pay statutory holiday pay to disabled employeesfor any such holiday occurring during the first thirty (30) calendar days of the disability. No statutory holiday pay will be paid for any statutory holiday occurring subsequent to this thirty (30) day period. This shall include all employees receiving W.C.B. or other wage loss benefits.
17.03(d)
An employee who qualified for pay for a holiday under this Article, and who does not work on such holiday, shall receive
Page 54
his regular pay on the basis of his regular base rate (exclusive of shift differentials, overtime, bonuses, holiday or other premiums) as on the normal shift worked by him immediately prior to such holiday. An employee so qualifying shall not be entitledto such pay if he does not work on a holiday after having been required by the Company to work and having agreed. If an employee so qualifying does work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay under this section unless he works at least a part of his assigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half (21/2) times the base rate as provided in Section
17.01	ofthisArticle, and for the remaininghoursofthe shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
17.03(e)
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, under no conditions shall any time be paid at a rate greater than two and one-half (21/2) times the base rate.
17.03(f)
When a statutory holiday falls during an employees vacation, the employee is entitled to an additional vacation day without pay, if he so requests prior to his vacation.
Page 55
Article 18 VACATION
18.01 Annual Vacations
Employees will receive vacation and be paid for the vacation in accordance with the following schedule.
Years of Continuous Service	Vacation Period	Vacation Pay
Less than one (1) year	4% gross earnings	
One (1)year but less than eight(8) years	Three (3) Weeks	6% gross earnings
Less than fifteen (15) years	Four (4) Weeks	8% gross earnings
Fifteen (15) years and over	Five (5) Weeks	10% gross earnings
It is understood and agreed that vacations must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
18.02	Bonus Vacation 18.02(a)
Employees with five (5) or more years of service will receive an additional three (3) weeks bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for the previous year.
Bonus vacalon can betaken in single day allotments with the understanding that pay for such single days will be
Page 56
calculated in the same fashion as pay for a paid floater holiday. At the end of each calendar year of the Collective Agreement, a reconciliation will be completed based on the previous calendar year's actual earnings and single bonus vacation days taken. Any monies owed to the employee will be paid In the first pay period following December318'.
18.02(b)
For each five (5) year period, the employee will receive an additional three (3) week bonusvacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for that previous year.
18.02(c)
All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next five (5) year anniversary.
18.03	Number on Bonus Vacation
To maintaincontinuous, uninterrupted operations,the Company will schedule, on a seniority basis, the number of employees on bonus vacation not to exceed:
Ten (10) employees from underground Six (6)employees from Plant Department Two (2) employees from the Mill Two (2) employees from the Spit One (1) employee from the Warehouse
18.04	Vacation Shutdowns 18.04(a)
Where practical the company may schedule a vacation shutdown of all or part of its operations for up to three (3) weeks.
Page 57
A notice will be posted in all departments by February 15th if the Company intends to schedule a vacation shutdown.
18.04(b)
The Company maintainsthe right to schedule various parts of its operation during the shutdown. The employees necessary for these operations will be selected from those employees in the requiredjob classificationswho have indicatedtheir desire to work during the shutdown according to Company seniority. Where there is an insufficient number of employees indicating their desire to work, selection will be made in reverse order of Company seniority. Employeeswho work during the shutdown will take their vacation at a later mutually agreed upon time. The Company will give a three (3) month notice when work will be required during the shutdown.
18.04(c)
Vacations in excess of the three (3) week shutdown for which employees may be eligible shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance and taken at mutuallyagreed upon time that will allow for the maintenance of an adequate work force.
18.05	Vacation Scheduling 18.05(a)
The Company will accept vacation applications from January 1st to March 15th for the period April 16 to October 31st. Applications will be accepted from September 1st to October 15th for the period November 1st to April 15th. Vacation applications will be on a form to be supplied by the Company and agreed to by the Union.
The Company will post approved vacations by April 15th for the summer period and by October 31st for the winter period.
Page 58
The foregoing is subject to the following criteria:	
i) ii)	Vacations are allotted by company seniority. An employee at his option can elect to use a combination of regular and bonus vacation when applying for vacation, but the amount can not exceed the regular vacation allotment for that year.
Hi)	Floaters cannot be used to displace another employee's vacation time.
iv)	Regular vacation may betaken in any multiple of complete days from one (1) to the total number of vacation days owed.
v)	Journeymen, tradesmen, apprentices or trades helpers shall not limit others in different trade occupations for vacation assignment purposes.
vi)	After March 15th and October 15th any remaining vacation time (for each respective period) can be
	applied for by an employee and will be allocated on a first come first serve basis. Senior employees cannot displace a less senior employee who has an approved vacation.
vii)	When scheduling vacations, the Company will make every reasonable effort to maximize the number of employees allowed off for vacation.
18.05(b)	
The Company agrees that once an employee's vacation has been scheduled, it will not be changed except for valid operational requirements; or if the employee has transferred to a different job at his request; or in the case of unforeseen operating difficulties. Valid operational requirement or unforeseenoperating difficultieswill be determinedby a senior Company official. Should the employee suffer a loss through non-refundable deposits or other increased travel costs for similar arrangements due to such a determination by management, with prior approval, the Company will reimburse such loss.	
	Page 59
18.06 Vacation Pay
18.06(a)
All hourly employees will receive their earned vacation pay on the payday immediately following their anniversary by separate bank deposit with an itemized statement. If the employee so requests, the Company will issue a manual cheque for regular vacation pay to those employees who take their vacation if the anniversary date comes either before the next payday or during their vacation.
18.06(b)
Exept for single bonus vacation days taken as provided for in 18.02(b) abore, bonusVacation pay directly proportional to the time being taken will be paid in advance of the vacation with an itemized statement.
Article 19
PENSION, HEALTH &WELFARE
19.01	Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums lor employees registeredwith the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia (regular medical coverage). Such employees must be full time day rate employees and both Company and employeesagree to comply with the Medical Services Plan regulations at all times.
19.02	Insurance Policies
The Company agrees to pay one hundred (100%) of the premium cost for all employees covered by Group Life Insurance Policy and a Sickness and Non-compensable Accident Benefit Insurance Policy (19.02 (b)). The coverage will be as follows:
Page 60
19.02(a)
The Group Life Insurance coverage will be Seventy four thousand dollars ($74,000), effective on date of hire. Effective April 1,2005 coveragewill beseventysixthousanddollars ($76,000). EffectiveApril 1, 2006 coveragewill be seventy eight thousand dollars ($78,000). EffectiveApril 1, 2007 coverage will be eighty thousand dollars ($80,000).
In addition, Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be Seventy four thousand dollar ($74,000), effective on date of hire. EffectiveApril 1,2005 coveragewill be seventy six thousand dollars ($76,000). EffectiveApril 1, 2006 coverage will be seventy eight thousand dollars ($78,000). EffectiveApril 1, 2007 coveragewill be eighty thousand dollars ($80,000).
19.02	(b) Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
The Company agrees to pay 100% of the cost of premiumsto provide a Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan. New employees will be eligible for coverage upon completion of the probationary period.
The plan will provide eligible employees with benefits for lost time during periods of disability, commencing on the first day of an accident or hospitalization (including day surgery or administeredmedicaltreatment) and the fourth day of sickness, and continuing for a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
The maximum benefit payable under this plan will be $500.00 perweek. EffectiveApril 1,2005 the benefitwill be$525.00 perweek EffectiveApril 1,2006 the benefitwill be$550.00 perweek EffectiveApril 1,2007 the benefitwill be$575.00 per week. The Company agrees that the current benefit payment will not be reduced during the term of this agreement.
Page 61
19.02	(c)
Any employee who receives Weekly Indemnity and is subsequently paid by W.C.B. or I.C.B.C. shall return the equivalent of the Weekly Indemnity paymentsto the Company.
19.03	Dental Plan & Extended Health 19.03(a)
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiumsfor employees registeredwith the Medical Services Association (dental care plan and extended health benefits).
Dental PlanA, basicservicespaymentof claimsto be at eighty percent(80%); coverage in PlanB, with paymentbeingatsixty percent (60%,); and PlanC, with payment being at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum of $2,500.00 per eligiblefamily member. Eligible family members is interpreted as employee, spouse, and dependent children.
19.03(b)
Employees to be covered by Medical ServicesAssociation must be full time day rate employees and must be registered with Medical ServicesAssociation.
19.03(c)
The Company will maintain a vision care program that will provide a maximumof $ 100 every two (2) years to an employee or members of an employee's immediate family (spouse and dependent children). Effective April 1, 2005 the benefitwill be increasedto $175.00. Effective April 1,2006 the benefit will be $200.00. Effective April 1, 2007 the benefitwill be $225.00.
Page 62
19.03(d)
The Company agrees to increase the Extended Health lifetime maximum from twenty five thousand dollers ($25,000) to fifty thousand dollers ($50,000) effective October 1,2003.
Effective April 1,2005, the Extended Health lifetime maximumwill be seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000).
19.04	Long Term Disability
The Company agrees to pay one hundred (100%) percent of the cost of premiums for a Long Term Disability Plan that will provide a benefitof thirteen hundreddollars ($1,300) per month, less any benefits payable from Workers' Compensation for an employee unable to work due to illness or accident as defined by the insurance carrier.
Eligible employees would be those who have completed one (1) year's full employment.
There shall be a fifty-two (52) week waiting period before payments commence and they will continue to the earlier attainment of sixty-five (65) years of age or date of recovery. This benefit is deemed as two years own occupation.
19.05	Pension Plan Effective July 1,2004
$50.00 per month per year of continuous service Effective April 1, 2005
$51.00 per month per year of continuous service Effective April 1, 2006
$52.00 per month per year of continuous service Effective April 1,2007
$54.00 per month per year of continuous service
Page 63
It is agreed that retirement will be the last day of the month in which the employee celebrates his sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
The Company agrees to provide a spousal survivor's benefit of 60% of the earned benefit. This benefit applies should the employee die before attaining the age of sixty-five (65).
Employeeswith less than two (2) years continuous service will not be vested. After two (2) years of continuous service the employee will be vested one hundred percent (100%).
On his termination the employee has the right to convert his vested pensionto anRRSP, if permitted by pensionregulaions.
In the event of permanent mine closure, or a reduction of production in anticipation of mine closure, the full value of the pensionbenefitearned by each employee to date of termination will become vested and payable regardlessof length of service. The Company will apply any interpretationof this provision in a fair and equitable manner;
The employee will be eligible for normal retirement benefits after thirty (30) years of continuous service or age sixty-five (65) which ever comes first.
19.06	Health & Welfare Coverage 19.06(a) Employee Laid Off
Employeeswho are laid off shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for three (3) months following the month in which the lay off began.
19.06(b) Employees on Leave of Absence
Employees who are on authorized leave of absence shall continue to receive current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the three (3) months following the month in which the absence began.
Page 64
Employees who have been granted an authorized leave of absence for Union business as per Article 10.03 (a), shall continue to receive all insurance benefits as per Article 19.01 for a maximum of twenty-one (21) calendar days following the first day in which the absence began.
After that time, the employee will make arrangements with the Company to pay the coverage.
19.06(c) Non-Work related Injury or Illness
Employeeswho are absent due to injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Healthand Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, DentalandA.D.&D) for three (3) years from the commencement of the absence.
19.06(d) Cancellation of Insurance Benefit Coverage
Should an employee cease to be disabled as a result of a work or non-work related injury or illness and chooses not to return to work, or should an employee take alternate employment, the Company's obligation to maintain Health and Welfare coverage shall cease.
Employees who are on such continuous coverage must keep the Company informed of their current address and employment status. Medical, Extended Medical and Dental coverage are not available to non-residentsof British Columbia. Full coverage is not available to those in the employ of another employer. Failure to keep the Company informed of the current address and employment status will result in the cancellation of benefit coverage.
In no event will benefitscontinue past the age of sixty-five (65).
Page 65
Article 20
UNDERGROUND CONTRACT COMMITTEE
20.01	Recognitionof	Bonus Committee
The Company shall recognizea contract committeeconsisting of three (3)Union members. Such members shall be qualified by experienceand the committee shall concern itself exclusively with matters relating to incentive contracts.
20.02	Meetings
The Contract Committee, the Mine Superintendent and the Contract Engineer will meet monthly to discuss underground contractsand bonus. The purpose of such meetings is to solve problemsof mutual concern. A spirit of cooperation is essential.
20.03	Disputes
In the event of a dispute over contract prices or contract conditions, said dispute shall be presented to the Contract Committee and the Company Management for settlement.
20.04	Contractual Obligation
The Company will maintain an underground bonus system. While bonus rates may be adjusted as conditions warrant, the Company will not arbitrarily	reduce bonus rates.
20.05	Training Bonus
The Union and the Company recognize that training functions may disrupt the daily routine and couldtherefore affect incentive bonus payments. Further it is agreed that those involved in the training will be protected from loss of bonus.
Page 66
Article 21 UNION SECURITY
21.01	Assignment of Dues
The Company shall honour a written assignment of dues to the Union.
21.02	Form of Assignment
An assignment pursuant to Section 21.01 of this Article shall be in the following form:
TO:	MYRA FALLS OPERATIONS
I hereby authorize you to deduct from my wages and pay to the CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS, LOCAL 3019, dues as established by the CAW LOCAL 3019 Constitution and ByLaws, per month beginning with the month of:
______________, 20
and/or such monthlydues per month or additionalassessments as the Union Constitution and/or by-laws from time to time provide, and Ihereby authorize and request you, without further authorization or requests from me to deduct and remit to the Union such other amounts:
Employee NO.
EMPLOYEE'S NAME___________________ (SIGN)
Page 67
21.03	Remittance of Dues
Unless the assignment is revoked in writing and delivered to the Company, the Company shall remit the dues deducted to the Union at least once a month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
21.04	Revocation
If an assignment is revoked, the Company shall give a copy of the revocationto the Union.
21.05	Limit of Company Responsibility 21.05(a)
Notwithstanding any provisions contained in Section 21.01,
21.02	and 21.03 of this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees, dues or assessments of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
21.05(b)
The Company agrees to deduct once each month from the earnings of every employee covered by this Agreement the sum of monthly dues as may be fixed constitutionally by the Union.
21.06	Effective Date
The said deductions shall commence at the effective date of these sections, and in the case of each assignment by an employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of the sections with the
Page 68
calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
21.07	Dues as Condition of Employment
The Company shall during the life of this Agreement, deduct as a condition of each employee in the Bargaining Units continued employment, an amount equal to the Union dues from the first pay cheque due in each calendar month to each such employee and remitthesame priortothe 10th day of the month following the month in which such deduction is made to the FinancialSecretary of the Union. The Company will, at the time of making each such payment to the Financial Secretary of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted.
21.08	Union Membership 21.08(a)
As a condition of employment, each new employee will join the Union on his/her first day of employment.
21.08(b)
All employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and all employees who join thereafter shall remain members of the Unionas a conditionof continuing employment during the term of this Agreement.
21.08(c)
Those employees who are not members of the Union on the effective date of thisAgreementand do notwantto join are not affected by (b) above.
Page 69
Article 22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
22.01	Reprimands & Suspensions
A written reprimandgiven by the Company to an employee will be signed by him and by the Shop Steward concerned, as an acknowledgement of its receipt, and a copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the Union immediately and shall be subject to the grievance procedure. When a reprimand or disciplinary action involves suspensionfrom work for a day or longer, and if such suspension involves an employee who normally commutes, the notice of his suspensionwill be given to him the day before his suspension is to commence. This is to prevent the employee traveling to the mine on a given day and not being allowed to work that day. After the period of six (6) clear months has elapsed from the date the reprimandwas issued, all reference to the reprimandwill be stricken from the records. The Companywill give written reprimandswithin three (3) working days of the occurrence of the event provided that there is reasonable access to the employee.
22.02	Moonlighting
The Company and the Unionagree that the practicecommonly known as 'moonlighting” is wrong in principle. The term “moonlighting” for the purpose of this clause shall refer to a full-time employee who regularly makes a practice of working for another employer for a substantial number of hours during the week.
(a) When this practice affects or conflicts with Company business or the employee's ability to perform his normal duties, it shall be cause for reprimand or dismissal.
Page 70
(b) When this practice affects or conflicts with the Union policy, the Company agrees to co-operate with the Union re: reprimand or dismissal.
22.03	Printing of Agreement
The Company and the Union will have printed, in pocket size books, copies of this CollectiveAgreement. The Company will pay the cost of printing. Every employee will be provided with a contract book and one hundred (100) copies will be provided to the Union. The books will be printed at a Union Shop.
22.04	Medical Examinations
An employee will receive two (2) hours pay for a medical examination as required for continued employment with the Company.
22.05	Day, Week, Month & Year Defined
References of days, weeks, months, or years shall be understood to mean calendar days, weeks, months, or years, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
Article 23
APPRENTICES AND TRAINING
23.01	Joint Workforce Training Committee (JWTC)
To maintain a viable competitive position in the global market place, the Company and the Union agree that all employees should receive sufficienttraining in order that they may perform their work in a safe and productive manner. This commitment can bestbeexpressedthroughthe mutualeffortsofthe JWTC. The JWTC recognizesthe benefitsof utilizing hourlyemployees to train other employees where appropriate.
Page 71
The purposeof this committee is to oversee training in the areas of the mine, mill, surface and maintenance, and make recommendationsto improve and promote training in these areas.
The committee will be composed of four (4) representatives from the Company and four (4) representativesfrom the Union, being representatives of the mine, mill, surface and maintenance. The committeewill be coordinated by a Company Chair and a Union Chair. Sub committees will be formed to representthe four different areas of the mine operations. The JWTC committee will meet monthly and the Subcommittees will meet periodically as required.
23.02	Training Priorities
The Company and the Union agree that there must be a systematic method in determining training requirements. Training requirements fall into four categories.
Immediate Needs Back Up Needs Within Job Classification Progressive Training
23.02(a) Immediate Needs
In situationswhere new equipment or technology is introduced into the operation, creating an immediate training need in order to maintain efficiencies, employees currently performing the job function where the training need arises will be given first opportunity for training.
23.02(b) Back Up Needs
In situationswhere immediateneeds have been met and there is a need to provide back up employees, employeeswho have
Page 72
performed or are currently performing the job function will be selected from within the job classification as per 23.03.
23.02(c) Within Job Classification
In situations where immediate and back up needs have been met, other employees within their job classification will be eligible to receive training as per 23.03.
23.02(d) Progression Training
In situations where employees would like to advance their personal skill levels in order to qualify for future job opportunities, those employeeswill be eligibleto receive training as per 23.03.
23.03	Training Eligibility
Based on recommendationsfrom the JWTC, the Companywill determine the minimum number of trained back up employees required in each job function. The “in-house trainer” requiring instructionwill be includedin immediatetrainingas an additional trainee.
Employees can submit a “Request for Training” form to the JWTC identifying their training preferences on a semi annual basis. Requests wifi be reviewed and then scheduled on a training plan grid basedon the employee's seniority. Employees will not be eligible to receive training until they have met prerequisite qualifications as determined by the JWTC.
Employees will receive their regular rates of pay while training in another classification except that employees substituting for an absent employee shall receive the rate for the job.
23.04
The JWTC shall determine successful completion of training programs. This determination shall be in a fair and equitable
Page 73
manner. After an employee is deemed qualified to perform all aspects of the job, he shall be paid at the rate of the job at such times as he is actually performingthe job.
23.05	Miner Training
23.05(a)
The intent of this program is to train and qualify employees as safe and certified miners.
23.05(b)
Selectionfor minertraining will be based on criteria as outlined in Article 12.06.
23.05(c)
Stope school training is considered to be the 1st step in the miner training program and will be for a period of three (3) months to be trained in basic mining and safety skills. This assignment is referredto as MinerTrainee 1, paid Job Class 3. 23.05(d)
Upon successful completion of stope school as determined by the JWTC, the employee is assigned as a Miner Trainee 2 for a period of nine (9) months paid Job Class4.
23.05(e)
Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 2 term as determined by the JWTC, the employee is promoted to Miner Trainee 3 where he remains for a period of one (1) year paid Job Class 5.
Page 74
23.05(f)
Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 3 term as determined by the JWTC, the employee would then have in his possession a Miner’s Certificate. The employee is then eligible to post on the miner's classification provided there is a vacancy.
]n the event that an employee has completed the training program but there are no miner position vacancies or the individual is not the successful applicant of a posting, the employee would return to his position prior to entering the program. This employee would then be eligible to bid on any subsequent postings,
23.05(g)
The employee who demonstrates a lack of sufficient ability while in the miner training program will be returned to the position he held prior to entering the training program.
23.06	Mill Operator Training
23.06(a)
The intent of this program is to develop a fully trained, qualified and safe workforce of Mill Operators. Opportunitiesfor training can be requested as per article 23.03 The JWTC will develop and administer the Mill Operating Training Program.
23.06(b)
Successful completion of a training segment will qualify the employee to receive a job class rate one level higher than his present regular rate.
Page 75
23.07	Surface Equipment Operator Training 23.07(a)
The intent of this program i s to develop a fully trained, qualified and safe work force of surface equipment operators. Opportunitiesfor training can be requested as per article 23.03. The JWTC will develop and administerthe EquipmentOperator Training Program.
23.07(b)
Incidental costs required in the training process such as licenses, examination time etc. will be borne by the Company. This must be approved in advance by the Company.
23.08	Apprenticeship Training
23.08(a) Apprenticeship Training Opportunities
Opportunities for an apprenticeship shall be made known through the job posting procedure.
23.08(b) Apprentice Wage Rates
Apprentice hourly wage rates shall be as follows:
On Entry
After 1st Year Successful Completion After 2nd Year Successful Completion After 3rd Year Successful Completion After 4th Year Successful Completion
Uponcertification/To Certified (Journeyman's Rate)
Page 76
Job Class 2 Job Class 3 Job Class 5 Job Class 7 Job Class 8 Job Class 9
Rate increases are contingent upon successfully passing the apprenticeship board’s examination and completion of the
prescribedtraining hoursforthe year. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date. Reasonable allowances for vacation and other non-trades related work are inherent in the number of training hours required.
23.08(c) Apprentice Schooling
During the periods of apprenticeshipschooling, the apprentice shall apply for any available government allowance. The Company shall provide an allowance equal to the difference between the apprentice's regular straight time earnings and the amount of government earnings, provided that documentation of successful completion and attendance are provided by the apprentice to the Company.
The Company will reimburse apprentices for the cost of text books required by the apprenticeship board for the course outlined in the apprenticeshiptraining curriculum.
23.08(d)
Any apprenticewho fails any year of his apprenticeshipon two (2) successive opportunities shall be removed from the apprenticeshiptraining program.
23.08(e)
An employee who achieved their apprenticeship while employed by the Company is not eligible for apprenticeship training until at least five (5) years from the date of achieving their journeyman status unless there are no other successful applicantsas per Article 23.08(f)
Page 77
23.08(f)
To qualify for an apprenticeship, an applicant must have:
i)	Grade 12 or equivalent and
ii)	A pre-apprenticeship certificate or its equivalent or two years of related experience in the applied trade.
23.08(g)
In the event of a dispute concerningthe equivalence of a preapprenticetraining course, the parties agree to use the results of a recognized pre-apprenticeship training exam as an equivalency test.
Article 24
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
24.01	Company Rights -Automation
The Union acknowledges that the Company has the exclusive
right to install, at any time, mechanical, electronic or other types
of automated equipment.
24.02	Technological Change Defined
For the purposes of this Article, ‘Technological Change” means:
(a) The introductionby the employer of a major change in his equipment or material from that equipment or material previously used by the employer in his work, undertaking, or business, and/or
Page 78
(b) A major change in the manner in which an employer carries on his work, undertaking, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
24.03	Notice of Change
The Company shall notify the Union not less than one (1) month in advance, or give as much notice as is practical, of intent to introduce technological changes which involve the discharge or laying off of employees.
24.04	Meeting with Union
In the event of a pending technological change, the Company shall advise the Union of such change at the earliest opportunity and meet with the Union to discuss the ramifications of such technological changes as soon as practical.
24.05	Displacement of Employees
Where an employee who has at least one (1) year of service with the Company is displaced from his job by reason of technological change, and where a vacancy exists for which he might qualify by training, he shall be entitled to such training at the Company's expense, providedthat he has the necessary basic education and abilities to absorb such training to equip him for the operation of new equipment or procedures. The period of such training shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
24.06	Severance Pay
Employees who have at least one (1) year of service with the Company who are discharged or laid-off because of technological change are entitled to severance pay under article
12.15	of this Agreement.
Page 79
Article 25
BUS TRANSPORTATION
25.01
The Company shall provide employees with a bus transportation service to the mine site, at no charge to the employees.
The Company agrees to maintain the current quality of bus service in terms of seating comfort and temperature control.
For employees working the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule, transportation service with professional, licensed drivers will be provided. Vans may be used to transport employees on the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule.
The Company agrees to maintainthe current transportation standards during the life of the Agreement.
Article 26
RED CIRCLING/OUT OF LINE DIFFERENTIAL 26.01(a)
Employees who would suffer a reduction in their basic wage rate as a result of the introduction of Schedule" A appended to thisAgreement, shall have their basic wage rate “Red Circled" in accordance with this article.
These employees shall continue to be paid the basic rate applicable to theirjob classificationas at March31,1993. They shall not be eligible to receive any negotiated increases until their red circled ratebecomesequalto or lessthanthe standard ratefortheirclassification,asset out in Scheduled” appended hereto, after which their red circling shall come to an end and they shall be paid the standard rate for that classification.
Page 80
26.01 (b)
Employeeswith a red-circledesignationwill receive an Out-ofline Differential equal to $0.45 per hour. EffectiveArll 01, 2005, such employees will receive$0.75 per hour. The Out-of-line Differential will end when employees' job class rate as per Wage Schedule "A" becomes equal to or exceeds the corresponding red-circled wage rate.
Employees who had lost their red-circle designation due to a lay off or job posting will have their red-circled rate reestablished in their current job classification. Employees will maintain red-circleddesignation during any future lay off or job postings that occurs during the life of this agreement.
WAGE SCHEDULE “A”
The following wage rates will be applied during the term of the agreement.
WAGE SCHEDULE"A"
The following wage rates will be applied during the term of the agreement.
Job Current Class
April 1 Jan. 1 2005	2006
April 1 April 1 2006	2007
July 1 2004
1	19.34
2	20.28
3	21.20
4	22.11
5	23.05
6	23.96
7	24.90
8	25.81
9	26.74
10	27.77
19.49	19.68	19.73
20.43	20.63	20.68
21.36	21.57	21.62
22.28	22.50	22.56
23.22	23.45	23.51
24.14	24.38	24.44
25.09	25.34	25.40
26.00	26.26	26.33
26.94	27.21	27.28
27.98	28.26	28.33
20.12	20.72
21.09	21.72
22.05	22.71
23.01	23.70
23.98	24.70
24.93	25.68
25.91	26.69
26.86	27.67
27.83	28.66
28.90	29.77
Page 81
	APPENDIX “A”
	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Job Class	Job Classification
1	Surface Labourer
2	Apprentice Bucker/Core Splitter Spare Mill Operator Underground Labourer
3	Apprentice 1 Bit Grinder Bus Driver Diamond Drill Helper Equipment Operator 1 Trades Helper MinerTrainee 1
4	Cagetender Mill Crusher Operator Deckman Fillman Front End Loader Pumpman Timberman's Helper Trackman's Helper Trammer (until March 31,2004) Warehouseman U/G Crusher Operator MinerTrainee 2
5	Apprentice 2 Equipment Operator 2 MinerTrainee 3 U/G Heavy Equipment Operator Trammer
Page 82	
6	Cablebolter Diamond Driller Shaftmein Timberman Trackman Filter Operator
7	Concentrate Truck Driver Equipment Operators Powerhouse Operator Miner
Apprentice 3
8	Floor Operator Apprentice 4
Hoistman
9	Control Room Operator Journeyman
10	Journeyman
Effective April 1, 2005 the Trammer position will be increased to Job Class Five.
Page 83
APPENDIX “ B”
ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS
Bucker/Core Splitter Bit Grinder Surface Labourer Diamond Drill Helper Timberman's Helper Trackman's Helper Cagetender Trades Helper Equipment Operator 1 Underground Labourer Deckman Fillman
U/G Crusher Operator Pumpman Trammer Warehouseman Spare Mill Operator Mill Crusher Operator
Page 84
Letter of Agreement
Subject: Camp Accommodation
Employees assigned a camp room priorto April 1st, 1990 will be "grandfathered" in their current room assignment status at six dollars (56.00) per working day for the term of this agreement. This room assignmentwill permanently change if either' of the following events occur:
1.	The employee voluntarily changes to shared status.
2.	The employee comes off shiftwork through a legitimate reorganizationand at some future date bids back onto a position which requires camp accommodation.
It is understood that all employees new to the camp will be assigned room on a shared concept at no cost. Employees who enter into shared accommodation concept (single bed) are exempt from room charges.
Datedthis 13th day of January, 2005,
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3Q19
Page 85
Letter of Agreement
Subject: Discrimination and/or Harassment
The Company and the Union agree that discriminationand/or harassment of any employee by reason of race, colour, creed, religion, age, marital status, sexual orientation, or disability is absolutely prohibited. Every employee has the right to work in an environment of mutual respect, free from intimidation, discrimination, and sexual harassment. Actions contravening this policy will constitute grounds for discipline.
1.	At any stage in this procedure an employee may seek as assistance and/or involvement of a company or union representative.
2.	An employee who feels subject to discrimination and/or harassmentshouldmak'e every effortto tell the offending party to stop such behaviour, prior to proceeding under the complaint procedure.
3.	Complaint Procedure:
(a)	If the problem is not resolved through discussion between the individuals concerned, then the employee who alleges harassment, or a representative on behalf of the employee may contact a Human Resources representative who will:
(i)	thoroughly investigate the matterjointly with a union representative,and
(ii)	maintain a strict degree of confidence with the employee concerned, and
(iii)	take appropriate action to resolve the problem.
Page 86
(b)	In the event the problem is not resolved under (a) above, the employee, the union representative and Human Resources representative may refer the matter in the form of a third stage grievance to the Mine Manager who will determine appropriate action to be taken.
(c)	The Local Union may contact the National Representative to investigate such matters. The National Representative shall have full disclosure of all relevant information.
Datedthis 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 87
Letter of Agreement
Subject:	Camp Committee
The Company agrees to recognize a camp committee as selected by the Union for the duration of this Agreement. The purpose of this committee is to bring to the attention of the Company, items of concern of the Unionsurroundingthecamp facilities.
Meetings will be held with the management representative responsible for the camp to discuss and resolve the issues raised by the committee. For the purpose of meetings with the Company, the committee will be limited to a maximum of 3 persons.
The Company agrees to maintain the current recreation facilities and entertainment systems for employees staying in camp.
Datedthis 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 88
Letter of Agreement
Subject: Assignment of Work
It is a matter of Company policy that the assignment of work is to be done in a fair and equitable manner.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005,
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page89
	Letter of Agreement
Subject:	Hot Meals for Mill Crews
The parties agree that the past practice regarding the provision by the Company of hot mealsfor Mill 4x4 Productionand Maintenance crews shall continue for the term of this Agreement.
Datedthis 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page90
Letter of Agreement
Subject:	Employee Evaluations
In the event the Company implements a program of employee evaluations, the evaluations or any part thereof shall not form or be part of an employee's disciplinary record.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 91
Letter cf Intent
Subject:	Printing of Collective Agreement
The Company and the Union commit to timely “proofing” of the Collective Agreement document, such that new Collective Agreements will be distributed to employees within sixty (60) days of ratification.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 92
Letter of Intent
Subject:	Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance
Benefits derived from this allowance are in addition to benefits provided for by the government's pension plan, employment insurance plan, and the Westmin Hourly Pension Plan.
In order to be eligible for benefits in accordance with this provision, an employee must be at least sixty (60) years of age and have at least twenty (20) years of continuous service. Effective April 1, 2006 employees with a combination of age plus service equal to or greaterthan 80, and a minimum of 55 years of age, will be eligible. Employees on disability benefits (Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, WCB) are not eligiblefor benefits underthis provision. The benefits in accordance with this provision will be as follows:
Effective August 15, 2000, the Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance will be $20.00 per month per year of continuous service (to a maximum of 30 years) payable to the earlier of age 65 or death. Effective April 1,2005 the allowance will be $22.00. Effective April 1, 2006 the allowance will be $23.00. EffectiveApril 1,2007 the allowance will be $24.00. The employee will continueto be provided the followingmedi-cal/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
•	MSP - Basic Provincial Medical
•	MSA-Dental & Extended Health
•	Life Insurance-$12,000
These medical/insurance benefits are subject to the provisions of the collective agreement in effect at the time of retirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 93
Letter of Intent
Subject:	30 Year Retirement Supplement
Benefits derived from this supplement are in addition to benefits provided for by the government's pension plan, employment insurance plan, and the Westmin Hourly Pension Plan.
Effective August 15, 2000, those employees retiring with 30 or more years of continuous service will receive an additional paymentfrom the general revenues of the Company to bring their total monthly retirement benefit to $2,800. Effective August15, 2002 the benefitwill be $3,000. EffectiveApril 1, 2006 the benefitwill be $3,100. EffectiveApril 1,2007 the benefitwill be$3,200.This additional payment is payable to the earlier of age 65 or death.
The employee will continueto be provided the following medi-cal/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
■	MSP - Basic Provincial Medical
•	MSA - Dental & Extended Health
■	Life Insurance-$12,000
These medical/insurance benefits are subject to the provisions of the collective agreement in effect at the time of retirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations. Employees on disability benefits (Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, WCB) are not eligiblefor benefits underthis provision.
Datedthis 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 94
Letter of Intent
Subject: Early Retiree Benefit Coverage
(a)	Future Early Retirees
Employees who have elected early retirement under the Westmin Hourly Pension Plan and have not yet reached age 65 will be eligible to receive the following medical/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
•	MSP - Basic Provincial Medical
•	MSA - Dental & Extended Health
•	Life Insurance-$12,000
(b)	Past Early Retirees
The above benefits will also be provided to employees who previouslyelected early retirement and have not yet reached age 65.
(c)	Commencement of Benefits
The above benefits will be providedas soon as possible after ratification of the Collective Agreement bearing in mind the retirees must be available to enroll in the plans.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 95
Letter of Intent
Subject:	Increase Pensions Paid for Current
Pensioners
Effective August 15, 2000, the monthly benefit rate for current pensioners will be increased to $27.00 per month per year of continuous service. The pension calculation will be based on the same adjustment factors used at the time of retirement (e.g. early retirement reduction, optional form amounts).
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 96
Letter of Intent
Re! Union Health & Safety Representative
The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interestof all concerned to promote and maintain a safe and healthy work environment. In order to effect a thoroughly understood and accepted health and safety program for employees, it is agreed that joint and cooperative methods will be encouraged. To this end, the Company agrees to establish a Union Health & Safety Representative position at the mine for the duration of this Agreement.
The Union Health & Safety Representative will be selected by the Union and shall be qualified in terms of knowledge of health and safety programs, rules, regulations and practices, and possess good communications and leadership skills.
The Union Health & Safety Representativewill report to the company Safety & Training Supervisor and will be expected to perform to similar standards as company safety personnel in continuing and improving measures for the prevention of accidents and elimination of health hazards. He/she will undertake to give full support to these objectives by promoting safety consciousness and a personal sense of responsibility among all employees. He/she will also performthe duties of the Union Occupational Health & Safety Committee Co-chair as described in Article 11 of this agreement.
The Union Health & Safety Representative will spend 2 consecutive weeks per month performing these health& safety duties which will encompassthe monthly safety tours and OHSC meeting. Ifthe Committee Co-chair's job receives underground productionbonus, the CommitteeCo-chair will be paid his normal underground production bonus, up to a maximum of the rehab bonus rate, for time spent during these two weeks.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Page 97
Letter of Intent
January 13, 2005
CAW, Local 3019 P.O. Box 98
CAMPBELL RIVER, BC V9W 4Z9
Attention: Claude Pelletier, President Local 3019
Re:	Funding of Pension Benefits
This letter will confirm that the Company will fund the Voluntary Early RetirementAllowance and the 30-Year Retirement Allowance outside of the registeredWestmin Hourly Pension Plan, and as such funding will be made from its general revenues. Notwithstanding, the Company commits to continue ongoing benefit payments beyond the term of the Collective Agreement, and in the event of a labour dispute or cessation of mine operations.
Yours truly,
NVI Mining Limited Myra Falls Operations
Dave Keiver
Human Resources Superintendent
Page 98
Letter of intent
January 13, 2005
CAW, Local 3019 P.O. Box 98
CAMPBELL RIVER, BC V9W 4Z9
Attention: Claude Pelletier, President Local 3019 Re:	Benefit Booklets
The Company undertakes to provide employees with a copy of a benefit booklet outlining the various Health & Welfare benefitscontainedinthe CollectiveAgreementwithin3 months of ratification of the agreement.
Yours truly,
NVI Mining Limited Myra Falls Operations
Dave Keiver
Human Resources Superintendent
Page 99
Letter of Intent
Subject: Entry Level Positions
The Company and Union agree to have the Joint Workplace Training Committee review the entry level positions listed in Appendix B. The JWTC will make recommendationsto the Company and Union by March 31 2001.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 100
Letter of intent
Re: Health and Safety Manual
The Company and Union agree, over the first six (6) months of this Agreement, to develop a Manual for Health and Safety Committee Members. The process will be coordinated between the Company and Union Co-chairs of the Health and Safety Committee.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company
For the Union
Page 101
Letter of Intent
Re: Joint Skilled Trades Committee
The Company and Union confirm that the document entitled “Operational Guidelines of the Joint Skilled Trades Meeting” dated November20, 2003, will be adopted. The Company agrees to continue its reliance on that document and further agrees to participate in quarterly meetings as set out in that document. If there are pressing trades' issues that the Union wishes to address between quarterly meeting, those matters may be raised at the monthly Union-Management meetings.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005,
For the Company
For the Union
Page 102
Letter of Intent Re: Equalized Pay Periods
The Company agrees to modify the current continuous shift scheduleto effect an equaliziation of pay periods. The Union understandsand agrees that the transition may result in some crews working one less day in the chosen pay period, and some crews may have one less day off in the chosen pay period. No additional costs will be borne by the Company related to the change.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company
For the Union
Page 103
Letter of Intent
Re: UndergroundContract Payments
The Union's Bonus Committee will provide to the Company a letter confirming their desire to have bonus payments made in every pay rather than 24 times per year. The Company will honor that request.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company
For the Union
Page 104
Letter of Intent
Re: Hours ac work / Shins
Eligible tradesmen will be given the collective ability to choose their own schedule with the understanding that there will be no schedules in excess of 40 hours per week. The shift schedule must meet the needs of the Company and the schedule adopted cannot result in increased reliance on the mine camp.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company
For the Union
Page 105
Letter of Intent
Re: Retirement Allowance
Forthetwo employees who reached age 65 and retired following the expiry of the Collective Agreement, and the one employeewho will reach age 65 priorto April 1, 2005, the Company will make a special paymentto these employees on April 1, 2005. The paymentwill be equalto$1 Imonth lyear of service X20 years.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company	For the Union
Page 106
Letter of Intent
Re: Life Insuranceand AD&D
In the event that there has been a death (or deaths) since the date the previous Collective Agreement expired and the date of ratifiction, the Company will make a paymentto the Union equal to the amount of the applicable life insurance increase. It will be the responsibility of the Union to make a payment to the deceased employee's beneficiary or estate.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company
For the Union
Page 107
Letter of Intent
Re: Contracting Out Grievances
In the interest of harmonious labour relations the Company is preparedto resolve the contracting out grievances presented at bargaining on January 12, 2005 (25 in total), which we have been assured is an exhaustive list. These grievances are being resolved without prejudice or precedent to both parties to any like or similar situations that may arise in the future. Without acknowledging any wrongdoing, the Company is preparedto pay to the local Union the amount of $10,000 immediately upon ratification, at which time all grievances inthis package will be abandoned. It will be left to the local Union to determine how and to whom the funds will be allocated.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005.
For the Company
For the Union
Page 108
Letter of intent
Re: Health Coverage for Retirees over age 65
Effective July 1,2005 retirees65 years of age and older living in British Columbiaand paying MSP - Basic Provincial Medical premiums, can provide the Company copies of their receipt of payment. The Company will reimburse them for premiums paid in the previous six months, on a twice per year basis in July and January.
The Company agrees to pay to the Union the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per year for the purpose of enabling the Union to assist retired employees of the Company, over age 65, with health coverage.
Dated this 13th day of January, 2005,
For the Company
For the Union
Page 109
Index
A
Page
Absenteeism..........................................18
Apprentice...........................................76
Apprenticeship Training..............................76
Arbitration..........................................42
Assignment of Work...................................89
B
Benefits
-	Booklets......................................99
-	Cancellation of.............................  65
-	Dental........................................62
-	During Sickness or Injury.....................65
-	Early Retirees................................95
-	Life Insurance &AD&D....................  61,107
-	LongTerm Disability...........................63
-	Medical Services..............................60
-	Extended Health.............................. 62
-	Vision Care...................................62
-	Weekly Indemnity..............................61
Bereavement Leave....................................17
Boots, Coveralls & Slickers..........................27
Bulletin Board.......................................15
Bus Transportation...................................80
C
Call-out.............................................50
Camp
-Accommodation...................................85
-	Charges.......................................50
-	Committee.....................................88
Closure of Mine......................................37
Coffee Breaks........................................46
Page 110
Contracting Out
Court, Jury.....
Coveralls......
D
Definition of Day,Week, Month,Year
Disabled Employees................
Discipline........................
Discrimination....................
Disputes..........................
Driving from Mine Site............
Dry to Dry........................
E
Early Retirement...
Employee Defined...
Entry Level Positions Evaluations........
F
Fire Fighting Duty...........
Floaters.....................
G
Gas Testers..................
General Provisions...........
Grievance Committee Chair....
Grievance Procedure..........
H
Health & Safety Manual.......
Health & Safety Representative
Health & Welfare Coverage....
Hot Mealsfor Mill Crews......
Hours of Work................
6,108 ..18
..27
..71
..39
11,70
12,86
44,66
..29
..46
93,95
.... 4
84,100
...91
18
53
29
70
14
40
....101
.....97
.....64
.....90
... 46,105
Page 111
I
InjuredWorker Provision...............................28
Insurance Policies....................................60
Irregular Shifts......................................52
Job Classifications.................................. 82
Job Postings..........................................32
Joint Workforce Training Committee(JWTC) ........71,102
Jury Duty.............................................18
Journeyman Qualifications.............................46
L
35,:
LayCff....................................
Lead Hands................................
Leave of Absence..........................
-	Benefits During....................
-	Bereavement........................
-	Court Duty, Fire Fighting..........
-	Maternity/ Parental................
-	Education Leave............................8,19
-	Union Leave..................................16
Lockouts............................................12
LongTerm Disability................................ 63
M
Management Rights.................................. 11
Medical Examinations................................71
Modified Work Program...............................28
Moonlighting....................................... 70
N
Negotiations....................................... 10
Page 112
o
Occupational Health and Safety Committee............19
Overtime Distribution...............................52
Overtime Meals& Camp Charges........................50
Overtime Pyramiding.................................49
Overtime & Special Pay..............................48
Out of Line Differentia.............................80
P
P.C.B.’s............................................28
Pay Days........................................46,103
Pension Plan........................................63
■	30 Yr. Supplement............................94
■	Current Pensioners...........................96
-	Ext. Health for Retiree's...................109
■	Fundingof Benefits...........................98
-	Voluntary Early Retirement...................93
Pickets Lines.......................................12
Prescription Safety Glasses.........................28
Printing of Agreement...............................71
Probationary Period.................................30
Promotionto Staff....................................5
Premiums............................................51
Q
R
Rate Retention.....................................51
Recall.............................................37
RedCircling/out of line differential...............80
Reporting Pay......................................50
Reprimands& Suspensions............................70
Rest Between Shifts................................48
Retiree Health Coverage...........................109
Retirement Allowance..............................106
Page 113
S
Safety.......
Seniority....
Seniority Lists Severance Pay Shifts
Shift Differential Shutdown Social Justice Fund Standby Time Statutory Holidays
Strikes.................
Students................
Supervisor Working......
T
Technological Change...
Temporary Hires.........
Temporary Vacancies....
Term....................
Tool Allowance..........
Trades Premium..........
Training................
Transportation..........
-	Buses............
-	Company Vehicles.,
-	InjuredWorker....
-	Irregular Shifts.
U
Underground Contract Committee.................66,
Union
-Activities on Companytime......................
-	Dues.........................................
-	Health & Safety Representative...............
Page 11 4
coo-*- o cnrorooooo'«joicn-,-ODCO‘vi	• • tn a co 01 m -4 go cd
•'-jcoco ■£»•	rococooo-^roroouiocD	o5Oiro«0(Bsi-*w(oooocD
-	Leaves...................................15,16
-	Membership..................................69
-	Office at Mine.................................
-	Pay for Union Business......................14
-	Recognition.....................................
-	Security....................................67
Union Management Meetings...........................4
V
Vacancies within Classifications...................34
Vacation...........................................56
Vacation Scheduling.........;....................58
Vacation Shutdowns.................................57
Vision Care.....................................28,62
Voluntary Early Retirement.........................93
W
Wage Schedule " A..................................81
Wages Rates........................................45
Workers Compensation Claims........................29
Page 115