00183(05)
If.
AR
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
PREAMBLE...........................
SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT.............
REGULARITY OF WORK.................
RECOGNITION AND EXCLUSIONS.........
MANAGEMENT ........................
CONTRACTING OUT....................
UNION ACTIVITIES ..................
UNION SECURITY.....................
SENIORITY..........................
HOURS OFWORK AND OVERTIME..........
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE................
PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS.....
LEAVE OF ABSENCE ..................
SICK LEAVE.........................
VACATIONS..........................
REPLACED WITH REVISED ARTICLE 2....
GENERAL............................
NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT...............
SAFETY AND HEALTH..................
CUSTOM AND CONDITION ..............
SALARIES...........................
CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN..........,.
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN j;..:
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE;...;.............
JURY DUTY..........................
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL'.....:..........
SAFETY CLOTHING....................
PAGE
........9
......11
.......15
......19
......24
......26
......28
......32
......35
......35
...... 36
......36
...... 37
...... 37
..... 42.
......45
......47
......48
......49
......51
1
27	RETIREMENTALLOWANCE.................
28	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE................
29	JOB POSTING.........................
30	SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE.................
31	SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
32	DEATH BENEFITS FOR PENSIONERS.......
33	COMPASSIONATE LUMPSUM PAYMENT.......
34	CONTRACT NEGOTIATION MEETINGS.......
35	DURATION OF AGREEMENT...............
APPENDIX 'A'- STANDARD HOURS OFWORK/WEEK........
APPENDIX lA-1’-STANDARD HOURS OFWORK/WEEK.......
APPENDIX B’ - LIST OF GROUPS....................
52
53
54
55
56 59
59
60 6f 62 63 65
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
#1 PREFERRED PLACES IN THE MINE.................
#2	TRANSITPERSONS & SURVEYORS -
PRODUCTION WALL FACE RATE MAKE-UP PAYMENT .
#3	OVERPAYMENTS............................
#4	EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE
PLAN & SEVERANCE PAY...................
#5 ARTICLE 13.1 (K).............................
#6 REQUALIFYING LAID OFF CAW EMPLOYEES..........
#7	FRAMEWORK FOR LABOUR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
AS AGREED BY JOINT PLANNING COMMITTEE..
#8	GAINSHARING PLAN........................
#9	LUMP SUM PAYMENT IN LIEU OF
WAGE INCREASE FOR YEAR 2000............
69
71
73
74 79 81
82
83
84
2
PREAMBLE
Whereas Devco and the Union agree that the purpose of this Collective Agreement is to promote and maintain a sound and harmonious relationship between the Corporation and its employees covered by this Agreement and to set fo rth herein their rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as well as to provide the machinery for prompt settlement of grievancesarising between the parties during the term of this agreement. In the event that settlement under this Agreement does not meet the minimum standards as provided in the Canada Labour Code, Part III, the Code will take precedence.
Therefore Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
ARTICLE 1
SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
1.1	No employee who was on the books of Devco 1st of April 1968 will be removed from the books unless he/she is placed on the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan or offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
1.2	The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any employee for cause.
1.3	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct
3
and development of the mining operation as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
1.4	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off employees if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work in each week is available to all employees who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next clause.
ARTICLE 2
REGULARITY OF WORK
2.1	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
2.2	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employmentthat no employee will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he/she gives the supervisor/department manager's office notice of his/her intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least two hours before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
2.3	An employee who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager'soffice is informed of his/her intended return to work at least two hours be-
4
fore the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given, he/she will be sent home.
2.4	Any employee who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence, will be disciplined as follows:
First Offence - After an absence without cause, a corrective interview will be held with the employee. This interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee.
Second Offence - After the second absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee and followed up with a confirming letter to the employee.
Third Offence -After the third absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee. The interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee. At this stage, the employee will also be suspended, with pay, for one full work shift. A further absence without cause will result in the dismissal of the employee.
It is clearly understood that, should an employee have a clear record for a twelve (12) month period between the first offence and second offence, orthe second and third offence, or after the third offence, his/her record shall be considered clear.
ARTICLE 3
RECOGNITION AND EXCLUSIONS
3.1	The Corporation recognizes the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation, and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) as the sole collec-
5
tive bargaining agent for bargaining unit employees of the Corporation's Coal Divisionas defined inthe Canada Labour Relations Board certificate issued on April 25, 1990.
3.2	BARGAINING UNIT WORK
It is recognized that emergencies may arise when a non-bargaining unit person may be required to assist in the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. It is understood, however,that no nonbargaining unit employee shall perform any work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit, except inthose non-routine circumstances where the alternative would mean serious loss, damage, or creation of a safety hazard.
Any abuse of this clause shall be taken up under the usual procedure for handling grievances.
The Corporation recognizes the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) or its successors, as the sole bargaining agent for the employees as described in Article 1, and agrees to meet with representatives of the Local Union for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement.
Should a new classification with the bargaining unit be created during the term of this Agreement, the Management and Executive of the Union shall decide on the rate and designation.
No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of this contract.
It is recognized that emergencies may arise when a 6
non-Bargaining unit person may be required to perform work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. It is understood, however, that the day-to-day temporary replacements for shotfirers and mine examiners (UMW of A qualified to perform the work) shall continue as has been past practice. The Corporation agrees that when it is known in advance, the Corporation will recall to employment laid-off members of the bargaining unit qualified to do the work available to fill such vacancy.
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT
4.1	The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and manage its own business. The Union further recognizes the right of the corporation to hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, suspend or otherwise discipline any employee for just cause. Any employee who thinks he/she has been unjustly dealt with by the Corporation may consider he/she has a grievance and may have it dealt with in the manner herein after provided.
ARTICLE 5
CONTRACTING OUT
5.1	Except in the following circumstances, the Corporation will not contract out work in respect of which the bargaining tinit has been certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board:
(1)When required,when professionalortechni-
7
cal skills are not available from within the bargaining unit; or
(2) In emergencies or otherwise where sufficient employees qualified to perform work are not available from among the active or laid-off employees who are members of the bargaining unit.
5.2	The Corporation will advise the Union representative involved in writing as far in advance as is practicable of its intention to contract out. Such advice will contain a description of the work to be contracted out, the reasons why, and if possible, the date the contract is to commence. If a request for a meeting from the aforementioned Union Representatives is made to discuss such contracting out, it will be arranged at a mutually acceptable time.
ARTICLE 6
UNION ACTIVITIES
6.1	The Union and employees covered by this agreement shall not conduct Union activities during working hours except as in this Agreement expressly provided. Nor shall union meetings of any kind be held at any time on the premises of the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation. The Corporation will make available those bulletin boards located in its offices for the use of the Union, and it is agreed that the use by the Union of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon of such notices as shall have received the prior approval of the Employee Relations Department and such notices shall be restricted to notices of the following type:
a
(a)	Notices of Union meetings, recreational and social affairs.
(b)	Notices cf Union elections, appointments arid results of elections.
If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his/her nominee wishes to contact one of the Union representatives during working hours concerning some urgent in-office problem relating to this Agreement, he/she shall make such request through the Employee Relations Department and, provided such meeting will not needlessly interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representative to confer in private at a Corporation Office. The Unionwill provide the Corporation with the names of the Department Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will also provide the names of any alternate in the event of substitution.
ARTICLE 7
UNION SECURITY
7.1	Every employee who is a member of the Union at the effective date of this Agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life cf the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union duringthe life of the Agreement, provided he/she continues to be an eligible member and during the life of the Agreement shall have deducted from his/ her wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorized by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union
7.2	Every employee who is not a member of the Union but who occupies a position within the bargaining
9
unit shall have deducted from his/her wages a sum equivalentto Union dues in such amount as may from ^ time to time be assessed to their members according to the Union Constitution.
7.3	All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from their wages, within 30 days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to the Union Constitution.
7.4	The Corporation shall remit weekly by cheque the total of the deductions to the Financial Secretary of the CAW, Local 4504.
7.5	The Corporation agrees to provide to the Secretary-Treasurer a monthly list showing the dues deducted by the Corporation from salaries paid to employees who are under the jurisdiction of the Local. Union dues shall be collected from employees transferred outside the bargaining unit temporarily. Collection of Union dues will cease should the employee become established in the position outside the bargaining unit and such transfer is confirmed by the Corporation to be permanent.
7.6	The Union shall indemnify and hold the Corporation harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this Agreement.
10
ARTICLE 8
SENIORITY
8.1	Definitions
(a)	Forthose employees in the bargaining unit prior to January 1,1997, seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit and shall include service with the employer priorto becoming a member of the bargaining unit.
Forthose employees becoming members of the bargaining unit after January 1, 1997, seniority shall be defined as length of service in the bargaining unit only.
(b)	"Probationary Employee"meansan employee on probation for the first six months from his/her most recent date of employment with the corporation.
(c)	"Permanent Employee" means an employee who occupies a position within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his/her probationary period.
(d)	"Ability" shall include experience and skill on the
job, aptitude and adaptability.
" means the employee(s) as identified in
(f)	"Redundant" means the elimination of a position.
Employees affected as a result of redundancy will be considered as laid off and will be entitled to exercise their seniority under layoff and recall (.3 below).
8:2 Lay-Off and Recall
(a)	The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient work force. The Corporation will advise union representatives and the local Union
11
Executive in advance of any layoffs and provide details of classifications involved.
When Management is aware in advance of a reduction in the workforce, employees so affected by the reduction shall be given a minimum of five (5) days notice of layoff prior to the effective date of layoff, except in circumstances where the layoff is the result of a bump.
(b)	Inthe event of a lay-off of employees covered by |v this Agreement, the Corporation shall reduce the work - force employed inthe following manner: Probationary
employees will be laid off first; then permanent employees.
(c)	Short Term layoff
In the event of a temporary layoff in excess of fifteen working days, an employee(s) with the ability as outlined in 8.1(d) must exercise his/her bumping rights. N It is also understood that employees may require training, therefore, if reasonable and practicable to do so, the Corporation will provide from one to seven weeks of training to such employees. Management and the Union will meet within five days to discuss the details and employees involved.
(d)	General Layoff
The Corporation and the Union agree that in the event of a permanent work force reduction every effort must be made to retain those affected employees with the most bargaining unit seniority and ability. The Corporation and the Union also agree that in order to retain senior employees with the ability, training of various lengths of duration will be required. The Corporation and the Union will mutually agree to the required training periods for individuals based on their qualifications. 12
If the parties are unable to reach agreement on a reasonable training period for a specific position, then a qualified independent person will tie asked to hear submissions from both parties and recommend a final decision. Any payment required will be borne equally by the parties.
(i)	It is understood employees who exercise their seniority in the bumping process also have the ability to perform the work. Ability is defined in .1 (d) above.
(ii)	An employee(s) who is affected by a redundancy or a workforce reduction at a site shall be those employees with the least Corporation seniority.
(iii)	An employee(s) so affected shall bump a junior employee in the same classification at that site or any other site, or a junior bargaining unit employee at his/ her own site in the same group. Group is defined in .1
(e)	above.
(iv)	An employee laid off at a site shall bumpajunior employee in his/her group at another site, or a junior bargaining unit employee at his/her own site.
(v)	The most junior employee bumped from a site shall bump a junior employee in the bargaining unit.
(e)	Recall to work following a lay-off shall be done in order of seniority provided the employees recalled are able to perform satisfactorily the work to be done.
8:3 Lass of Employment Status
Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, an employee's employment with the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following:-
(a)	He/she is dismissed for just cause and such dis-13
missal is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(b)	He/she resigns in writing and does not withdraw the resignation within five working days. The Union representative shall be made aware of such resignations as they are submitted.
(c)	He/she retires or is retired.
.(d) If any employee is off work as a result of lay-off i:y-■. for 24 months if his/her employment service is less than 24 months. In the event the employee's service ’ is between 24 months and 60 months, the employee will not lose seniority until after a period of lay-off corresponding to the length of the employee's service to a maximum of 60 months.
(e) He/she fails to return to work within fifteen (15) calendar days following a layoff and after being notified by registered mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his/her current address. An employee recalled for work shall not lose his/her recall rights for refusal to return to such work for a bonafide reason.
8.4	Seniority List
The Corporation shall provide seniority lists showing the check number, name, employee's service date, job classification, and work location. Such lists will be posted annually and not later than January 31st.
8:5 Transfers
The following terms will govern the transfer of employees into or out of the bargaining unit.
(a)	No employee will be promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit without his/her consent.
14
(b)	In the event an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he/she shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit within one year of the appointment.
(c)	In the event an employee is working at a work site other than his/her former location and in the event that work again becomes available at his/her former location, and before junior employees are assigned to the former location, those employees with seniority would have the right to return to the former location. Such option must be exercised within five (5) working days of the date the offer is made.
(d)	If an employee declines an opportunity to return to his/her former location, then such position will be filled by job posting.
NOTE: Bargaining unit positions at new Corporation sites shall be posted in accordance with Article 29 -Job Postings.
ARTICLE 9
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.1	Hours of Work
The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours consisting of five (5) days per week eight (8) hours per day or seven (7) hours per day, thirty five (35) hours per week in the respective categories where such hours, now exist, (see listing of categories attached) >’./ -:
9.2	Rostering	^ s -
A roster will be posted at each operational unit which will specify the five normal shifts that each employee
15
will work and which may be any five shifts in a week of seven days. The roster will be so updated as to normally give each employee a week's notice of his/her specific shift roster for the following weeks and will reflect the additional work days required so as to pro-
( vide an average of 22 days per month.
'f *J9.3 Paragraph 9.2 provides for the setting up of ros-“ters for each employee to be allotted five shifts within seven days. For each of those shifts between 7a.m. on Saturday and 7 a.m. on Monday for which an employee is rostered and which he/she works the full eight hours, he/she will receive a premium of $10.00 over and above his/her normal datal rate. This premium will not be taken into account in computing his/her overtime payment if he/she works more than eight hours in the weekend shift and it will not apply if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his/her five normal shifts for that week.
9.4	Nothing herein shall be read or construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day, week or month.
9.5	(a) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular rate will be applicable after seven (7) hours of work per day, thirty-five (35) hours of work per week, or eight (8) hours of work per day, forty (40) hours of work per week in the respective categories where such hours now exist. Premium hours accumulated on a daily basis shall not be used for the purpose of calculating premium hours on a weekly basis.
) ,!.	(b) Employees shall be paid at double time the
regular classification rate for all time worked on a paid statutory holiday. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his/her
16
remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs.
Where the employee fails to work all of his/her remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs as a result of a mechanical or electrical failure which renders the site idle, the employee so affected will qualify forthe double time paymentfor
all time worked on the statutory holiday. .	,,
?,! -1
(c)	Employees will be paid at double time the' regular classification rate for all time worked on a non-rostered Sunday shift. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his/her remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the non-rostered Sunday shift occurs.
9.6	Employees will be rostered five (5) days in a seven (7) day period. Where, after an employee has been given a weekly roster and is required at the request of the Corporation to change his/her rostered work days in a current week, overtime rates of pay will be paid for the non-rostered day. Exceptions to this may occur when the roster change must be made over which the Corporation has no control, such as ship arrivals, requests for services from sources outside the Corporation, or abnormal circumstances.
9.7	Shift Cancellation
An employee who, while at home, is requested by Management and agrees to work a non-rostered shift and then cancelled before the commencement time of the non-rostered shift shall be paid the sum of $15.00 for such cancellation.
9.8	(a) Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately
17
prior to their regularly rostered shift will be credited with four (4) hours actually worked. For the purpose of this clause, the expression "immediately following" an employee's regularly rostered shift means that the employee has not left the premises, and the expression "immediately prior" to an employee's regularly rostered shift means less than two (2) hours before the employee's shift.
(b) Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this Article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
It is agreed that the Corporation will not make use of Articles 9.1 and 9.5 of this Agreement to defeat the purpose of this Article. $
9.9	Overtime Meals	^
A member of the bargaining unit required to work more than two hours of overtime as an extension to his/her shift will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy. In the event it is impractical to provide a meal to an employee so qualified (such as restaurant closing hours during backshift, etc.), then the employee will be provided with a meal chit to the value of $7.50.
9.10	Banking of Overtime
Banking of overtime should be permitted on the following basis:
i)Overtime of less than seven hours or eight hours cannot be banked.
18
ii)	The maximum amount of overtime that an employee can bank in a calendar year is one hundred five (105) or one hundred twenty (120) hours,
iii)	Once an employee has utilized thirty-five (35) hours or forty (40) hours (depending on the employees hours of work) of banked overtime in a calendar year, the employee will not be entitled to make use of any additional banked overtime if his/her absentee rate for the year, as of the date time off is requested, exceeds ten percent (10%). Time off on Union business will not be used when determining the percentage.
fljO/ iv) Requests to use banked overtime must be 1 made one (1) week in advance of the time to be taken off and are subject to approval by the site head or designate.
v)	Time off will only be granted where operational requirements permit, however, every reasonable effort will be made to grant the request.
vi)	Banked overtime which is accumulated but not used in a calendar year will be paid out by the Corporation not later than January 15th of the following year.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
No grievance shall be considered which usurps the functions of Management provided that the question ofwhether or notthe subject matter ofthe grievance is arbitrable may itself be carried through the grievance procedure as part of the grievance and determined accordingly.
19
The Corporation shall decline to consider any grievance the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more than five (5) working days prior to its presentation. No grievance will be considered or processed by the Corporation during any stoppage of work which is in violation of this agreement.
It is understood and agreed that a probationary employee shall be entitled to use the grievance procedure, but shall not be entitled to grieve with respect to his/her probationary separationexceptthat afterthe firstthree months of his/her probationary period the employee may request Union representation for the purpose of presenting the facts in the event that he/she feels he/she has been unfairly dismissed.
The grievance procedure shall apply equally to a grievance lodged by an employee or group of employees and with the necessary changes commencing at Stage 2 apply to any grievance lodged by the Corporation.
Any employee having a grievance will attempt to settle it with his/her immediate Supervisor. Inthe caseofadis-charge or where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation occurs, Step 1 may be bypassed.
Step 1
Within five (5) days of the grievance arising, the grievor will file with his/her supervisor a written grievance on the Corporation's standard grievanceform and will meet within five (5) days with his/her Supervisor, the Designated Manager/Department Head and Employee Relations Manager along with his/her Union representative to discuss the grievance. Management will provide a written answer within three (3) days afterthe first meet-
20
ing (Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays excluded). Step 2
Failing settlement at Step 1, the grievance may be appealed by the Local Chairman of the Grievance Committee to the General Manager or his nominee, arid a representative of the Employee Relations Department shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his nominee and other representatives of the Unionasthe local chairman shall designate, notto exceed two employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the union, or his nominee, if he desiresto attend. The General Manager will act as Chairman of this Step 2 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union, and the circumstances of the particular grievance require additional representation. The decision of the Corporation at this step shall be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the delivery of the appeal to the General Manager. Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 2, the matter may then be referred to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the decision at Step 2.
The time limits, as herein expressed, must be extended by mutual agreement of the parties hereto, using the form provided. The Union will submit to the Corporation the names of CAW representatives with the authority to sign such agreement.
A grievance not progressed within the time limits specified shall be considered abandoned and shall not be subjectto further appeal. A grievance in which a decision is not rendered by the designated officer of the Corporation at Steps 1 & 2 within the time limit speci-
21
tied in such steps, shall be considered settled in favour of the grievor(s). A settlement under such circumstances shall be without prejudice and not constitute a precedent or waiver of the contentions of the Corporation in such matters.
Note: Distribution of Replies: - which will include extension of time limits forms
Step 1 - Grievor and Local Chairman
Step 2 - National Representative & Local Chairman
Step 3 ARBITRATION
(A)	Notice in writing may be given by one party to the other after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to arbitration. In such cases, a sole arbitrator shall be appointed by the parties within fifteen (15) days following the delivery of written notice calling for arbitration. Should the parties be unable to agree on the selection of an arbitrator, the Federal Minister of Labour will be requested to make the appointment.
(B)	In all cases, the decision shall be final and binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement or make any other decision inconsistent with specific terms of the Agreement. The arbitrator shall have the authority, incases where its decision isthat the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to orderthis reinstatement.
The arbitrator shall be paid jointly by management and union.
22
REQUEST FOR EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS
It is agreed to extend the time limits of Grievance No. ______________________________as under:
Stage i Supervisor Decision to Employee
Stage ii Union reply to General Manager
Meeting between Management-Union
Management reply to Union	_______
ArbitrationIMotice of Arbitration by Union----------
Notice of Arbitration by Corporation ____
Due Date:___________________________________________
Extended io:
Requested by:_______________________________________
Agreed by:__________________________________________
23
PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS Holiday Entitlement:
11.1	Paid Holidays shall be granted as follows:
6. Labour Day
11.2(a) If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday.
The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(b)	Employees can substitute the "additional holiday" with a "floating holiday" which may be taken at any time convenient to both employee and management with two weeks advance written request. Management reserves the right to limit the number granted a holiday on any given day to the number not required in the operation on that day. The eligibility requirement for the "floating holiday" shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the date of the day requested.
(c)	Eligibility for payment for "additional holiday" shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation. Until the "additional holi-
3.	Victoria Day
4.	Miners' Memorial Day
5.	Canada Day
7.	Thanksgiving Day
8.	Remembrance Day
9.	Christmas Day
10.	Boxing Day
11.	Floating Holiday
24
day" is named by statute, the eight hours pay will be included in the Christmas vacation pay.
11.3	When any of the above holidays fall on Sunday or Saturday, the day observed by the Federal Government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. If in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
11.4	If a statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day's pay provided he was entitled to pay for such holiday. The additional day may be taken as either:
1.	an extra vacation day; or
2.	a floating holiday
Such day is to be taken at a date mutually agreed to between the employee and management.
11.5	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) calendar days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least five (5) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
25
LEAVE OF ABSENCE Union Functions
12:1 Upon written request to the employer, an em-_ *1 ployee elected or appointed to represent the Union at '^conventions, or to attend executive and committee meetings of CAW, shall be allowed leave of absence without pay. This shall be limited to five (5) employees at any one time.
12:2 Elected union representatives will be permitted ■ yto report off work for the purpose of attending to Un" ion business. Permission to take such time off must be requested under Clause .02, Article 2, Regularity of Work. Confirmation of such absence must be confirmed in writing by the Union Executive.
■ General Leave
12:3 An employee may be allowed ninety (90) working days leave of absence without pay in any one calendar year for personal reasons if a request is made to the Corporation in writing and the reason given is satisfactory to the Corporation. It is the exclusive right of the Corporation to refuse to grant leave of absence or extend leave of absence for additional periods, for reasons satisfactory to the Corporation.
12.4	Leave of Absence for Fulltime Union or Public
The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections.
Duties
26
(b)	An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (a) of this Article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his/ her term of office.
(c)	An employee who is elected or selected for a full-
time position with the Union shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority for a maximum period of three years. Such leave may be renewed on request, by mutual agreement, during his/her term of office. It is understood such employee will not accrue credit for any Corporation benefits during such leave of absence.	‘
(d)	Employees granted leave of absence under Article 12.4 b/c must return to work within two (2) months after the expiration of such elected position or appointment.
12.5	Education Leave
An employee requesting a leave of absence for education purposes must submit in writing his/her request to the Director of Human Resources. It is the exclusive right of the Corporation to refuse to grant leave of absence or extend leave of absence for additional periods, for reasons satisfactory to the Corporation.
12.6	Paid Education Leave

The Corporation agrees to pay into a special fund two cents ($.02) per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Such leave will be for upgrading the employee skills in all aspects of trade union functions. Such monies to be paid on a quarterly basis into a trust fund established bythe National Union, CAW, effective from date of ratification, and sent bythe company to
27
the following address: CAW Leadership Training Fund, CAW-TCA Canada, 205 Placer Court, North York, ON M2H 3H9.
12.7	The Corporation will grant a leave of absence with pay to members of the Union to attend to union business and will bill the Union monthly for all reimbursements normally paid by the Corporation. The financial secretary will submit to the Corporation the names of those employees eligible for salary continuation.
ARTICLE 13
SICK LEAVE
13.1	In the event of an employee being absent from work as a result (a) of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his/ her normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium, or any special allowance to the extent that he/she is entitled according to the applicable provisions of this Collective Agreement and this Article.
(b) Salaries paid under the provision of this article shall be subject to normal statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Worker's Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers' Compensation payments, four-tenth's a day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on Compensation have his/her payments made up to his/her salary for more than 60 calendar days during a calendar year.
28
(c)	No employee shall have his/her salary adjusted for more that sixty (60) days in a calendar year.
(d)	In order to qualify for payment tinder this article, employees who must absent themselves from work due to sickness or personal disability, must notify their department supervisor of their intended absence and the reason for the absence. The employee must, within five working days, provide the department supervisor with a certificate from a licensed physician indicating the employee was unable to perform his/her regular duties, the treatment received, and dates treatment received. Written proof of treatment from the first day of layoff where payment is to be made for layoff is required.
(e)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted illness or injury. Any employee who absents himself/herself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation. Salary continuation will riot be paid beyond the effective date of lay-off, providedthe employee is advised of lay-off prior to the illness or accident occurring.
(f)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of one (1) rostered day during the calendar year. An employee laying-off work through sickness or injury after having worked the last rostered shift priorto Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of sick leave left from the previous year.
(g)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation
29
from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to continue to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year.
(h)	An employee who, while on his/her annual vacation, becomes hospitalized, shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and the actual days spent in hospital shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
(i)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
(i) Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance Commission benefits.
(k)	On the first disability, payment shall start on the first day and a waiting period shall not be required. On the second disability, payment shall start on the second day of the illness. There shall be a one-day waiting period. On the third disability, payment shall start on the third day of the illness. There shall be a two-day waiting period. On the fourth disability, payment shall start on the fourth day of the illness. There shall be a three-day waiting period. The three-day waiting period shall be in effect on all succeeding disabilities. See Letter of Understanding #5.
(l)	An employee who is absent from a regular rostered shift(s) and has sick day(s) credit will be paid sick day benefits from the first day of disability if hospitalized within the waiting period(s) as outlined in Article 13 (K). Forthe purpose of this clause, hospitalized meansthat the employee has actually beenadmit-ted as a regular patient in the hospital and the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission recognizes same by paying a full day's hospital stay on his/her behalf.
30
(m)	An employee required through illness to leave work after having completed a half-shift's work shall not havethe absence considered a disability under this article, provided the number of absences occurring through such illness in any one calendar year does not exceed two.
13.2	Sick Leave Credits - incumbent Employees
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Service Requirement
Under 12 months of-continuous service
Over 12 months of continuous -service but tinder 60 months of continuous service
Over 60 months of continuous -but under 180 months of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous -calendar year
13.3	Sick Leave - New Employee to the Bargaining Unit
(a)	Effective January 1,1982, an employee in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his/her most recent hire shall accumulate and be granted sick leave not exceeding a total of 60 days from his regular work schedule through bona fide illness or non-compensable injury.
(b)	Such leave shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate of 1 1/4 working days per calendar month, pro-
31
1 clay for each month of service
22 days during a calendar year
44 days during a service calendar year
60 days during a service
vided the employee hasworked a minimum of 20 regu-lady scheduled days in each calendar month to a maximum accumulation of 60 days, provided such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for one scheduled day at straight time.
(c) An employee new to the bargaining unit who becomes sick before being able to accumulate sick credits as per paragraph (a) and (b) shall be permitted to borrow up to a maximum of one year's sick credits (15 sick days).
ARTICLE 14
VACATIONS
14.1	In each calendar year, paid vacation shall be earned by all employees covered by this agreement. Paid vacation credits shall be earned on the basis of each twenty (20) days worked and years of service to a maximum of twenty-five (25) days in any calendar year. Vacation credits are earned and accumulated in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which they are taken.
A. Incumbent Employees Priorto January 1,1997:
The maximum vacation with pay which may be earned shall be twenty-five (25) days for service in excess of twenty years, beginning January 1,1997.
Vacation entitlements for incumbent employees with less than twenty years service will be calculated as follows:
after 10 years - 20 days after 12 years - 21 days
32
-	after 14 years - 22 days
-	after 16 years - 23 days
-	after 18 years - 24 days
-	after 20 years - 25 days
B. New Employees to Corporation Subsequent to
January 1/97:
New employees to the Corporation will be entitled to earn fifteen (15) daysvacation fro mtheirfirst (1st) year of full employment to the tenth (10th) year of employment. Entitlementfor years of service beyond ten (10) years will be calculated as stated above.
14.2	Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with
operations and will, insofar as possible, conform with the general periods of vacation scheduled by the Corporation for its employees in mining and allied departments. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first clay of the New Year.	^ ,i ■
14.3	Vacations must be taken inthe calendaryear they fall due and wages/salaries shall riot be paid in lieu of vacations except under the special circumstances outlined in Clause 14.4 below. If, however, employees are requested by management to work vacation period(s) and not enough time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his/her earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
33
14.4	Any employee leaving the services of the Corporation after working a full year since his/her last vacation period will be given vacation entitlement as per
14.1	or vacation salary as the Corporation may decide. Any employee leaving the Corporation's service after working less than a full year since his/her last vacation period will, providing he/she is not dismissed for cause or leavesthe service of his/her own accord and for reasons beyond his/her control, be given the calculated vacation days off or salary as per 14.1 since his/her last vacation period as the Corporation may decide.
14.5	Vacation pay will be at the employee's current rate of pay when he/she takes his vacation. If an employee works a part year on datal pay and reverts to a salary, he/she will draw as his/her vacation pay the datal rate or the salary rate whichever is greater.
14.6	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked shall mean paid vacation days, paid bereavement leave, paid jury duty, paid statutory holidays, authorized absences for union business, except those granted under Article 12.3, absences from work dueto on-the-job injury (for which Workers' Compensation is paid), or an illness or accident for which benefits are received or would have been received (penalty days) under Article 13 of this agreement. In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than a total of sixty (60) days in any calendar year in respect of a combination of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee does not actually work in any calendar year, the aforementioned sixty (60) days shall not be applicable.Days worked shall also include layoff through no fault of the employee to a maximum of forty (40) days.
34
ARTICLE 15
Replaced with revised Article 2
ARTICLE 16
GENERAL
16.1	(a) The Corporation shall continue a pay system whereby employee weekly wages will be deposited to an account at the banking institution of the employee's choice.
(b)	A statement of the employee's weekly earnings and deductions will be provided to the employee at the work site.
16.2	The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized by the employee.
16.3	The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for Credit Union when so authorized in writing by the employee.
16.4	Price of Coal to Employees
Employees covered by this collective agreement who are eligible to purchase coal at reduced rates will be governed by the terms negotiated between the Corporation and the major bargaining unit (UMWofA).
For the purpose of this article, eligible employees shall include all employees covered by this collective agreement who retire from the service of the Corporation.
16.5	If an employee is temporarily transferred for short periods of time and for the benefit of the Corporation and travel by personal auto is required, applicable mileage will be paid. If the transfer is for the benefit of the
35
employee or is permanent, then mileage will not be paid.
16.6	In the event of a temporary transfer, requested by the Corporation, the employee involved will be paid the higher of the two rates.
ARTICLE 17
NO STRIKE ■ NO LOCK-OUT
17.1	The Union shall not strike or authorize a strike of any of the employees covered by this agreement or authorize any other interference or curtailment of operations by such employees contrary to law during the term of this agreement.
The Corporation shall not lock-out or sanction a lockout ofany employee covered by this agreement contrary to law during the duration of the agreement.
17.2	No employee will leave his/her workplace until it is in a protected condition.
ARTICLE 18
SAFETY AND HEALTH
18.1	It is mutually agreed that both Management and the Union will co-operate to the fullest possible extent toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety first and health.
18.2	The Corporation agrees to make necessary provisions for the safest possible working conditions in the mines, in strict accordance with directives as outlined in the Canada Labour Code, Coal Mines(C.B.D.C.) Safety Regulations.
36
18.3	The Corporation agrees to provide to the employees safety clothing at cost.
18.4	Employee Assistance Program
Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to co-operate in encouraging employees who may become afflicted with alcoholism or drugs to undergo a co-ordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
ARTICLE 19
CUSTOM AND CONDITION
It is mutually understoodthat agreed past customs and conditions will only be changed after discussion and agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 20
SALARIES
20.1	The following increases will take place effective January 1,1997 for CAWemployees:-
Effective January 1/97	Shotfirers	$102.00Weekly
Effective January 1/97	Examiners	$ 76.80Weekly
Effective January 1/97	Underground	$ 52.40 Weekly
Effective January 1/97	Surface (40 hr)	$ 26.00 Weekly
Effective January 1/97	Surface (35 hr)	$ 22.75 Weckly
20.2	The Corporation agrees that salary employees under this agreement employed as part of a crew to perform a well defined task during a shift will be per-
37
mitted to leave the mine with the crew when the whole task has been completed to the satisfaction of the supervisor and the supervisor has authorized the men to leave the mine. This does not apply to individual employees who will be disciplined if they leave the mine singly before the end of the shift.
20.3	Vacation Pay Bonus Applicable to Shotfirers/Mine Examiners Only
(a)	After one (I) year of continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to one days pay at his/her current rate. >
(b)	After five (5) years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent of 2.5 days pay at his/her current rate.
(c)	After ten (10) years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days vacation pay, will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent of 3.5 days pay at his/her current rate.
(d)	After fifteen (15) years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 4.5 days pay at his/ her current rate.
(e)	After twenty (20) years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump
38
sum vacation bonus equivalent to 5 days pay at his/her current rate.
20.4	Temporary Assignment to the Position ot Supervisor
The shotfirer and examiner will receive the rate of the supervisor replaced. Working conditions which apply to supervisors will apply to the substituting examiner or shotfirer when serving in the above-mentioned capacity and receiving the salary rate of the position.
20.5	Payment for Wet Conditions
The Corporation will pay a premium of $1.00 per day to an employee for working in wet conditions under the following criteria.
1.	Employees affected must he working at development faces, longwall faces, including stripping and set-up operations.
2.	The water causing the wet conditions must be coming from the roof, the shift managerwill be responsible for determining when conditions are such that payments will be made.
CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL ONLY:
20.6	All positions subject to this agreement have been evaluated and graded as defined in Appendix "A" attached hereto, and such grading shall apply for purposes of this agreement.
20.7	New or changed positions shall be evaluated and graded by the Corporation to conform with the positions covered in Appendix "A" and such determination shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
39
20.8	A standard monthly salary rate shall be applied to each position grade and such rates shall become the standard monthly salary scale.
20.9	The Standard Monthly Salary Scale of rates shall apply to all employees who are qualified in their respective position grades and the monthly salary rates for each position grade shall be the established standard rate.
20.10	In addition to the standard monthly scale of rates, a schedule of progression rates is established in accordance with the following:
(a)	A starting rate for each position grade at a level ten percent (10%) below the standard rate for the position.
(b)	A first progression rate for each position grade, at a level five percent (5%) below the standard rate for the position.
20.11	Theestablished progressional rate defined in 20.8 shall apply to the position in the respective grades as follows:
(a)	The starting rate shall apply commencing on the date an employee is assigned to such grade and continue for a period of six months.
(b)	Then the first progression rate shall apply commencing as of the beginning of the month closest to the date when such employee completed such training period and continue for a period cf six months.
(c)	Then the standard rate of the job shall apply commencing at the beginning cf the month closest to the date when such employee shall have completed the final progression period, provided however, in the case
40
of (a) and (b) above, that the employee has proved satisfactory to the management at the time such progression periods are completed, and such determination shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
20.12	Should an employee have ability beyond that required in any progression period, the Corporation, at its sole discretion, may waive in whole or in part the established progression periods defined in 20.8 and
20.9	above.
20.13	An employee who has been incumbent at a position grade for more than two years and demoted to another position of a lower grade for reasons other than disciplinary action or incompetence, shall receive the standard rate of the position to which demoted in the following stages:
-	If the demotion to a lower grade is two or more position grades he/she shall be reduced, six months after the date of demotion, to the standard of the range of one position grade above the position he/she shall occupy. He/she shall then be reduced to the standard of the range of the position which he/she shall occupy six months after the date of the previous decrease.
-	If the demotion to a lower grade is one position grade, his/her salary will be reduced in six months from the date of demotion to the standard of the range to which demoted. It is understood that such demoted employees whose salaries are above the standard of their position grades after reflecting decreases as herein provided, will have their salaries frozen until such time as the standard salary exceeds the frozen salary.
20.14	Temporary Assignment
When employees covered by the bargaining unit are 41
appointed by management to temporarily replace unionized supervisory personnel, the daily rate of pay shall be equal to the daily rate of pay of the supervisory position which they are temporarily filling. When replacing confidential personnel, the daily rate of pay shall be fifteen percent (15%) more than the current daily rate of the employee so temporarily assigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the supervisory position.
ARTICLE 21
CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN ELIGIBILITY: Eligibility
Membership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition of employment for all employees who are new to the bargaining unit on or after January 1,1983.
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN Effective Date: April 1,1974 Eligibility:
Optional to full time employees of the Corporation who commenced employment prior to January 1, 1983. Mandatory as a condition of employment for all new employees to the bargaining unit on or after January 1, I983.
Normal Retirement
Age 65
42
Employee Contributions
5% of earnings, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
Corporation Contributions
The Corporation shall make contributions to the Trustee each year as recommended by the Actuary to meet the cost of benefits under the Plan and any additional contributions as may be required to meet such tests and standards of solvency as may be prescribed from time to time by regulations adopted under the Pension Benefits Standards Act, 1985. All the Corporation's contributions shall be paid to the Trustee riot less frequently than quarterly and not laterthan thirty (30) days after the end of the period in respect of which the instalment is made.
Pension at Retirement:
(a)	Future Service
In addition to the Canada Pension Plan, 2% of career earnings while a participant of the Plan, adjusted for cost-of-living increases. *
(b)	Past Service
Employees in the Union who retire from the Corporation on their normal or early retirement date and are entitled to pension under the 5% Contributory Plan maintained by the Corporation, shall receive tinder the Non-contributory Plan a basic pension benefit, if any, based on years of continuous service prior to joining the 5% Contributory Pension Plan.
The basic pension benefit is equal to four dollars per monthfor each year of continuous service upto a maximum of 25 years, adjusted for cost-of-living' increases.
43
However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitled to the Compassionate Disability Pension benefit under the IMon-Contribu-tory Plan.
Dependents Benefit:
(a)	Before Earliest Retirement Age:
5 years payment of earned pension with cost-of-living* increases (or employee contributions with interest if greater).
(b)	After Earliest Retirement Age:
Balance of 5 years payment of pension with cost-of-living increases.* If dependent is spouse, 60% of earned pension for life.
Total and Permanent Disability Waiver
A participant who becomes disabled may apply to the Pension Board for a waiver of contributions during the period of disability.
Termination of Service
(a)	Cash Refund
If less than 10 years in the Plan, and under age 45, return of employee contributionswith interest on contributions made before January 1,1987.
(b)	Vesting
Full vesting will apply after 10 years of service and attainment of age 45 on contributions before January 1, I987, and after two years in plan on contributionson or after January 1,1987.
Any employee who does not elect to join the 5% Contributory Plan will have a pension at retirement under
44
the Non-contributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-contributory Plan is equal to four dollars per monthfor each year of continuous service upto a maximum of 25 years.
*Cast-Of-Living Increases
The pension at retirement and/or the dependant benefit shall be subject to cost-of-living increases equivalent in rate to the rate of increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustments in retirement tinder the Canada Pension Plan. The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporation's pension plans. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
ARTICLE 22
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN GROUP INSURANCE
i)	Employees will be able to retain their group coverage during strikes and lockouts, provided the Union pays the entire premium for same in accordance with the established payment structure.
ii)	The Corporation agrees to review its group coverage, including the LTD plan, and to make such changes as may be required, if any, to bring same into conformity with current laws regarding pregnancy and maternity leave.
iii)	The LTD plan should be amended to provide coverage for illness due to alcoholism.
Group Life Insurance	23,500
Acc. Death & Dismemberment	23,500
45
Compassionate Disability, PRL, and Pre-1991 ERIP Employees
Retired Life Insurance(Employee)
Dependant Life Insurance - Wife - Child
Hospital	Private Room Accommodation
Hospital	Out-Patient Charges $25.00
Ambulance	$40.00 per Insurance Year
Eye Care ■ , /	>
Frames and lenses to a maximum of $175.00, plus the usual and customary fee for an eye examination once every twenty-four months, effective March 1,1997.
10,000
4,000
10,000
7,500
Prescription Drugs: j j '
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquilizers shall be increased to $500.00 effective March 1, 1997. If, however, due to extenuating medical circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
Monthly income insurance:
60% of insured earnings at date of disability reduced by income from other sources. Maximum monthly payment is $1,500.
46
Dental Care:	'< i %
Employees will be provided a Corporation paid basic dental care plan. This coverage includes spouse and dependant children. The cost of the dental plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists'fee inthe currentyearto a maximum of $900. peryear perfamily member.
The cost of the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan (excluding Dental Care Plan) will continue on a shared 60% - 40% employer/employee basis.
Spouses of deceased employees may have the option to continue participation in the Employee Group Insurance Plan (excluding LTD) on the basis that the spouse pays the full 100% premium.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the insurance contracts between Manulife Financial Group Benefits, the Citadel Assurance, Great West Life Assurance Company, and the Cape Breton Development Cornoration.
ARTICLE 23
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
23.1	Any employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his/her bereavement leave with pay at his/ her regular rate of wages exclusive of overtime.
23 2 Inthe event of the death of a spouse, including a 47
common law spouse, or a child, including a child in a common law relationship, an employee shall be entitled to five (5) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur immediately following the death.
23.3	In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee resides, the employee shall be entitled to three (3) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regularly rostered shiftsthat occur immediately following the death.
23.4	In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his/her rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he/she will not be docked for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a bereavement day.
23.5	At the discretion of the Corporation, leave with pay may be granted to employees in exceptional or emergency circumstances preventing them from reporting for or remaining on duty.
23.6	It is understood that this clause will not be applicable to employees who so qualify and are off work due to sickness, compensable accident, or without pay.
ARTICLE 24
JURY/CROWN WITNESS DUTY
24.1	An employee summoned for jury/crown witness duty and who is required to lose time from his regular
48
scheduled shift(s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one basic day's (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for duty for each day, excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging, or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
24.2	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all cases, the Corporation's financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph .01 above.
24.3	An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court of allowances paid and the days on which such duty was performed.
24.4	No jury/crown witness duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is in receipt of annual vacation pay or general holiday pay.
ARTICLE 25
SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
25.1	Forthe purpose ofthis clause, the following shall
apply:
(a)	Day Shift Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1. 6 a.m. to 2 p.m.	3. 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
2. 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.	4. 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
49
(b)	Night Shift Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 3. 4 p.m. to 12 p.m.
2.	3 p.m. to 11 p.m. 4.4:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
(c)	Back Shift Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.	9p.m.to5 a.m.
2.	11 p.m. to 7 a.m.
3.	12 a.m. to 8 a.m.
4.	12:30a. m.to8:30a.m.
■M) Shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of $.1750 per hour worked on night shift and $.35 per hour worked on backshift.
(e)	Shift differentials will not be paid to day shift workers who are scheduled on the normal day shift, but will, except otherwise provided in (f) below, be paid to them for work performed on other than the normal day shift hours worked after the termination of their respectiveshift inaccordancewith paragraph(d) above.
(f)	Differentials shall not apply to:
1.	Day or shift workers on overtime work.
2.	In the calculation of statutory holiday and annual vacation pay.
3.	Pay for hours not actually worked.
4.	Overtime shall not be calculated on shift differentials.
All shift starting times are subject to change upon prior notice.
(g)	Underground Differential
50
An "underground"differential of $3.00 pereight (8) hour day will be paid to underground employees.
(h)	Reporting Form Adjustment - Applicable to Shotfirers & Mine Examiners Only.
Effective April 1,1980 - .05 cents per hour.
Effective September 1, 1980 - the current rate of .05 cents per hour shall be increased to .115 cents per hour.
NOTE: In order to qualify for payment underthis provision the Reporting Form must be satisfactorily completed each shift.
ARTICLE 26
SAFETY CLOTHING
26.1	As an added safety feature in the collieries and related departments, employees will be issued with coveralls free of charge - three pairs a year to underground employees, and two pairs a year to surface employees. Of the three pair issued to underground employees, the employee shall have the option of receiving three unlined pair, or two unlined pair and one lined pair. Of the two pairs of coveralls issued to surface employees, the employee shall have the option of receiving two unlined pairs or one lined and one unlined pair.
26.2	The Corporation agrees to provide yearly to each employee: -
i)	two pairs of rubber boots, or;
ii)	two pairs of low-cut leather boots, or;
iii)	one pair of each, at the option of the employee. Boots which are determined to be defective by the
51
manufacturer will be replaced at no cost to the employee.
26.3	The Corporation will also, during this same period, issue free of charge to each employee, two (2) pairs of leatherwork gloves of the kind normally stocked in its warehouse.
26.4	If in the event employees working in offices or other sedentary positions require safety clothing, such issue will only be granted upon approval of the Director, Human Resources.
ARTICLE 27
RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
A retirement allowance of $1,147.01 (January 1/97) will be paid to each active employee on the date of his/her normal retirement (age 65) and to compassionate disability or ERIP benefit recipients employees on reaching 65 (not applicable to Pre-Retirement Leave).
Escalation:
The retirement allowance of $1,147.01 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1,1998, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
52
ARTICLE 28
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
28.1	For all purposes of the Collective Agreement, "technological change” shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code. For the purposes of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an "incumbent" shall mean any employee who has attained ten (10) years of service from his recent date of hire.
No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological change, providedthat any incum-i bent, if required by the corporation due to any techno-( logical change, shall submit to reasonable retraining ' by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation. Nothing in this provision shall be construed as a waiver by any employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
28.2	In the event of the installation of new mechanical, electronic or automated equipment that will affect the
.. \ job status of any employees in the bargaining unit, the ■ .Corporation will, as far in advance as practical before . /Tthe installation of such equipment, meet with the Un-'■ ion Grievance Committee and provide the Committee with data regarding proposed installation, number, and classification of employees likely to be affected by such installation.
53
ARTICLE 29
JOB POSTING
29.1	When the Corporation determines that a permanent vacancy exists within the bargaining unit, the corporation will post notice of the position at all of its operational sites for a period of ten (10) working days. All interested bargaining unit employees must apply in writing for the position within the ten (10) day posting period.
29.2	In filling a permanent vacancy, preference will be given to applicants who have the required qualifications and are immediately able to do the work. When
^ s' the Corporation determines that two (2) or more appli-\ cants possess equal qualifications and ability, the applicants most recent continuous length of service with the Corporation will be determining factor.
29.3	If, in the Corporation's opinion there are no qualified applicants from within the bargaining unit who apply for the permanent vacancy, the Corporation may, at its discretion, select the best applicant according to the criteria in paragraph .2 of this article and implement a training or familiarization period for that employee in the new position or the Corporation may advertise for and fill the permanent vacancy with applicants outside the bargaining unit who will not require such a training or familiarization period.
29.4	Whenever possible, the Corporation will attempt to select the successful applicant for the permanent vacancy within the ten (10) working days following the expiration of the posting period outlined in paragraph .1 hereof. The Union will be advised of the successful applicant when the Corporation makes its selection.
54
29.5	Where it is known in advance that a temporary position of sixty (60) calendar days duration or longer exists, the Corporation will post such position in accordance with Article 29.1 above.
29.6	Inthe event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary position under 29.5, and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted under 29.1.
ARTICLE 30
SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
30.1	The Corporation agrees to pay a severance allowance to an employee whose employment is permanently terminated because of lack of work.
30.2	The severance allowance payable in each case will : ■ he determined as follows:
(a)	For the first year of service, severance pay equivalent to three (3) weeks pay at the applicable datal rate;
(b)	For each year of completed service thereafter, severance pay equivalent to two (2) weeks pay at the applicable datal rate. Notwithstanding the above, no employee entitled to a severance allowance shall receive less than eight (8) weeks severance pay al the applicable datal rate nor more than sixteen (16)weeks
, severance pay at the applicable datal rate.
30.3	Employees entitled to a severance allowance will " also be entitled to a Weekly Severance Employment
Benefit. That benefit shall be equivalent to the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit as provided in Article 30 and calculated on the basis of the value of that benefit at the time of termination. The Benefit shall be
55
received during the employee'speriod of Employment Insurance Benefit subsequent to termination to a maximum of 52 weeks. Employees receiving this Benefit are not entitled to receive the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
30.4	The provisions of this Article are intended to minimize impact of the termination of employment of employees. Therefore, this payment under this article shall be the maximum payment for the purpose of any severance allowance provisions in any Adjustment Program pursuant to S. 60:11 through S. 60:15 of the Group Termination Provisions of Part III of the Canada Labour Code. For the purpose of severance allowance payment only those sections do not apply.
ARTICLE 31
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The general purpose of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan is to supplement Employment Insurance Benefits of eligible employees represented by the Canadian Auto Workers, Local 4504, receiving Employment Insurance Benefits as a result of layoff.
31.1	An eligible employee is one who has completed his probationary period and is deemed to be a permanent employee.
31.2	The Plan is administered by the Corporation and financed out of general revenue, and a separate accounting will be kept of SUB payments.
31.3	The Plan will become effective on April 1,1995, and will be reviewed and revised if necessary, from time
56
to time to ensure its ongoing appropriateness. The Corporation will notify Human Resources Development Canada within thirty (30) days of the effective date of any such revision.
31.4	The maximum number of weeks of SUB payments will be fifty-two (52).
31.5	The SUB will be $68.49 per week (1997$), subject to indexation on January 1,1998, and on January 1st of each year thereafter. In any week, the total of SUB payments and the weekly rate of E.l. benefits will not exceed 95% of the employees weekly earnings. The employee does not have any vested rights under the SUB Plan, except to receive payments for the covered unemployment periods. The sUb can only be renewed for the duration of the Collective Agrement between the Corporation and the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation, and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada).
31.6	An employee must apply for, and be in receipt of, employment insurance benefits to receive benefits under the Plan, except if:-
(a)	he/she is serving the two week waiting period;
(b)	he/she has insufficient weeks of insurable employment to qualify for El benefits;
(c)	his/her entitlement to El has exhausted.
31.7	No Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is payable if an employee:-
a)	has submitted his resignation;
b)	has been suspended for disciplinary reasons;
57
c)	takes part in a strike, walkout, picket, act of sabotage or other action towards the work place or any other conflict in which the employees participate.
d)	is receiving Wage Loss Replacement benefits for current compensation (not including permanent partial disability pensions), El sick benefits, weekly indemnity, or long term disability, or is receiving paid sick leave under Article 13 of the Agreement;
e)	is on leave of absence;
f)	refuses to return to work when asked by the Corporation in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement or for any other reason.
31.8	Payments in respect of deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits will not be reduced or increased by payments received under the Plan.
31.9	The Corporation's RevenueTaxation registration number isCBD 100064.
31.10	The number of employees covered under the plan is approximately one hundred and forty-two (142).
31.11	The downtime must not have resulted in either directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by thisAgreement.
31.12	The employee's gross earnings for the weekly pay period must not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the individual's classification rate in effect at the time of the downtime.
31.13	Downtime shall not include legal holidays or vacation days.
58
ARTICLE 32
DEATH BENEFITS FOR PENSIONERS
It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article, there will be a deduction often (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a Corporation Payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired priorto Novemberl, 1965, tinder the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under the current Group Life Insurance Plan.
Forthe purposes of this Article, an employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Co. Ltd. or Old Sydney Collieries Ltd., but off work at November 1, 1965, and who died priorto returning to work, the beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid or if the former employee is on a "burnt-out1 pension, there will be a ten cent deduction from employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 33
COMPASSIONATE LUMP SUM PAYMENT
The Corporation shall, subject to the terms arid conditions set forth below, make a coinpassionate lump sum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured while at his work place.
59
1.	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000.00. In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employees' wholly dependent children.
2.	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 each.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
ARTICLE 34
CONTRACT NEGOTIATION MEETINGS | ,U
The Corporation will compensate two (2) designated bargaining unit representatives to attend contract negotiation, arbitration and conciliation meetings. Payment will be made only for rostered shifts missed. Only those employees who are designated as official union representatives are eligible for such payment. ,
Time Olf for Union Business	s .< ; ,
Where operational requirements permit, management will grant reasonabletime off work with pay to not more than two Union representatives who are meeting with the Corporation on matters pertaining to the Collective Agreement.
60
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the period April 01,1995 to March 31, 2000 and shall be renewed automatically from year to year thereafter, unless one of the parties gives to the other party, within ninety (90) days of the expiry date of the agreement, notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this agreement. After receipt of such notice, both parties shall meetfor the purpose of negotiating amendments to this agreement. During the negotiating period, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on behalf of:
CAPE BRETON	NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AEROSPACE,TRANSPORTATION, AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) LOCAl. 4504

Dated this 30th day of April, 1997
61
APPENDIX "A
POSITION	POSITION TITLE	STAND. HRS.
GRADE	0FW0RK/WK.	UNDG
13	'Senior Draftsperson/ CAD Operator	35
12	Senior Transitperson	40
	Draftsperson 1/ CAD Operator	35
11	Transitperson	40
	Laboratory Technician	35
10	Draftsperson II/ CAD Operator	35
09	Compassperson	40
08		
07	Stonedust Sampler	40
	Coal inspector Sampler	40
	Laboratory Assistant	35
06	Draftsperson III/ CAD Operator	35
05	Chainperson	40
	Junior Draftsperson	35
SURFACE/
Surface
Sur/Undg
Surface
Sur/Undg
Surface
Surface
Sur/Undg
Undg
Surface
Surface
Surface
Sur/Undg
Surface
04	Draftsperson - Trainee/	35 Surface
CAD Operator
* Limited to one employee at each of the operational sites (Phalen/Prince/Surface Operations).
62
POSITION
GRADE
14
13
12
11
10
09
08
07
APPENDIX A-1
POSITION TITLE OFINORK/WK.
STAND. HRS. UNDO
Senior Buyer	35
Systems Programme!	35
Senior Systems Analyst	35
Accounts Rec/Sales Tax Clerk 35 Cashier/Expense Account Clerk 35
Int. Systems Analyst	35
Senior Programmer	35
Customs & Traffic Agent	35
Buyer I	35
Programmer	35
User Support Co-Ordinator	35
Machine Operator	35
Si Inventory Control Clerk	35
Buyer II	35
Accounts Payable Expeditor	35
Senior Receiving Clerk	35
Reorder Clerk	35
Distribution Clerk	35
Accounting Clerk	35
Payroll Control Clerk	35
Asst. Planner (V.J. Plant)	40
Storekeeper (Central Shops)	40
Sr Colliery Clerk/Timekeepei	40
Storekeeper	40
Inventory Control Clerk	35
Buyer III	35
Buyer Ill/Clerk Typist	35
Colliery Clerk/Timekeeper	40
Receiving Clerk	40
Materials Co-Ordinator	40
Coal Sales Clerk	40
Scaleperson	40
Work Station Operator	35
Purchasing Clerk	35
63
SURFACE/
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
Surface
POSITION	APPENDIX A-1 POSITIONTITLE STAND. HRS		SURFACE/
GRADE OG	OF WORK/WK, UNDG Office Sen/ices Clerk	35	Surface
	Stores Attendant	40	Surface
	Records Clerk/Typist	35	Surface
	Safety Records Clerk	35	Surface
	Tape Librarian -Typist	35	Surface
	Assistant Maintenance Planner	40	Surface
05	Shipping Clerk Operator	35	Surface
	Utility Clerk	35	Surface
04			
03	Data Entry Operator	35	Surface
	Clerk Typist (Stores)	35	Surface
02	Clerk Typist	35	Surface
	Receptionist/Clerk	35	Surface
64
APPENDIX "B" LIST OF GROUPS
Group 1
Scaleperson, Coal Sales Clerk, Coal Records and Distribution Clerk, Cashier/Expense Account Clerk, Accounts Receivable/Sales Tax Clerk, Clerk/Timekeeper, Senior Clerk/Timekeeper, Payroll Control Clerks, Clerk Typist, Work Station Operator, Print Room Operator, Invoice Clerk, Receptionist, Distribution Clerk, Mail Clerk, Billing Clerk, Safety Records Clerk, (Expeditor Accounts Payable), Buyers, Customs Clerk, Inventory Control Clerk, Buyers Clerk, Receiving Clerk, Storekeepers, Stores Attendants, Materials Co-Coordinators, Assistant Planners.
Group 2
Management Information Systems positions.
Group 3
Transitperson, Compassperson, Chainperson, Stonedust Sampler, Coal Sampler, Shotfirer, Mine Examiner.
Group4
Design Draftsperson, Draftsperson I, II, III Group 5
Lab Analyst, Lab Assistant
65
SCHEDULE OF RATES - EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,1997
TECHNICAL POSITIONS. 40 HOURS PER WEEK - UNDERGROUND
POSITION GRADE START
13
12	2,891.37
11	2,832.01
10	2,780.94
9	2,736.75
8	2,699.48
7	2,670.49
6	2,640.11
5	2,598.71
4	2,573.86
3	2,537.98
2	2,503.46 TECHNICAL POSITIONS.
POSITION GRADE START
13
12	2,776.97
11	2,717.61
10	2,666.54
9	2,622.35
8	2,585.08
7	2,556.09
6	2,525.71
5	2,484.31
4	2,459.46
3	2,423.58
2	2,389.06
FIRST PROGRESSION STANDARD
3,039.39
2,976.73
2.922.82 2,876.18
2.836.83
2.806.24 2,774.17 2,730.46
2.704.24 2,666.37 2,629.92
40 HOURS PER WEEK -FIRST PROGRESSION
3,187.40
3,121.45
3,064.70
3.015.61
2,974.19 2,941.98 2,908.23 2,862.22
2.834.61 2,794.75 2,756.39
SURFACE
STANDARD
2,924.99	3,073.00
2,862.33	3,007.05
2.808.42	2,950.30
2,761.78	2,901.21
2.722.43	2,859.79
2.691.84	2,827.58
2,659.77	2,793.83
2,616.06	2,747.82
2.589.84	2,720.21
2,551.97	2,680.35
2,515.52	2,641.99
66
TECHNICAL POSITIONS - 35
POSITION GRADE START
13	2 786 35
11	2,717.33
2,657.97 10	2,606.90
9	2,562 72
a	2,524.07
7	2,496.45
6	2,466.09
5	2,437.10
4	2,399.81
3	2,363.93
2	2,329.43
HOURS PER WEEK - SURFACE
FIRST PROGRESSION	STANDARD
2 935 67	3 084 99
2.862.82	3,008.31
2,800.16	2,942.35
2,746.26	2,885.61
2.699.61	2,836.51
2.658.82	2,793.57
2,629.67	2,762.89
2.597.62	2,729.14
2,567.02	2,696.94
2,527.66	2,655.51
2,489.78	2,615.63
2,453.37	2,577.30
CLERICAL POSITIONS-
POSITION GRADE START
14
13
12	2,811 51
11	2,748.01
10	2,692.78
9	2,641.69
a	2,603.03
7	2,572 67
6	2,540.92
5	2,510.54
4	2,477.42
3	2,442 90
2	2,408.38
STANDARD
2,961.44	3,111.38
2,894.42	3,040.83
2,836.12	2,979 46
2,782.19	2,922.69
2,741.38	2,879.73
2,709.34	2,846.00
2.675.82	2,810.73
2,643.76	2,776.98
2,608.79	2,740.17
2,572.36	2,701 .a2
2,535.92	2,663.46
40 HOURS PER WEEK - SURFACE FIRST PROGRESSION
67
CLERICAL POSITIONS - 35 POSITION GRADE START
14	2,819.15
13	2,740,82
12	2,671.78
11	2,612.40
10	2,562.72
9	2,517.15
8	2,482.62
7	2,453,67
6	2,426.05
5	2,398.43
4	2,366.70
3	2,340.01
2	2,304.57
EFFECTIVE - JANUARY 1,1997 SHOTFIRERS 3,466.06
HOURS PER WEEK - SURFACE FIRST PROGRESSION STANDARD
2,970.29	3,121.43
2.887.61	3,034.40
2,814.73	2,957.69
2.752.06	2,891.72
2.699.61	2,836.51
2.651.52	2,785.88
2.615.06	2,747.51
2,584.51	2,715.35
2,555.36	2,684.66
2,526.20	2,653.97
2,492.70	2,618.71
2.464.53	2,589.06
2,427.13	2,549.68
MINE EXAMINERS 3,356.86
68
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, NS B1P5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:
RE: PREFERREDPLACESINMINE
This letter will confirm the understanding reached today, during wage negotiations, between the persons signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that when a vacancy occurs for a position of Mine Examiner, the Senior Shotfirer applying at the mine where the vacancy occurs, shall be appointed to the position provided he/she has the qualifications for performing the job.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, if there is a shotfirer irrespective of his seniority, for whom a case can be made on a bonafide medical/physical grounds, then before any appointment is made representatives of management and Local 4504, CAW shall first meet and, if there is Union concurrence, he/she shall beap-pointedtothe position on compassionate grounds provided he/she has the qualifications for performing the job.
69
If you concur in the above, please indicate in the space
provided.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
Victor Tomiczek, C%N
70
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S. BIP 5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:
RE: TRANSITPERSONS & SURVEYORS -PRODUCTION WALL FACE RATE MAKE-UP PAYMENT
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during contract negotiations between the parties signatory hereto in respect to the above-mentioned matter.
When a survey party is required by management to work on a production wall face and carry out functions listed below, the surveyors shall be paid their regular rate of pay plus the difference between their regular rate cf pay for the shift and the production wall face rate of pay for a UMW of A employee. The transitperson will be paid seventy-two ($0.72) cents per hour in addition to his/her regular rate of pay for the shift. This will be effective date of signing.
1.	A production wall face survey.
2.	Production wall face - standard quota measurements.
71
If you concur with the above, please indicate in the
space provided below.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
Victor Tomiczek, ($W
72
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney NS BIP 5E4
Dear Tomiczek:
RE: OVERPAYMENTS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees to collect any overpayment to employees at the same rate and over the same period of time as that during which the overpayment has been made up to a maximum of six (6) months.
Yours truly
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
I concur
Victor Tomiczek, CAW
73
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S. BIP 5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:	1
RE: EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN & SEVERANCE PAY
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that if further workforce reductions are required during the term of this Agreement, it will provide an Early Retirement Incentive Program (ERIP). This program shall be subject to all criteria negotiated by the Joint Planning Committee. The goal of this program is to achieve the required workforce reductions on a voluntary basis and thereby reduce the need for displacement of other employees.
EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN Eligibility Factors:
It is understood and agreed that the eligibility for the Early Retirement Incentive Plan for the two hundred thirty (230) available pensions as agreed to by the Joint Planning Committee will be as follows:
. Eligibility - 50 years of age with 75 points as of December 31st in year ERIP granted.
. ERIP's to be awarded on basis of longest service calculated as of December31 st of year ERIP granted.
74
. Timing - to be placed on program to suit Corporation needs.
It is further understood and agreed that the eligibility for the Early Retirement Incentive Plan (11) for the one hundred fifty-three (153) available pensions as agreed to by the Joint Planning Committee will be as follows:
EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM 11 # OF ERIP POSITIONS AS	FOLLOWS -
1997/1998	60	PRE-68	EMPLOYEES
1998/1999	26	PRE-68	EMPLOYEES
1999/2000	19	PRE-68	EMPLOYEES
ELIGIBILITY Fifty (50) years of age with seventy-five (75) points - as of December 31st in the year ERIP granted
ERIP positions to be awarded on the basis of longest service calculated as of December 31st of the year ERIP granted.
If in any year the Corporation is unable to achieve the above noted numbers in combination with the ERIP (1) awards from within the pre-68 employees, then such shortfall will carry over to the succeeding year(s).
If in the year 2000/2001 the available ERIP positions have not been awarded, then the remaining ERIP positions will be offered to post-68 employees based on the above eligibility.
A further forty-eight (48) ERIP (11) positions will be offered on a one time basis only in 1997 based on the following criteria -
Age 55 with at least seventy-five (75) points and twenty (20) years of service as of December 31,1997.
75
These forty-eight (48) ERIP (11) positions to be awarded on the basis of longest service calculated as of December31,1997.
If the Corporation is unable 'to achieve the forty-eight (48) ERIP positions based on the applicable criteria, then such shortfall will be offered to post-68 employees age fifty-four (54) with seventy-five (75) points as of December31,1997, based on longest service.
Benefits and conditions same as current ERIP (1) program. Employee will exhaust his/her El benefits before being placed on ERIP.
Timing - to be placed on program to suite Corporation needs.
The calculation of continuous service, for those employees referred to above who were formerly employed at the Broughton Mine,will include theiryears of service with that employer for the purpose of eligibility.
Benefit Level and Other Requirements:
The current maximumallowable benefit underthe ERIP is $1,851.04 per month and the benefit level will be indexed annually on May1 usingthe formulaeapplica-bleto other Corporation Pension Plans subject to a 2% ceiling. Before receiving any benefit under the ERIP, all approved applicants will be required to apply for and exhaust all Employment Insurance Benefits to which they are entitled. While in receipt of El benefits, applicants will receive a stand-by pay in the amount of $68.00 per week.
On exhaustion of El benefits, ERIP members will be requiredto apply for disability benefits underthe Canada Pension Plan and to complete the CPP form "Authori-
76
zation to Communicate Information". Employees entitled to receive CPP disability benefits shall receive a maximum monthly allowance of $1,126.12 (also indexed annually). Those persons who do not receive disability benefits under CPP will receive the maximum benefit of $1,851.04 per month. Where circumstances permit and approved applicants exercise their option to receive a reduced retirement benefit tinder the Canada Pension Plan, they will not have their ERIP payments reduced by any amount related to these pensions. All approved applicants will have their benefit from the Corporation reduced on a dollar for dollar basis for any Automatic Assumption payment they are receiving in excess of $250. per month. Persons on the ERI program will be eligible to purchase coal at the rate specified in the Collective Agreement for Pre-Retirement Leave Pensioners.
Group Plan Benefits:
All group health benefits (excluding weekly indemnity benefits) will remain in force until age sixty-five (65). Life insurance coverage will be fixed at $22,500 until age sixty-five (65).
GENERAL
Inasmuch as the ERIP and the severance plan would be intended to minimize the impact of the termination of employment of employees, the benefits under these programs shall be deemed the maximum which might otherwise be available under provisions of any adjustment program pursuant to Sections 214 to 226 of the Canada Labour Code, which sections, for the purpose of early retirement incentives and severance allowances provisions, shall not apply in respect of employees in the bargaining unit.
77
The severance allowance payable in each case will be in accordance with the framework agreed to by the Joint Planning Committee signed April 10,1996.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
78
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, l\I.S. BIP 5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:
RE: ARTICLE 13.1 (K)
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto in respect to the above mentioned matter.
It is understood and agreed that the disability days outlined in Article 13.1 (K) will be cancelled on a temporary basis effective the date of ratification of this agreement.
Both the Corporation and the Union agree that if during this period the absenteeism rate increases within the CAW, Local 4504 bargaining unit, the parties will meet to discuss the increase, and if not justifiable, then such disability days will once again be implemented as per Article 13.1 (K).
It is further understood and agreed that the Corporation will notify the Union by letter the effective date of this decision.
79
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources I concur
80
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S.BIP5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:
RE: REQUALIFYING LAID OFF CAW, LOCAL 4504 EMPLOYEES
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
It is understood and agreed that the Corporation will requalify, including any vacation credits owing, laid off employees for El benefits over the duration of the new collective agreement.
It is further understood and agreed that the Corporation will have the right to requalify employees on an as needed basis only and seniority will not be a factor.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union'sconcurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
81
>'Y
\
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S. BIP 5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:
RE: FRAMEWORK FOR LABOURADJUSTMENT PRO-GRAMAS AGREED BY JOINT PLANNING COMMITTEE
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation and the Union agree to the framework for the Labour Adjustment Program which will include ERIP, BBP, and Severance as established by the Joint Planning Committee.
It is further understood and agreed that the specific terms and conditions of such programs will be worked out between the Corporation and the Union.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
Victor Tomiczek, CAW 82
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S. BIP 5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:	, /, v •>-
RE: GAINSHARING PLAN 11 '
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees to initiate a gain-sharing plan commencing with the fiscal year ending March 31,1997, which will include all employees who are members of CAW, Local 4504.
The Corporation agrees to meet with the Union Executive prior to implementationto discuss the structure and payment formula of the Plan.
The Plan will be based on the actual annual financial operating results of the Corporation, and other key indicators being better than planned. Bonus payments will be distributed by June 30,1997.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours trulv.
Director, Human Resources
concur
Victor Tomiczek, CA4
1997/02/10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
Mr. Victor Tomiczek,
National Representative, CAW 165 Townsend Street Sydney, NS B1P5E4
Dear Mr. Tomiczek:
RE: LUMP SUM PAYMENT IN LIEU OF WAGE INCREASE FOR YEAR 2000
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees to pay a lump sum payment of six hundred dollars ($600) to each employee on the books as cf the date of ratification of this Memorandum of Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that this payment is in lieu of any wage increase for the year 2000.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources