COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
N.B. COAL LIMITED MINTO, NEW BRUNSWICK
AND
THE UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
DISTRICT NO. 26, LOCAL 7409
NOVEMBER 20, 1989 TO NOVEMBER 19, 1991
ARTICLE	CONTENTS
1	Purpose of Agreement
2	Recognition
3	Application
4	Status of Agreement
5	Union Security
6	Management Rights
7	Employment
8	Hours of Labour
9	Attendance at Work
10	Guarantee of Work
11	Wages and Overtime
12	Group Medical - Life Insurance
13	Vacations with Pay
14	Holidays with Pay
15	Compassionate Leave
16	Severance Allowance
17	Private Vehicles and Transportation
18	Suspension and Discharge
19	Grievance Procedure
20	Arbitration
21	Mine Committee
22	Continuation of Work
23	Continuation of Operation
24	Maintenance Men / Suspension of Mining
25	Indefinite Shutdown
26	Duration of Agreement
27	Amendment
28	Termination of Agreement
29	Obligation
30	Safety, Health, Accident
31	Call out
32	Job Classifications 6
PAGE
1
1
2
2
3
3
4 10 10 13 13 15 22 28 29
29
30
30
31
33
34
35
35
36
36 C37)
37
38 38 40 40
WHEREAS the United Mine Workers of America, District 26, Local 7409, Minto, N.B., hereinafter called “the Union” has been certified as the bargaining representative of employees of N.B. Coal Limited, Minto, N.B., hereinaftercalled “the Company”, working in and around the Company’s mine including stripping operations;
NOW THEREFOREthe Union and the Company declare that they have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain harmonious and mutually beneficial relationshipsbetweenthe Company, the employeesand the United Mine Workers of America, to set forth certain terms and conditions of employment relating to remuneration, hours of work, employee benefits ana general working conditions affecting employees covered by this agreement and to ensure that all reasonable measures are provided for the safety and occupational health of the employees.
1.02	The parties to this agreement share a desire to cooperate fully to attain these objectives and to establish within the framework provided by law, an effective working relationship at all levels of coal operations in which members of the Union are employed.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive agent for all employees described in the certificate issued by the Labour Relations Board on the 27th day of February, 1970.
1
ARTICLE 3 APPLICATION
3.01	The provisions cf this Agreement apply to the Union, Employees, and the Company.
3.02	This Agreement does not apply to an employee while he is on early-retirement leave, other than recognizing the right of the Union to act on behalf of such employee.
ARTICLE 4
STATUS OF THIS AGREEMENT
4.01	It is hereby understood that no custom or condition in effect at the mine operations will be changed without prior consultation by both parties to this Agreement. In this connection, the Company will undertake to notify the Union of any proposed changes.
4.02	Nolawsorrulesshallbemadebythe Union in violation of this Agreement: and it is recognized that the provisions of this Agreement have precedent over national, district, and local Union constitutions.
4.03	The provision of this Agreement shall be in conformity with the mining laws of the Province of New Brunswick and the Company and the Union agree to co-operate in observance of these laws.
4.04	Any provision of this Agreement which shall be contrary to the laws of the Province of New Brunswick and the Dominion of Canada shall be considered null and void without affectingthe validity of the remainingprovisions of the Agreement.
4.05	From time-to-time, the Union and the Company may enter into written agreementswith respect to the rights,
it
	benefits, and privileges of the Company, the Union, and the employee. Such agreements become part of the Collective Agreement if so specified in the written agreement.
	ARTICLE 5 UNION SECURITY
5.01	Any employee on whose behalf the Union is entitled to act as bargaining representativeand who is a member of the Union or who becomes a member or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing.
5.02	Any employee shall become a member of the Union after one (1) days employment with the Company.
5.03	It is agreed, when an extension or expansion of mining operations commences, that members of the Union shall have preference for any job opportunitiescreated and that such employees shall be covered under the existing contract with N.B. Coal Limited, and that the Company and Union shall consult in an effort to reach an understandingof the method of job allocation to be put in effect.
5.04	An employee who serves in a supervisory position with the Company for a period in excess of sixty (60) days during a contract year will cease to be a member of the bargaining unit.
	ARTICLE 6 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
6.01	It is recognized that the right to manage and operate the Company and direct the working force, including 3
the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just and reasonable cause, or to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, is vested exclusively in the Company, subject to the other provisionsof this Agreement. It is further recognizedthat all mattersnot limited by the terms of this Agreement are reserved to Management.
ARTICLE 7 EMPLOYMENT
7.01	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of race, creed, color, national origin, or union activity.
7.02	When engaging men, the company will give preference to Union members, if such are available.
7.03	No application for employment shall become effective unless and until approved by the Human Resources Department.
7.04	An employeewholeaveshispositionto acceptan elective or appointivepositionwith the UnitedMine Workers of America will be given employment by the Company at the expiration of his official duties, providing a job is available and he is capable of performingthe duties of the job. For purposes of any retirement, unemployment, or supplementary benefitsgiven by the Company to its employees upon leavingthe services of the Company, a person who at the expirationof his officialduties shall be eligible for such benefits as if he were an employee of the Company during that period in which he heldan electiveor appointed positionwith the Union.
4
7.05	“Seniority” means the length of continuous employment with the Company which an employee has accumulated.
7.06	(a) An employee shall acquire seniority after he has
worked a total of fifteen (15) days within a twelve (12) month period. After the 15 day period has expired, the seniority date shall be the date of hiring. During the 15 day period, an employee is probationary.
(b)	A newly hired employee who works less than six
(6)	months, shall be entitled to recall after lay-off for up to six (6)months from lay-off date.
(c)	Should a newly hired employee work more than six (6) months and less than twelve (12) months, he shall be entitled to recall after lay-off for up to twelve (12) months from lay-off date.
7.07	An employee who has acquired seniority shall lose his seniority if he ceases to be a member of the Union or an employee of the Company.
7.08	Where there is a reduction in the working force, the following procedure shall be used:
(a)	those employees who have not acquired seniority shall be laid off first;
(b)	thereafter, employees will be laid off in the order in which they appear on the seniority list of the Company, according to actual length of employment, the employee having the least seniority to be laid off first provided that an employee who has less seniority than another may be retained by the Company because cf the skills, experience, and efficiency which that employee possesses or displays.
5
7.09
7.10
7.11
7.12
7.13
When there is an increase in the working force after a lay off, employees who still retain seniority with the Company shall be returned to their work, when the same becomes available in the reverse order in which they were laid off, provided that the Company is able to maintaina work force of employees that are capable and willing to perform the work available.
(a)	An employee who has been laid off will be recalled by the Company if the employee is suited for the vacant position.
(b)	The company will advise the employee by registered mail with a copy to the local union, allowing the employee seven days to make arrangements with the Company to return to work.
(c)	Notice of Layoff: During the life of this Agreement, the Company will provide to members of the Union who are affected by a layoff, two (2) weeks notice of a layoff whenever it is possible to provide such notice.
Any employee when recalledwho fails to returnto work within five (5) working days from receipt of notice of recall, shall cease to be an employee of the Company.
In the event of the creation of a new job or a vacancy caused by death, retirement, quit or discharge, and subjectto the Company'srightpursuantto Article6.01, the Company shall first offer the said job to employees of the Company by posting a notice of job vacancy for all positions covered under this Agreement.
An employee who has attained seniority who wishes to apply for a postedjob vacancy shall do so in writing to the General Manager.
6
7.14	When a job vacancy occurs pursuant to 7.12, notice will be posted within seven (7) calendardays. Postings will be for a seven (7) calendar day period. When the job posting expires, it shall be filled within fourteen (14) calendar days by the successful applicant.
Temporary job vacancies may be filled up to thirty (30) calendar days without posting. In filling job vacancies, preference shall be given to senior employees, if they have the experience and the ability.
Employees may apply for lower paying positions if they
so desire.
7.15	If no suitable applications are received, the Company may fill the job vacancy from outside the work force.
7.16	(a) If a shutdown and/or cutback of an operation oc-
curs, the employee has the right to use his seniority to bump into another job providing he can do the work, which will be evaluated after a ten (10) day training period.
(b)	In the case of an employee who uses his seniority rights to bump into the dragline operator classification, the training period will be extendedto twenty-one (21)calendar days. To become entitled to this training program the employee will be subjected to an initial evaluation where he will be required to demonstrate that he possesses the qualifications and potential to become an efficient operator. Subsequent to the training program the employee will be subjected to a final evaluation to ensure he meets the requirements of the job.
(c)	If the employee is unsuccessful after the training period stipulated in a) orb) above, he will be placed in a position at the discretion of the Company; seniority being the determining factor.
7
(d)	An employee who is bumped has the right to exercise his seniority as per a) of b) above.
(e)	The employee shall exercise his seniority to bump vwthin a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days from notice of his displacement.
7.17	(a) An employee who bids on a job posting and is
successful, will not be entitled to bid on any other jdo posting for a period of six (6) months from the day he was first placed in that position as a result of the competition.
(b) A successful applicant to a job posting who subsequently loses his job due to lay off or being bumped by another employee will not be subject to 7.17 a) above.
(0) Effective on November20,1989, an employee newly indentured in an apprenticeship program shall not be allowed to bid for anomer position until having served for a period tf three (3) years as a journeyman in that trade.
7.18	(a) Temporary Job vacancies of a duration In excess
of thirty (3#)calendar days will be posted for seven
(7)	calendar days. In such cases,employees may bid for equivalent, higher or lower paying positions if they SO desire. Notwithstandingsection7,17, the successful candidate will be entitled to bid for any other job vacancy In accordance with section7.14.
(b)	Upon completing the temporary job assignment, the employee will return to his own regular job
(c)	The job vacated by the successful candidate to a temporary job vacancy will not be filled by the job bid process.
8
|0
Temporary Job Replacement
7.19	(a) Definition: “Temporary Replacement” means a
person who is hired for a short period, up to 90 days cumulative in each year to solely replace regular bargaining unit employeeswho are absent due to short term sickness, short term accident, vacation or leave of absence.
(b)	Temporary Replacement persons shall not accumulate any seniority and shall not become members of the bargaining unit. Howeverthese persons will be deducted regular union dues.
(c)	Temporary Replacementpersons will be employed as labourers only. There can be no Temporary Replacement persons employed while bargaining unit employees are on lay-off.
(d)	It is understood that the Temporary Replacement persons will be paid at the rate provided for in Appendix "A'cf the collective agreement.
(e)	The Temporary Replacementpersons shall not work any overtime or shall not be eligible to work any premium rated time.
(f)	The Company and the Union agree that Temporary Replacement persons must not be used by the Company to reduce the total number of employees in the bargaining unit and must not result in the failure of the Company to post job vacancies in normal fashion. In any grievance or arbitration that pertain to temporary replacement, the Company shall have the burden that there was no violation of the Collective Agreement.
9
ARTICLE 8 HOURS OF LABOUR
8.01	All labour, other than for operations requiring continuous attendance, will commence work at 7:00 a.m. Quitting time will be3:30 p.m. with a half hourfor dinner.
8.02	Where continuous attendance is required, a shift will consist of eight (8) hours (7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m,; 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.).
8.03	(a) The work day is defined as the twenty-four hour
period beginning with the start of the employee's shift.
(b)	When an employee's regular hours of work are rescheduled by the Company, the employee will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 Vs) times for the first eight (8) hours worked underthe revised schedule.
(c)	Upon being re-assigned to his regular hours cf work, the employee will be provided with a periodof eight
(8)	hours of rest without loss of pay before resuming work.
ARTICLE 9
ATTENDANCE AT WORK
9-01 It is recognized by both parties to be the duty of employees to report regularly and punctually for work.
9.02	Regularity of Work - N.B. Coal and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives. Accordingly, the Company and the Union agree that it is
10
a condition of continued employment that no employee will be absent from a regular shift other than for reasons (such as compensable accident or welfare) already known to the Company, unless he gives his immediate supervisor notice cf his intended absence, along with a satisfactory reason for same at least two (2) hours before the starting time of the shift. An employee shall be classified as "absentee" when an investigation by Management of a case of absenteeism fails to disclose that the employee had a satisfactory or bona fide reason.
9.03	Penalities for Absenteeism
FIRST OFFENSE - instruction and written warning from foreman.
SECOND OFFENSE - instruction and written warning from department head.
TFIIRD OFFENSE - meeting with manager and committeeman.
FOURTFI OFFENSE - ten (10)day suspension without pay. During this period the General Manager will review the situation after consultation with the Union and determine if discharge is warranted.
9.04	Each two (2) days an employee is absent without a satisfactory reason will be dealt with as a separate offense. The two (2) days referred to in this clause need not necessarily be consecutive days.
9.05	An employee who is absent without leave for eight (8) or more shifts shall be notified by Registered Letter to his last known address, that unless he reports to the Manager's office within two (2) days of receipt of such
11
letter, his employment with the Company shall be terminated.
9.06	It is clearly understoodthat should any employee have a cleared record of a twelve (12) month period between the first offence or second offense and third offense, or after the third offense, his record shall be considered clear.
9.07	Absenteeism and Safety Incentive
(a)	Permanentemployees shall be granted a payment
of $125.00 for every six (6) months of continuous
employment, provided that:
(i)	Safety - For every six-month period, there is no lost time from work resulting from an occupation accident; and
(ii)	Absenteeism - For every six-month period, there is no lost time from work for any other reason except as explicitly allowed for under this Agreement. Two (2) days grace will be granted for absenteeism to each permanent employee providingthere is a bona fide reason acceptable to Management, and the supervisor is given prior notification of at leasttwo (2) hours for the 3-11 shifts and 11-7 shifts, and at least one (1) hour notification for the 7-3 shifts.
Bona fide reason for two (2) days grace are:
(i)	Sickness of an employee and/or immediate family. Immediate family to be interpreted as spouse and dependent children underthe age of 19 living in the same household
(ii)	During the pregnancy of an employee's spouse.
12
(iii)	Medical related appointment with written verification.
ARTICLE 10 GUARANTEE OF WORK
10.01	It is recognized by both parties that Article 9 does not constitute a guarantee to work with respect to hours per day or hours per week.
ARTICLE 11
WAGES AND OVERTIME
11.01	(a) A copy of the Company's wage rates, which shall
remain in effect throughout the life of this Agreement, is attached hereto as Appendix A.
(b)	Rate Increases: During the life of this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to negotiate with the Union an increase in the hourly wage rate for any classification.
(c)	The Company agress to sell to its employees pit run coal for the sum of $8.00 perton providing such coal is used as a personal heating fuel only by an employee.
11.02	All day men shall do any class of work in and around the mining operations that the Company may require of them providing they are paid scale price for such work.
11.03	(a) When the development of a new mine is begun
during the period of this Agreement, or new machinery is installed, or new methods of handling the product are adopted, the scale wages covering the labour at such new mines or under such changed
13
conditions will be established by representatives of the Company and Union.
(b) Notice of Rate Cut: during the life of this Agreement, the Company will provide to members of the Union who are affected by a reduction in rate due to being placed in a lower classification, two (2) weeks notice prior to effecting the wage rate reduction.
11.04	Overtime rate will be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	time and one-half will be paid for time in excess of eight (8) hours or for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one working day and for time worked on Saturdays.
(b)	double time will be paid for time worked on Sundays.
(c)	double time will be paid for time worked on Statutory Holidays listed in Appendix C attached hereto.
(d)	time and one half will be paid for time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any week (shift workers only).
11.05	Meal Provision: An employee who is required to work unscheduledovertime at the continuation of the normal work day will be provided with a meal if he is to work beyond two (2) hours of overtime. If he is required to work an additional four (4) hours he will be provided with a second meal.
11.06	“When an employee is assigned for more than a four (4) hour period to another classification, he will retain his current rate of pay or that of the assigned classification, whichever is higher.”
14
“This rate will be effective immediately and will change immediately upon his return to his regular classification.”
11.07	Effective on November 20, 1987 employees assigned to the 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. shift shall receive a shift premium of thirty five (35) cents per hour; for the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift, fifty (50) cents per hour. Shift premium will be paid on alf hours worked on 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shifts at straight time.
11.08	The appropriate shift differential shall be paid for the first eight (8) hours of each scheduled shift on any regular scheduled day of work. However shift differential will not be paid for overtime work.
11.09	If during an employee's regular shift, an injury occurs on the job which requires medical attention, the employee will not be docked for time lost the day of the accident.
11.10	Jury Duty: The Employer shall grant leave of absence from work to an employee who is required to serve on a jury.
Such employees shall be paid the difference between his regular pay and the amount received as a Juror excluding traveling, meals, and other expenses upon presentation of a certificate of attendance for jury duty. If an employee is required to report on any day of jury duty but is not requiredto serve for the entire day, such employee shall then report to work.
ARTICLE 12
WEEKLY INDEMNITY, LONG TERM DISABILITY, GROUP MEDICAL AND DENTAL AND LIFE INSURANCE
12.01	(a) The Companyshall provide to each employee who has completed fifteen (15) days of work, a group
15
medical - life insurance plan according to the coverage outlined ir this article.
(b) Medicareplusgroup plan providescoverageinthe areas listed below.
12.02	(a) Weekly indemnityfortwenty-six (26)/veeks/Group
Insurance.
Weekly indemnity will be 66%% to maximum unemployment insurance benefits of $339.00 for the calendar year 1988. This benefitissubjectto change as the maximum U.I. benefit changes.
First day coverage for non-occupational accidents. First day coverage if sick and hospitalized.
Fourth day coverage for sickness.
At the conclusion of the short-term disability benefits, if an employee remains disabled and is found eligible for long-term disability coverage, he will receive benefits amounting to 67% of basic salary as plan outline of benefits underwritten by the Canada Life Assurance Company.
12.03	LONG-TERM DISABILITY/PLAN OUTLINE
(a)	Amount of benefit is 67% of monthly earnings to a maximum of $2,700.00. Benefits are paid monthly in arrears after an elimination period of 182 days. Benefits are paid to age 65. An amount of longterm disability benefit which is not an integral multiple of $1.00, will be rounded upwardsto the next $1.00.
(b)	Cost of LivingAllowance: benefitswill be increased each January 1st in accordancewith acorrespond-ing rise in the Consumer Price Index up to a maximum of 3% per year.
(c)	Changes in coverage due to salary changes will only take effect if the insurance company is advised
16
of the change. Each employee's certificate of insurance outlines the coverage which is applicable to that employee. It should be checked to make sure the coverage is correct. An employee must be actively at work in order for his insurance to increase.
(d)	Eligible employees: All full-time permanent employees of N.B. Coal Limited who are members of Local 7409 of the United Mine Workers of America, are eligible to be insured on the 1st day cf employment.
(e)	Commencement of insurance: An employee becomes insured when he becomes eligible. If an employee is absent from work on the day his insurance would normally commence, the insurance will not be effective until his return to work.
(f)	General limitations: No benefits are payable for any disability or charges resultingfrom any one or more of the following:
1.	intentionally self-inflicted injury while sane or insane.
2.	war, insurrection or hostilities.
3.	participation in a riot or civil commotion.
4.	injury sustained as a result cf committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense.
(g)	Termination cf insurance: All insurance is terminated when the employee ceases to be a member cf the plan or ceases to be eligible.
For benefits on termination see Extension of Benefits.
17
(h)	LONG-TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
i)	In case of total disability, this benefit provides monthly benefit. Benefits are only provided if the claimant is under the continuing care of a legally licensed physician or surgeon. In case of disability due to mental illness, the disabled employee must be under the care of a specialist in psychiatry.
ii)	No benefits will be paid during the elimination period. If an employee ceases to be totally disabled, returns to work, and within six months again becomes totally disabled from the same or related cause, the elimination period is not applicable again. If, however, the employee returns to work for more than six months, the elimination period is again applicable.
i) Definition of Total Disability: “Total disability” is defined as the complete inability of the employee due to accident, sickness, or injury to perform the employee's own job.
After the claimant has received twenty-four (24) months of benefit payments, benefits will only continue if the employee is unable to perform any and every gainful occupation for which the claimant is reasonably fitted by education, training and experience.
If the claimant returns to work, benefits will cease except if the claimant is under a rehabilitationpro-gram.
(j)	Rehabilitation provision: With the consent of the insurance company, the claimant may engage in rehabilitative employment. In such cases, the
18
12.04
monthly benefit payable as described in the plan outline, will be reduced to the lesser of either:
i)	by 50% of the income received from the rehabilitative employment; or
ii)	to the extent necessary so that the claimant is not receiving in total any more than 100% of what such employee was earning prior to disability.
An employee may not be on rehabilitative employment for more than twenty-four (24) months.
(k)	Integration of benefits: The monthly benefit provided by this plan will be reduced by the amount the em ployee is entitled to receive from Workmans’ Compensation and the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan. The amount deducted will not include any benefits paid for children or any cost of living increases.
If an employee receives a disability income from another source (except from an individual insurance policy), benefits under this plan will be reduced so that the total benefits received do not exceed 80% of his pre-disability earnings.
(l)	Extension of benefits: In the event of termination of insurance because of termination of employment of cancellation of the plan, benefits will continue to be paid to any employee who was disabled while insured up to the maximum provided for while the employee remains disabled.
(a)	Major Medical- includes all dependents (wife and children).
(b)	Prescription Drugs
-	Deductible- Nil
-	Reimbursement- 100%
19
-	No overall life-time maximum
-	Direct payment- Employee sends in own bills.
(c)	Semi-Private Accommodation
-	In any licensed general hospital at 100% inside and outside Canada
-	All hospitals send bills direct to Blue Cross.
(d)	Out Patient Service
-	Wien not covered by Medicare
-	Outside Canada at reasonable charge.
(e)	Ambulance
-	Local ambulance - no limit.
(f)	Private Room
-	Not covered.
(g)	Private Duty Nursing, V.O.N., and Certified Nursing Assistant
-	Reasonable charges - maximum $5,000.00
-	Coverage at home as well as hospital
-	Bill direct to Blue Cross.
(h)	Diagnostics X-ray
-	100% coverage.
(i)	Physiotherapy
-	100% coverage.
(j)	Blood & Blood Plasma
-	When not provided by Red Cross.
(k)	Physician Services
-	100% above medicare allowance outside province of residence.
(i)	Accident of Natural Teeth
-	100% coverage except for replacement of natural teeth ($500.00 per person maximum).
(m)	Prosthetic Appliances and Devices
20
(n)	Oxygen covered 100%
-	covered including rental of equipment and respirator.
(o)	Ostomy Supplies
-	All essential supplies covered.
(p)	Vision Care
-	$75.00 eyeglass benefit every 2 years plus eye examination every 2 years (every year for eye examination if under 21 years of age).
(q)	Hearing Aids
-	1 hearing aid up to $300.00 in any 4 consecutive years.
(r)	Orthopedic Shoes
-	1 pair per calendar year.
(s)	Chiropractor, Osteopath, etc.
-	Up to $200.00 per year.
(t)	Ward Room
-	In a general hospital outside Canada in excess of charges paid by the Government Plan.
-	Reimbursement at 100%.
(u)	Rental of Equipment, Wheelchairs, Hospital Bed,
etc.
-	Covered 100%.
(v)	Speech Therapy and Clinical Psychology
-	Up to $200.00 per year for each insured person.
(w)	Contact Lenses
-	$200.00 once in lifetime if vision can be improved to at least 20/40 level and cannot be improved to this level by spectacle lenses.
(x)	Terms of Coverage
-	As long as plan in effect and legally employed with N.B. Coal Limited.
21
(y)	Dental
-	Deductible- Nil
-	Percentage of Reimbursement- 100% current scale in effect
-	No maximum
-	Coverage - Oral Examination
-	Extractions
-	Fillings
-	General Preventive Denistry
-	Rebasing, Relining and Adjustments to Dentures.
12,50 Group Life Insurance for employees. Two and one-half (2%) the amount of basic annual earnings.
12.06	Accidental death and dismemberment for both occupational and non-occupational hazards.
ARTICLE 13 VACATIONS WITH PAY
13.01	Mine employees shall receive vacations with pay in accordance with the provisions set out in this article.
13.02	Service to qualify:
To be eligible for his first vacation, an employee must have been in the service of the Company for a continuous period of twelve (12) months. Thereafter, when eligible, the number of vacation days to which an employee shall be entitled in any one (1) calendar year shall be based upon the period he was in the employ of the Company during the previous calendar year in accordance with the terms set forth in subsequent clauses.
22
13.03	Continuous employment:
(a)	Continuous employment shall mean employment which has not been broken by discharge for cause or voluntary separation.
(b)	Continuous employment will not be broken because of separation due to illness, accident, temporary layoff, or approved leave of absence.
13.04	Calculation of days of work:
(a)	For the purpose of calculating the number of days of actual work, in addition to taking the number of days on which work was actually performed, absences from work for the following reasons shall be counted as days of actual work:
(i)	Sickness Absence - if supported by a medical certificate deposited with the Company within seven (7) days of the employee's return to work provided that the aggregate period or periods of sickness in any one calendar year or period of sickness does not exceed three (3) months.
(ii)	Accident Absence - if either supported by a medical certificate deposited with the Company within seven (7) days of employee's return to work or by Workers' compensation Records, provided that the aggregate period or periods of such absence in any one calendar year or period of absence does not exceed three (3) months.
(iii)	Closing of a mine or section of a mine by the Management for reasons outside the employee's control.
(iv)	If a man is absent for any justified cause, he must prove to the satisfaction of the Manager
23
or of the head of any auxiliary department as the case may be, that the cause for his absence was justified.
(v)	Employees granted leave of absence by a General Manager in connection with Trade Union Business, or to attend conventions of United Mine Workers of America, shall be allowed to count such absence as actual days of work. This sub-clause does not apply to the members of a committee of workmen who examine the workings of a mine in accordance with the provisions of the Coal Mines Regulation Act of New Brunswickwho shall be considered to be absent with just cause.
(vi)	Should an employee report for work on a working day on his own shift and should find no work available to him, that day will be credited to him as a work day for vacation purposes provided he does not refuse work offered to him. In the event, however, that no work is available to him because of action of a fellow employee of fellow employees, that day will not be credited to him for vacation purposes as a day worked.
(b)	All time lost for reasons other than those defined above shall be recovered as absence without leave and shall not be included when computing actual days of work.
(c)	Additional hours worked over and above the normal day shall not be taken into account in calculating days of work for the purpose of vacation except that where an employee is required by the Management to work two (2) shifts of eight (8) hours
24
each within the twenty-four (24) hours, the two (2) shifts so worked shall be counted as two (2) days.
(d)	Where employees engaged on tasks jobs are required to perform two (2) tasks during their normal day, the two tasks shall for the purpose of calculating vacation period be counted only as one day of actual work.
(e)	Employees not normally required to work a Saturday afternoon shift shall be credited with this shift as a day of actual work. If, however, work on Saturday afternoon shift is part of the regular work week or if an employee has been instructedto work on that shift, absence on that shift by the employees required to work shall be counted against vacations with pay unless such absence is due to reasons given in i, ii, and iv of this clause.
13.05	Duration of Vacation
(a)	(i) Permanent employees who have been in the service of the Company for a continous period of twelve months shall be granted a vacation pay of one and one-quarter (1 Vi) days for each twenty (20) days of actual work during the preceding calendar year.
(ii)	Permanent employees who have been in the service of the Company for a continuous period often (10) years or such employees who were on the payroll as of April 1, 1972, shall be granted a vacation with pay of one and two-thirds (1%) days for each twenty (20) days of actual work during the preceding calendar year.
(iii)	Permanent employees who have been in the service of the Company for a continuous period cf twenty (20) years shall be granted an additional week's vacation.
25
(iv)	Due allowance in (a) or (b) above to be made as provided previously for authorized leaves of absence because of sickness or other justified cause::.
(b)	Seasonal Employees: An employee engaged in seasonal work such as shipping and trimming at the piers and whose service with the Company terminate at the end of such season, shall be eligible for vacation with pay provided he has been in the Company's employ for the full season in which the operations are carried on and returns to the company's service immediately on resumption of operations at the beginning of the following season. Such an employee shall be granted a vacation with pay as provided for regular employees under Paragraph (a).
(c)	The calculation of vacation due an employee will be made as soon as possible after the first of January in each year.
13.06	Time of Vacations
(a)	Vacations shall be scheduled by the Management in such a way as not to unduly impair the operation of the mine or department.
(b)	The Company may discontinue mine operations for a two week period in each year which shall be observed as part of the vacation period. The time of such discontinuance shall be determined by the Company in consultation with the Union. As much notice as is reasonably possible shall be given.
(c)	Wherever possible, Management will attempt to meet the individualwishes of an employee but production needs must be the first consideration.
26
13.07	Vacation Pay
Vacation pay shall be calculated by taking the employee's average daily earnings during the current calendar year and multiplying it by the number of days vacation to which he may be entitled.
13.08	Complaints
Any employee having a complaint with regard to his vacation may have it treated as a grievance and dealt with in accordance with the procedure as laid down in the Union Contract.
13.09	Payment in Lieu of Vacation
At the request of the employee, the Company may at its discretion, pay vacation pay in lieu of time to assure continuity of mining operations.
13.10	Termination of Service
(a)	If an employee not having been dismissed for cause leaves the service of the Company for reasons beyond his control at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation calculated to the date of his leaving the service of the Company.
(b)	If an employee leaves the service of the Company of his own accord or is dismissed for cause at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation calculated to the end of the previous calendar year.
13.11	Accumulation of Days of Vacation
(a) Vacation days not taken in the year during which they become due may be accumulated and taken in a subsequent year. In no case, however, will
27
vacation days be allowed to accumulate in excess of thirty (30) days.
(b) Vacation pay for accumulated holidays will be the summation of the annual vacation pays over a period during which the accumulation took place.
ARTICLE 14 HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
14.01	Mine employees shall receive holidays with pay in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
14.02	Employees will be paid for the holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Miners' Day, Dominion Day, New Brunswick Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
14.03	An employee for whom two (2) scheduled working days of work are not available within the two (2) calendar weeks prior to a holiday mentioned above, will receive holiday pay if he works one (1) scheduled working day within the two (2) calendar weeks prior to the holiday. Otherwise, he will not be entitled to holiday pay.
14.04	The rate of holiday pay for datal-paid employees will be their usual datal rates and for contract workers, will be the average daily earnings of the pay week in which the holiday occurs.
14.05	Employees who work on the statutory holidays mentioned above will be paid overtime as provided in 11.04, providing they have complied with the provisions of the foregoing sections.
14.06	When the Union Executive so desires, a meeting win be arranged with Company representatives to discuss
28
the working schedule for the Christmas and New Year's weeks.
ARTICLE 15
COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
15.01	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company will grant the following leave with pay:
(a)	One (1) week for the employee's spouse, child, mother or father.
(b)	Three (3) consecutive days to attend the funeral of mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister, brother, grandmother,grandfather,grandchildren,spouse's brother-in-law and sister-in-law. One extra day will be granted to attend out-of province funeral.
15.02	An employee acting as pallbearer will be granted one (1) day with pay.
ARTICLE 16
SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
16.01	Any member of the Union employed in the Coal Mining Industry as of April 1, 1970 who is laid off and thrown out of employment due to lack of work, shall be eligible for severance allowance of $2,000.00 plus $50.00 for each year of continuous service in the New Brunswick Coal Industry, up to a maximum severance of $2,500.00. All employeeswho are eligible for severance allowance were paid $500.00 in 1981.
The balance of $2,000.00 per employee will be paid to those employees upon the employee's retirement, termination, or upon death, to the beneficiary.
29
ARTICLE 17
PRIVATE VEHICLES AND TRANSPORTATION
17.01	Duringthe 3-11 and 11-7 shifts on dragline operations, if a breakdown of a dragline occurs requiring the callout cf a repairmanor foreman, the Company shall reimburse an employee for use of his private vehicle to make such a call-out at the minimum rate of $3.00 for mileage under two miles plus thirty (30) cents per mile for each mile in excess of two miles.
17.02	Any bill submitted by an employee for reimbursement under Clause 17.01 shall be approved by his foreman prior to payment by the Company.
17.03	The Company recognizesthe right of the Union to make representation to the Company respecting transportation in the spring and fall months.
17.04	When the Company requires a pumper to use his private vehicle to perform hisjob, the Company will pay a rate of $12.00 per shift to the employee.
ARTICLE 18
SUSPENSION AND DISCHARGE
18.01	Whenever an employee is suspended or discharged and believes such suspension or discharge to have been without reasonable and just cause, he may lodge a grievance and such grievance shall be processed thereafter in accordance with the Grievance Procedure.
18.02	Where it is finally determined that the suspension or discharge of an employee is a violation of this Agreement by the Company, he shall be reinstated and the Company shall pay such compensation for time lost at
30
the scale of wages for the work at which he had been employed when suspended or discharged.
18.03	It is understood that suspension or discharge is justifiable in the case of an employee who is a menace to the safety or the lives of himself or other employees, or who is incompetent to perform the work required of him, or who habitually neglects his work, it is further understood and agreed that there may be other justifiable causes for suspension or discharge.
ARTICLE 19
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
19.01	A grievance shall be a dispute between the Company and the Union, or between the Company and any of its employees, concerning the meaning, interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of the present Agreement. Every grievance shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration proceduresset out as follows.
19.02	Any employee with a grievance must attempt to resolve such matter with their immediate shift foreman or supervisor before a grievance is filed.
19.03	Should a grievance be filed relatingto an alleged unjust termination or suspension, then the grievance shall be filed at Step 4 herein within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the termination or suspension. The President of the Company shall reply within five (5) working days of receipt of grievance.
19.04	All time limits set out in this procedure and in Article 20 - Arbitration, are mandatory.
STEP 1
The grieving employee or employees shall submit the
matter, in writing, to his immediate foreman within five (5)
31
working days of its occurrence. One mine committeeman may participate in the discussion if the grievor so desires. The foreman shall give his reply in writing to the grievor within two (2) working days. A copy of the grievance and reply shall be mailed to the mine committee chairman.
STEP 2
Failing a satisfactory reply from the foreman, the grievor and his committeeman, if any, shall submit the grievance to the department head within two (2) working days, along with a copy of the foreman's response. The department head shall reply to the grievance in writing within two (2) working days of its submission to him.
STEP 3
If there is a failure on agreement then, within three (3) working days of failure of agreement, the Union President or his appointee will submit the case in writing to the President of the Company and to the Board Member of District 26, U.M.W.A., and the General Manager or his representative shall submit the case in writing to the President of the Company and the Board Member of District 26, U.M.W.A. The President of the Company shall render his decision in writing within five (5) days of its submission to him.
STEP 4
If the decision of the President is not accepted and settlement is not reached, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration: a written notice to refer the matter to arbitration must be given by one party or the other within two (2) weeks after the expiration of the previous period. If such notice is not given within the two weeks, then the grievance is deemed settled and shall not be further processed by arbitration or otherwise.
32
ARTICLE 20 ARBITRATION
20.01	If no agreement has been reached after the Grievance Procedureset forth in the present Agreement has been followed, one or the other of the parties shall have the right to require the appointment of an Umpire to settle such matter of dispute.
20.02	All time limits contained in this Article are mandatory.
20.03	In all cases in which an Umpire shall be required as a result of the present Agreement, the Union and the Company shall consult and appoint jointly in writing an Umpire within ten (10) days of the date of the reception of the notice of arbitration.
20.04	Should the Union and the Company fail to agree to the appointment of an Umpire, the Minister of Labour of the Province of New Brunswick shall choose the Umpire upon application of either party.
20.05	After the Umpire has been chosen by the foregoing procedure, he shall meet, hear evidence from both sides, and upon completion of the hearing, shall render a decision withing fifteen (15) days which shall be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement.
20.06	Each party shall be entitled to be represented by Counsel or otherwise,to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party, to present arguments orally and/or in writing. When a written argument is submitted, each party may answer once to the argument of the other party. When an argument in writing or a brief is submitted to the Umpire by one or the other of the parties, a copy of such argument or brief shall at the same time be sent to the other party.
33
20.07	Each of the parties hereto agree to pay equal shares for the Umpire.
20.08	In no case shall the Umpire be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of the present agreement.
ARTICLE 21 MINE COMMITTEE
21.01	For purposes of this Agreement, there shall be a mine committee consisting of not more than six (6) members selected by the Union.
21.02	The duties of the mine committee shall be confined to the adjusting of disputes between the Company and its employees arising out of this Agreement.
21.03	The mine committee inthe discharge of its duties shall, under no circumstances, go around the mines for any cause whatever unless called upon to do so either by the General Manager or his representative or by an employee who may have a grievance which he has been unable to settle with his foreman.
21.04	It i s mandatoryfor the mine Committee, when requested by the General Manager or his representative or by the employee affected, to go at once to the place or places where a grievance is alleged to exist so that a thorough investigation can be made and an adjustment of any grievance affected if possible.
21.05	Any committee or committeeman who shall attempt to execute any local rule or procedure in conflict with any provision of this Agreement, or with any provision made in pursuance hereof, shall be deposed forthwith as a committee or committeeman.
34
21.06	Members of the mine committee shall not leave their places of duty during working hours except by permission of the General Manager or his representative or in cases involving a stoppage of work. Such members of the Committee may act in accordance with Section
21.03	and 21.04 after notifying the foreman or supervisor.
21.07	The Union will notify the Company in writing, the names and addresses of all officers and members of all committees and any changes in the same.
ARTICLE 22
CONTINUATION OF WORK
22.01	If any employee refuses to continue at work because of a grievance which has not been adjusted, and such action shall seem likely to impede the operation of the Company, the mine committee, when called upon by the General Manager, shall furnish an employeeto take such vacant place in order that the mine may continue at work. It shall be the duty of any member or members of the Union, when called upon by the General Manager and the mine committee, and if competent to do the work required, immediately to take the place or places assigned to him or them in pursuance of such a call.
ARTICLE 23
CONTINUATION OF OPERATIONS
23.01	It is distinctly understood and agreed that in cases of all disputes and grievances of every nature arising under the Agreement, the employee shall continue to work pending a settlement.
35
ARTICLE 24
MAINTENANCE MEN DURING SUSPENSION OF MINING
24.01	In case of either local or general suspension of dragline operations, either at the expiration of this Agreement or otherwise, the pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect mining operations, shall not suspend work except at the option of the Company. They shall fully protect all the Company property under their care and operate fans and pumps.
24.02	It is understood and agreed that the Company will not ask maintenance men to strip to truck any coal produced by non-union labour for sale in the market during a suspension of mining.
24.03	Should the interest of the pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mining operations be directly involved in any issue at the expiration of the Agreement, and any pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mine, cease work, the United Mine Workers of America shall provide competent men to perform the emergency work above recited at the scale price in effect at the time of suspension, subject to subsequent settlement.
ARTICLE 25
INDEFINITE SHUTDOWN
25.01	It is agreed, when any section of the mining operations is shut down for an indefinite period, that the opportunity for a division of the work available will be given
36
to each and every man thrown out of employment provided, however, that operating conditions and efficiency of operations make such divisions of work practical.
25.02	It is understood that the question of the division of work during an indefinite shutdown may be taken up by the Company and the Union in an effort to reach an understanding of the methods to be put in effect.
ARTICLE 26
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
26.01	This agreement is a two (2) year agreement from Sc vember 20, 1989 to November 19, 1991.
ARTICLE 27 AMENDMENT
27.01	Either party desiring any change in this Agreement shall give the other party not less than sixty (60) days notice in writing prior to the expiration date thereof that a change is desired. Otherwise, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for another year.
27.02	In the event that agreement regarding proposed changes is not reached prior to the end of the Agreement year, the existing Agreement shall continue in effect until a decision is reached with respect to the proposed changes or the Agreement is terminated.
ARTICLE 28
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement may be terminated by either party on November 20, 1991 on not less than sixty (60) days
37
written notice and after a meeting of the signatory parties at which it is specifically decided that the Agreement shall be terminated.
ARTICLE 29 OBLIGATION
29.01	The fulfillment of this Agreement is guaranteed by the International Union, bythe officers and members of the United Mine Workers of America, District No. 26, and byN.B. Coal Limited; and these parties recognize that it is their duty to see that this Agreement is carried out in the spirit as well as in the letter in which it is written.
ARTICLE 30
SAFETY, HEALTH AND ACCIDENT PREVENTION
30.01	The Company and Union recognize the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment and also, the responsibility placed solely on the Company by the Mining Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Commission and other applicable legislation. It is agreed that the Company and employees, Union Executive and officers, and all levels of supervision will co-operate fully to promote safe work practices, health conditions and enforcement of safety rules and procedures.
30.02	(a) The Joint Health and Safety Committee composed
of a minimum of four (4) Company representatives and a minimum of four (4) employees selected by the Union, will hold a meeting once a month.
(b)	This committee will meet for such purposes as set out by the regulations of the Occupational Health and Safety Commission.
38
(c)	This committee complements the Company's Accident Prevention Program which is conducted for all employees and the committee will, in no way, replace or detract from the carrying out of that program.
(d)	Both parties will study any recommendationssub-mitted by the committee as directed by the regulations of the Occupational Health and Safety Commission.
30.03	In order to maintain a safe working environment, each employee is required to undergo a complete medical examination by a medical practitioner of his choice at least once a year or at the discretion of the Company.
30.04	The Monthly Safety Inspection shall continue during the life of this agreement.
30.05	(a) Safety and Clothing Allowance
During the life of this Agreement, a safety and clothing allowance of $250.00 per year shall be paid to each employee as follows:
$125.00 last week in November.
$125.00 first week in December.
(b)	The said allowance shall be applied by each employee towards the purchase of one (Ipair of safety footwear and one (1) pair of safety coveralls.
(c)	Each employee, not later than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the allowance, shall report for work, and every day therefrom during the term of this Agreement, wearing such safetywear as described in (a) hereto.
(d)	The Company shall provide gloves during the term of this Agreement ot those employees who are
39
assigned to the picking belt, so called, which is located at the Company's wash plant.
(e)	Effective November 1990 the clothing allowance will increase from $250.00 to $275.00,
ARTICLE 31 CALL OUT
31.01	Employees called back to work following completion of their regular shift on Monday through Friday (inclusive) or called out at any time on Saturday, Sunday or a statutory holiday, will be paid for hours worked at the applicable overtime rate as provided in section 11.04 plus reasonable traveling time but never less than four (4) hours at time and one-half.
31.02	Any employee called out two (2) hours prior to the commencement of their regular shift does not constitute a call out.
ARTICLE 32
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
32.01	Every employee covered by this Agreement will be classified in accordance with a job title and a wage classification within thatjob title as set forth in Appendix "A".
32.02	Existing classifications shall not be eliminated or changed nor shall any new classifications be created without prior notificationto the Union.
32.03	Objections by the Union shall be discussed within thirty (30) days of notificationwith Company officials and an effort will be made to resolve differences.
40
The Company may establish an interim rate for any new classification which (i.e. the rate) shall be subject to agreement with the Union.
32.04	If the Union and the Company cannot agree on the wage rate for a new classification, then the matter may be referred by the Union to arbitration for resolution.
33.01	Banking Overtime
An employee may elect not to receive pay for overtime worked and have such overtime hours credited, at premium rates, to a bank for later time off (e.g. employee works 8 hours at time and one-half - credit in bank is twelve (12) hours - time off entitlement is twelve (12) hours.
33.02	Total eligible time off hours in the bank shall not exceed twenty-four (24) hours. The maximum allowable hours to be banked in one (1) contract year is forty (40) hours.
33.03	The employee and the supervisor must agree when time off is to be taken.
33.04	To enable the supervisor to make a reasonable decision on a bank time off request, the employee must give twenty-four (24) hours notice. The supervisor may waive the notice requirement in exceptional circumstances.
33.05	Withdrawal from the bank will not take precedenceover other employees scheduled vacation.
33.06	Unused credits at year end will be canceled by payment.
33.07	The option to bank overtime hours shall not extend to shift workers except where the supervisor determines that time off can be granted without calling in a re-placment at overtime rates.
41
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed as of the 22nd day of January, 1990.
N.B. COAL LIMITED
BY:
Andrew M. Cormier	Garnett F. Daye
President & General	Negotiator
Manager
Cynthia Brannan	Armand Caterini
Human Resources	Office Administrator
Negotiator	Negotiator
Jean-Paul Morel Negotiator
42
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA DISTRICT NO. 26
BY:
Don McRae District 26 Negotiator	Dwain Barton President, Local 7409 Negotiator
Alvin Scribner Board Member, District 26 Negotiator	David Hauser Secretary, Local 7409 Negotiator
John Beers Vice-president, Local 7409 Negotiator	Leonard Stilwell Treasurer, Local 7409 Negotiator
43
APPENDIX A
LIST OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES DRAGLINE OPERATIONS
OCCUPATION
Labourer
Carman
Pumper/Watchman
Drill Helper I Drill Helper II
Automotive Serviceman
Plant Oiler
Coal Inspector
Scaleman
Storekeeper I Storekeeper II Storekeeper III
Watchman (Main Shop)
Welder I
Welder II
Welder III
Welder IV
Welder (Automatic)
Welder (Field Welding)
Welder (Journeyman)
Explosive Mixer Operator
EFFECTIVE RATES Nov. 20, Nov. 20, 1989	1990
11.74	12.44
11.78	12.49
12.11	13.10
11.89	12.60
12.85	13.62
11.93	12.65
12.02	12.74
12.02	12.74
12.02	12.74
12.02	12.74
12.42	13.17
12.95	13.73
12.03	12.75
12.09	12.82
12.36	13.10
12.62	13.38
13.25	14.05
13.06	13.84
13.13	13.92
14.63	15.51
12.37	13.11
45
OCCUPATION
Survey Chainman Survey Instrumentman
Truck Driver Service Truck Driver Float Truck Driver
EFFECTIVE RATES Nov. 20, Nov. 20, 1989	1990
12.37	13.11
12.38	13.12
12.12	12.85
12.12	12.85
12.15	12.88
Fuel Truck Driver
12.16	12.89
Fireman
Fireman (Journeyman)
Lubeman
Start
6 Months Experience 12 Months Experience 2 Years Experience
12.31	13.05
12.84	13.61
12.85	13.62
13.30	14.10
13.67	14.49
13.83	14.66
Lineman (Electrician) Electrician
Electrician (Journeyman)
12.32	13.06
13.30	14.10
14.63	15.51
Dragline Oiler I Dragline Oiler II
12.95	13.73
13.26	14.06
Dragline Operator I Dragline Operator II
15.09	16.00
15.61	16.55
Dragline Repairman I	14.03	14.87
Dragline Repairman II	14.82	15.71
Diesel Mechanic I
Diesel MechanicII
Diesel Mechanic III
Diesel Mechanic IV
Diesel Mechanic (Journeyman)
12.32	13.06
12.77	13.54
13.14	13.93
13.30	14.10
14.63	15.51
46
OCCUPATION
Combination Repairman I Combination Repairman II Combination Repairman III Combination Repairman IV Combination Repairman V
Pump Repair Mechanic Start Apprenticeship One Year Experience Two Years Experience Three Years Experience Four Years Experience Five Years Experience (N.B. Coal Journeyman)
Auto Mechanic I Start Apprenticeship Auto Mechanic II Complete Year I Auto Mechanic III Complete Year II Auto Mechanic IV Complete Year III Auto Mechanic (Journeyman)
EFFECTIVE RATES Nov. 20, Nov. 20, 1989	1990
12.32	13.06
12.84	13.61
13.40	14.20
13.97	14.81
14.82	15.71
12.09	12.82
12.32	13.06
12.77	13.54
13.14	13.93
13.30	14.10
14.63	15.51
12.12	12.85
12.41	13.15
12.67	13.43
12.93	13.71
13.89	14.72
M5 Drill Operator Drill Operator Exploration Drill Operator Mobile
14.06	14.90
12.58	13.33
13.11	13.90
Shovel Operator Loader Operator Plant Operator Tractor Operator Excavator Operator
12.58	13.33
13.11	13.90
12.62	13.38
13.25	14.05
13.25	14.05
47
OCCUPATION
Carpenter
Carpenter (Journeyman) Journeyman Powderman
Machinist (Helper) Machinist (Journeyman)
Survey Technician I Survey Technician II Survey Technician III Survey Technician IV Survey Technician (Journ
EFFECTIVE RATES Nov. 20, Nov. 20, 1989	1990
12.62	13.38
13.85	14.68
12.90	13.94
12.66	13.42
14.63	15.51
12.11	12.84
12.38	13.12
12.67	13.43
12.93	13.71
14.26	15.49
48
COMBINATION REPAIRMAN
The following is the payscaie that will apply to the classification of Combination Repairman
(a) Top rate,
Combination Rapairman V
(b) Combination Repairman IV
(c) Combination Repairman III
(d) Combination Repairman il
(e) Combination Repairman I
employee will have a journeyman's ticket in one of the following trades: heavy duty diesel mechanic, heavy duty industrial mechanic, journeyman welder, or journeyman machinist.
employee will have completed his third year apprenticeship program or have five (5) years experience in one of the trades.
employee will have completed his second year apprenticeship program or have four (4) years experience in one of the trades.
employee will have completed his first year apprenticeship program or have three (3) years experience in one of the trades.
no experience necessary but the employee must be willing to enroll in an apprenticeship program in one of the trades that would qualify him for a journeyman and top rate of Combination Repairman.
49
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: SUBCONTRACTING AND CONTRACTING
Following meeting of January4 and 5,1984, the U.M.W.A., Local 7409 and N.B. Coal Ltd. agree to the following:
CONTRACTING OUT
The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to contract out work as indicated below.
The Employer shall give the Union notice in writing prior to contracting out the work.
The Employer will not contract work out that results directly in the lay-off of men. The Employer guarantees that no men will be laid-off as a result of contracting out.
Repair and maintenance work customarily performed by classified employees at the Mine or Central Shop shall not be contracted out except where:
(a)	work being performed by a manufacturer or supplier under warranty.
(b)	where the Employer does not have available equipment or employees (including laid-off employees at the Mine or Central Shop) with the necessary skills available to perform the work at the Mine or Central Shop.
(c)	in emergency situations, the Company will advise the local Union President or his representative by phone and explain the necessity of contractingout.
This letterof intentwillform part of the Collective Agreement and expire November 19, 1991.
50
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: REVIEW COMPANY PENSION PLAN
It is agreed by both parties that within sixty (60) days of the signing date of this agreement, that both Managementand Union will sit down and review the Company Pension Plan with both parties trying to improve on above mentioned plan.
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: MINE COMMUNICATION COMMITTEES (LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE)
The parties recognizethat, for theirjoint benefit, the prosperity and efficiency of the coal industry are dependent upon their ability to work co-operatively.
In order to further implement this expression of purpose, within sixty (60) days, a Mine CommunicationCommitteeshall be established at the mine. The Union representation on the Committee shall be the Local President, the Mine Committee Chairman, and the Safety Committee Chairman, and one (1) rank and file member. The Union members shall be certified to the Mine Management and a corresponding number of Employer members shall be certified to the Union. The Employer and Union members of the Committee shall meet at mutually agreeable times, but no less than once each month. The function of the Committee shall be to identify and discuss any problemsor potential problemswhich, if unresolved, could interrupt the steady and regular operation of the mine.
The representative of Management or the Local Union President may from time-to-time suggest to the Employer areas of special concern consistent with the purposes of the committee and the provisions of this Agreement. The functioning
51
of this Committee shall not affect the existing rights of either party under any other provision of this Agreement.
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: ISSUANCE OF GREASE SUITS, RUBBER BOOTS, RAINSUITS AND GLOVES
This is to confirm that the Company intends to continue its present practice in the issuance of grease suits, rubber boots, rainsuits and gloves.
Grease suits and rubber boots will be issued on an as-needed basisto employees who are required to work in grease and must be returned to the Company upon completion of such work.
Rainsuits and gloves may be purchasedfrom the Company at 75% of the Company’s cost for these items. Should these items be destroyed in the execution of work other than the emplyee's normal job, and if the execution of such work is requested by the employee’s Supervisor, and if the wearing of these items to execute such work is authorized by the Supervisor, these items will be replaced, at the Supervisor's determination, on a return basis.
LETTER OF INTENT RE: WEEKLY PAY SYSTEM
It was agreed during negotiations that the present Weekly Pay System will not be changed during the term of this Collective Agreement.
This letter of intent will form part of the Collective Agreement.
52
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: TRANSPORTATION
This letter is to confirm that the present transportation arrangements will be maintained during the life of (he Collective Agreement.
LETTER OF INTENT
VACATIpN SYSTEM/BI-WEEKLY PAY SYSTEM
This is to confirm that the Company is willing to discuss the above mentioned subject during the life of the Collective Agreement.
LETTER OF INTENT RE JOURNEYMAN POWDERMAN
It was agreed during negotiations that effective on the date where the classification of Journeyman Powderman Is required to be licensed under Provincial Regulation, a wage adjustment equivalent to the adjustment given to the classification of Survey Technician Journeyman will be applicable.
This letter of intent will form part of the CollectiveAgree-ment.