\ ';<hhu:e i '"i
i M«. a:
! ff.Api.avtt;> \ _
NOM ' RL \' . M "*< ('V !("•

^O^RANDUM OFAGREEMENT
CAPE B^RETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
FOR THE PERIOD JANUARY 1, 1993 TO DECEMBER 31, 1994
00182 (04)
FORW^ARD
The signatories to this Memorandum of Agreement held collective bargaining discussions on an ongoing basis from April 21, 1993, to December 17, 1993, without reaching a settlement.
The parties then continued negotiating with the services of the Federal Conciliation Officer, and subsequently, with the services of S. Bruce Outhouse, Conciliation Commissioner, and a tentative agreement was reached on June 8, 1994.
This agreement was ratified by the membership on June 28, 1994. This memorandum contains three sections, namely:
1.	The memorandum reached with the assistance of the Commissioner.
2.	The Articles which were signed off by the parties prior to the conciliation process. This consists mainly of updating the generic language.
3.	Those articles where the current language is amended. The following articles are affected:
Article 8 - Safety Apparel Article 25 - Seniority
Article 34 - Supplementary Unemployment Benefits Article 51 - Bereavement Leave
DLOIS NICKER**
lf!J u» 1
MCIffir,30N J BRYSON
isarri'toks	:iOUi:n\‘its
Ttlrf'hwic:	4?.1.61x»
Trtoopi«iua9(Q) 4&-7M7 l\6' HuDil awt u.iir.x. Nov* &Mi»
ti. J.V\'/1II W.VSON, Q.C.
Au'.f j. su;t«N, q.c. s. n.'WCE 0^0U6E, Q.C, ROU'EUTA J. C^lAl\KE TUUMAS M. MACDONM 0 mt&LA J, MACllDCAN RJCD'JU) j. melakbon M. KENT ClAMOt CIWJN R.
fJlANIU.YN W, CORltON, Q.C. WIZARD nnUG, Q.C. LAWHENCEA.
GORDON 1L KELLY COUN 1>. BRYSON GUNN R. ANPRIUIOMN WZABCm 4. WOJLTOH mui's. GR.VCDY J.GORIKW^^
ORRlnrONDmce-J'.O. Box 7H7 JUUfu, Now* fctfj* DM 3D7
OUR FILE REFERENCE;
DATE s June 7, 1994
MJEA&E MLPflM HOTS i IPA(&IE<(§) TOs NAME:	Mr. Ray Holland (fax-849-0652)
^FIRM:	UN^ITED	WORKERS OF ^^MCA, DISTRICT 26
FROM:	Mr. Bruce Outhouse
RE:	Conciliation - U.M.W.A., District 26 and
Cape Breton Development Corporation
COURT PILE No.
TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES INCLUDING THIS COVER PAGE! //
IF YOU DO NOT RECEIVE ALL THE PAGES, PLEASE CALL BACK A.S.A.P. PHONE:	902-425-6000 TELECOPIER OPERATOR:	Sandy White
COUMFNTfls ____________________________________________________
PiaOOslHon of OfJ.glnn.tx
To Fallow J>y M11.il T o Follow by Conjri.ftx*
To Remain J.h *-"u- riJ.o
06/07/94	10:14	©4297347
BLOISNICKERSON
[IJ002
BLOIS, NICKERSON & BRYSON
WHM AND SOUCITOM
('9QZ)4^2.MO Tdsqlil(902) 429-7M7 U6I HoUk Stmt IWki, NCPta Stglii
8,	DAVID DRVllON, Q.C. ALAN J. ^S'IDN, Q.C.
9.	BRUCE ^OUTDOUU:, Q.C. ROBERTA ,J. cwm mm me ltf. MACWWAJ) MWJA J. MA^mCAN RICUMtD J, R^ANBON N. KENT C^UX CLLW R. JESSOAI&
FTLANKLYN W. CORDON, Q.C. wi^rd muc, QC. LATOENCR A. FREEMAN CORDON R, KELLY COLIN D. BKWON GUNN R. ANDERSON KIJZABCTn A, UTOLTClN niujr S. CRUCOY J. GORDON ALLEN
CORRESPONDENCE P.O. Jns. 2147 lUif&X, Nova 5*k1& Ml 381
OUR FILE REFfiRCNCE:
June 7, 1994
VIA .FAX (IM9-0652J.
Mr. Ray Ho l land, Prof': i dent ,
united r*ii.'J2 vjol'Utrrits or wieuica, district ar.,
18 Comm.nt.'oi a l Sti mr.l:,
P.O. Dux 129,
Glace t i.iy , Nova J-cot. i a BlA 5V.a
VIA r?,T yq<?1?25Py^
Mr. Gordon HacLe;:n,
Vice-Pri^sident, IJh.Unsn Resources,
CAPE BRSTOlI DEVEJ,OJ>l:ENT CORPOlU\TIOH,
P.O. Box 2500,
Sydney, Nova Scotia BlP 61{9
Gentlemen:
no:	In tbo uat.t.nr of the Canada Labour code (Part I -
Industrial Rolations) and n Dispute Affecting Cape Breton Development. Corporntion (Coal Division), Sydney, N.S., and united Mine Horkor3 n>f America* District. 26_________________
Enclosed please find the draft Memorandum of Agreement,
You have already seen the bulk of the document in handwritten form. However, the pages dealing with the amendment to Article 25,7(d) and the increased Group Insurance Benefits are new.
Also, some language has been added on the page dealing with the Early Retirement Program to make it clear that December 31, 1994 is the cut-off date.	"
Assuming you both find the Memorandum to be in satisfactory form,
I would ask that Ray make three copies of the Agreement and have it signed by his negotiating team. The signed Memorandums should then oe delivered to Gordon who will have them executed by his negotiating team. Gordon will then return one copy to the Union,
08107194	16:1S	'U4297347
BLOIS NICKERSON
ll003
Messrs. Holland and MacLean, Page 2,
June 7, 1994.
keep one for himself and mail the other to me. I would also ask that Gordon fax me a signed copy so that I will have it for my file pending receipt of the hard copy by mail.
Needless to say, it is extremely important that both parties do . everything possible to ensure that the Memorandum of Agreement is ratified. If any unusual. difficulties are encountered, please let me know. Otherwise, I await with great interest the outcome of the ratification process.
Yours very truly,
Bruce Outhouse
SBO:sw
Enclosure
nuiIfi Nlnii-KSMN
PI1111.1
«6	• •fl-l 16: ill QM21173.I7
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The negotiating teams of the Union and the Corporation have reached a tentative agreement to renew their existing Collective Agreement on the terms and conditions attached hereto.
Other than to the extent described in the attachment@, the teras and conditions ofthe existing Collective Agreement remain unchanged.
The undersigned agree to recommend the ratification of this Memorandum of Agreement.
Signed on Behalf of	signed on Behalf of
the Union's Negotiating Team, the Corporation's Negotiating Te^p, June y- , 1994:	June	, 1994:

,
06'^7/04	16:17	'ZN297347
BLOIS NICKERSON
0006
Early netire.mant Program
The corporation is prepared to offer early retirement to those employees 56 orovur, with 75 or nioropoints (both of which conditions must lie satisfied by December Jl, 1994) and whose position would not havo to be filled. The level of payment
and benefits would be the smrae as in the most recent early retirement progrc:im.
06/07/94	18:17	04207317
BLOIS NICKERSON
@007
Amend the Dereavoment Loave, SupplDentary Unemployment Bonefit
and Widowa'Pensions Provisions of tho Collective Agreemont as follows:
1.	JJBREAVEttEN'C LEl\VE
It iG proposed to increase coverage in the event of the <leath of an employee' .s spouse or child from four days tor i v e days.
2.	SUPPLEKBUTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
It is proposed to amend language in the present Article 34 to reflect payment when weekly earnings do not exceed three times the individual's classification rate.
3.	WIDOWS' PENSIONS
The Corporation will sponsor an amendment to its noncontributory pension plan which, on approval, would extend the spousal benefit to the surviving spouse of a retired member for their lifetime. This change will become effective January 1,
1995.
06.-07.-94	J11.18	©4287.347
BLOIS NICKERSON
laJ ooa
Safety Apparel
(1)	Insert the following between the first and second sentences of Article B.lt
Of the two pairs of coveralls issued to surface employees, the employee shall have the option ofreceiving two unlined pairs or one lined and one unlined pair.
(2)	Amend Article 8.2 to read as follows:
TheCorporation agrees to provide yearly to each employee
(i)	two pairs of rubber bootr., or
(ii)	two pairn c.if low-cut leather boots, or
(iii)	one pair of each, at the option of the employee. Boots which are determined to be defective Lythn manufacturer '.'lill be replaced at no co:;t to the employee.
oe .. O7.-0J	U:U ,a,-i:*9V3.J7
DLOIS NICKERSON
®U0P
Amendment 25.3(C)
The word "c'l.assifications" shall be inserted between the words "names" and "check numbers" in Article 25.3 (C).
06107/94	10:10
BLtlS NICKERSON
'04297347
0010
J'Wcncl Article 23 . d ( D) Jvy deleting tho mcin ting sub-clauao (2) and replacing It tfit'a tho following:
(2) (a) An employee bumped from a damnification at a particular site will have the right to bump tho moot junior employee at that site or the most junior employee in the bargaining unit. If an employee does not have the ability to bump the most junior employee, whether at the site or in the bargaining unit, as the case may be, then he/ehe shall have the right to bump the next most junior employee whose job he/she has the ability to perform.
(2) (b) Any employee bumped from a site in accordance with 2 (a) shall have the right to bump the most junior employee in the bargaining unit. If the employee does not have the ability to bump the most junior employee in the bargaining unit, then he/she shallhavetheright to bump the next most junior employee whose job he/she has the ability to perform.
00/07194	16:19	?J4297347
BLOIS NIClmRSON
011
Amend 7!.l:ticlo 25.7 (d} n.n followat
(d) He performs worJ: for the Corporation outside the jurisdiction of this Agreement in'excess of a total or 30 working days in a calendaryoar and shall forfeit his original seniority,
'6'4297347
BLOISNICKERSON
11.1012
06/07/94	16:20
Add New Article XX
The parties agree that the employees who were under the Bridge Benefits Program and are currently classified as "temporary" employees will, upon the ratification of this Memorandum of Settlement, be deemed to be permanent employees covered by the full terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement, including job postings.
Add New Article zz
It is understood and agreed that all letters of understanding attached hereto form part of the Collective Agreement.
Amend Appendix 1 - Schedule of Group Insurance Benefits - as follows:
1.	Life Insurance
(a)	Active Employees
Spouse	$10,000
Dependent	Child	$ 7,S00
(b)	Pm-Retirement Leave Employees and Compassionate Disability Pensioners
Spouse	$10,000
Dependent	Child	$ 7 ,S00
2.	Health
(b) Ambulance Benefit (per benefit period) -	$100.00
3.	Vision Care for Employees and Dependents
Eye examinations once every two years. Frames and lenses for prescription glasses once every two years to a maximum of $175.00.
4.	Prescription Drug Benefit
All drugs prescribed by a doctor which are not normally freely available without a prescription, generally recognized O.T.C. (over the counter) items excluded. A credit card issued to each member of the Plan with a $2.00 per prescription fee paid by each member.
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives and tranquilizers shall be increased to $500.00.
All of the above increases are effective on the date of ratification of the Memorandum of Agreement.
BLOIS NICKERSON
1115
OC-07'94	10:21	©4207347
Coll\JDittaaa on Rontaring and Equitablo Distribution of overtime
The parties agree to form comrnittees at each operating site for the purpose of reaching agreement onrostering and the equitable 'distribution of overtime. Upon such agreements being reached by the committees, and after ratification by the parties, theywill beooae part of the Collective Agreement and replace Letter of Understanding no.	3 with respect to the sites to which
they respectively apply. The co^lrlittees will consist of an equal number of representatives appointed by the Union and the Corporation and will be established within 60 days of the ratification of this memorandum of settlement by the parties.
08107194	16:22	tJ4297347
BLOIS NICKERSON
fl!018
Committee on Clasaitications
Presently there are 209 classification rates listed in the collective Agreement. A committee will be established to conduct a study with a view to consolidating this to a reasonable number o:r class!. Citations. The committee w.i.l l consist of 4 members, 2 appointed by the Corporation and 1- appointed by the Union. Letter of Unde.ru tandingNo. 11 concerning the Joint Trades Committee is to he deleted from the Collective Agreement.
06/07/94	16: 23	04297347
BLOIS NICKERSON
lalou
LETTER OF UNDERSTlUIDINCI
This letter will confirm the Understanding on the issue of Fire-Watch.	'
The Corporation will recognize the duties of Fire-Watch that are presently being carried out by United Mine Workers of America employees at various locations.
It is further understood and agreed that members of other bargaining units perform similar duties as part of their normal rostered nhifts,
Memorandum of Agreement between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America.
January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1994.
The	following Articles which were contained	in the Collective
Agreement have been redrafted to reflect current		contract language.
They	were signed off by the parties prior to	the conciliation
process.		
NO.	SUBJECT	DATE SIGNED
	Purpose	1993-11-03
	Recognition	1993-11-03
1	Production Standards	1993-11-03
2	Security of Employment	1993-11-03
10	Method of Settling Disputes	1993-11-03
13	Temporary Assignments	1993-11-03
16	Re-Employment of Officers	1993-11-03
18	Changes of Agreement	1993-11-03
19	New Work	1993-11-03
20	Technological Change	1993-11-03
22	Violation of Agreement	1993-11-03
23	Preparation of Coal	1993-11-03
28	Union Security	1993-11-03
30	Group Insurance	1993-11-03
31	Pensions	1993-11-03
32	Retirement Allowance	1993-11-03
33	Death Benefit For Pensioners	1993-11-03
35	Pre-Retirement Leave Plan	1993-11 3
40	Payment For Taking Injured Employees Out of Mine	1993-11-03
41	Training Programs	1993-11-03
43	Alcoholism and Drug Addiction	1993-11-03
45	Obligations	1993-11-03
46	Security Guards	1993-11-03
52	Jury/Crown Witness Duty	1993-11-03
53	Apprenticeship Training	1993-11-03
Appendix 3 Pre-Retirement Leave Plan		1993-11-03
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WO^^^ OF AMERICA
ARTICLE P^^SE	INDEX 1993-08-26
. 01 The Corporation and the union agree that the purpose of this Collective Agreement is to promote and maintain a sound and harmonious relationship between the Corporation and its employees covered by the agreement and to set forth herein rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as well as to provide the machinery for prompt settlement of grievances arising between the parties during the term of this Agreement.
. 02 In the event that the provisions of the Agreement do not meet the minimum standards provided under tHe Canada Labour Code, then the Code will take precedence.
.03 This agreement or any custom, condition, or district agreement cannot contravene any Federal or Provincial laws.
•04 The Corporation and the Union further agree -
Whereas the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape Breton:
and whereas Devco and District No. 26 of the United Mine Workers of America agree that the decline can now be stopped,
PAGE 1 OF 2
but•• to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity as a basis for reducing the operating losses paid by t he Treasury of Canada and thereby justifying the investment of federal funds in the maintenance, improvement and development of mines:
and whereas Devco and the Union share the objective of improving wages and working conditions to the maximum extent compatible with security of employment:
and whereas Devco and the Union recognize that such security of employment depends on good working practices to utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and .yield h i g h productivity:
Therefore Devco and the Union make the following agreement.
PAGE 2 OF 2
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 1	PRODUCTION STANDARDS
INDEX 1993-08-26
1.01	Devco and the Union are united in recognizing that the
maintenance of employment with good wages depends on a large improvement in the productivity of the industry.
1.02
The Union agrees that the attainment of reasonable production standards is vital to the ability of Devco to provide security of employment and good wages, and undertakes to cooperate in every reasonable effort to attain and improve upon such production.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE RECOGNITION	INDEX 1993-08-26
.01 The Cape Breton Development Corporation recognizes District No. 26 United Mine Workers of America as sole bargaining agent for all employees coming under the scope of the Certification Notice issued April 25, 1990, by the Canada Labour Relations Board, and which is deemed to be now covered by the Canada Labour Code, Part 1, in accordance with the Act to establish the Cape Breton Development Corporation assented to on July 7, 1967 •
.02 The Union agrees to fully support and cooperate with the Corporation in its efforts to bring about and to maintain the efficient use of all resources in the operations, which include manpower, machinery, and materials. In this respect the Union will support and cooperate with the Corporation and its Industrial Engineering Program in all electrical and mechanical maintenance and installation operations, surface operations and the conducting of utilization studies on mining methods and machinery, haulage systems and surface and underground service equipment.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTICLE 2	SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT	INDEX 1993-08-26
2.01	No employee who was on the books of Devco on 1st August, 1968, will be removed from the books unless he/she is placed on the Pre Retirement Leave Plan or offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions .
2.02	The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any employee for just cause.
2.03	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operations as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
2.04	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off employees if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to
1 OF 2
-ensure that a full forty hours work in each week is available to all employees who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next article.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTICLE 10 METHOD OF SETTLING DISPUTES	INDEX 1993-08-26
10.01 Step One: Within fifteen (15) days of the grievance arising, the grievor will file with his/her supervisor a written grievance in the form attached hereto and will meet with his/her supervisor to discuss it. The supervisor will give his/her written answer within three (3) days after this first meeting. (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excluded).
0.02 Step Two:	After receiving his/her supervisors reply, the
grievor will have three (3) days to notify the appropriate Mine Manager (other than the General Mine Manager) that he/she wishes to proceed further with his/ her grievance. Within seven (7) days after such notice, the Mine Manager will mntwith the grievor and his/her Mine Committee to try and settle the grievance. The Mine Manager may elect to have the supervisor and a corporation Employee Relations Manager present. The Mine Manager will give his/her written decision within three (3) days after this second meeting.
10.03	Step Three:	After receiving his/her Mine Managers
PAGE 1 OF 5
-decision, the grievor will have three (3) days to notify him/her that he/she wishes to proceed further with his/her grievance. Within seven (7) days after such notice, the General Mine Manager will meet with the '	grievor and his/her Mine Committee to try and settle the
grievance. The Mine Committee may elect to have the appropriate Union Sub-District Board Member present. The General Mine Manager may elect to have the supervisor and a Corporation Employee Relations Manager present. -The General Mine Manager will give his/her written decision within seven (7) days after this third meeting.
10.04	Step Four:	ARBITRATION:	Within fourteen (14) days after
the General Mine Managers decision, it will be decided whether or not to take the grievance to arbitration. Any arbitration under this grievance procedure will be conducted by a single arbitrator selected on a rotating basis from a pool of arbitrators, three nominated by the Union and three by the Corporation. Each arbitrator will, as far as practicable, examine and deal with any dispute or grievance referred to him/her within fifteen (15) days after the date of notice to him/her that the dispute or grievance exists and will render his/her decision or award within fifteen (15) days after the parties to the dispute have presented their respective submissions to him/her .
PAGE 2 OF 5
10 ... 5
Each arbitrator will have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of the Collective
Agreement so far as will be necessary to the	nh
determination of the dispute or grievance before	N
arbitrator will have any power to alter or change in any way the provisions of the Collective Agreement or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision or to give any decision or award inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
10.06	All the parties to any dispute or grievance will do all such acts and things as are necessary to enable any arbitrator to make proper findings respecting the matter before him/her, and any arbitrator may at his/her discretion call such witnesses and examine such documents as he/she may require. All the parties will on their respective parts in all things obey, abide by, perform and keep the award and findings of an arbitrator.
10.07	No arbitrator will consider a dispute or grievance in respect of which or as a result of which any strike, lock-out, or other cessation of work exists. Any period during which any such strike, lock-out, or other cessation continues will not be considered as part of the period or periods limited under Step Four of the grievance procedure. With respect to any grievance
3 OF 5
10.11	• The Corporation will have the option to decline to
consider any grievance the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more than fifteen (15) days (Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays excluded) prior to its presentation at Step One.
y-7?
PAGE 5 OF 5
•concerning discipline, including any grievance by an employee who has been discharged, the burden shall be on the Corporation to establish grounds for discipline.
10.08	Any party to a dispute may at any time before the
findings or decision of an arbitrator make written submissions to him/her.	An arbitrator may at his/her
discretion at any time require any party to a dispute or grievance to make such written submissions as he/she-may determine. An arbitrator will hold his/her sittings at such time and place as he/she may from time to time determine. The costs of any arbitration under the grievance procedure will be borne equally between the Union and the Corporation.
10.09	The party initiating the grievance procedure will take each step within the time limits set, or as extended by mutual written agreement between the Union and the Corporation. Otherwise, the grievance or matter in dispute will be deemed abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance .
10.10	It will be contrary to the spirit and intent of the grievance procedure for any employee to attempt to or to lay any mine or section of mine idle for the purpose of forcing a settlement of any grievance.
U yb/v^- $$ *
PAGE 4 OF 5
" of the application of above paragraph, ten working days prior written notice by registered mail of the reduction of his/her lower paid classification. If an employee has not been given 10-day notice, he/she will be paid a differential for the ten days in lieu thereof equal to the difference between his/her established higher classification rate and the lower classification rate at which he/she was working.
PAGE 2 OF 2
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
ART I
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED WINE WO^^^ OF AMERICA
CLE TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS	INDEX 1993-08-26
An employee assigned temporarily to perform work in a ■ classification paying a /ower rate than his/her own, he/she shall be paid his/her regular rate, providing that his/her regular occupation is required in operation:
If an employee is assigned to a higher classification, he/she shall be paid the higher rate.
If any employee requests in writing and is granted a transfer to a lower rate position, he/she will be paid the lower rate from date of transfer .
Any employee who after having worked for twenty consecutive shifts at a job or jobs carrying a higher wage classification as set out in the Rate Schedule of this Agreement, shall be established at such higher classification as long as he/she continues to satisfactorily perform the work on the higherpaid job.
The Corporation shall give each employee established at such higher wage classification job or jobs as the result
PAGE 1 OF 2
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 16	RE-EMPLOYMENT OF OFFICERS	INDEX 1993-08-26'
16.01	The Corporation agrees that all employees leaving their employment to accept elected or appointed positions with the United Mine Workers of America shall at the expiration of their official duties be given employment at the mine or site where they were previously employed.
16.02	LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR FULL-TIME UNION OR PUBLIC DUTIES:
(A)	The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections.
(B)	An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (A) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his/her term of office.
(C)	An employee who is elected or selected for a fulltime position with the Union shall be granted leave of
PAGE 1 OF 2
•• absence without loss of seniority.
(D)	Employees granted leave of absence under this Article must return to work within two (2) months after the expiration of such elected position or appointment.
fo,	^ y'- 9g
PAGE 2 OF 2
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTTPOSHlft N G K ~	.. T ^CREE	INDEX 1993-08-26
18.01	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement subject to the Articles of this Agreement, nothing shall be done to decrease the earning power of the employee or to increase the cost of production to the corporation; also, it is hereby understood that no custom or condition in effect at any mine or site, other than as are altered by this Agreement, can be changed unless mutually agreed to by both parties to the Agreement. The Corporation shall notify the District Executive of any proposed change.
18.02	Any past customs or conditions that have not been put in writing by the parties hereto within ninety (90) days of the signing date of this Collective Agreement shall not be binding on the Corporation.
18.03	Not withstanding the foregoing, any rulings of the Joint Board of Adjustments respecting "Custom and Condition" at the several collieries and auxiliary departments, except insofar as the said ruling are in conflict with any subsequent agreements between the parties hereto, shall continue to be recognized.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
ART
19.01
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED WINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA CLE NEW WORK	INDEX 1993-08-26
When the development of a new mine is begun, or when a new site becomes operational, during the period of this Agreement, or new machinery installed or new methods of handling the project are adopted, then the datar rate covering the labour at such new mines or sites under such changed conditions will be the same as in other mines or sites in the neighbourhood where similar conditions exist. Where no similiar conditions exist, the datal rate will be negotiated by the District Executive and the representatives of the Corporation.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTICLE 20 TECHNOLOGICAL________CHANGE
INDEX 1993-08-26
20.01
20.02
20.03
20.04
For all purposes of the Collective Agreement, technological change shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code.
For the purpose of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an incumbent shall mean any employee with more than ten (10) years compensated service from last date of hire.
No inc^umbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological change; provided that any incumbent, if required' by the Corporation due to any technological change, shall submit to reasonable retraining by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation.
Nothing in these provisions shall be construed as a waiver by an employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
CO^NTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 22	VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT	INDEX 1993-08-26
22.01	No laws or rules shall be made byany Local union or group of local unions in violation of this Agreement, joint agreements to have precedence over National, District and Local Constitutions.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE	OF AMERICA
ARTICLE PREPARATION OF COAL	INDEX 1993-08-26
23.01	The ability of the Corpor at ion to implement the principles set in the preamble to this agreement is very much dependent on selling clean coal.
23.02	Management will provide machinery and associated systems of work to minimize the contamination of coal with rubbish.
23.03
It is the responsibility of each individual employee to so operate the machinery and the systems to produce and load coal free of impurities.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
ARTICLE
28.01
28.02
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
28	UNTON SECURITY	INDEX 1993-08-26
MAINTENANCE MEMBERSHIP:	Every employee who is a member
of the United Mine Workers of America at the effective date of the beginning of this Agreement or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to bea member in good standing of the Union during the life of this Agreement provided he continues to be eligible to be a member and during the life of the Agrement shall have deducted from his/her wages, all dues, levies, fines and assessments in accordance with 28.02 below.
CHECK-OFF MEMBERS:	The Corporation agrees to check off
all dues, fines and initiation fees from all members of the United Mine Workers of America employed in and around the collieries. The Corporation also agrees to check-off for assessment or levies for strictly United Mine Workers purposes . Authority to make such deductions shall be given to the Corporation by the President, and Secretary Treasurer of District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America, such authorities to state the purpose for which the assessment or levy is to be made .
PAGE 1 OF 3
28.03	•. CHECK-OFF OF EQUIVALENT TO UNION DUES FOR NON-MEMBERS:
The parties agree that from and after the first dayof September, 1965, there shall be a compulsory check-off an amount equivalent to Union Dues from the pay of. all employees who are not members of the Union and who come within the bargaining unit to which this Agreement applies. Such check-off shall continue during the period the provisions of this Agreement are binding on the parties.
28.04	MEMBERSHIP (COMPULSORY NEW EMPLOYEES):	All new employees
shall become members of the Union within thirty (30) days of employment and remain in good standing as a condition of employment.
28.05	GENERAL:	Deduction shall be made only in the conditions
and circumstances relating to the payment of dues, fines, initiation fees and assessments or levies for strictly United Mine Workers purposes as laid down by the constitution and By-laws of the Union. At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit by cheque, to the Union, the total of the weekly deductions made together with a relevant statement. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already had made to the Union, or where a deduction is not a conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution
PAGE 2 OF 3
and By-laws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union.
28.06	The Union shall indemnify the Corporation against. any liability that the Corporation may incur under this Article. The liability of the Union shall be limited to the amount or amounts of money so deducted from employees wages in accordance with this Agreement.
—
PAGE 3 OF 3
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 30	GROUP INSURANCE	INDEX 1993-09-27
30.01	All employees covered by this Agreement shall as a condition of employment, become members when eligible, of the Group Insurance Plan as outlined in Appendix 1 hereof.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 31	PENSIONS
INDEX 1993-09-27
31.01	Pension benefits shall be set out in Appendix 2 hereof.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 32	RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
INDEX 1993-09-27
32.01
Effective January 1, 1993, a Retirement Allowance of $1,078.68 will be paid to each active employee on the date of his normal retirement (age 65), to disabled pensioned employees on reaching age 65, and to-Early Retirement Incentive Plan recipients on reaching age 65 (not applicable to P.R.L.).
ESCALATION:
The retirement allowance of $1,078.68 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1994, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 33	DEATH BENEFIT FOR PENSIONERS	INDEX 1993-09-27
33.01	It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article there will be a deduction of ten '( 10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a seven hundred fifty dollar ($750.00)-Death Benefit from the Corporation and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to. November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan, provided that such person had no benefits under the current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purpose of this Article any employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Co. Ltd. or Old Sydney Collieries Ltd. but off work at November 1, 1965, and who dies prior to returning to work, the beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
33.02	If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension has been paid or if the former employee is on a "burnt-out” pension, there will be a ten cent deduction from the employees but no matching amount by the Corporation.
PAGE 1 OF 2
33.03	■■ It is understood and agreed that changes as provided
herein, for the 10 and 10 Death Benefit plan, are retroactive to January l, 1979.
PAGE 2 OF 2
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTICLE 35 PRE-RETIREMENT PLAN
INDEX 1993-09-27
35.01
The Cape Breton Development Corporation has set up a PreRetirement Leave Plan in order to reduce the manpower force without adverse social consequence. Terms and conditions of the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan are outtined in Appendix 3 of this Agreement.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
article
40.01
40.02
40.03
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ML PAYMENT FOR TARING INJURED	INDEX 1993-08-26
F,MPLOYF,F,.S OUT OF MTNE:
Any employee requested to assist in taking an injured person out of the mine will be paid his/her datal rate.
If, at the Collieries operated by the Corporation at the time of this Agreement, he/she arrives on the surface before the mid-point of his/her shift, he/she will return to his/her duties in the mine.
If he/she arrives on the surface after the mid-point of the shift, he/she will be paid the full shift and permitted to go home.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MIHE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTICLE 41 TRAINING PROGRAMS.
INDEX 1993-08-26
41.01%-
The Union agrees to cooperate fully with the Corporation in the development of training programs so that qualified personnel will be available to perform tasks requiring a higher degree of skill occasioned by the mechanization of the operations and introduction of new methods.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
ARTICLE 43
ALCOHOLISM AND DRUG ADDICTION
INDEX 1993-08-26
43.01 Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of the Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at the plant level in encouraging empl't>yees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a coordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.

11
CON^TRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTTCT.E 45	OBLIGATIONS	INDEX 1993-08-26
45.01	All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutually agreed to by and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employees of District No. 26 and signed by the representatives of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorized to execute the same on behalf of District No. 26 of the United Mine Workers of America respectively.
45.02	The fulfilment of this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the International Union, the Officers of District No. 26 United Mine Workers of America and the Operators; and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTICLE 46	SECURITY GUARDS	INDEX 1993-08-26
46.01 It is understood and agreed that the Corporation security guards will have the right on corporate property to search employees from time to time on leaving their work.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ARTTCT.K 52 JURY/CROWN WITNESS DUTY	INDEX 1993-08-26
52.01 An employee summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed by the crown as a witness in a court of law, and who is required to lose time from his/her regular rostered shift (s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost"' with a maximum of one basic days (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him/her for the duty for each such day, excluding allowances paid by the court for meals, lodging, or transportation subject to the following requirements and limitations:
A.	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the court recognizes attendance and
compensates the employee for same. In a^ such cases the Corporations financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in clause 52.01 above.
B.	An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court of the allowances paid and the days on which jury/crown witness duty was performed.
PAGE l OF 2
c.. The number of working days for which jury/crown witness duty pay shall be paid is limited to a maximum of fourteen (14) days in any calendar year.
D. No pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is entitled to annual vacation or general holiday pay.
PAGE 2 OF 2
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
*
ARTICLE
53.01
53.02
53.03
53.04
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED WINE WORKERS OF AMERICA Jj3 APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING	INDEX 1993-08-26
The Corporation will establish and maintain an Apprenticeship Program to train and develop employees in the skilled trades in accordance with the terms and conditions specified by the Nova Scotia Department of Labour. The Apprenticeship Program will replace the Memorandum of Apprenticeship Training Agreement between the parties .
It is agreed that apprentices will not be placed at employment not related to their training program except in emergency situations.
Eligibility for participation in the Apprenticeship Program is restricted to those of the Corporations active employees who have the fallowing minimum requirements:
a)	three years of service with the Corporation;
and
b)	a Grade 10 academic or equivalent education.
The number of participants in the Apprenticeship Program at any given time will be determined by the Corporation.
PAGE 1 OF 3
53.05 Notice of vacancies in the Apprenticeship Program will be posted at locations throughout the Corporation for a period of seven (7) days. Applicants with the minimum requirements set out in Clause (3) of this Article and who also, in the opinion of the Corporation, have satisfactory work records and recommendations	from
appropriate departments and have had satisfactory interviews and aptitude test results, will be considered for positions in the Apprenticeship Program.- The Corporation may also consider an applicants previous training.	Selection of participants to the
Apprenticeship Program shall be at the sole discreti on of the Corporation.
53.06	Participants in the Apprenticeship Program shall earn wages equivalent to the underground labourer classification during the first twenty-four (24) months of their apprenticeship and the reafter, their wages will increase progressively in accordance with the Apprenticeship rate schedule.
53.07
The instructional content of the Apprenticeship Program shall be consistent with the requirements of the Apprenticeship Division, Nova Scotia Department of Labour and the operational requirements of Ce Corporation.
V
PAGE 2 OF 3
A
53.08 ••
53.09
An apprentice failing a year will have his/her position reviewed by the Corporation, and if his/her work and school performance are not satisfactory, his/her participation in the Apprenticeship Program may be terminated by the Corporation. An apprentice who fails any two years of the Apprenticeship Program will be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and returned to available work for which he/she is qualified and able to do in the bargaining unit. An employee who is removed from the Apprenticeship Program will only be returned to work if he/she was working for the Corporation immediately prior to entering the Apprenticeship Program.
When an employee successfully completes the Apprenticeship Program, his/her job location shall be determined by Article 25 - Seniority. Wages will be paid
PAGE 3 OF 3
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS - 1993
DISTRICT NO. 26 - UNITED MINE WORKERS OF ^AMERICA
APPENDIX 3	PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN	INDEX 1993-09-27
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION COAL DIVISION
THE PRE-RETIR^EMENT LEAVE PLAN AMENDMENT TO BY-LAW THREE OF CAPE ^BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BE IT RESOLVED that By-Law Three of the Cape Breton Development Corporation be and the same is hereby amended by rescinding "The Pre-Retirement Leave Plan” which is attached as an Appendix to said By-Law Three and adopting the following in substitution therefore:
APPENDIX TO OVERALL PLAN OF CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION THE PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN (Section 18 (2) and (3) C.B.D.C. Act)
PREAMBLE
Section 17 of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Act requires the Corporation to prepare and submit to the Minister, for approval of the Governor in Council, and Treasury Board an overall plan for the conduct of coal mining and related operations by the
PAGE 1 OF 8
Corporation in an efficient manner, and for the progressive reduction of coal production by the Corporation from mines that are not economically viable.
As part of this plan, and pursuant to .a recommendation of the Donald Report, the Corporation is introducing a programme for laying off workers before their normal retirement age of 65. Such workers will be deemed to be on pre-retirement leave and will formally be designated as on standby and available for recall and as such will be able to continue to earn entitlement under the Canada Pension Plan.
The benefits paid under this plan will be designated to supplement other forms of assistance hereinafter designated and received by the employee in order to raise his income to the levels specified below, but said other forms of assistance in respect to which benefits under this plan shall be supplemental shall not include Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
All employees reaching the designated age of pre-retirement leave are eligible for it .
The Corporation reserves the right, at its discretion,
A.	To determine the extent to which the plan is mandatory; initially this provision will apply to those 60 or over.
B.	To designate and from time to time change the other age groups
PAGE 2 OF 8
to which the pre-retirement leave plan may apply.
C.	To exclude certain classes, categories of employees, or individuals, from provisions of the plan, either entirely or for specific periods.
D.	To make regulations concerning the operations of the plan.
E.	to terminate the plan at any time if it is no longer required to meet the problems for which the Corporation was created to solve.
This plan will apply only to employees n the staff of the Corporation at the time the plan is first put into effect.
The plan will be made available to those employees in the age group under 55 years who, in the sole opinion of Management, are disabled due to illness or injury to the extent that they are unable to carry out their duties in a safe and efficient manner, and for whom no suitable alternative employment is available within the Coal Division. The decision as to the disability of an employee within the meaning of the paragraph will rest solely with the management of the Corporation and the Corporation reserves the right of' determining what medical or other evidence is required for Management to reach a decision. The employee will be obliged to cooperate fully in any manner requested by the Corporation. In addition to the general provisions of the Plan relating to Part of Full-Time Alternative Employment, an employee in the age group under 55 years accepted by Management for Pre-Retirement Leave
PAGE 3 OF 8
benefit. due to disability either with the Coal Division or with other employers provided such employment is made available to him and must comply with any legislation which is now or which may be effected for the benefit of disabled persons.
AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
A.	The Basic Benefit shall be as follows:
Without dependents (base year 1969) $2,400.00 per annum With dependents (base year 1969) $3,000.00 per annum (Dependents shall be defined according to the income tax regulations).
B.	Fifteen years employment in Nova Scotia coal mines is required to earn maximum basic benefit. The benefit will be reduced proportionally for shorter service; those over 60 whose benefits are so reduced may, if they so elect, continue to work until they obtain the full fifteen years entitlement, or reach retirement at 65 whichever is earlier.
c. Benefits shall be subject to cost of living increases equivalent to increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustment under the Canada Pension Plan, and if the method by which Canada Pension Plan adjustments are calculated shall be revised at any time, then the method of calculating the increases provided herein shall be similarly revised.
PAGE 4 OF 8
As a result of the annual adjustments, the benefit payable on May 1, 1993, is as follows:
Without dependents	$10,863.oo per annum
With dependents	$13,578.48 per annum
0.	Lump Sum Payments - In addition to other benefits, the Corporation will pay to each qualifying employee, the sum of $50.oo for each year of continuous service, up to a maximum payment of $500.00, and a further identical payment (unaffected by additional service) on reaching age 65. These special payments will cushion the transition from normal pay to pre-retirement leave benefits, and from the latter to the Pension Plan. The first of such payments up t a maximum of $500.00 shall be paid immediately after such employee shall have exhausted any Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which he may be entitled and, if not so entitled, when such employee commences to receive payments under this plan.
CANADA PENSION PLAN
Payment under this plan will be considered earnings for Canada Pension Plan purposes. Contributions will be deducted from payments to employees to which will be added on equal amount from the Corporation. Contributions will be based on the current rate and maximum applicable under the Canada Pension Plan.
COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF PAYMENTS
Payments shall be made weekly and shall commence at the end of the
PAGE 5 OF 8
first week following qualification of an employee for payments under this plan, and terminate on reaching age 65, death, or on date of leaving the plan.
Upon attainment of age 65, payments under the Corporation pension plan will commence. For the purposes of calculation of the earnings for the pension, the period used will be the ten years prior to commencement of pre-retirement leave, rather than the ten years prior to retirement. The period during which the emph>yee is receiving payment on pre-retirement leave will be included as part of total service for pension purposes.
PART ^ FULL-TIME ALTERNATIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Corporation encourages employees receiving benefits under this plan to seek other employment, subject to qualifications noted below:
1.	Income received from casual employment up to $50 per month will not affect benefits under this plan. However, 50% of outside income earned in excess of $50 per month will be applied to reduce benefits (e.g. man earns $100 outside: benefits reduced by $20).
2.	An employee on pre-retirement leave may receive leave of absence for other employment without affecting his right to return to this plan or to receive continuing benefits under it: these benefits,however, would be reduced according to the formula in (1) above.
PAGE 6 OF 8
3.	An employee on this plan who takes employment in another Nova Scotia coal mine receiving some form of assistance from either the federal or provincial government forfeits all future entitlement under this plan.
CANADA PENSION PLAN AND INSURANCE DISABILITY PAYMENTS It is recognized that Disability provisions are contained in the Canada Pension Plan and in certain Insurance Policies carried by the Corporation. It is mandatory that employees entitled to benefits of this kind apply for such insurance or benefit otherwise available to them and Pre-Retirement Leave Benefit shall be considered as a supplement only to insure maximum combined benefit of $2,800 per annum without dependents or $3,600 per annum with dependents or such other amounts which may from time to time be adopted in accordance with the terms of the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan. (Nova Scotia Workmen's Compensation Benefits shall not count for purposes of this paragraph.)
'GROUP INSURANCE
Group Insurance must be maintained on the following basis for those who are receiving benefits. Those who have obtained full-time alternative permanent employment and -are receiving supplement are not eligible for group insurance.
A. Life Insurance - When an employee qualifies for payment under this plan he must maintain his existing $5,000.00 coverage in force
PAGE 7 OF 8
by continuing to pay his share (50%) of the premium.
B. Medical-Surgical Insurance - The Corporation will continue to provide medical-surgical coverage for the employee and his dependents identical to that for active employees and the employee must continue to pay his share (50%) of the premium.
NOTE:
THE PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN continues to exist but only within the context of an agreement made between the Cape- Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division) and District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America. This Agreement was outlined on Wednesday, February 20, 1974, in a public release HIRING AND P.R.L.
PAGE 8 OF 8
ARTICLE 8
SAFETY APPAREL
8.1	As an added safety feature in the collieries and related
departments, employees will be issued with coveralls free of charge - three pairs a year to underground employees, and two pairs a year to surface employees. Of the two pairs of coveralls issued to surface employees, the employee shall: have the option of receiving two unlined pairs or one lined and one unlined pair.
8.2	The Corporation agrees to provide yearly to each employee:
(i)	two pairs of rubber boots, or;
(ii)	two pairs of low-cut leather boots, or;
(iii)	one pair of each, at the option of the employee. Boots which are determined to be defective by the manufacturer will be replaced at no cost to the employee .
B.3 The Corporation will also, during this same period, issue free of charge to each employee, two (2) pairs of leather work gloves of the kind normally stocked in its warehouse.
ARTICLE 25 - SENIORITY
25.1	- DEFINITIONS
(a)	SENIORITY:	is defined as length of service in the bargaining
unit and will be determined on a bargaining unit wide basis in accordance with the following procedures.
(b)	ABILITY:	the ability to perform the requirements of the job
following the completion of a thirty (3O) day trial period.
(c)	BARGAINING UNIT SENIORITY:	is defined as the length of
continuous service the employee now has accumulated within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit prescribed by the Canada Labour Relations Board between the United Mine Workers of America and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
25.2	OPERATING SITES
(A) Central Workshops and Central Warehouse Dominion Coal Yard
Transportation (Trucking and Railway)
Victoria Junction Coal Preparation Plant
International Coal Pier
Prince Colliery
Phalen Colliery
Lingan Colliery
Donkin-Morien Colliery
(B) Any new working sites established within the jurisdiction

the Cape Breton Development Corporation and this bargaining unit shall become part of paragraph (a).
25.3 SENIORITY GEN^^
(A)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement neither an Employee operating site seniority nor his bargaining unit seniority shall have any effect in the event of an interruption of production at operations for a continuous period of fourteen (14) calendar days or less, or in the event of a strike. In any such event, no layoff shall be deemed to have occurred.
(B)	At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to any temporary or
permanent closure of any operating site or part thereof, or any temporary or permanent reduction in the work force for reasons other than closure, which will result in either operating site seniority or bargaining unit seniority becoming the governing factor in layoffs and recalls necessitated by any such closure or reduction, Corporation management shall meet with the Union District Executive and appropriate grievance cornmittees. The Corporation shall thereby notify the Union of the nature of the closure or reduction and provide it with the best information available at that time concerning layoff.
( C) SENIORITY LISTS - For the purpose of determining seniority, a
bargaining unit seniority list shall be maintained by the Corporation. Each bargaining unit seniority list shall show the names, classifications, and check numbers, and bargaining unit and operating site seniority commencement dates of all employees of the bargaining unit employed by the Corporation. Everything else remains the same.
25.4	SENIORITY EFFECT (A) TEMPORARY CLOSURE
In the event of a temporary closure of an operating site, or any part thereof, or in the event of a temporary reduction in the work force at an operating site or any part thereof for reasons other than closure, for a continuous period of lBO calendar days or less, employees will be laid off in reverse order of their operating site seniority and will be recalled in reverse order of layoff, to the extent that employees have the ability required for jobs available to them by operating site seniority. In any such event, an employee's bargaining unit seniority shall have no effect as the governing factor in layoffs and recalls.
(B) PERMANENT CLOSURE - LAYOFF AND RECALL
(A) The Corporation will advise Union representatives in advance of any layoffs and provide details of classifications involved, and it is understood and agreed that employees who exercise their seniority in the bumping process must also have the qualifications to perform the work.
(B) PERMANENT CLOSURE:	In the event of a permanent closure of

operating site or any part thereof, or in the event of a permanent reduction of the work force at a site other than closure, employees shall be laid off in reverse order of their bargaining unit seniority. Probationary employees will be laid off first; then permanent employees.
(1)	An employee who is laid off from a classification at his/her site will be the most junior employee from that classification and will have the right to bump the most junior employee in any classification at that site or the most junior employee within his/her classification in the bargaining unit.
(2)	(a) An employee bumped from a classification at a particular site will have the right to bump the most junior employee at that site or the most junior employee in the bargaining unit. If an employee does not have the ability to bump the most junior employee, whether at the site or in the bargaining unit, as the case may be, then he/she shall have the right to bump the next most junior employee whose job he/she has the ability to perform .
(2) (b) Any employee bumped from a site in accordance with 2
(a)	shall have the right to bump the most junior employee in the bargaining unit. If the employee does not have the ability to bump the most junior employee in the bargaining unit, than he/she shall have the right to bump the next most
junior employee whose job he/she has the ability to perform.
(3)	Employees laid off who are unable to exercise their seniority under 1 and/or 2 shall be placed in available positions at the discretion of management.
25.5 RECALLS
Before hiring from outside the bargaining unit, the Corporation shall give an opportunity on the basis of bargaining unit seniority to laid off employees with the required ability to fill job vacancies at operating sites other than those from which they are laid off. Employees given such opportunities shall be recalled to their original operating sites on the basis of operating site seniority and training to whichever job vacancies or new positions arise at those original operating sites. Should any such employee refuse such a recall, he shall lose his operating site seniority at his original operating site , but shall accumulate operating site seniority at his new operating site from and including his first date of recall there, and shall retain his bargaining unit seniority.
25.6	METHOD AND CONDITIONS OF RECALL TO
(a)	Employees shall be recalled in the normal manner, by telephone. In the event that an employee is unable to be reached by telephone, a registered letter will be forwarded to the Employee's last address on file with the Corporation. A
copy of the letter shall be sent to his Local Union. It sha .. _ be a condition of recall that each individual employee keep the Corporation informed of the address and telephone number of his current residence.
(b)	An employee shall be allowed fifteen (15) calendar days from
the date the registered letter or notification thereof is first delivered at the employee's address to report to work. Failure to report to work will result in his name being removed from the Corporation's employment roll.
(c)	If however, due to reasons of geographical location, injury, illness, or having to give his present employer a specific period of notice before terminating his employment, a recalled employee unable to report to work within the fifteen (15) days, then, in such cases, Union and Management by agreement will give a reasonable period of time for such persons to report back to work. This agreement shall be in writing, signed by both parties.
25.7	LOSS OF SENIORITY
(A) An employee shall lose his bargaining unit and operating site seniority if:
(a)	He retires, resigns, or while on layoff from the Corporation, refuses recall.
(b)	He does not meet the conditions of recall, pursuant to
Article 25.6 (A) through (C) inclusive.
(c)	He is discharged for just cause and not reinstated.
(d)	He performs work for the Corporation outside the
jurisdiction of this Agreement in excess of a total of thirty (30) working days in a calendar year and shall forfeit his original seniority.
NOTE:	Each day is of a 24 hour duration and two shifts’ in a
24 hour period will be considered a working day when computing thirty (30) working days.
(B) An employee shall lose his operating site seniority at an operating site from which he was laid off in the event that, after being laid off, he is recalled to another operating site and subsequently refuses an opportunity to return to work at his original operating site, but, he shall accumulate operating site seniority at his new operating site from and including the first date of his recall there from layoff status, and shall retain his bargaining unit seniority.
25.8	ELIGIBILITY
(a)	Any new employee shall have his name and original date of hire placed on the bargaining unit seniority list and relevant operating site seniority list after he has satisfactorily completed his probationary period of ninety (90) days actually worked, including days worked in the successful completion of any Corporation entry training program.
(b)	Any employee who has enroled in an apprenticeship program,
shall accumulate bargaining unit seniority while on said program. Any such apprentice who is at the operating site where he served all of his apprenticeship shall accumulate operating site seniority there retroactive to the first day of his apprenticeship.
(c)	Any apprentice who apprentices at more than one operating site
shall be entitled to include in his operating site seniority that time served at the operating site where he completed his apprenticeship. Any apprentice who is at an operating site other than that at which he served or completed his apprenticeship, shall accumulate operating site seniority from the first day of his start at that other operating site.
(d)	Similarly, regular employees accepted for any Corporation
training programs shall continue to accumulate their bargaining unit and operating site seniority while enroled in that training .
25.9	JOB POSTING
(a)	In the event that managements' actions create a new classification or create a permanent vacancy within a classification at an operating site, a notice shall be posted in the manner below to inform employees in the bargaining unit of the new job or permanent job vacancy.
(b)	This notice shall be posted for a period of seven (7) working
days at the operating site where the vacancy exists. The notice shall set out the job description, and qualifications required for the jobs, and copies of the notice shall be sent to the appropriate Union Locals.
(c)	If there are qualified applicants from the site where the
vacancy exists, the job will be awarded to the employee with the most operating site seniority and who has the ability pursuant to article 25.l
(d)	Should there be no qualified applicants from the site where
the vacancy exists, the Corporation shall post the job vacancy notice at all work sites for an additional seven (7) working days .
(e)	Within twenty-one (21) calendar days of such posting, the job
shall be awarded to the employee with the most bargaining unit seniority and who has the ability pursuant to Article 25.1 (b) of the seniority clause required for the job.
(f)	If there are no applicants, management has the right to place
junior qualified employees(s) in vacancies.
JOB POSTINGS:	Temporary Assignments (Due to Absence)
(a) Management may assign bargaining unit employees to positions which are temporarily vacant due to employee absences for up
to ninety (90) calendar days after which the job is subject posting.
(b)	When such temporarily vacant positions are filled by way of
job posting or assignment and the regular employee returns to work, all temporarily assigned employees shall return to their regular duties.
(c)	In the event any employee becomes incumben't in a temp°rary
position under paragraph (b) above and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted again under Article 25.9, Job Posting.
TEMPORARY (Job Posting)
(a)	Where a temporary position of sixty (60) calendar days duration or longer exists, the Corporation will post such position in accordance with Article 25.9, Job Posting.
(b)	In the event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary
position under paragraph (a) above, and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted again, as per Job Posting.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose his operating site seniority thirty (30) days after he/she transfers to another site whether by job posting and/or bumping.
Development and Wall Crew Deployment:
Management and Union agree that the present practice at the Corporation's Collieries of relocating entire wall crews and development crews will remain in effect. However, should a vacancy become available within a wall crew or development crew, then such vacancy will be posted as per Job Posting.
LIGHT DUTY JOBS
(a)	Management and Union will mutually agree to a number of current regular positions as light duty jobs to be used for the placement of employees who have permanent disabilities or limitations. The Union will be provided with a list of such light duty jobs. These positions will not be subject to job postings when they become vacant. The incumbents in these positions who are there by reason of their disabilities or limitations will only be subject to bumping if there are no other positions occupied by more junior employees which the bumping employee is capable of performing .
(b)	Management will retain the right to eliminate any or all such designated light duty positions in the event such positions become redundant as a result of tech change or automation. Management will inform the Union of any of these changes.
Agreed to on June 8th, 1990.
ARTICLE 34
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT
A Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of sixty-four dollars and
seventy cents ( $64.70)	per week	in	1993	will	be paid by the
Corporation in the event	of a downtime	in a	Colliery or Department
Under the following terms and conditions:
1.	The downtime must not have resulted either directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by this Agreement.
2.	The employees gross	earnings	for	the	weekly	pay period must
not have exceeded a	sum equal	to	three	times	the individual's
classification rate.
3.	The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit will not be paid concurrent with the payment of Weekly Indemnity under the Group Insurance Plan or to employees on Workers Compensation.
(For the purposes of this section only Weekly Indemnity shall also include benefits received under the Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefit regulations.)
4.	Employees who are already receiving benefits from the Unemployment Insurance Commission are not eligible to receive Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
5.	Payment of Supplementary Unemployment Benefits will be limited
to a maximum period of twelve (12) months.
6.	Downtime shall not include legal holidays or vacation days. ESCALATION
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of sixty-four dollars and seventy cents ($64.70) per weekly pay period, as described in the Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1994, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost of living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan shall be revised.at any time, then the formula by the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 51
BEREAEA^^^OT1 LEAVE
51.1 -
51.2
51.3
51.4
Any employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his/her bereavement leave with pay at his/her regular rate of wages for this regular work.
In the event of the death of his/her spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his/her regular rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur during the five (5) days immediately following the death.
In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative with whom he/she permanently resides, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his/her regular rostered shifts that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the death.
In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his/her rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he/she will be paid for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a paid bereavement day .
51.5
Any day of bereavement leave taken by an employee entitled to it will be credited as a day worked for the purpose of computing any steady work bonus provided under Article 4 for which the employee otherwise qualifies.
TERM OF AGREEMENT AND PROVISION FOR RENEWAL
This agreement supersedes all previous agreements between the signatories and is in full settlement of all demands served on or subsequent to April 21, 1993, by the parties signatory hereto. It will remain in effect until December 31,	1994, and thereafter
subject to notice in writing from either party to this agreement of its desire to revise, amend or terminate it. Such notice may be severed at any time subsequent to September 30, 1994.
Duly executed this _______ day of ________________, 1994, at Glace
Bay, County of Cape Breton, Province of Nova Scotia.
For and on behalf of the Cape Breton Development Corporation
For and on behalf of United Mine Workers of America, District 26.
Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division),. Glace Bay, New Waterford,
‘Sydney and Sydney‘ Mines and United Mine Workers of America,
	District No. 26 (CLC) (1,625 mine employees): A 24-month renewal agreement effective from January 1, 1993, to December 31,1994, settled in June 1994 at the conciliation officer stage. Duration of negotiations - 21 months.
Wages:	Effective Jan. 1/93 General Adjustment 0..0% Daily Rates Surface Labourer $126.18 Welder, 1 st class $131.82 (above ground) Construction Worker $134.47 Specialist (underground)
Hours of Work:	40 per week (unchanged).
Paid Holidays:	11 (unchanged).
Paid Vacation:	2 days per 23 worked, to a maximum of 20 days per year (unchanged).
Health and Welfare:	Life Insurance ■ Applicable for active employees, pre-retirement leave employees, and compassionate disability pensioners - spouse, $10,000 ($2,500); dependent child, $7,500 ($1,250). Ambulance Benefit - $100 ($40) maximum per benefit period. Vision Care - Frames and lenses once every 2 years, to a maximum of $175 ($150). Coverage includes eye examination every 2 years (new addition). Prescription Drug Plan - Employee pays $2 ($1) per prescription; $500 ($300) maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesic, hypnotic, sedative and tranquilizer expenses.
Pension Plan:	Early Retirement Incentive Plan (E.R.I.P.) - Applicable for those 56 years of age or older with 75 points (i.e. age plus years of service), as of December 31, 1994, and whose positions will not be filled. (Previously, eligibility extended to those with 75 points regardless of age.) Maximum allowable benefit which is indexed annually, $1,811 .12 ($1 ,521.51) per month. Widows’ Benefit - Effective January 1, 1995, payable throughout lifetime (25 years).
Bereavement Leave:	5 (4) days' leave-with-pay in the event of death of spouse or child.
Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan:	Annually indexed benefit of $65.92 ($57.38) per week.
Allowances:
Overtime Work Committee (new):
Safety Boots - Option of two pairs of rubber boots, or two pairs of leather boots, or one pair of each (one pair of leather boots or two pairs of rubber boots) per year.
The parties have agreed to set up a committee to deal with the equal sharing of overtime as it applies to individual sites.
0018204 E 1 Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division)
0018204 E 2 United Mine Workers of America 0018204 E 3 mine employees
0018204 F 1 Societe de developpement du Cap-Breton (div. des mines de charbon) 0018204 F 2 Mineurs unis d'Amerique 0018204 F 3 mineurs