COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD
and the
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
Effective: July 1, 1998 - June 30, 2002
1 9 Js
00192(07)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The agreement made this 2nd day of September, 1998.
between
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD.
(hereinafter referred to as the Company or Employer)
and
THE UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
(hereinafter referred to as the Union)
11
MISSION STATEMENT
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
The Executive Local 1656 has a mission.
The mission is to ensure that our brothers and sisters enjoy the following:
a good standard of living safe working conditions proper benefits and education high quality of work life secure retirement a strong and viable local union
and to support the continued success and productivity cf Cardinal River Coals for the benefit of you the employee and you the U.M.W.A. member.
Ill
TABLE CONTENTS
Article
Page
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
PURPOSE OFAGREEMENT .............. 1
SCOPE OFAGREEMENT ................ 1
MANAGEMENT OF MINE................ 4
UNION SECURITYAND CHECK-OFF ...... 5
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES.......... 8
CESSATION OF WORK................. 11
PENSION BENEFIT PROGRAM FOR
CARDINAL RIVER UNION.............. 11
HOURLY EMPLOYEES.................. 11
SENIORITY ........................ 15
REPORTING PAYAND MINIMUM DAILY PAY 18
HOLIDAYS........................ 20
VACATIONS ...................... 22
RATES OF PAY.................... 26
HOURS OF WORKAND OVERTIME ...... 29
SAFETY............................ 34
EMPLOYEE CONDITION.............. 39
SICKNESS AND DEATH BENEFITS ...... 41
LEAVE OF ABSENCE ................. 46
JOB POSTINGS AND TRAINING ...... 47
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM ...	52
ABSENTEEISM/DISCIPLINE ......... 55
CHRISTMAS BONUS .................. 56
EMPLOYEE TRANSPORTATION ........ 57
SENIORITY LIST.................. 58
INCOME TAX DEDUCTIONS............. 58
SEVERANCE PAY .................... 58
HOT MEALS ........................ 59
COST OF AGREEMENTS ............. 60
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.............. 60
IV
CO CO
Article
Page
29	EQUIPMENTOPERATOH TRAINING
PROGRAM ...................... 60
0	UNDERGROUND OPERATIONS ....... 61
1	DURATION OF AGREEMENT ........■ 65
SHIFT SCHEDULES .............. 67
I XIIIBIl A...................
SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM HOURLY WAGE RATES ...................
68
68
PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE JOBS .. 68
APPRENTICE RATES .................. 70
EXHIBIT B ......................... 71
TRAINING SCHEDULE ................. 71
EXHIBIT C ........................  72
PLANTTRAINING ..................... 72
EXHIBIT D .................
SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM HOURLY
WAGE RATES ................
PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCE JOBS UNDERGROUND MINE .....
73
73
73
EXHIBIT E ...................
TRAINING SCHEDULE UNDERGROUND MINE
LETTER OFAGREEMENT ..........
LETTER OFAGREEMENT ..........
LETTER OFAGREEMENT ..........
LETTER OFAGREEMENT ..........
LETTER OFAGREEMENT ..........
LETTER OF AGREEMENT .........
74
76
77
78
79
80 81
V
Article 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent of the parties and the purpose of this Agreement to preserve and continue the harmonious relations existing between the parties; to insure peaceful adjustment and settlement of grievances, claims, disputes and differences which may arise between the Employer and its employees represented by the Union; to prevent stoppage and interruptions of work, strikes and lockouts; and to establish wages, hours and working conditions which shall prevail during the term hereof for the employees covered by this Agreement.
In this Agreement, wherever the masculine gender is used, the feminine shall also apply.
Article 2
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
2.01
This Agreement covers all employees of the Employer hired for its mining operations at Luscar, Alberta excluding those employees designated in Section 2.02 of this Article.
2.02
The following classifications are excluded from this bargaining unit:
(a)	Office staff, unit foremen, safety and security personnel, surveyors and rodmen, janitors, lab technicians, environmentalists, and,
(b)	Those exercising managerial functions and those employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations.
I
(c)	Except where it is necessary to instruct company employees, test equipment and facilities and in the case of emergency, foreman and managerial personnel will not perform work or operate equipment normally performed by employees covered by this Collective Agreement.
2.03
(a)	The following aspects of this Collective Agreement shall govern the conditions of employment which a contractor, subcontractor, assignee or transferee provides for his employees for work performed for Cardinal River Coals Ltd. at the minesite:
(i)	wage rates in Exhibit " A (as a minimum)
(ii)	safety regulations
(iii)	cessation of work (Article 6)
(iv)	adjustment of grievances (Article 5 or equivalent procedures)
''	(v) scope of Agreement as per Article 2.02
(b)	Contractors, subcontractors, assignees or transferees engaged by Cardinal River Coals Ltd., to perform specialized work not normally performed by /> the employees of Cardinal River Coals Ltd. shall be exempt from Article 2.03 (a) (i) above.
(c)	The contractor, subcontractor, assignee or transferee shall pay to Local 1656, U.M.W.A. initiation fees and monthly dues for all his employees who perform work under contract or subcontract to Cardinal River I Coals at the minesite. All Non-Union employees (not C * party to a collective Agreement) of the contractor, subcontractor, assignee or transferee shall become members of the U.M.W.A. while performing work under contract or subcontract to Cardinal River Coals at the minesite.
L
(d)	The Employer agrees that prior to any contracting or \ subcontracting out cf work the Union must be noti- \ c tied in writing and such contracting and/or subcontracting out will be discussed with the Union. Such notification and discussion will occur at least three (3) working days prior to the commencement of the contract work with the exception of emergency circumstances. The contractor and/or subcontractor will not perform work unless the Union has been notified, and such work has been discussed with the Union, except in emergency circumstances.
2.04
(a)	Emergencies excepted, representatives of the contractor and of the Employer shall meet with a Union representative prior to the contractor commencing work (or no later than the first clay cf commencing work) and provide the names of his employees and arrange for the payment of dues and initiation fees. At this meeting work permits shall be issued for contractor's employees.
(b)	The written notification shall include the following information:
(i)	Name of the contractor
(ii)	The nature of the work being performed
(iii)	Expected duration of the contract
(iv)	Number of contract employees
(c)	At the end of every month the Employer will provide the Union with a list of the contractors, subcontractors, assignees, or transferees during the month, the names of their employees and social insurance numbers and a record of the initiation fees and dues which were payable under clause 2.03 (c).
3
2.05
Except for safety regulations as outlined in clause 14.03 of this Collective Agreement contracting of work where the work is being performed by a manufacturer or supplier under warranty shall be exempt from the provisions of this Article.
2.06
The Company further agrees that prior to any contracting out which will result in loss of employment to its employees, such contracting out will be discussed with the Union before it is implemented, and if following the discussion, no Agreement is reached, the Company agrees it will not contract out work at the operations which work is normally performed by the employee if, as a direct result, an employee will be laid off or demoted.
2.07
If, as a result of the requirement for his employees to become members of the U.M.W.A. as specified in 2.03 (c), a Non-Union Construction Contractor as defined herein should decline to work for Cardinal River Coals Ltd., the U.M.W.A. shall waive the membership requirement. The reason underlying the contractor's decision shall be discussed with the Union during the meeting scheduled under 2.03 (d). Such contractors shall, however, pay initiation fees and monthly dues to local 1656 U.M.W.A. for their employees.
Article 3
MANAGEMENT OF MINE
The management of the operation is vested in the Employer except that this right shall not supersede any provisions cf this Agreement.
4
Article 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01
The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined in Article 2.01 of this Agreement.
4.02
(a)	All employees covered by this Agreement shall become members of the Union and shall remain ^ members of the Union as a condition of employment.
4.03
(a) Students hired as summer vacation relief will not be allowed to exercise rights or receive benefits provided under the following sections of this Collective Agreement:
(i)	Article 7: Pension Benefits
(ii)	Article 13.08: Overtime.
Students hired as summer vacation relief will not be eligible to work overtime until all eligible regular employees have been offered the opportunity to work such overtime as may be required.
(iii)	Article 18: Job Postings and Training.
(P) Children of employees hired as summer vacation relief and eligible for benefits coverage under their parent's benefits plan will not be eligible for Sickness and Death Benefits except for:
(i)	Life Insurance,
(ii)	Short Term Disability
Eligibility for these benefits will cease on August 31 of the year in which they are hired.
5
(c)	Students who are not eligible for Sickness and Death benefits under their parent's benefits plan will be eligible for all Sickness and Death benefits under this Collective Agreement, but such coverage will cease on August 31 of the year in which they are hired.
(d)	Under no circumstances will summer students be eligible for Long Term Disability.
4.04
The Employer will honor written assignments of wages of Union dues, assessments and fines and shall remit such dues, assessments and fines to the Union monthly, r together with information such as social insurance number, mailing address and date of hire, as to the persons from whose pay such deductions have been made. Such deductions shall be made from the first pay period of each month and shall be remitted to the Union by the end of the same month with the information outlined herein.
4.05
The Union shall indemnify the Employer and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities that shall arise out cf or by reason of any action taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any provision of Article 4.
4.06
The Employer will arrange for new employees to sign deduction assignments forms upon employment with the Company and will forward the executed documents to the Union.
4.07
(a)	The Employer will grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are:
6
A
4
1
\'
appointed or elected to Union office, except that not more than four (4) employees at any one time will be granted such leave,
appointed or elected as representatives to attend Union meetings, conventions, or Union business, except that not more than fifteen (15) )employees at any one time will be granted such leave and not more than two (2) employees from the same job classification
(b)
\ u
If operating conditions permit, leave of absence will be granted to each employee who is elected or appointed to Town Council, School and Hospital Boards
4.08
Employees who are elected or appointed to full time Union office shall be granted a leave of absence without pay on request as provided in 4.07(a) above. Employees on such leave shall continue to accrue seniority and service with the Employer. The Company shall maintain ' such employees on the Pension Benefit Program as defined in Article 7. Employees returning from Union' k. leave will return to the same shift and same position they v held prior to going on leave.
4.09
Employees granted a leave of absence under 4.08 must return to work within 2 months after the expiration of such Union appointment.
4.10
When hired, all employees shall report to the Union Office before commencing work. The Employer shall give each new employee one (1) copy of the Collective Agreement. The Employerwill provide on a weekly basis, the Local Union Secretary with a list of newly hired and
7
terminated employees, indicating name and job classification.
Article 5
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
5.01	Purpose
It is the intent and purpose of this Article 5 which shall be available both to the Union and the Employer, to provide v for the presentation and equitable adjustment of grievances. Should any differences arise between the Employer and the Union as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to any questions relating to the wages, hours of work or other conditions of employment of any employee covered by this Agreement the same shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this Article 5.
5.02
The grievance committee shall consist of not more than twenty (20) employees, duly elected, from the mine and/or plant. In addition, the Local Union Officers can act as committeemen. The Union must advise the Employer, in writing, which employees are selected for the grievance committee.
5.03	Duties
The duties of the grievance committeeman shall be confined to the purpose as set forth in 5.01 above, and they shall be allowed to process the grievance during shift after first making proper arrangements with the foremen involved as to time and place.
5.04	Step 1
(a)	Within six (6) working days of the alleged grievance, the employee who may be accompanied by his
8

steward if he so desires, shall present the grievances either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee's satisfaction within one (1) day, the employee may proceed to Step2. In discharge cases, Steps 1 and 2 will be bypassed and Step 3 will take precedence.
(b)	The term "working days" as used herein, shall mean the grievor’s regular scheduled work days.
5.05	Step 2
Within five (5) working days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the grievances shall be reduced to writing, dated, and signed by the employee and either the grievance committeeman or Union Secretary and submitted to the Employer.
Such grievance shall then be discussed in an attempt of settlement at a mutually convenient time within three (3) working days after submission. Such meeting shall include the employee, one (1) or two (2) Union representatives, the superintendent, and industrial relations representative and any required witnesses. The department superintendent shall reply in writing within three (3) working days stating the matter, date and decision reached. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
5.06	Step 3
Within five (5) working days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of Step 2, the employee or the Union shall submit a notice of appeal stating the subject matter of the grievance and all objectives pertaining to the previous disposition. At this time a meeting shall be arranged within ten (10) working days to hear the appeal and determine a just disposition. The meeting shall consist of the employee, representatives of the Union, (a maximum of three (3) to be spokesmen),
9
the department superintendent or his designee and the mine manager or his designee and one (1) other Employer representative. Either party may produce any persons familiar with the facts involved in aid in a just solution.
Typewritten minutes should be kept on Step 3 meeting by the Employer and should conform essentially to the following outlines:
(a)	Date and place of meeting
(b)	Names and positions of those present
(c)	Description of the Grievance
(d)	Brief statement cf Union's position
(e)	Brief statement cf Employer's position
(f)	Abstract of important aspects of the discussion
(g)	Decision reached by Employer
The Employershall submit the decision to the Union within ten (10) working days. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, an appeal shall be served within fourteen (14) working days.
5.07	Step 4
(a)	An impartial Umpire shall be appointed by mutual Agreement of the parties hereto and whose decision shall be final. In the event mutual Agreement cannot be reached by an Umpire, it is agreed that either party may upon five (5) days written notice to the other party, request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint such Umpire. The Umpire shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and such local working conditions as may hereafter be in effect and as agreed to by the parties of this Agreement, insofar as shall be necessary to determination of griev-
1O
ances appealed to the Umpire. The Umpire shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract from or alter the provisions of this Agreement. The expenses and salary extent of the services of the Umpire shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
(b)	The Umpire shall award his decision within ninety (90) days of hearing the case.
5.08	Company/Union Grievance
Where any difference occurs between the Employer and the Union as to the meaning, application or interpretation of any pari of this Collective Agreement, either party shall give notice in writing as to the difference grieved. The Employer and the Union shall meet within ten (10) working days to consider such a grievance. In the event of failure to agree, either party may revert to Step 4 of this Article.
Article 6
CESSATION OF WORK
There shall be no strikes or lockouts by either party, either Collectively or individually during the life of this Agreement
Article 7
PENSION BENEFIT PROGRAM FOR V' CARDINAL RIVER UNION
HOURLY EMPLOYEES
7.01	Basic Plan
The Plan is a Money Purchase Plan, hereafter referred to as the "Pension Plan ”
11
7.02	Eligibility Criteria
|3 .ft $
This Pension Plan is available to active employees, employees receiving benefits under the Company sponsored Weekly Indemnity Program, W.C.B. employees, and new hires the first of the month following their date of hire.
Effective July 1, 1990, the Pension Plan shall be available to employees on long term disability insurance for a maximum period of time equal to the Employee's seniority at the time he became eligible for benefits. In no case will pensionable service continue to accrue after an employee's normal retirement date or while he is gainfully employed by an Employer other than Cardinal River Coals Ltd. The pension benefit shall be that in effect when the employee qualifies for the long term disability benefit.
7.03	Employer Pension Plan Contributions
(a)	The Employer agrees to contribute $229.17/month (maximum $2,750 on a con-
\ "| tract year basis) which will be deposited on an employee's behalf to the Pension Plan. Effective July 1, 1993 all employees will be required to contribute $20.84/month (maximum $250.00 on a contract year basis). The
• Company will match this amount.
(b)	In the event of a temporary mine shutdown Employer contributions will continue for a further thirty (30) day period.
(c)	In the event of termination Employer contributions for that month will be prorated.
12
7.04	Administration
Effective April 1, 1997, the method of managing the Pension Plan was changed to allow individual employees the opportunity to select their own l investment options from the suite of products offered by and through the trustee. Employees will receive individual annual statements of the value of their account. The Trustee for the Fund will be selected by the Company and Union Committee. Investment Management fees will be charged to the fund by the Trustee. Administration fees will be paid by the Company.
7.05	Death Benefit
Should an employee die while a member of the Pension Plan, all amounts credited to him will be paid to his beneficiary as specified by the Employment Pension Plans Act. This will include a contribution for the balance of the calendar year in which death occurs providing that the employee has worked in the year the death occurs.
7.06	Termination
Upon termination of employment, the value of the employee's Pension Plan will be transferred to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan as permitted by regulatory authorities to provide for retirement.
7.07	Minimum Pension Guarantee
(a) (1) Employees may be eligible to receive a minimum pension guarantee based on $30.00 per year of service to a maximum of 30 years of service ($900.00 per month maximum) providing such employee retires from the Company after age 62 with a min13
imum of 10 years service and purchases an annuity.
(2) The minimum pension guarantee will also apply to employees disabled and receiving long term disability benefits for a maximum period equal to employee seniority at the time he became eligible for disability benefits.
(b)	The value of the employees Pension Plan Account, Group RRSP account, (Company contributions) and severance pay as outlined in Article 25.01 (e) must be included in the calculation cf the Company cost of providing the minimum pension guarantee.
(c)	The minimum pension guarantee (Company cost) calculation will be based on the greater cf
(1)	the actual Pension Plan and Group RRSP (Company contributions) account values and
(2)	the value the deposits would have grown to if contributions were invested in a 5 year term deposit.
7.08 Provincial/Federal Regulations
The Pension Plan terms and conditions will be registered in accordance with the Employment Pension Plans Act of Alberta and the Income Tax Act of Canada.
7.09	Employer Contribution to Group RRSP
'V\
fS)
\

The Company agrees to contribute $66.05/ month (maximum of $792.61 per year) which will be deposited on an employees behalf to a group RRSP.
14
2 Employees will be allowed to make transfers from the Group RRSP once per 12 month period.
7.10	VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS
Employees may direct the Company to make additional deductions to the Group RRSR
8.01
Seniority shall be the length of continuous service with the Employer.
Continuous service of an employee shall be broken by:
(a)	A resignation or "quit".
(d) A layoff for a period in excess cf six (6) months if the employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
(e)	Failure to report to work within fifteen (15) days from the date of a written notice to return to work after a layoff. Written notice will be in the form of a registered letter with return receipt sent to the last address given by the employee to the Employer. It is the employee's responsibility to keep the Employer advised of his current address.
(f)	Absence, except for good cause, extending beyond an authorized vacation period or beyond a leave of absence granted by the Employer.
Article 8 SENIORITY
8.02
(b)	Discharge for just cause.
(c)	Retirement
\
15
(g)	Absence due to non-compensable disability if the employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
8.03	Layoff
(a) When the mine is temporarily idle, the most senior employees shall have preference of the work available in their classification and shift.
(b)
In the event of a layoff and/or recall and/or demotion which extends beyond 7 work days, for eight hour shift employees or 4 work days for 12 hour shift employees then at that time:
(i)	seniority shall be the determining factor in Job Groups 1-6.
(ii)	seniority shall be the determining factor for Job Groups 6B to 10 providing the individual has previous paid Company experience in the classification.
(c)	Under this clause, employees will not be permitted to accept a trades classification unless they hold the necessary qualifications.
(d)	Under this clause, employees entering into those classifications in Exhibit B (training schedule) shall do so at the trainee level.
8.04
Employees having permanent or temporary partial disability shall be given preference over other workmen in the class or work they can reasonably perform, and shall 3^ be paid not less than their original rate for a period not exceeding three (3) months. lo exercise rights under this paragraph a vacancy must exist on a job prior to the disabled workmen having preference of assignment.
16
8.05
If the Employer introduces any change in equipment or material or any change in its work, undertaking or business, which directly results in the layoff or termination of employees as a direct result of the introduction of such |/i equipment or material, those employees subject to layoff--’ or termination as a result of such introduction of equipment or material may exercise the seniority rights available to them under this article.
8.06
In the event that after the application of the seniority provisions, employees who choose terminaiion as a direct result of the introduction of such equipment or material or any change in its work, those employees will receive sev- 1. , erance pay equivalent to one hundred (100) hours at the ' \ rate of the last classification which each employee could * have held after the application of seniority rights by employees affected.
8.07
It is understood and agreed that the term:; of Article 8.05 and following in this Article 8 relate to changes under the sole and exclusive control of the Employer, and not related to market conditions.
8.08
The following is the method of application of the provisions outlined in 8.05 and 8.06:
(a) Severance Pay
Those employees directly displaced as a result of technological change as defined in 8.05 will have the option of:
(i) taking a layoff without severance pay, OR 17
(ii) terminating their employment with the Company and taking the severance pay, OR
I	|	(iii) exercising seniority rights by bumping less
/'J	1	senior employees providing the individual has
previous paid Company experience in the classification he is bumping in to.
(b)	The employees referred to above will have their rates red circled until:
(i) the Collective Agreement rates for the new job >	performed are equal to or greater than the
' ’	employee’s red circled rates, OK
(jj) such employee posts into another job, in which case the employee will receive the standard rate for the new job.
(c)	Employees indirectly affected as a result of those employees in (a) above, bumping will not be eligible for severance pay or have their rates red circled, except that those employees who, after the application of all the seniority provisions of this Agreement, would otherwise be laid off (i.e., no alternate job in the Company which they can perform or have seniority to bump in to or otherwise is available to the employee) then such employee will have the option of:
(i)	electing severance pay;
(ii)	electing layoff without severance.
Article 9
REPORTING PAY AND MINIMUM DAILY PAY
9.01	s
An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for who no work is available will be allowed four (4) hours pay for eight (8)
18
hour shift employees or six (6) hours pay for twelve (12) hour shift employees at the rate of the job for which he was scheduled to report.
9.02
When an employee has reported to work and has reached his designated working place he shall be provided eight (8) hours work or be paid the full eight (8) hours ../ in lieu thereof for eight (8) hour shift employees, or for twelve (12) hour shift employees be provided twelve (12) hours work or be paid the full twelve (12) hours in lieu thereof.
9.03
When an employee has been accepted on his scheduled bus, he will not be turned back as a means of denying the content of this Article.
9.04
It is understood that where employees report to their marshalling point to which no bus transportation is provided for them, that if the Company can prove that by a telephone call that an employee was informed of nonavailability of work, then the provisions of Clause 9.01 shall not apply.
9.05	Call-out
Anyone called out for start-up or other work, shall be provided a minimum of four (4)hours work for eight (8) hour shift employees or six (6) hours work for twelve (12) hour shift employees, or receive pay in lieu of, as per Article 13, Hours df Work and Overtime.
9.06
The provisions of this Article will apply in the event of an accidental fatality at the mine but will not apply in the
19
event of strikes or work stoppages in connection with labour disputes.
Article 10 HOLIDAYS
10.01
The following days will be observed:
if
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday May 1st Victoria Day Canada Day
1st Monday in August Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
In the event that the Provincial or Federal Government proclaims an additional paid general holiday to be added to the Annual and General Holidays Act, such holiday will be added to this Article, provided such holiday is not listed in 10.01 and further provided that such proclaimed paid holiday is not a substitute or a replacement for any present legislated holiday. It is agreed that there shall not be more than a total of thirteen (13) general holidays observed in a calendar year.
10.02
Holidays shall be effective on the day of the week on which they fall; however, should the Provincial or Federal Government proclaim a day in lieu of any of the holidays listed in Article 10.01 the day proclaimed shall become the holiday for the purpose of interpreting this Article unless otherwise mutually agreed.
20
10.03	Holidays Not Worked
An employee shall be entitled to a holiday allowance for any of the above named holidays riot worked, provided he meets all of the following eligibility requirements:
He shall have worked all of his last scheduled shift prior to, and all of his next scheduled shift following such holiday, unless an absence from one or both of such shifts is because of sickness of the employee (proof required), or because of other good cause.
10.04
(a)	For the purpose of calculating overtime and vacations, an employee who qualifies for payment for a general holiday will be deemed to have worked eight (8) hours if on an eight hour shift schedule or twelve (12) hours if on a twelve hour shift schedule on the general holiday.
(b)	A holiday allowance for a holiday not worked shall be computed by multiplying by 8 (for eight hour shift schedule employees) or by 12 (for twelve hour shift schedule employees) the minimum hourly wage rate as in Exhibit A of the employee’s regular classification.
10.05
If any holiday designated in 10.01 occurs during an employee’s scheduled vacation period, the employee shall receive pay for such holiday as per 10.04 on the first pay period after his vacation and the employee shall receive an extra day off at the employee's discretion as indicated on the vacation application.
10.06
An employee who works on any of the named holidays shall receive his normal holiday allowance plus one and
21
one-half times (1 1/2X) his regular standard hourly wage rate for the number of hours worked.
Article 11 VACATIONS
11.01	Eligibility
(a)	An employee, who has worked 1000 hours in the preceding vacation year, and has one or more years of service, is eligible for a vacation in any vacation year during the term of this Agreement. Overtime, Workers' Compensation, sickness, paid general holidays will be counted as hours worked.
(b)	An employee who has been unable to take his vacation due to a work incurred injury, off the job accident, or sickness, may, upon submitting a written request, receive his earned vacation pay, at any time during the 12 month period subsequent to his anniversary date, but not later than December31st following his anniversary date.
(c)	Employees must take their full vacation entitlement within the 12 month period subsequent to their anniversary date; however, an option to request
\n vacation pay in lieu of vacation time off for a third
. i (3rd), fourth (4th) or fifth (5th) week cf vacation entitlement is available on completion of at least two (2) weeks vacation.
11.02
(a)	Employees who have completed the required years of continuous service with the Employer as of their anniversary date, will be entitled to the following vacation:
22
Years of Service
3 years less

More than 3 years
More than 10 years
More than 15 years
Vacation Vacation Weeks Pay
2	12 days pay for 8 hour or
shifts or 8 days pay for 12 hour shifts
OR 4% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
Effective July 1, 1995, employees with more than one year of service will be eligible for three weeks of vacation as of their anniversary date.
18 days pay for 8 hour shifts or 12 days pay for 12 hour shifts
OR 6% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
24 days pay for 8 hour shifts or 16 days pay for 12 hour shifts
OR 8% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
30 days pay for 8 hour shifts or 20 days pay for 12 hours shifts
OR 10% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
23
(b)	Employees are entitled to receive their vacation time off and accrue vacation pay in the calendar year in which their anniversaries fall. Each employee, upon completion of his first year of service shall take his vacation in the calendar year of his first anniversary. Thereafter, subject to the provisions of this Article 11, each employee shall have hisvaca-tion scheduled at any time during the calendar year regardless of his anniversary date.
11.03
For eight hour shift employees, a vacation week shall consist of seven (7) consecutive days for all employees )who work Monday through Friday. For all employees who work 7-1, 7-2, 7-4, or 10-4, shift schedules, a vacation week shall be one complete shift rotation plus appropriate days off as per the 7-1, 7-2, 7-4 shift schedule vacation entitlement.
For twelve hour shift employees, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) shift rotation or four (4) days off plus four (4) working days plus four (4) days off.
11.04	Scheduling of Vacations
(a)	Vacations for eligible employees shall be scheduled throughout calendar year whenever the employee desires them, provided the Employer reserves the right to allotment of vacation periods in order to ensure orderly operations cf the mine.
(b)	At the option of the employee, all vacations may be taken at one (1) time, or two (2) or three (3) different periods, but each period will be at least one week in duration.
24
11.05
Accrued vacation pay, applicable to the amount of vacation requested, will be available to the employee seven (7) days prior to the scheduled vacation.
A minimum of 14 days notification prior to the start of the vacation period is required.
11.06	Termination
Vacation pay for employees who leave the employment of the Employer for whatever reason shall be computed as follows:
(a)	Terminated employees who have not completed their first year of service shall receive the appropriate percentage of earnings as defined in 11.02.
(b)	Employees who have not taken their vacations and who have passed their anniversary date in the calendar year of their termination will receive their vacation entitlement as per Article 11.02 for the completed year plus the appropriate percentage of earnings for months worked after his last anniversary.
(o) Employees who have taken all vacations earned shall receive the appropriate percentage commensurate with years of service, as per 11.02, uponter-mination for months worked after his last anniversary except as provided in 11.07.
11.07
Any employee 62 years of age and over who terminates or retires shall be paid a pro-rata portion of his vacation entitlement or a percentage of his earnings for that vacation year, whichever is greater.
25
Article 12 RATES OF PAY
12.01	Wage Scales
The Employer agrees to pay its employees covered hereby, and the Union agrees that its members will accept, wages for work performed in the various classifications contained in the Schedule of Wages set forth in Exhibit A and Exhibit C attached hereto.
12.02	New Classifications
(a)	The Employer shall not establish a new job classification until the Union has been notified in writing at
\ least thirty (30) days prior to the new job classifica-\ tion becoming operational. The wage rate for such L ' new job classification shall be established by Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
(b)	In the event the Union and the Employer cannot agree on a wage rate within the thirty (30) day period specified in 12.02(a), the Employerwill assign an interim rate and the parties will proceed to Arbitration.
(c)	The final adjustment will be retroactive for the hours worked on the job.
12.03	Dual Classification
In the case of a man working in a dual capacity he shall be paid the rate that is highest for the class of work performed on any one shift.
'•	12.04 Rotation of Shifts
. When any type of work is performed on a multiple shift basis, the general principle of shift rotation will be i',.,.. adhered to as far as is practicable.
26
12.05 Overrates	|( j *'
On application of the "red circle" rates it is understood that the employee will not have his overrate reduced so long as he remains in the classification in which he holds the overrate. When he moves to another classification he will be paid the contract rate for the classification.
12.06	Shift Differential
(a)	For employees working eight hour shifts, shift differential shall be paid as follows:
1.	For an employee on one shift (steady day shift) no premium.
2.	For an employee working two (2) shifts (day shift plus night shift or afternoon shift) shall receive $0.20 per hour premium for all hours worked.
3.	For an employee working three (3) shifts or steady afternoon and night shift only, or steady night shift, shall receive $0.25 per hour premium for all hours worked.
(b)	For employees working twelve hour shifts, shift differential shall be paid as follows:
1. For an employee working one (1) shift (steady day shift), no premium shall be paid.
2,
_!L=-4-0 -' >
IU-£
For an employee working two (2) shifts (day shift and night shift), the employee shall receive twenty-five cents (25 cents) per hour premium for all hours worked.
Effective July 1, 1998 employees working two (2) shifts (day shift and night shift), the employee shall receive forty cents (40 cents) per hour
premium for all hours worked.
Effective July 1, 2000 employees working (2) shifts (day shift and night shift), the employee
a
shall receive forty five cents (45 cents) per hour premium for all hours worked.
(c)	Shift differential shall be paid for all hours worked, except as stated in (a)1 or (b)1.
12.07
(a)	Pay day shall be hi-weekly on every other Thursday. The employee shall be allowed seven (7) days hold back in order to prepare payrolls. If a general holiday falls on the regular pay day, employees shall be paid the last day worked before the general holiday. An employee desiring to leave the service of the Employer shall, on request, be paid all the monies due him within two (2) working days after his request.
(b)	If the employee has a mistake on his pay cheque, he shall be paid in full within two (2) working days after he requests so. If he does not request so, the mistake shall be rectified on his next pay day.
12.08	Relief Supervisor
(a)	Employees may perform supervisory work exempt from this Agreement on a temporary basis, not to exceed sixty (60) working days (cumulative) during any calendar year, without loss of seniority.
(b)	The Company shall notify the Union of such an employee's temporary transfer out of the bargaining unit and shall keep the Union posted on the number of cumulative days on a monthly basis and cf the employee's return to the bargaining unit.
(c)	Subjectto 12.08 (a) above, the Relief Foreman shall revert back to his original classification when not acting as a Relief Foreman.
(d)	Subjectto 12.08(a) above, any Relief Foreman who reverts back to his original classification shall be
28
exempt and excused from any and all obligations or requirements to pay new or additional initiation fees, clues or other such amounts because of his having performed work pursuant to the provisions of this Article.
Article 13
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01
(a)	The work week shall commence 12.01 A.M. Sunday.
(b)	The Employer may implement the following shift schedules on a simultaneous basis:
Five (5) consecutive shifts Monday through Friday on a one, two or three shift basis and/or, Seven (7) days worked and one (1) day of rest followed by seven (7) days worked and two (2) days of rest followed by seven (7) days worked and four (4) days of rest on a one, two or three shift basis as per schedule #1,
The attached letter of understanding as agreed respecting the 10-4; 10-4 shift.'
A condensed work week schedule consisting of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts followed by four (4) consecutive days of rest.
Overtime at one and one-halftimes (1 1/2X) the regular wage rate shall be paid for 8 hour shift employees as follows:
(a)	Any hours worked, on any day, Monday through Friday, that are not part of the regular eight (8) hour schedule for that week.
29
, , (b) Any hours worked in excess of forty (40) straight - '	- time hours per week.
(c)	Any hours worked on scheduled days off except where the day off is a Sunday at which time all hours ( worked shall be paid at two times (2X) the regular (\ c * wage rate.
(Vo)
'	13.03
The following shift schedule premium shall apply for eight (8) hour shift employees:
(a)	All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid at a premium rate of one and one-half times (1-1/2X) the regular wage rate.
(b)	All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid at a premium rate of one and one-half (1-1/2X) except that when the fifth or sixth consecutive scheduled shift falls on a Sunday, then all hours worked on that day shall be paid at two times (2X) the regular wage rate.
13.04
For eight hour shift employees, all hours paid on a holiday (as established in Article 10 - Holidays) whether worked or not, shall be counted as hours worked in determining overtime under the provisions of this Article.
13.05
The following shift schedule premium is to be paid to employees working the "4 and 4”, 12 hour compressed work week schedule:
(a)	Employees on the condensed work week schedule consisting of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts followed by four (4) consecutive days of rest shall work their scheduled twelve (12) hour shift at ten (10) hours times their regular straight time
30
hourly rate and two (2) hours at one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular straight time rate.
(b)	The two (2) hour overtime premium will not be paid in the event the hours worked in excess often (10) fall on a statutory holiday which the employee works and for which tie receives statutory holiday pay.
(c)	Article 13.02 (a, b, c); 13.03 (a, b) and 13.04 will not apply to employees working the "4 and 4”, 12 hour shift schedule. Rather, time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a day will be paid as described above and time worked on the employee's regularly scheduled day of rest will be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate except if the day of rest is Sunday when the rate of pay will be double time (2X).
13.06
(a)	The marshalling point shall be the wash house.
(b)	Where "hot change" is deemed necessary, the employees affected shall receive a premium of twenty (20) minutes per day at one and one-half times (1-1/2X) their regular wage rate. For all other employees, eight (8) hours or twelve (12) hours work commencing at the wash house will constitute
- a work day.
The term "hot change" shall mean that the shift change occurs at the employees designated work place.
13.07
Eight (8) hours work for 8 hour shift employees or twelve
(12) hours work for 12 hour shift employees commencing
at the designated marshalling point will constitute a workday for all employees.
3!
13.08
(a)	All overtime beyond an employee’s normal work schedule as established in clauses 13.01 and 13.06
3 ^ shall be voluntary.
(b)	In all departments, a system of equitable distribution of overtime beyond an employee’s normal work schedule shall be established where each employee shall have the Opportunity of overtime within his regular shift, classification and work area.
Lists shall be established in each department and classification and shift starting with the most senior employee and so on down in seniority.
A record of overtime and/or refusal of overtime shall be kept on such lists. If an employee refuses overtime he shall be considered as having worked that overtime. Once an individual has worked overtime or has refused to work overtime he shall not have another opportunity until all other employees on the list within his shift, classification and area have the opportunity to work or refuse such offered overtime.
(c)	For overtime planned in advance on general holidays, the senior employee shall have the opportunity of first refusal of overtime within the classification and work area in which the overtime is required. The next senior employee shall then have the opportunity, and so on. This would apply to the shifts that would have normally been scheduled to work that day. The only exception shall be a call in for start-up.
13.09
(a)	Eight (8) hour shift employees shall have a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes during either the fourth or fifth hours of their shift, with the Employer retaining the right to schedule same.
32
(b) Twelve (12) hour shift employees shall have a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes during either the 6th or 7th hour of their shift with the Employer retaining the right to schedule the same.
13.10
In the event an employee is requested to change shift during his regular scheduled work week, such employee will be paid overtime for hours worked only on the first shift of the changed schedule.
13.11
Any employee being injured during his shift will be paid for tho full shift.
13.12
(a) For eight (8) hour shift employees, it is agreed that each employee will have two (2) short rest breaks each not exceeding a duration of ten (10) minutes in addition to the twenty (20) minutes already provided for lunch, one preferable in the first half of the shift, and the second preferably in the second half of the shift on the distinct understanding that the continuity of the operations is not affected.
(pj For twelve (12) hour shift employees, it is agreed that each employee will have two (2) rest breaks each not exceeding a duration of fifteen (15) minutes in addition to the thirty (30) minutes already provided for lunch; one (1) preferably in the first half of the shift, and the second preferably in the second half of the shift on the distinct understanding that the continuity of the operations is not affected.
13.13
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or any other
premiums.
33
Article 14 SAFETY
14.01
Appropriate safety devices and practices for the purpose of protecting the employee from injury, accident or unhealthy conditions of work shall be employed.
14.02
The Employer shall maintain an accident prevention committee comprised of representatives of the Employer and the Union to be known as the ’’Occupational Health and Safety Committee”.
14.03
It is understood and agreed that the parties to this Agreement shall at all times comply with the accident prevention regulations; as they pertain to the coal mining industry, as set by the relevant legislation in the Province of Alberta, and safety regulations instituted by the Employer and the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. Any refusal on the part of an employee to perform an unsafe act in contravention of the said regulations shall not be deemed to be a violation of the Agreement. Nor shall an employee be disciplined for such refusal.
14.04
Employee members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall consist of one (1) from Electrical, one (1)from Blasting, one (1)from the Shop, one (1)from the Plant, one (1) from the Pit on each shift. These members shall be duly elected by their fellow employees and shall be eligible under the terms of the C.M.S.R. The Union shall notify the Employer in writing which employees are selected to the Occupational Health and Safety
34
Committee. One representative from the Local Union executive may be appointed a member of this committee at their discretion.
14.05
The Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall meet once each month. There will be a complete inspection tour of each operation and also an inspection of each bus that transports employees to and from the minesite. The Employer shall supply the Union with a monthly mechanical inspection certificate of each bus.
14.06
Occupational Health and Safety Committeeman on shift shall immediately be notified of all accidents, and:
(a)	Shall have the right to investigate those accidents involving personal injury requiring first aid treatment other than for minor injuries.
(b)	Shall have the right to investigate all major accidents or serious happenings in the operation.
(c)	Occupational Health and Safety Committeemen shall be paid by the Employer, at their regular classified rate for all time spent investigating accidents, serious happenings, inspection tours and meetings.
14.07
The Chairman of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee will alternate between the Union and the Employer’s representative every six (6) months.
14.08
One copy of the minutes of the monthly meetings shall be retained at the Mine Office, a second copy forwarded to the Local Union and a third copy forwarded to the appropriate governmental agency.
35
14.09
(a)	Where any unsafe condition is found or reported to any Occupational Health and a Safety Committeeman on shift; that Committeeman will have the right to inspect the situation along with the supervisor.
(b)	When any significant unsafe condition is reported, it shall be investigated by a Union member of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee and a Supervisor. If the Committeeman and the Supervisor do not agree that the condition is unsafe and what remedy, if any, is to be taken, a qualified individual shall be called in to assess the condition and recommend such corrective action as may be necessary.
(c)	A worker may refuse to do any particular act or series of acts at work which he has sufficient grounds to believe are dangerous to his health or safety, the health and safety of his co-workers or any one on the mine site and in such circumstances no disciplinary action will be taken against him. If an employee refuses to perform his assigned duties without sufficient grounds he may be subject to discipline. At the time of refusal the employee must specify the unsafe conditions which formed a basis for his refusal to work.
14.10
A standard set of signals be adopted within each Employer’s jurisdiction to be employed by dumpmen or dump supervisors while performing their job. Truck drivers are to be instructed on these signals.
14.11
Each and every shift, including all employees, must hold a Safety discussion at least once a calendar month at the
36
beginning of a regularly scheduled dayshift. The Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall draw up the agenda for the meeting. The meeting will provide all employees with an opportunity to ask questions pertaining to Health and Safety. These meetings will not exceed one hour in duration. The Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will record the minutes of the meeting.
14.12	Accompanying Injured Workmen
(a)	When an employee is ordered by the management to accompany an injured workman, he shall be compensated at his regular rate for time necessarily lost.
(b)	However, for eight (8) hour shift employees, in the event that a workman is so ordered during the last half of his shift, he shall not be required to return to the mine for the balance of the shift and shall receive payment at his regular rate of the full shift.
For twelve (12) hour shift employees, in the event that a workman is so ordered during the last third of his shift, he shall not be required to return to the mine for the balance of the shift and shall receive payment at his regular rate for the full shift.
14.13
The Employer shall supply all necessary safety equipment including approved respirators and/or face masks at no cost to the employee. Respirators and/or face masks shall be stored in a convenient, clean and sanitary location on the job site. Respirators and/or face masks shall be selected on the basis of hazards to which the employee is exposed. The Employer shall have a first aid kit on all projects. The employees must, at all times, preserve the safety equipment they use and not abuse or willfully destroy the equipment supplied by the Employer.
37
14.14	Physical Examinations
(a)	Whenever an employee is required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act to have periodic physical examinations, an employee shall be paid four (4) hours at his classified rate. The Employer shall pay the full cost of the physical examination.
(b)	The preemployment medical, if requested by the Employer, shall be paid in full by the Employer.
(c)	The employee shall take the examination at the designated medical clinic most convenient to himself.
14.15	Protective Clothing
(a)	Proper protective clothing shall be available for the welders to check out of stores whenever such clothing is required (e.g. gloves, aprons, arc air hoods, etc.).
(b)	Employees are to be supplied on a loan basis with wet suits, rubbergloves, safety glasses, dust masks and ear plugs or muffs, safety belts, by-product and protective footwear. Replacement issues will be made upon return of the previous issue.
(c)	The Company will replace one set of prescription safety lenses per employee per calendar year.
14.16	Accidental Fatality in the Mine
In the event of the death of an employee due to an accident during the course of his shift on the mine property, all employees shall suspend work immediately and for twenty-four (24) hours following the shift on which the accident occurred. They shall then resume work and continue work until the day of the funeral at which time all areas shall be idle to allow fellow employees to attend the funeral service. The mine shall not be idle for the funeral if it is outside the Canadian Borders.
38
14.17
When extreme weather conditions exist, the Employer will make adequate arrangements to limit and/or protect affected employees from prolonged exposure.
14.18
All shift bus operators shall be designated as such and shall receive training and instruction in such things as: safe vehicle operation, safety rules, and pick-up and delivery procedures. Only those who have completed this training shall be allowed to drive shift buses.
Article 15
EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS
15.01	Tools
All men working on jobs which require the use of tools such as a pick, shovel, saw or axe, are required to obtain a set of tools from or through the Employer. The Employer will supply these tools on a loan basis.
15.02
(a)	All Journeymen and Uncertified Tradesmen shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired before they can qualify for the appropriate tradesman's rate with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the tradesman. The Company shall provide drill bits, files, emery cloth, wire brushes, hacksaw blades as designated by Department Heads.
(b)	Those tradesmen and apprentices who must buy and maintain their own tools, including conversion to metric tools, shall receive a tool allowance for each shift worked on the following basis:
3!)
TOOL ALLOWANCE SCHEDULE Tradesmen, Apprentices, and Servicemen Effective July 1, 1998
8 Hr. Shift 12 Hr. Shift
Group I	$2.25	$3.00
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Millwright
Instrument Mechanic Motor Mechanic Mine Electrician Apprentices (Group I)
Group II	$1.50	$1.90
Welder
Machinist
Serviceman
Apprentices (Group II)
Serviceman Trainees
15.03
(a)	Proper wash house facilities with hot and cold running water or mixed hot/cold running water shall be provided by the Employer. Also the Employer will provide free one bar of bath size soap per employee per week. Waterless hand cleaner shall be provided by the Employer where necessary at the Employer's discretion.
(b)	Every employee shall have one (1) full size locker for dirty clothes and one (1) (72' X 1 2'X 15") locker for his clean clothes. Lockers shall be in separate rooms. Present lockers that exist on January 1st, 1977 shall remain acceptable.
40
15.04
The Company will give preference of employment to
members of employee's immediate family.
15.05
(a)	All employees will receive a "Safety Equipment Allowance" of fifteen (15) dollars ($15.00) per month.
(b)	The Safety Equipment Allowance paid to all employees under this Agreement shall be in lieu of any previous past practice as it relates to the Serviceman Classification.
15.06	Access To Mine
Access to Company facilities will be made available to
Union officials designated by the International.
Article 16
SICKNESS AND DEATH BENEFITS
16.01
(a)	The Company agrees to pay the premium on behalf of each employee to provide the following benefits
1
3
A payment of $50,000 to the designated beneficiary or estate of each employee in the event of the employee's death by natural causes (on or off the job)
A payment of $100,000 to the designated beneficiary or to the estate of each employee in the event of the employee's accidental death (on or off the job)
A payment of $20,000 for the loss of both hands, both feet, sight of both eyes, one hand
41
and one foot, one hand and sight of one eye, or one foot and sight of one eye.
4. A payment of $10,000 for the loss of one hand, one foot, sight of one eye or total hearing of either ear.
5.
(b) 1.
I
ml
2.
3.
In the event of total disability of any employee the de^ath benefit of $50,000 will be maintained so long as proof is provided every three months of the continued total disability and will continue without cost to employee up to but not beyond the age of 65.
Article 16.01(a) shall be effective on the first day of employment of every employee.
The Employer agrees to pay premiums to provide a payment of a weekly indemnity benefit of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per week for each employee in event of total disability resulting from sickness or off-the-job accident up to a maximum of 52 weeks for each period of disability. Effective July 1, 1997 this benefit will increase to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per week for new claimants only. Effective July 1, 1998 this benefit will be increased to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per week for new claimants only.
The weekly indemnity benefit payment for eight (8) hour employees shall commence on:
(a)	The 4th day of sickness.
(b)	The 1st day of an off-the-job accident.
(c)	The 1st day of hospitalization.
The weekly indemnity benefit payment for twelve (12) hour employees shall commence on:
(a) The 3rd day of sickness.
42
(b)	The 1st day of an off-the-job accident.
(c)	The 1st day of hospitalization.
4. It is a condition of employment that all employees will join and remain in these benefits plans (16.01(a) and (b)).
16.02
The Employer shall pay the total cost of the plans described in 16.01 (a) and (b).
16.03
The Employer agrees to pay 100% of the actual Medicare (Alberta Health Care) premium cost and to pay i 100% of the actual supplementary health care (Alberta ' Blue Cross or equivalent) premium cost for all employees covered by this Agreement. The supplementary health care shall provide 100% payment cf prescription drug costs.
16.04	Insurance on Employee's Clothing
The Employer will insure employee's clothing in the wash house against loss by fire to maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) in each individual case.
<
16.05	Dental Care Plan	^
The Company shall pay the premium cost of a Denial Care program for the employee, his spouse, and their dependent children under the age of 19 years. (Effective January 1, 1995 this benefit will include children under the age of 26 in the case of a full-time student wholly dependent on the employee for support). The level of benefits subject to the terms of the insuring company's policies, procedures and regulations shall be as follows: (a) Basic Dental Benefits (Plan A) - 100% coverage.
43
Major Restorative Benefits (Plan B) - 100% coverage.
(i)	Effective July 1, 1995 Plan A and PlanB will be subject to a combined maximum of $2,500.00 per contract year, per insured individual.
(ii)	This maximum will be reviewed annually and adjusted on July 1 each year to reflect the percentage increase in the previous year's Alberta Dental Fee Guide, rounded to the nearest $25.00.
Orthodontic Benefits (Plan C) - 50% coverage to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per insured individual.
(b) The following annual deductibles shall apply to PlansA, B and C:
-	$25.00 annual deductible for single employee
with no dependents;
~	$50.00 annual deductible for an employee with
one or more dependents.
16.06
(a) Long Term Disability insurance will be provided commencing after fifty-two (52) weeks of disability and continuing to a maximum of age sixty-five (65) for eligible employees. The amount of such disability benefit to be paid to new claimants, shall be one thousand, seven hundred and fifty dollars ($1,750.00) per calendar month, reduced by the amount cf compensation an employee receives from the Workers' Compensation Board. Effective July 1, 1999, this benefit will be increased to one thousand and eight hundred dollars ($1800.00) per calendar month for new claimants only. Effective July 1, 2001, this benefit will be increased to one thousand and eight hundred and fifty dollars
44
($1,850.00) per calendar month for new claimants A
,-> » j
only.	l-o-C,
(b)	The cost of the Long Term Disability premiums of the plan will be borne by the Company.
(c)	Additionally, employees who are receiving benefits under the Long Term Disability insurance program will be entitled to receive the following benefits under the Collective Agreement:
1.	Life Insurance
2.	Dental Care
3.	Medicare (Alberta Health Care)
4.	Supplementary Health (Alberta Blue Cross unless precluded by Blue Cross)
The level of benefits will be those in effect at the time the individual qualifies for the Long Term Disability benefit. Employees receiving Long Term Disability insurance will not be eligible for any other benefits under the Collective Agreement.
T he individual shall retain his seniority as of the time of becoming disabled but shall not accrue seniority for time while receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
... i
16.07 Vision Care Program
The Company shall pay the premiums for the establish ment of a vision care program for the employee, his spouse, and their dependent children underthe age of 19 years (Effective January 1, 1995 this benefit will include children underthe age of 26 in the case of a full-time student wholly dependent on the employee for support) which will provide payments for frames and lenses to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) every twenty-four (24) months per insured family member.


45
Effective July 1, 1999, this benefit will be increased to a maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) every twenty-four (24) months per insured family member.
16.08
Other features of the Sickness and Death Benefits program shall be standard and established by the Company.
Article 17
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01
Leave of absence on compassionate grounds or for long journeys will not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer.
When death occurs in an employee's immediate family (spouse, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother, or sister, grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchildren) an employee, upon request, will be excused for up to three (3) consecutive days. The employee shall receive pay at his regular straight time rate for any such excused shifts he would have worked in such three (3) consecutive days provided it is established that he attended the funeral.
17.02	Jury Duty
When an employee is called for jury service, or subpoenaed as a Crown witness (prosecution or defense), he shall be excused from work on the days he is required to appear in court. Employees called for jury or witness duty, upon proof of such service and of the amount of pay received therefore, will be paid whatever sum, if any, is necessary in addition to the fees received for jury/witness duty service to reimburse him for earnings lost because of such duty.
46
Article 18
JOB POSTINGS AND TRAINING
18.01
All permanent job vacancies shall be posted on the notice boards in the wash house with a copy sent to the Secretary cf the Local Union.
18.02
All permanent vacancies will be posted within four (4) working days of the vacancy occurring and will be posted for a period of six (6) consecutive working days. Applications will be received during the six (6) working days posting period in duplicate, one copy to be delivered or mailed to the Employer's office at the mine, and the other copy to be delivered or mailed to the Secretary of the Local Union. Bid application forms must be NCR type of forms (no carbon required).
When vacancies exist for a period greater than 90 days as a result cf short term disability or workers' compensation, the Company shall post the vacancy with the understanding that the displaced employee, upon returning to work, shall return to his original position. The employee holding that position during the absence of the displaced employee shall revert to his former position. All other positions affected shall also revert.
When the vacancy exists for longer than two years it shall be reposted as a permanent position.
Employees on LTD or WCB who return to work after an absence of greater than two years shall either:
1)	Replace a less senior employee in their previous job position or, if no such employee is less senior,
2)	Replace a less senior employee in a classification in which he has paid Company experience.
47
18.03
Within four (4) working days of the closing of the bid, notice of the selection shall be posted on the Notice Boards and a copy of the Notice mailed or delivered to the Secretary of the Local Union. Within ten (10) working days the successful applicant will be reclassified and placed in his new job.
18.04
Subject to following basis:
(1)	Job Group
Coal/Rock Haulers
(2)	Job Groups 5-10
(3)	Backhoe Operator Hydraulic Crane
Operator Crusher Operator Crane Operator Dragline Operator Air Trac Driller
-	ont he basis of the employee's
-	seniority
-tothe most senior trained employee except as noted in (3) below
-	seniority and the ability to do the job
18.06, job vacancies shall be awarded on the 1-4 Plus
Should training programs be developed for the preceding listed classification or for any classification created here after the most senior employee successfully completing the company training programs will be awarded the position through the job posting procedure or through promotion.
(4)	Clause 30.01(4) shall define trained employee to meet the requirements of clause 18.04(2).
48
18.05
Where applicable, employees shall follow the training schedule in Exhibit B of this contract.
18.06
(a)	There shall be no time limitation for an employee who bids on a permanent job vacancy within a job Group which carries a higher wage rate than his current rate. However, an employee will not be entitled to bid on a permanent job vacancy within the same Job Group or one carrying a lower wage rate than his present rate for a period of twelve (12) months since his last job change under this procedure unless mutually agreeable to the Employer and the Union.
(b)	Employees hired for a specific department and employees bidding into a specific department shall remain in his chosen department for a minimum of
one year. Without prejudice to the foregoing, A ^ ' employees shall be allowed to bid on an apprenticeship or trainee job vacancy regardless of the time spent in a particular department.
(c)	Departments shall be defined as:
Plant	- (includes all plant operating and
mechanical crews)
Pit	- (includes all mine operating
crews, but does not include any mechanical or electrical trades)
Maintenance - (includes all shop, shovel and drill, gas shop maintenance, building and ground maintenance and servicing crews)
Warehouse - (includes all receiving, shipping and wicket warehousemen)
49
Electrical - (includes all instrumentation, shop, plant electricians and lineman crews)
Underground - (includes all employees working in the underground mine)
(d)	There shall be no bidding between the surface and underground operations.
18.07
(a)	In the event that there are no applicants, the Employer reserves the right to promote the junior employee(s) trained for the job, or if no trained personnel are available to fill the job from any other source.
(b)	Should an employee refuse a promotion as provided in Article (a) above to a position for which he has been trained, he will be required to bid out of the training program within one (1) month, providing a bid has been posted for which he is qualified.
18.08
An employee accepting a new position or posted vacancy shall be allowed a probationary training period not to exceed fifteen (15) workdays working on the job. Subject to Article 18.04, all applicants who bid on jobs and are chosen according to the terms of the job posting procedure will be given proper instructions by the supervisor and/or through the training programs established in the respective departments.
18.09
Employees who do not successfully complete the probationary period will revert to their former position. Such employees will not be eligible to re-bid on that job for a period of six (6) months.
50
18.10
Labourer positions are entry level jobs and will therefore
not be subject to the job posting procedure.
18.11 Shift Trainer
(a)	The Company shall appoint senior qualified employees as shift trainers who shall work in cooperation with the staff trainers and shift foreman training employees on mobile equipment in the pit operation and assisting in upgrading operator's abilities and skills.
(b)	The shift trainers shall be consulted as to a trainee's progress but the final determination as to the trainee's ability to operate alone shall be the responsibility of a staff trainer.
(c)	Subject to clause 12.03 the shift trainer shall revert back to his original classification and rate when not actively training.
(d)	A shift trainer shall not have the authority to hire, discharge, promote, discipline, or otherwise effect changes in the status of employees or effectively recommend a change in status or disciplinary action.
(e)	'The Company shall notify the Union in writing of the names cf all employees who have been appointed as shift trainers within three (3) days of the appointment.
(fj An employee designated as a shift trainer shall be paid $.50 per hour over his regular hourly rate of pay when actively training.
51
Article 19
Os APPRENTICESHIPTRAINING PROGRAM
19.01
1.	Purpose
The purpose of this program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as Journeymen and Apprentices in respect of the trades named in Point 2, herein. Such training shall be in accordance with the Alberta Manpower and Labour Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Branch in the Manpower Development Act and Regulations.
2.	Trades
(a)	Electrician - four (4) year program (including Power Electrician)
(b)	Instrument Mechanic -four (4) year program
(c)	Heavy Duty Mechanic -four (4) year program
(d)	Motor Mechanic -four (4) year program
(e)	Millwright -four (4) year program
(f)	Machinist- four (4) year program
(g)	Welder - three (3) year program
(h)	Mine Electrician -three (3) year program
(i)	Partsman -three (3) year program
3.	(a) Applicants must be chosen according to the
Job Posting provisions, subject however, to their possessing the mental and physical capacity to meet Company, Coal Mines Safety Act and Alberta Manpower and Labour standards. During the apprentice's on-the-job training period, the Employer will make periodic evaluation of the apprentice's progress or lack thereof. When an apprentice proves to be making unsatisfactory progress, the Employer will
52
i
consult with the apprenticeship committee ,Y	(comprised of two (2) management and two (2)
h’	bargaining unit employee representatives),
before canceling his apprenticeship.
1(b) Once started in this program, subject however to the provisions of this Agreement, the apprentice shall have the right to continue providing he passes all of the tests and work is available to him.
(c)	Inthe event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of his period of training in the vocational school, the apprentice will be given an opportunity to re-attend that period of training provided however, his on-the-job training evaluation indicates favourable progress. Should the apprentice fail to repeat the period of training he shall be required to withdraw from the program.
(d)	If an apprenticeship vacancy becomes available because of a withdrawal of an apprentice, such vacancy will be posted within four (4) working days. This shall be an entry level posting.
(e)	Depending upon the availability of space in the vocational school and with the approval of the Apprenticeship Branch the apprentice will be reassigned to the course which he has failed, preferably within a period of 120 days.
(f)	The Employer will insure that the apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
(g)	Certification of those employees presently recognized and being paid as journeymen in the above noted trades will be strictly on a voluntary basis. Any employee affected by this
53
clause of the Agreement who elects to remain in his present category or, who writes a Trades Qualification test and fails shall suffer no change in status or loss of pay.
(h)	Entrance to the program will, in all cases, be subject to the applicant meeting standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
(i)	There will be no age limit for applicants into the program.
19.02	Training Schedule
All successful applicants will be registered as apprentices and will attend technical training within twelve (12) months of registration and each succeeding year thereafter. Apprentices shall attend technical training as prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship and Industrial Training. If, by any reason, the vocational school facilities are unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the apprentice in the succeeding training requirements if successfully completed.
19.03	Journeyman Qualifications
Upon successful completion of his apprenticeship, the apprentice shall receive the established certified Journeyman rate of pay.
\	19.04 Allowance While Attending School
. While the apprentice is engaged in attending vocational school as part of his apprenticeship training, he shall receivepaymentfrom the Employerinthe amountof forty (40) hours per week times his hourly wage rate as specified in Exhibit A, less any Government subsidy received.
54
19.05	Tools
(a)	All apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job.
(b)	All Journeyman tradesmen shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job before they can qualify for the journeyman's rate, with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
19.06
(a)	The first or second year apprentice shall assist the third and fourth year apprentices and/or the journeymen and work under their direction.
(P) The third and fourth year apprentices shall be qualified to assist the journeymen and work under his direct supervision and instruction.
(c)	The Journeyman must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of his trade as outlined by the Apprenticeship and Tradesman's Qualification Act and be able to direct Assistants.
Article 20
ABSENTEEISM/DISCIPLINE
20.01
(a)	Should an employee be unable to report to work at the beginning of his shift, i.e., late, he shall make a reasonable effort to notify the Security Officer before his shift begins.
(pj When an employee absents himself for one shift in any one month he shall make a reasonable effort to
55
notify his Supervisor prior to the shift on which he would have been absent.
(c)	When an employee absents himself from work for a period of two (2) consecutive days or for any three (3) non-consecutive days in any month, unless by proven sickness or by firs' having properly arranged with the Foreman or Manager and obtained his consent, he may be disciplined.
(d)	Any employee who habitually absents himself from work, except in cases of sickness, proven by a Doctor's certificate, may be discharged.
20.02	Disciplinary Procedures
(1)	Every employee shall have the right to have a Union representative present whenever disciplinary action is taken pertaining to suspension and/or discharge.
(2)	Employees' signatures appearing on disciplinary documents or personal files shall be interpreted to indicate receipt of the document only and not necessarily Agreement with the content.
(3)	All detrimental reports shall be removed from an employee’s employment record one (1) year after issue and will not be considered in disciplinary actions thereafter.
(4)	Employees shall be made aware of all detrimental and disciplinary reports that are to be placed on their personnel files. Employees shall receive a copy of their personal calendar in March and September of each year.
Article 21
CHRISTMAS BONUS
All employees who have one year’s continuous service as of December 1st of any one year shall receive a
56
iLc l
Christmas Bonus of $125.00 payable on the pay day prior to Christmas. Those employees with less than one year's continuous service as of December 1st shall receive a pro-rata payment.	/
Article 22
EMPLOYEE TRANSPORTATION
22.01
Bussing of all employees between Hinton and the mine site shall be provided by the Employer at no cost to the employees.
22.02
Bus schedules, routing and central pick-up points will be agreed upon between the Employer and the Union.
22.03
The Employer will not be responsible for any employee missing the bus in Hinton, or at the mine site unless the employee is detained at the request of the Employer.
22.04
The Employer will arrange for a bus operator who will provide Coach Style Buses and operators which pass the Bus Safety Inspection in the Province of Alberta.
22.05
Conduct on the bus shall be in accordance with regulations established by the Employer and the Union.
22.06
Ernployer shall provide transportation from job to home in case of emergencies, sickness or injury.
57
22.07
(a)	The Employer will be responsible for time lost by employees due to late arrival of the bus at the mine.
(b)	Employees who refuse alternate transportation will not be compensated for time lost.
22.08
Transportation from the minesite to Hinton shall be scheduled to eliminate employees from waiting after shift for those employees who hot change.
Article 23 SENIORITY LIST
The Company agrees to provide a seniority list of employees covered by this Agreement in January, May and September of each calendar year. Send one copy to the Union Office and have copies posted behind plexiglass in all wash houses.
Article 24
INCOME TAX DEDUCTIONS
All deductions, including Union dues, as allowed for tax purposes by the Income Tax Branch will be shown on the employee's earnings slip at the end of each tax year.
Article 25 SEVERANCE PAY
25.01
(a) If at the time of layoff no return to work date is given, then the laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff notice.
58
(b)	If the return to work date is greater than thirty (30) days hence, then laid off employees are eligible for severance pay, at the time of layoff.
Where the total number of days laid off exceeds thir- \t3 ty (30) days in any twelve (12) month period, the t employees shall be entitled to severance pay.
(d)	Should the Company be forced to layoff any \ employees for an indefinite period due to a shortage
of work, then those employees laid cff will be eligible for a severance payment of four (4) hours pay per month of service at the employee’s regular rate of pay up to a maximum of four hundred (400) hours provided that:
(1)	Employees accept the severance pay as final termination of employment with the Company and will no longer be eligible for any recall rights under the Collective Agreement.
(e)	It is understood that the above provisions will apply to employees retiring at age 62 or over and to employees going on long term disability benefits or dying. Termination of employment for reasons other than those stated above (i.e., quits or discharge for cause), are not to be construed as a layoff.
(f)	It is further understood that the above benefits are payable in addition to the technological change provisions in Article 8.
Article 26 HOT MEALS
(a) Whenever an employee works two (2) hours beyond his normal shift, he will be entitled to a hot meal and beverage. A hot meal and beverage will be made available to the employee every additional four hours worked thereafter.
59
(b) If an employee works an eight hour shift before his regular shift, he will be entitled to the same benefits as Paragraph (a):
(1)	on his normal shift,
(2)	employees on ”call out” for a period in excess of four (4) hours, and who continue to work into their regular shift, will be entitled to hot meals and beverages in accordance with Paragraph (a).
Article 27
COST OF AGREEMENTS
The Employer shall pay the total cost of:
(a)	The memorandum of Agreements (one copy per employee), and,
(b)	Printed Agreements will be supplied to all employees within sixty (60) days of ratification of the Agreement.
Article 28
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Employees shall be allowed to inspect all their records every three (3) months.
Article 29
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR TRAINING PROGRAM
The purpose of this Article is to provide an opportunity for those employees in the Pit Department who wish to learn new skills and improve their abilities and opportunities for advancement.
(1)
Job classification for which employees are to be trained will be listed and those employees desirous of training in these classifications shall list their
60
names on not more than two (2) of the classifications at any one time.
(2)	The most senior of the candidates applying for each classification will be selected for training provided that an employee will be trained in only one classification at any given time and only during his regular shift.
(3)	The training will be conducted under the direction of a Mine Supervisor and/or Shift Trainer and will he conducted during such times as operating and staffing conditions permit.
(4)	The training period will continue until such time as the Supervisor and/or Shift Trainer, is of the opinion that the individual is competent in performing the function or is incapable of benefiting from further training. At this point, the next senior candidate will become eligible for training.
(5)	Each employee's progress and level of competence during training will be recorded by the Supervisor and/or Shift Trainer. This record shall be confidential and available only to the Supervisor, Mine Manager, Employee and Union Executive.
Article 30
UNDERGROUND OPERATIONS
30.01
Except as provided hereafter, it is understood and agreed, that all working conditions, terms of employment, and benefits presently established in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall apply equally to all those persons employed in the Bargaining Unit in the Underground Operations.
61
30.02	Grievance Committeemen
There will be grievance committeemen, duly elected, \x from the underground mine crew. One (1) for each regular shift scheduled underground and one (1) for the
underground surface.
30.03	Safety Committee Structure
(a)	A joint safety committee will be established for the Underground Operations and will consist of one (1) committeeman for each regular shift scheduled underground and one (1) committeeman for the underground surface.
(b)	The Union will appoint one (1) person to act as chairman for their committee. The Company and the Union will ensure that the representatives appointed to the committee have such qualifications as required by any relevant legislation or Governmental directives. All inspections in the underground operations shall be conducted by the chairman and any two (2) of the Union members of the committee.
(c)	The Safety Committee meeting, consisting of the chairman and those members that conducted the tour, shall be held once per month. One (1) member of the Union executive may also attend.
(d)	Each and every shift in the Underground Operation shall hold a Safety discussion, separate from the surface mine safety discussion, in accordance with Clause 14.11.
30.04
The marshalling point for all underground personnel shall
be the designated underground mine wash house.
62
30.05
(a)	In addition to the tools and protective clothing provided under clause 14.15 (a) and (b) and 15.01 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Employer will supply the following items on a loan basis. These loan items will be replaced by the Company when the employee returns worn items for exchange.
(1)	Miner's Belt
(2)	Miner's Self Rescuer
(3)	Miner's Lamp
(4)	Miner's Hat
(b)	Mine Safety Lamps shall be supplied by the Employer to a properly trained employee on each shift for each working face.
(c)	The Employer shall install and maintain emergency packs in sufficient numbers for each employee. The emergency packs shall be located in the last open cross-cut where cross-cuts do not exceed five hundred (500) feet center to center.
(a) Effective July 1, 1984 all underground employ. _ shall receive an underground premiums of two dollars ($2.00) per hour in addition to their classified rate for all hours worked underground.
(p) Employees whose regular job is not underground shall receive the underground premium for actual time spent underground.
Mine rescue teams of not less than five (5) members per team shall be established. Teams shall be constituted in such a manner, that where practical, there shall be at
30.06
30.07
63
least one (1) team available at all times in case of emergency. The composition of such mine rescue teams shall be in accordance with good mining practices.
30.08
In the case where an underground employee is required by the Employer to perform duties outside of the mine under abnormal weather conditions, the Employer agrees to provide extra clothing to keep him warm and dry during the performance of such work. The foregoing shall not apply to any employee engaged in his usual occupation in or about the mine.
30.09
When economic conditions or production requirements necessitate the underground operation to work a continuous shift schedule, the Company will implement the continuous shift schedule upon giving a thirty (30) day written notice to the Union.
30.10
The Employer shall not introduce or institute any type or kind of wage incentive or bonus other than one to which the Union and the Company has signified in writing subject to approval of the underground employees. The plan will not lessen safety as outlined in:
(a)	the Collective Bargaining Agreement,
(b)	the Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations.
30.11
There shall be two (2) Black Tag Miners assigned to the operation of each continuous miner and each hydraulic monitor at all times.
64
Article 31
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
31.01
To fully evaluate the impact of 12 hour shift schedule, the Company and the Union agree to a trial period of six (6) months duration. However, at any time during the trial period or thereafter, if either party wishes to depart from this schedule, they can do so provided they give the other party thirty (30) days notice.
31.02
Except where specified in 31.01, the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective July 1, 1998 and shall remain in effect until midnight June 30, 2002 and thereafter from year to year, until either party shall give notice in writing to the other party of a desire to terminate, change or modify the same, not less than sixty (60) days nor more than one hundred-twenty (120) days prior to the applicable expiration date.
In witness whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representative as to the date and year first above written.
65
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD.
FOR THE UNION	FORTHE COMPANY
R. Campbell (President)	W. Home (General Manager)
B. Bish (First Vice President)	R. Morin (Mine Manager)
S. Callihoo (Second Vice President)	M. Williams (Maintenance Manager)
C. Race (Recording Secretary)	B. Caldwell (Plant Manager)
D. Debrinski (Secretary Treasurer)	H. Kollross (Materials Manager)
	H. Brown (Human Resources Manager)
	A. Hamernick (Manager, Industrial Relations) Luscar Ltd.
66
SCHEDULE #1
SHIFT SCHEDULE FROM WHICH A ’’ONE”, “TWO” OR ’’THREE SHIFT SYSTEM MAY BE EFFECTED
SUN.
OFF
MON.
OFF
TUE.
S.T.
(A)
WED.
S.T.
(A)
THU.
S.T.
(A)
FRI.
S.T.
(A)
SAT.
P.R.
(A)
P.R.
(A)
S.T.
(A)
OFF
S.T.
(D)
S.T.
(D)
S.T.
(D)
P.R.
(D)
P.R.
(D)
S.T.
(D)
S.T.
(D)
OFF
OFF
S.T.
(N)
P.R.
(N)
P.R.
(N)
S.T.
(N)
S.T.
(N)
S.T.
(N)
S.T. OFF (N)
OFF
SCHEDULE #2
SUN.	MON.	TUE.	WED.	THU.	FRI.	SAT.
OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF	D	D	D
D	OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF	N	N
N	N	OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF	D
D	D	D	OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF
	OFF	—	SCHEDULED DAYS OFF			
	(D)	-	DAY SHIFT			
	P.R.	-	PREMIUM TIME			
(A)
S.T.
(N)
AFTERNOON SHIFT STRAIGHTTIME NIGHT SHIFT
67
EXHIBIT A
SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM HOURLY WAGE RATES PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCE JOBS
JOB	1998	1999 1999 2000 2001
GROUP CLASSIFICATION July 1 Jan. 1 July 1 July 1 July 1
10
Maintenance- A 24.53 24.95 25.45 25.96 26.48 Certified Tradesman
9
Maintenance- B 22.97 23.39 23.86 24.34 24.83 Certified Alberta Partsman
8 Shovel Operator	22.34 22.76 23.22 23.68 24.15
Dragline Operator Washery Plant Operator A Dryer Plant Operator Blaster
Crane Operator (30+ Tons)
7	Drill Operator	21.94 22.36 22.81 23.27 23.74
Grader Operator Dozer Operator Front End Loader Operator Serviceman- Senior Pit Backhoe Operator Relief Plant Operator
6 Prep Plant Operator I 21.76 22.18 22.62 23.07 23.53 Dredge Operator Shovel Oiler I
Coal/Rock Hauler Operator Crusher Operator
68
JOB	1998	1999 1999 2000 2001
GROUP CLASSIFICATION	July 1 Jan. 1 July 1 July 1 July 1
5 Air Trac Driller	21.37 21.79 22.23 22.67 23.12
Plant Backhoe Operator Hydraulic Crane Operatoi Plant Utility Lubeman Forklift Operator (950+)
Pumpman
Powderman's Helper Drill Oiler I Shovel Oiler II Utility Skidder Operator
Front End Loader Operator (5 cubic yds. & under)
4	Drill Oiler II	20.98	21.40	21.83	22.27	22.72
3	Utility Truck	Driver	20.79	21.21	21.63	22.06	22.50
Shovel Oiler Trainee Wash Bay Attendant (heavy equipment)
Serviceman Prep Plant Trainee Tool Crib Attendant
2	Drill Oiler Trainee	20.30	20.72	21.13	21.55	21.98
Serviceman Trainee
1	Dumpman	19.31	19.73	20.12	20.52	20.93
Labourer
A - Maintenance A -Alberta and/or Interprovincial tickets B - Maintenance B - other recognized trade tickets
69
APPRENTICE RATES
1998 1999 2000 2000 2001 July 1 Jan. 1 July 1 July 1 July 1
FOUR YEAR PROGRAM:
1st Year (0- 12 months)	20.06	20.48	20.89	21.31	21.74
2nd Year (13-24 months)	21.05	21.47	21.90	22.34	22.79
3rd Year (25 - 36 months)	21.51	21.93	22.37	22.82	23.28
4th Year (37-48 months)	22.44	22.86	23.32	23.79	24.27
THREE YEAR PROGRAM:
1st Year (0-12 months)	20.06	20.48	20.89	21.31	21.74
2nd Year (13-24 months)	21.14	21.56	21.99	22.43	22.88
3rd Year (25 - 36 months)	22.44	22.86	23.32	23.79	24.27
PARTSMAN (THREE YEAR PROGRAM):
1st Year (0-12 months)	19.72	20.14	20.54	20.95	21.37
2nd Year (13-24 months)	20.41	20.83	21.25	21.68	22.11
3rd Year (25 - 36 months)	21.65	22.07	22.51	22.96	23.42
Upon successful completion a Partsman shall receivethe Maintenance"B” rate.
Maintenance (B) - Other recognized Trade Tickets
70
EXHIBIT B
TRAINING SCHEDULE
1.	SHOVEL OILER Class 6 Shovel Oiler I Class 5 Shovel Oiler II Class3 Shovel Oiler Trainee
Must work sixty-three (63) workdays if working eight (8) hour shifts or forty-two (42) workdays if working twelve (12) hour shifts in each classification to qualify for automatic promotion to next class.
2.	SERVICEMAN
Class 7	Serviceman	- Senior
Class 3	Serviceman
Class2	Serviceman-Trainee
Must work sixty-three (63) workdays if working eight (8) hour shifts or forty-two (42) workdays if working twelve (12) hour shifts in each classification to qualify for automatic promotion to next class.
3.	DRILL OILER
Class 5	Drill Oiler I
Class 4	Drill Oiler II
Class 2	Drill Oiler Trainee
Must work sixty-three (63) workdays if working eight (8) hour shifts or forty-two (42) workdays if working twelve (12) hour shifts in each classification to qualify for automatic promotion to next class.
71
EXHIBIT C
PLANT TRAINING
(a)	PURPOSE
To establish a standard and systematic progressive
training program, beginning at entry level and ending with qualified operators for bid positions.
(b)	PROCEDURE
1.	This program assumes that personnel shall be rotated consistently through all job levels, in order that adequate training in each level be available to all trainees, and that manpower requirements be met.
2.	If a manpower shortage occurs due to individuals terminating or bidding out of the plant department, entry level positions for plant trainees shall be posted in order that personnel outside the plant have the opportunity to enter the plant training program.
3.	After successfully completing training and demonstrating the skills required for each level, the trainee shall:
(a)	Receive the pay rate for the level completed.
(b)	Begin training at the next level provided there is sufficient manpower to allow such training.
4.	A Committee of Company and Union representatives shall decide on type and format of examinations to be used as standard for promoting trainees.
5.	After a trainee has successfully completed the training in all levels he shall be eligible to bid on future "Relief, "Washery” and "Dryer" operator bids.
72
EXHIBIT D
SCHEDULEOF MINIMUM HOURLY WAGE RATES PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCEJOBS UNDERGROUND MINE
JOB
GROUP CLASSIFICATION
10
9
8B
8A
7A
7
1998	1999 1999 2000 2001
July 1 Jan. 1 July 1 July 1 July 1
24.53 24.95 25.45 25.96 26.48
Maintenance (A)
(E.R.C.B. Certificate)
Maintenance (B)	22.97 23.39 23.86 24.34 24.83
(E.R.C.B. Certificate)
Continuous Miner Operator Monitor Operator
Uncertified
Mechanical
22.81 23.23 23.69 24.16 24.64
22.68 23.10 23.56 24.03 24.51
Black Tag Utilityman 22.03 22.45 22.90 23.36 23.83
Black Tag Slurry 21.94 22.36 22.81 23.27 23.74 Station Operator
Black Tag Supplyman20.98 21.40 21.83 22.27 22.72
Black Tag General Mine Services
Hoistman
Red Tag Trainee 1A 20.30 20.72 21.13 21.55 21.98 Red Tag Supplyman
Trainee	19.31 19.73 20.12 20.52 20.93
Red l a g Labourer
Maintenance (A) - Alberta and/or Interprovincial Tickets Maintenance (B) - Other recognized Trade Tickets
73
EXHIBIT E
TRAINING SCHEDULE UNDERGROUND MINE TRAINEE
To receive miner's permit after six (6) months experience and successful completion of legislated examinations. The Company shall ensure that the trainee is provided with the opportunity to train and to become knowledgeable in those work areas, tasks and functions that will qualify him as a candidate for a Red Tag Trainee 1A.
MINER’S PERMIT (RED TAG)
A red tag miner shall not be required to progress to a black tag certificate.
Should the red tag miner at a later date wish to continue his training towards a black tag certificate, he may do so as vacancies permit.
TRAINEE 1A (REDTAG MINER TRAINING FOR BLACK TAG CERTIFICATE)
Six (6) months experience at the working face at which time he will be given the opportunity to be examined for a Black Tag Certificate.
The Company shall ensure that the Trainee 1A is provided with the opportunity to train and to become knowledgeable in those work areas, tasks and functions that will qualify him as a candidate for a Black Tag Certificate.
Should a Trainee 1A fail the Black Tag Certificate examination, he shall be permitted to continue his training and be re-examined for the Black Tag Certificate.
MINER CERTIFICATE (BLACK TAG)
Successful completion of Trainee 1A training and examination.
74
There shall be no more than one (1) Red Tag Miner for every one (1) Black Tag Miner working underground at the working face.
"Trainee" positions are entry level jobs and will therefore not be subject to the job posting procedure.
"Trainee 1A” position is not a bid position, therefore an employee cannot post to a "Trainee 1 A” position.
All new employees hired, who hold a Black Tag Miner's Certificate shall enter the work force at the "Trainee 1A” level and shall be required to complete a give (5) working day orientation period.
To bid successfully for those underground job postings that require work at the face, the employee must hold a Black Tag Miner's Certificate (certified Journeyman positions excepted).
75
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD. AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
Effective January 1, 1999 the rates paid to contractors under Article 2.03 (a) (i) will be reduced by $0.42 per hour to coincide with the roll in cf travel pay into the wage rates in Exhibit A.
76
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD. AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
It is agreed that a shift schedule of 10-4, (day shift only) will be implemented in the Plant Electrical, Plant Maintenance, Shop Servicing, or in any other department, as mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union.
It is understood and agreed upon, that either the Employer or the Union may terminate this 10-4, 10-4 shift schedule upon seven (7) days written notice being served to the other party.
Individual employees who elect to work the 10-4, 10-4 shift schedule, must get the approval of their department head, but individual employees who do not want to work the 10-4, 10-4 shift schedule, will not be required to do so under any circumstances.
77
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD. AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
It is agreed that a joint union management committee consisting of representation from the Union and the Company will meet on a regular basis to develop and recommend to management programs related to the trades area.
This committee will be established within 90 days of ratification of the Collective Agreement.
78
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD. AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Collective Agreement, or any other terms and conditions of employment which may be negotiated between the Company and the United Mineworkers of America concerning employees at the Cheviot Mine, it is understood and agreed that there shall be no minimum wage rate (Article 2.03 (a) (i)) in effect for construction work done at the Cheviot Mine.
It is further understood and agreed that there shall be no requirement for the employees of any contractor, subcontractor, assignee or transferee engaged to perform construction work at the Cheviot Mine to join the U.M.W.A.
However all contractors, subcontractors, assignees and transferees shall pay to Local 1656, U.M.W.A. initiation fees and monthly dues as described in Article 2.03 (c).
79
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD. AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
Effective upon ratification, it is understood and agreed that should the Company undertake mining operations at a new site now referred to as the Cheviot Mine (located at Mountain Park, Alberta) employees of the new mining operations shall be included in the scope of the Collective Agreement as specified in Article 2.
80
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER COALS LTD. AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations regarding the conditional improvement to severance. If the Cheviot project is not approved, the company will increase the current severance cap from 400 to 500 hours effective January 1, 2000.
81