COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
00198(03)
CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
PREAMBLE..............................
1	RECOGNITION ........................
2	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS..................
3	UNION SECURITY.....................
4	NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS............
5	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES.............
6	ARBITRATION........................
7	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE...........
8	OFFICERS, COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS....
9	SENIORITY..........................
10	LINES OF PROGRESSEDN/JOB
POSTINGS/PRE-BID SYSTEM...........
11	HOURS OF WORK.....................
12	OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY..........
13	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS................
14	VACATION..........................
15	LEAVES OF ABSENCE.................
16	SAFETY AND HEALTH.................
17	HEALTH AND WELFARE................
18	GENERAL PROVISIONS................
19	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM............
20	LEADHANDS ........................
21	TRAINING..........................
22	STUDENTS..........................
23	DURATION OF AGREEMENT.............
24	CHANGE IN JOB CONTENT.............
25	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE..............
26	TRADES COMMITTEE.,................
27	LABOUR RELATIONS ENHANCEMENT FUND
4
5
,6
6 .8 ,9 11 12
14
15
20
28
30
32
34
36
,38
,46
48
52
53
54
61
.62
63
2
APPENDIX A:................................ ...................
Job Classifications & Wage Rates
APPENDIX B:....................................................
Job Classifications & Wage Rates (Apprenticeship and In-House Training Program)
APPENDIX C:....................................................
Lines of Progression (Road Crew)
(Plant)
(Mine Maintenance Department)
(Mine Operations Department)
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Labour Disputes........................................
Vacations................................................
Leadhands/Work Leaders...................................
Expansion of the Operation...............................
Restructuring.. .........................................
Contractors .............................................
Transfer of Senior Employees.............................
Overtime Allocation......................................
Light Duty...............................................
Provincial Warehouse Apprenticeship Program.............
Warehouse Apprenticeship Program ........................
Warehouse Department - Internal Vacancies................
Trainee Program .........................................
Grouping of Jobs - Plant Department.....................
Joint Orientation Package.. ............................
Departure & Return to the Dry...........................
Memorandum of Agreement .................................
INDEX .........................................................
64
.67
71
73
74
75
77
.78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
.86
87
.88
89
90
91
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
Quintette Coal Limited
(Hereinafter called the “Company”) of the first part
and
United Steelworkers of America Local 9113
(Hereinafter called the “Union”) of the second part PREAMBLE
Whereas, the parties agree that it is mutually beneficial and desirable to promote harmonious relations and to set forth herein the agreement concerning rates of pay, hours of work and conditions of employment, safety, health, and welfare of employees to be observed between the parties and to provide a method for the orderly adjustment of differences and grievances, and to maintain an uninterrupted operation at the highest level of performance; witnessth in consideration of mutual covenants and agreements herein set forth, the parties hereto have mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1: RECOGNITION
1.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all the Company’s employees, employed at, or from it’s operation located approximately (16) kilometres from the Tumbler Ridge Townsite except: supervisory, professional, clerical, administrative, technical, laboratory, safety, security, janitorial (administrative offices), environmental and survey personnel.
(b)	This recognition referred to in 1 .01 (a) pertains to rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment, in conformity with the laws ot B.C. in respect to labour relations.
(c)	The word “employee” or “ employees” whenever used in this Agreement refers to such employees as are covered by this Agreement. Words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice-versa.
1.02	The Company and the Union shall co-operate fully in the promotion and achievement of the matters set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
1.03	Following notification and permission (not to be unreasonably withheld) from the Company, Union representative(s) will be permitted entry to the Company’s property in order to carry out their duties as related to the administration of the Agreement. Such duties are not intended to cause any disruption of the Company’s operations or affairs, or cause employees to neglect their work duties and responsibilities.
1.04	Employees and/or Union representatives shall not engage in any Union activity on Company property or during working hours, except as expressly provided for in this Agreement, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
1.05
(a)	The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of Foreman to perform work normally being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit, except: under emergency conditions; for ther purpose of training; to protect Company property and assure safety of employees; to ensure continuity of operations, provided that no employee suffers loss of wages as a result and that every reasonable effort has been made1 to obtain an employee for the work in question. The Company agrees that this clause will not be used to defer the re-call of employees on lay-off.
1
\
(b)	in the event a person of, or above the rank of supervisor, performs work in violation of this section, the Company shall pay as a penalty an amount equal to the hourly rate of the employee(s) who would normally perform such work for the period of the violation, or for two (2) hours, whichever is greater, and such payment will be made to the Union.
5
1.06 Designated Individuals - it is expressly understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union, individuals who agree to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company not exceeding at any one time one percent ( 1 %) of the employees; and to promote and demote such individuals and direct their efforts from time to time, free from any limitations provided for in this Agreement, provided however, that the employment of any such individuals shall not affect the seniority nor result in the demotion of any employee, and further that any such designation of individuals will last for a period of no more than four (4) calendar months.
ARTICLE 2:
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Company shall retain, maintain and exercise all managerial rights, authorities, and prerogatives, subject only to the express terms and provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 3:
UNION SECURITY
3.01	Each employee shall as a condition of his hiring or continued employment:
(a)	Authorize the Company in writing to deduct union dues from his pay. The autiiorization shall be in a form agreed to between the Company and
"the Union.
(b)	Become a member of the Union and maintain membership in good standing.
3.02	The Company shall deduct, as a condition of each employee’s continued employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues prorated to conform with the bi-weekly pay system as follows:
3.03	Union dues for each employee shall be 1.3% (as per the United Steelworkers of America Constitution).
3.04	The total earnings per hour of each employee shall be calculated by dividing the total earnings in the reference period by the total number of hours in the reference period. The total number of hours shall be deemed to include actual hours worked plus hours of paid vacation plus hours of unworked statutory holidays.
3.05	Total earnings for the purpose of calculating Union dues shall be deemed to include base rate earnings and all premiums (if any) including shift premiums, weekend premiums, incentive bonus pay, vacation pay, statutory holiday pay, overtime pay, COLA earnings, call-in and reporting pay, etc.,,
6
but shall not include any Workers Compensation payments or payment\ under any benevolent, sickness or accident plans.
3.06	The reference period shall be the two (2) week pay period immediately prior to the pay day on which the dues are deducted. Dues shall be deducted each pay period and remitted to Frank McKee (or his successor), International Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America. Until further notice from the Union, all cheques will be forwarded to the United Steelworkers of America, P.O. Box 1400, Postal Station “ A ” Vancouver, B.C. V6C 2P7 on the employee pay day or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible. An itemized statement listing all the employees, including their social insurance numbers and occupations of new employees, indicating the amount of dues deducted from each, will be submitted with the union dues remittance, and a copy of the itemized statement will be provided to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union.
3.07	In the event an employee does not work at least twenty (20) hours or be paid for at least twenty (20) hours for vacation or unworked statutory holidays in the reference period, then no dues will be deducted. Also, no dues will be deducted if at the time of preparation of the pay cheque there are insufficient funds owing to the employee concerned except to the extent that such funds are owing to the employee.
3.08	The foregoing deduction will commence, in the case of each employee who is in the employment of the Company, with the effective date of this Agreement and, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him. A new employee commencing work in the first half of the month will pay dues for that month. A new employee commencing work in the second half of the month will not pay dues for that month.
3.09	As early as possible in each calendar year, and no later than February 15, the Company shall provide the Local with an individual statement listing the total of Union dues (or equivalent) deducted from the pay of each employee during the previous calendar year and paid to the Union in accordance with this Article. Appropriate forms will be supplied by the Union no later than September 15th of the preceding year.
3.10	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in complying with the provisions of Article 3.01 through to 3.10.
3.11	Contracting Out

^The Company and Union agree that contracting out of work performed by employees in the bargaining unit will not be done for the purpose of laying off, demoting, terminating, or deferring the recall of bargaining unit employees.
When work is to be contracted out, the Company will notify the Union as far in advance as possible. Following this verbal notification, the Company will provide in writing the following information:
(a)	the number of contractor’s employees;
(b)	the reasons for contracting out the work;
(c)	the nature of the work and the estimated time the contractors will be on the property.
3.12	The Company recognizes the Union’s concern over the use of contractors to do work that bargaining unit employees normally perform and agrees to meet with the Union, upon request, regarding the use of contractors.
These discussions will take into consideration the efficiency of operations, the urgency of the work performed, (or to be performed), the availability of equipment, skills and manpower, and alternatives that are or may have been available.
3.13	The job steward in the area affected will be notified when contractors are on the property.
3.14	When contractors are on the property, the Company will submit to the Union, a payment as outlined below:
(a)	the equivalent of 1.5 hours @ pay grade 1 for each of the contractor’s employees who is on the property between 1 and 10 working days in a one month period;
(b)	the equivalent of an additional hour @ pay grade 1 for each of the contractor’s employees who is on the property for more than 10 working days in a one month period.
3.15	The Company will provide to the Union a general overview of warranty work. Included in this will be a description of warranty work which is performed on a regular basis due to the warranty agreements, as well as a list of ongoing non-regular warranty work.
ARTICLE 4:
NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its officers nor represen-
tatives, nor its members, nor the employees, shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, work stoppage, walk-out, slow-down or any act of similar nature which would in any way interfere with, limit or impede the operations of the Company during the term of this Agreement.
4.02	In case any of the aforementioned acts should occur in violation of the above, the Company shall, in addition to all its other rights and remedies, have the right to discharge or discipline any or all of the employees taking part in such act or acts. The parties agree that where it can be proved that an employee actively authorized or actively encouraged any of the aforementioned acts, such activities would be considered as just and reasonable cause for discharge by the Company. Any such action by the Company shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
4.03	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees during the term of this Agreement. In the event the Company should lockout its employees in violation of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to seek all remedies that it may be entitled to by law.
ARTICLE S:
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
5.01
(a)	The parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore encouraged to try to settle their complaints with their supervisor as soon after they originate as possible. Should a dispute arise between the company and an employee regarding the application, operation, interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
(b)	The Company shall meet any of it’s employees anchor their representatives, for the purpose of discussing grievances or complaints with the object of reaching a satisfactory solution. In the event of any meeting between any employee(s) and Company representatives that occurs during working hours such employee(s) shall be paid their regular hourly rate. The parties agree to have a regard for the efficiency of the operation in scheduling these meetings in both their frequency and length.
(c)	Prior to the submission of a grievance, it is normally expected that the employee will meet with his supervisor and attempt to resolve the matter.
5.02
Step 1:	Within seven (7) days after the alleged grievances has arisen, the
employee and the Steward of his choice from the immediate area may present the grievance in writing to his supervisor and other management representatives. Failing settlement to the employee’s satisfaction within five (5) 9
days, the employee may process the grievance to Step 2.
Step 2: Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his Steward, and a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his department superintendent or general foreman where applicable, and other management representatives. The department superintendent or general foreman shall reply in writing within five (5) days of the presentation of this grievance under Step 2. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, the employee may process the grievance to Step 3.
Step 3: Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee accompanied by his Steward and Grievance Committee members, may take the matter up with the manager or his designate and other management representatives. The Union Grievance Committee may be accompanied by a representative of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement in writing within five (5) days the grievance may be referred to arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days from the date settlement could have been reached in Step 3.
Where Step 3 has been exhausted and prior to the matter being referred to arbitration the local Union President and Grievance Chairman or their designates and the Company representatives may without prejudice attempt to resolve the matter.
The Parties are to establish at the end of each stage of the procedure who has the onus to reply and by what time and date the reply is to be received.
5.03	Grievances, alleging violations which directly involve more than one employee and which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, may be submitted directly at Step 2 as one grievance, signed by the employees concerned within seven (7) days of the event or circumstance upon which it is based.
5.04	Any difference, arising between the Union and the Company as to the application, interpretation or administration of the Agreement, or as to whether it is arbitrable, may be submitted in writing by either Party to the other at Step 3, within seven (7) days of the event or circumstances upon which it is based.
5.05	In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays, and the recognized statutory holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
10
If a grievance is not advanced through the Steps of the grievance procedure within the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The abandonment of a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice future cases of a similar nature.
5.06	Answers shall be given in writing to the Union on a first, second and third stage grievance and shall be sent to the grievor, the Union Steward involved and the Union office.
5.07	If it is necessary for a Steward to take time off during his working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance in his area, he shall not leave his work without first advising and receiving approval from his foreman. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.08	The parties may by mutual agreement following completion of Step 3 and prior to the appointment of a single arbitrator or an Arbitration Board, refer the matter to an investigating officer pursuant to Section 112 of the Industrial Relations Act in the following manner:
Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal, discipline, or suspension of an employee, or to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable:
the investigating officer shall:
a)	investigate the difference;
b)	define the issue in the difference;
e) make a final and binding decision on the issue.
investigating officers as referred to in this clause will be Merv Chertkow, and Vince Ready, to be used in that order, or a substitute mutually agreed to by the parties in the event the officers referred to above are not available.
5.09	The provisions of Section 96 (1) of the Industrial Relations Act of British Columbia are specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6:	ARBITRATION
6.01	Either party must within thirty (30) calendar days upon the completion of Step 3 of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 5, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit to arbitration an unsettled grievance relating to the application, operation, interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement including any question as to whether the matter is arbitrable.
11
6.02
(a)	Should the parties mutually agree to submit the matter to a single arbitrator, then within seven (7) days following such notice, either party will notify an arbitrator selected from the following list:
If none of the arbitrators listed above are available, an appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of the Province of B.C. upon request of either party.
(b)	Failing mutual agreement to refer the matter to a single arbitrator then, within ten (10) days the parties agree to appoint their respective nominees to the Board of Arbitration and the nominees shall select an arbitrator from the list in 6.02 (a).
6.03	The Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall within a maximum of thirty (30) days following arbitration render a decision.
6.04	The parties shall jointly bear the costs of the arbitrator. Each of the parties shall bear the expenses of the witnesses called by it. No costs of arbitration shall be awarded against either party.
6.05	Arbitration procedure shall be expedited by the parties.
6.06	At arbitration, the parties may have the assistance of the employee(s) concerned and any necessary witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made to permit the conferring parties access to the property to view the operations in question and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
6.07	An Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or alter, modify or amend any part of the provisions.
6.08	Arbitration shall be heard in Dawson Creek, Tumbler Ridge, or at such other place as the Parties shall mutually agree upon in writing.
7.01	If an employee alleges he has been suspended or discharged without just cause, he shall submit his grievance at Step 3 within 5 days.

Angus MacDonald
or such other person as the parties mutually agree.
ARTICLE 7:
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
12
7.02
(a)	Disciplinary letters shall be subject to the grievance procedure and will be issued within sixteen (16) calendar days from the time the employee has been formally advised of the disciplinary action. The letter will contain the reasons for discipline.
With the exception of cases of discharge, and cases where the failure to comply is caused by the employee’s absence or by his changing departments, a failure to issue the letter of discipline within the specified time frame will result in the issue being considered settled with no discipline being imposed.
(b)	A copy of each disciplinary letter will be sent to the Union office within 24 hours of the date upon which the employee received the letter.
7.03
(a)	A steward will be present when an employee is io be disciplined, suspended or formally counselled.
(b)	A steward and either the Grievance Committee Chairman or Local President (or their designates) will be present when an employee is to be discharged.
(c)	Formal investigative meetings with an employee for an infraction in which discharge is being contemplated will be conducted in the presence of a shop steward and a member of the grievance committee.
(d)	Formal investigative meetings with an employee for an infraction in which discharge is not being contemplated will be conducted in the presence of a steward.
(e)	If a grievance committee member is not available in a timely manner for the meeting in (c) above, the meeting may be conducted in his absence.
7.04	Upon request an employee will be shown his disciplinary or attendance record at a time mutually agreed upon, Copies of these records will be made available at the employee’s request.
7.05
(a)	Copies of all disciplinary action and counselling letters will be provided to the Union.
(b)	An employee who has been discipline free for two (2) years may ask for a review of all disciplinary records in his personnel file. The review will be conducted in a fair manner taking into account the arbitral standards of progressive discipline.
13
;i'he discipline will be removed from the employee’s file unless the Company can demonstrate within these standards that it would be relevant in future disciplinary action. Any documentation removed from an employee’s file will not be referred to in the future.
Should an employee be unsuccessful in having the discipline removed from his file, he may file a grievance at the third stage of the grievance procedure. Should this prove to be unsuccessful, he may re-apply to have his record reviewed one calendar year after the first application was made, and yearly thereafter, if he has remained discipline free during this time frame.
7.06	An employee who fails to return to work from an authorized absence may be disciplined up to and including discharge unless his reason for failure to return is acceptable to the Company.
7.07	In recognition by the parties that the purpose of a probationary period is for the Company to evaluate new employees, it is agreed that probationary employees are subject to dismissal for a lesser cause. For the purpose of this clause the employment of a probationary employee may be discontinued where the Company in its discretion, determines he is unsuitable or unsatisfactory. A probationary employee shall have rights to the grievance procedure except in respect to seniority.
7.08	The parties mutually agree that an employee who is discharged and who resides in Company provided accommodation shall be entitled to remain at this residence until the matter of his discharge is finalized through the grie-vance/arbitration procedure, provided he continues to fulfill all conditions of his tenancy agreement.
ARTICLE 8*.
OFFICERS, COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS
8.01	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of all officers, committeemen, safety representatives and stewards and of any changes in the same. The Company shall not be required to recognize them until so notified.
8.02	The Union may appoint up to one steward and one safety representative for each first line supervisor. Additionally, the union may appoint an alternate for each of the above to act in the absence of the regular steward or safety representative.
8.03	The Union officers, committeemen and stewards shall notify their supervisors and they shall arrange a mutually satisfactory time to leave their work to attend to their duties as outlined in the Agreement. Upon request arrangements will be made for the use of a phone in private.
14
8.04	The Company will provide the Union with the names and titles of first line supervisors on a monthly basis.
8.05	The Company shall provide designated separate, locked notice boards for the exclusive use of the union, where officers of the union shall post notices of any Union business.
8.06	Supervisors will during the first shift introduce new crew members to their job steward and Union safety representative.
8.07	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination, intimidation, favoritism or harassment against any employee or management representative because of sex, race, colour, national origin, religious creed, marital status, political affiliation, union membership or non-membership, or because the employee or management representative has exercised or failed to exercise any right specifically provided for under this agreement.
8.08	The Company will forward to the Union an amount equivalent to two hundred (200) hours per month at wage classification one (1) to pay for time lost by employees delegated by the Union to conduct union business as provided for in Articles 15.01 (c) and (d).	P	-
-	ARTICLE 9:	O VcX-b C C *
SENIORITY
9.01	The parties recognize that job opportunity and security shah increase
in proportion to length of service. It is therefore agreed that in all cases of vacancy, promotion, demotion, t[gnsfen.between jobs, training opportunities, decrease in the working force and recall after lay-off, senior qualified employees shall be entitled to preference in accordance with the specific provisions of this agreement.	^ r • >	.
8 /('''
9.02	Employees who have not completed three hundred and twenty 1320)
regularly scheduled hours worked within a six (6) month period shall be considered probationary employees and shall have no seniority rights. Such employees shall have the right to grieve in respect to any matter other than his seniority. Upon completion of the probationary period, an employee shall acquire seniority and his name shall be entered on the seniority lists according to his most recent hiring date.
9.03	There shall be tWO (2) types of seniority; namely Company and Department.

L
a
(a)	The Company seniority means the length of time of his service with the Company since his last hiring by the Company.
(b)	Department seniority shall mean the length of an employees’
15
service with-
in the department.
(c)	Departments for the term of definition shah be, but not limited to the following:
(i)	Mine Operations
(ii)	Maintenance
(iii)	Plant Operations
(iv)	Plant Maintenance
(v)	Road Crew
(vi)	Warehouse
In the event a new department is created, the manning of the new department will be made within the provisions of this agreement.
Employees shah accumulate seniority in one department only, except as provided for elsewhere in this agreement.
(d)	If the transfer of an employee is required by the Company, from one Department to another, for the efficient conduct of operations or because of considerations of health, the employee’s seniority in the new Department shall be deemed to be equal to that which he previously held in the former Department. On being transferred at the employee’s request, such employee shall have no department seniority on entering the new Department.
9.04	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority main-tamed and accumulated during:
(a)	Absence due to occupational accident while the employee is performing work for the Company.
(b)	The period of time that an employee is absent and is in receipt of weekly indemnity and6r long term disability benefits (max. 104 weeks).
(c)	Authorized absence under Article 15.
(d)	Lockouts.
9.05	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority maintained but not accumulated during:
(a)	Absence due to lay-off not exceeding;
(i)	one (1) year where the employee has less than two (2) years of seniority.
(ii)	two (2) years where the employee has two (2) or more "ears of seniority.
16
(b)	Strikes.
9.06	An employee who has acquired seniority shall have that seniority tom pletely lost and his employment terminated if he:
(a)	Quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	Is discharged and not re-instated under the terms of this Collective Agreement.
(c)	Is laid off for a period beyond that described in 9.05(a) (i) and (ii) above.
(d)	Is sent notice of recall by double registered mail to his last address of
record with the Company and fails to report within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice, unless he has contacted the Company and has received an extension to report. The extension will not be unreasonably withheld. A notice of recall which has been returned as unclaimed or refused will be considered received. In the event of a disruption of mail service the Company and Union agree to meet to discuss alternate methods of recall. Illness substantiated by medical evidence will be considered as sufficient grounds to be granted an extension to report.	..	.* \ A . .
%9-
(e)	Accepts severance
i	'	j
(f)	Accepts a salaried position.
(g)	Is absent due to temporary illness or non-occupational accident beyond the period provided for in 9.04 (b).
9.07
(a)	The Company shall maintain up-to-date “Company” and “Departmental” seniority lists showing each employee’s order of seniority with his name, payroll number, service date, and classification.
(b)	The seniority list shall be posted on all department bulletin boards every month and a copy shah be supplied to the Union office.
(c)	The seniority for employees hired on the same day will be determined by the employee with the lowest payroll number.
9.08	The Local Union Officers, the Shop Stewards and Safety Committee members who have acquired seniority shall be the last employees to be laid-off from the Company in case of lay-off, provided they can satisfactorily perform the available work.
n
Permanent Shutdown
9.09	In the case of a permanent lay-off or shutdown of the Company’s operations resulting in the termination of employment, the Company will give:
(a)	Two (2) weeks notice in writing to the employee if his period of employment is less than one (1) year.
(b)	Three (3) weeks notice in writing to the employee if his period of employment is one (1) year but less than three (3) years.
(c)	Six (6) weeks notice in writing to the employee if his period of employment >is three (3) years but less than five (5) years.
(d)	Eight (8) weeks notice in writing to the employee if his period of employment is five (5) years or greater.
Failing such notice, the Company shall pay, at an employees regular straight time rate of pay, for the number of days notice not given that the employee would normally be scheduled to work that is less than the required number of days notice.
Procedures governing lay-offs and Lines of Progression
9.10
(a)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay-off of eight (8) calendar days or less, the employee with the greatest seniority in the classification required, from the crew who normally do the work, shall be required to work.
(b)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay-off of at least nine (9) calendar days but less then fifteen (15) calendar days, the employee with the greatest departmental seniority in the classification required and in the work area affected will be retained. For the purposes of this clause, work areas shall be defined as follows:
Mine Operations:	i)	Mesa/Wolverine
	u)	Shikano;
Mine Maintenance:	o	In-Pit field and shop
	u)	Main Shop
iii) Lower Shop and field;
Warehouse:	i) Main shop warehouse
ii) Plant site warehouse;
18
Plant Maintenance:
Plant Operations: Road Crew.
(c)	In the event of a reduction of a classification in a lay-off of fifteen (35) calendar days or more, an employee with the greatest departmental seniority will be retained provided he is qualified to do the work available. An employee displaced from his classification may displace another employee in the department provided he has greater departmental seniority and is qualified to do the work available. An employee reduced from his department can apply his Company seniority in all jobs, provided he is qualified to perform the job. An employee who is able to provide proof of previous experience in a position he is applying for under this clause, will be provided with a familiarization period of up to one (1) shift cycle. Such proof of experience will not be required for labourer positions.
(d)	The Company will provide the Union with a list of all employees on permanent lay-off status and a copy of all re-call notices for those employees.
9.11
(a) (i) The parties agree that where an area of the operation closes, and the reduction does not result in a layoff, senior qualified employees will be entitled to displace junior employees within their current department and classification/--	"
(ii)	Employees displaced as a result of the exercise of a more senior employee’s preference may also elect to displace a more junior employee within their existing department and classification.
(iii)	Employees displaced following this second round of bumping, and employees who were unable to displace others following the initial move, will be assigned vacancies with the most senior employee having preference.
(iv)	With the above factors in mind, the parties agree to meet as far in advance as possible to discuss the orderly transfer of senior employees indicating preference.
(v)	Such discussions will include, but not be limited to, the posting of a preselection list in the affected department.
(vi)	It is further agreed that once they are established, all transfers resulting in this procedure will be announced concurrently.
9.12 Employees laid off will be recalled in the inverse order, provided they
19
possess the qualifications to perform the available work.
It shall be the responsibility of employees who have been laid off and wish to be available for recall to keep the Employee Relations Department informed of their current mailing address.
ARTICLE 10:
LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB POSTINGS/ PRE-BID SYSTEM
10.01
(a)	The following departments shall have Lines of Progression:
(i)	Mine Operations
(ii)	Mine Maintenance
(iii)	Plant Operations
(iv)	Road Crew
(v)	Warehouse
(b)	The following departments will have a Pre-Bid System:
(i)	Mine Maintenance
(ii)	Plant Maintenance
(c)	Other vacancies will be subject to the provisions as outlined in this Article.
Lines of Prowession:
10.02
(a)	There will be two (2) types of Job Postings within a Lines of Progression.
(i)	Entry Level Job Postings
(ii)	Departmental Job Postings
(b)	The Company will not be required to post positions above jobs marked with a triangle in the Lines of Progression Chart provided there is a qualified employee within that Line of Progression. Where a qualified employee in that Line of Progression is awarded the job, the Company will post the name and department seniority date of the employee who is awarded the job. If there are no qualified employees within that Line of Progression the Company will post the job in accordance with Article 10.06(d).
10.03
(a)	Permanent vacancies in a Line of Progression above the job defined with a triangle shall be filled by the qualified employee with the greatest department seniority in the job classification immediately below the vacant job.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in excess of one (1) shift shall be filled by the senior qualified employee on that shift in that Line of Progression. However, if the assignment is to a lower classification, the employee with the least de-
20
partment seniority on the shift, in that classification will be re-assigned.
(i)	In filling temporary vacancies in excess of one shift, the senior qualified employee on that shift in that line of progression shall be given preference. However, if the assignment is to a lower classification, the employee with the least department seniority on the shift, in that classification will be reassigned.
(ii)	Should an employee be reassigned as in (b) (i) above, he will at the time of reassignment make election as to what overtime list his name will appear, either his regular classification or the temporary position.
(iii)	Temporary vacancies will only be filled by an employee who is qualified. Normally a trainee will not operate unsupervised until the later stages of training when his ability to operate alone has been demonstrated and assessed. In the early stages of training a trainee may operate alone for short periods of time in exceptional circumstances when it has been determined that he can do so safely.
Normally trainees will not operate alone in the early stages of training and will not be used as a replacement operator during this period. Assignments of trainees to operate unsupervised must be consistent with the training requirements of the trainee.
Exceptions to the above may be made for the following classifications: Dozer / Grader, Loader, 245 Hoe, when trainees “3” and “2” are operating unsupervised the present practice will be observed.
(c)	Temporary vacancies or assignments of one shift or less may be filled by any qualified person.	"
(a)	Employees, except those in Tfpinee nosinnns have the right to freeze themselves in the Line of Progression. Employees who exercise the right to freeze will sign a waiver form supplied by the Company and submit it to their foreman.
(b)	Employees who elect to freeze must remain frozen at least until the next employee in the Line of Progression has completed his training in the position that the frozen employee would normally have been trained on.
(C) A copy of each employee’s request to be frozen in the Lines of Progression wilt be forwarded to the Union office.
10.05
(a) In the event an employee in a Trainee Position who has not completed
10.04
21
all the prescribed training hours elects not to advance in a Line of Progression, or is unsuccessful in completing the training, he will be removed from further training.
(b)	Employees who bid on positions that result in a change of classification and are unsuccessful in either completing the training or in performing the duties for the new classification will be returned to their former position if it remains vacant. Failing such a vacancy, the employee will be re-assigned to a vacant position for which he is qualified in his new department, and failing that, to a vacant position for which he is qualified elsewhere in the £om-
pany-	nn$.
Job Postings:	l/">
10.06

(a)	Notice of all job vacancies that require posting shall be made known on all appropriate department notice boards and shall be posted for eight (8) calendar days. Copies of all job postings will be forwarded to the Union office.
(b)	In awarding Job Postings to Entry Level Jobs (defined by a rectangle), the employee with the greatest Company seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. If there are no successful applicants the Company may recruit.
(c)	(') In awarding Departmental Job Postings (defined by a triangle), the employee with the greatest Departmental seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training.
(ii) Failing SUCCCSful applicants based on Departmental seniority, the Company will repost the job and award it to the employee with the greatest Company seniority provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. If there are no successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(d)	In awarding Departmental job postings above jobs marked with a triangle (except trainees), the Company shall consider the following factors:
(i)	Departmental seniority of each employee.
(ii)	Only qualified applicants will be considered.
The determining factor between two qualified applicants shall be seniority. Failing successful applicants within the department, the Company will consider other applicants based on Company seniority, the qualified applicants with the greatest Company seniority will be awarded the job. Failing successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(e)	Within a further eight (8) calendar days the successful applicant’s name
will be posted on all appropriate bulletin boards.
However, should the Company cancel a job posting, it will notify the Union of the reason for so doing in writing within ten (10) days.
(f)	(i) Every attempt shall be made to transfer an employee who is successful on a job posting within two (2) cycles of the posting being awarded, but except as outlined in (f) (ii) below, the transfer will be effected no later than four cycles of the date of the award. In any event he will receive the new rate of pay for the job awarded if it is higher than his current rate no later than two (2) cycles after the posting is awarded.
(ii) Should exceptional circumstances arise that would cause the Company undue hardship in transferring an employee within the time frame specified in (i) above, the company shall discuss the matter with the Union and the effected employee detailing the nature of the concern and providing an alternate transfer date.
(g)	If the posted job is in another department, the employee will accumulate seniority in the new department from the date of the award, and will also accumulate seniority in his existing department until the date the transfer is effected.
10.07	(a) Notices of all job vacancies shall be in the following form:
DATE POSTED:__________________POSTING NO.:__________________
The following vacancy(ies) in the__________________Department for the
job(s) of_____________________. Which is paid at the rate of
$____________________per hour. This vacancy is currently on
____________________________________ shift.
Applications will be deposited by the employee in locations provided for in each department.
The closing date for this posting is_______________ Applications must be
signed by both the employee and his foreman.
10.07	(b)
INTERNAL VACANCY APPLICATION FORM
TO: __________________________ DEPARTMENT
FROM: ________EMPLOYEE NUMBER____________
I WOULD LIKE TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THE VACANT POSITION POSTED OF____________________
POSTED ON ___________________ ,	19	IN THE
DEPARTMENT
POSTING NO.
CREW
FIRST CHOICE ---- IF YOU HAVE NO CREW
SECOND CHOICE --- PREFERENCE PLEASE INDICATE:
THIRD CHOICE--------	r“l
FOURTH CHOICE ------ u
THE APPLICANT WILL ONLY BE CONSIDERED FOR CHOICES LISTED
COMMENTS: ___________________________________
CURRENT DEPARTMENT AND CREW: _____________
HOME PHONE NUMBER: _________________
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE: ________________ DATE:
FOREMAN SIGNATURE: -----------------DATE:
DISTRIBUTION:	WHITE-DEPARTMENT CANARY-EMPLOYEE
24
(c)	internal vacancy application forms will be in duplicate; signed by both the foreman and the employee, with one copy going to the department and one to the employee.
10.08	An employee who applied for a Job Posting and is the successful applicant must accept the position.
10.09	An employee is not eligible to bid on a vacancy within his existing department and classification except as specifically provided for elsewhere in this agreement.
10.10	An employee may make application in anticipation of up to two (2) job vacancies, (in order of preference), that may occur while he is absent on vacation or on approved leave of absence of two work cycles or less. Such application must be made prior to the commencement of the leave or vacation period and shall be effective for that time period only. Should two (2) job vacancies for which the employee has so applied become vacant, he must accept the first for which he is qualified that becomes vacant. However, should the job for which he has indicated a preference become vacant after being awarded his second choice, he will be considered for the vacancy, unless the awarding of the first position renders him ineligible to bid on the second position.
10.11	A promotion or demotion is any change in classification.
10.12
(a)	Employees who hire into one department will not be eligible to bid on vacancies outside their department for a twelve (12) month period, with the exception of employees hired at the base rate, who may post on jobs outside their department above the base rate after nine (9) months.
(b)	An employee accepting a job outside his existing department must remain in the new department for a period of one year before applying for a job posting in any other department.
(c)	Notwithstanding, (a) and (b) above, employees will be eligible to bid on apprenticeship postings.
Pre-bid system for Mine and Plant Maintenance Departments
10.13
(a)	The parties recognize the desire of tradesman to change work assignment areas from time to time and agree that the pre-bid system will serve as the channel to request such transfers. Therefore for the purposes of filling permanent job vacancies in a work assignment area, individual pre-bid lists for each maintenance department will be established for trades within work as-
25
signment area.
(b) Tradesmen presently working at a specific work assignment area who wish to be considered for permanent vacancies in other assignment area (s) may indicate their intentions by submitting to their General Foreman on the prescribed form, notice of their preference for up to five alternate work assignments, including crew preference. Employees are entitled to express their preference upon completion of their probationary period and yearly thereafter during the first two (2) weeks of the calender year.
ie) Where it is considered necessary to fill a permanent vacancy within a work assignment area, for which persons in the same trade at other work assignment areas have expressed a preference, then selection shall be made from the pre-bid list based on the requirements of the Company, the department seniority and qualifications of the persons on the list. Where qualifications are relatively equal then the determining factor will be seniority of those on the relevant pre-bid list. Failing a successful applicant from within the department the Company will refer to the permanent posting list and the selection will be made based first on Departmental, and then Company seniority of those employees on the list at the time of the vacancy.
Where a demonstrable difference in qualifications is shown by the Company, the employee who is by-passed in favor of an employee with less seniority to fill the vacant position shall be notified in writing as to the reasons he was not accepted within one week of the job being awarded.
(d)	The person transferred to fill a permanent vacancy in a work assignment area shall not be entitled to change his work assignment area for a period of one (1) year after each transfer.
(e)	Where it is considered necessary to fill a vacancy for a person who has transferred to another work assignment area, then selection for his replacement will also be made in accordance with item (c) above.
(f)	No more than 3 persons within the Mine Maintenance Department may change work assignment areas and no more than 3 persons within the Plant Maintenance Department may change work assignment areas as a result of an initial vacancy; then the Company may recruit.
(g)	Should the successful applicant be a maintenance department employee, and a permanent vacancy is created in the other maintenance department, it will be filled from the relevant pre-bid list in accordance with (c), (d), (e) and (f)-
(h)	The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for transfers in work assignment areas or within departments where the reason for the
26
transfer is as a result of the exercise of the employee’s preference.
(i)	In instances where a tradesman is given special training, then that person will not be entitled to exercise his preference in accordance with the pre-bid system for a period of six (6) months after completion of that training.
(j)	In order to maintain efficient operations, within seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective transfer date, all transfers resulting from the pre-bid system shall be announced concurrently.
(k)	Where a person on a pre-bid list for a specific work assignment area refuses a transfer, his name will be put at the bottom of the pre-bid list. After a second refusal for the same work assignment area, he will be removed from that pre-bid list.
(l)	In January of the final year of an apprenticeship, the employee may submit his preference on the pre-bid list, however he will only be considered for vacancies upon the successful completion of his apprenticeship.
(m)	If any new work assignment areas are created after the pre-bid list is established, a notice of an addition to the pre-bid list will be posted. All tradesmen, (except those in their probationary period), in the affected department may submit a pre-bid request for this area; however if the successful employee is currently under restriction as a result of the exercise of his preference under this article, the vacancy created by his transfer will be filled by the posting procedure.
10.14	Employees requesting crew transfers within their department and classification must do so in writing. Such requests will only be considered for these employees wishing to transfer within the same work assignment area and between identical shift patterns, Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for the exercise of the employees’ preference.
10.15	Should a dispute arise on a job posting award, the Company will send a list of all applicants for that job vacancy to the Union.
10.16	Permanent postings for the following positions will be placed on all appropriate notice boards:
Mine Operations: Haul Truck*
Labourer*
Mine Maintenance:
Electrician
Mechanic
27
Welder
Labourer*
Lineman
Plant Maintenance:
Plant Mechanic Electrician Welder Machinist
Plant Production : Labourer*
Warehouse : Labourer*-Road Crew : Labourer*
Employees interested in being considered for openings in any of these positions should submit an internal vacancy request form as per article 10.07.
Vacant positions denoted above by an asterisk will be filled by the employee with the greatest Company seniority on the list at the time of the vacancy, provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. Failing a successful applicant the Company may recruit.
Vacancies for the other positions will be awarded to the qualified employee having the greatest departmental seniority within the same department as the vacancy at the time of the vacancy. Failing a successful applicant, the position will be awarded to the qualified employee with the greatest Company seniority on the list at the time of the vacancy. Failing a successful applicant, the Company may recruit.
* on Company seniority others on department 1st and Company seniority second.
ARTICLE 11:
HOURS OF WORK
11.01	This article is intended to define the normal hours of work and shah not be construed as guarantee of pay or of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
11.02
(a)	The term “work week” means that period of time commencing with the start of day shift on Monday and terminating (168) hours thereafter.
(b)	The term “work day” means that period of time commencing at the start of day shift and terminating twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
28
11.03	At its discretion, the Company may from time to time Initiate, maintain or discontinue to conduct, all or any part of its operations on a multiple shift and/or multiple continuous shift basis, subject to the pertinent statures and regulations of the Province of British Columbia.
Prior to introducing a shift schedule outside of those referred to in 11.04 the Company will meet with the Union to discuss the new schedule, the impact it will have on employees and consider alternatives that may arise from these discussions.
11.04	The Company may schedule any operation, employee or group of employees at other times because of emergencies, break-downs, preparation for start-up of work and efficiency of the operation. The normal hours of work for employees shall be based on one of the following schedules:
(a)	Eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per week.
(b)	Ten (10) hours per day four (4) days per week.
f
'iM-
(c)	Twelve (12) hours per day based on a work cycle which is eight (8) consecutive weeks (four (4) shifts on, four (4) shifts off) averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.	„ f-
(d)	Normal shift starting times will be as follows:
Twelve Hour Shifts:
Day Shift	7:00 a.m.
Night Shift	7:00 p.m.
Ten Hour Shifts: Day Shift 7:00 a.m.
Eight Hour Shifts: Day Shift 8:00 a.m.
These starting times may be varied up to one hour on either side of these times for experimentation purposes or to meet operational requirements.
11.05	Employees will commence their shift at the designated starting time and work place and shall cease the designated stopping time and place.
Paid Work Break
11.06	Eight -hour anC ten-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of twenty (20) minutes, iesignated by the Company during the period of the fourth and f iftKTfoufs of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the work place, of ten (10) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the second and third hours and the sixth and seventh hours of the
29
shift.
11.07 Twelve-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirtyjffi) mkK, Utes designated by the Company during the period of the fifth and sixth hours of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the work place, of ten (10) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the third and fourth hours and the eighth and ninth hours of the shift.
11.08 With respect to the lunch break provided in Sections 11.06 and 11.07, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service but shall not be required to do any work which can reasonably be postponed to the end of their lunch break.
ARTICLE 12:
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
12.01 Overtime will be voluntary provide^Ltbat operating requirements met.
are
12.02	An employee’s working time shall be calculated to the one quarter (Vn) hour at which he is directed to stop work, or, if he is directed to stop work between one quarter {Va) hours, to the one quarter (%) hour next following the time he is directed to stop work.
12.03	Opportunities for overtime will be distributed as equitably as is practicable among the employees in the Department and in the classification who normally perform the work in the area for which overtime is required. A record of overtime opportunities will be posted in each department.
12.04
, (a) An employee working overtime for a period in excess of two (2) hours ✓7^£|J).beyond the end of his normal shift shah be entitled to a hot meal and choice of beverage during the period of such overtime. An additional meal shall s[L be provided for each additional four (4) hours of continuous overtime worked.
(b)	Employeesm ay opt to accept a six ($6) dollar credit in lieu of an overtime meal.
j 12.05
, fr\J (a) An employee called out to work during other than his regular hours will ''Y'j be paid the applicable overtime rate for actual hours worked, or four (4) hours at his regular rate, whichever is greater.
(b) Maintenance employees called out will not be required to perform work other than that for which they were called out.
30
12.06	The Company shall give an employee forty-eight (48) hours notice of a change in his regular shift. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate for regular hours worked on the first shift following the change. This provision shall not apply to a new employee’s initial assignment to a regular shift.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to a change requested by an employee for personal reasons. No employee shall be allowed to change shifts under any circumstances without first receiving the approval of his immediate Supervisor.
12.07	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
12.08
(a)	Eight Hour Shift
One and one-half (1 Zi) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:	(i) time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week;
(ii)	for the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days;
(iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day. Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
'Z“j ^	(j) time worked in excess of ten (10) hours per day;
'2yf x*^(ii) time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week; ^	iii) time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on
scheduled rest days.
(b)	Ten Hour Shift
One and one-half (1 Vi) times the employee’s rcgulaNfouriy rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a week;
(ii)	the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days. Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a work day;
(ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week;
(iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on scheduled rest days.
(c)	Twelve Hour Shift
One and one-half (1 Vi) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours per week;
(ii)	for the first eight hours worked on scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
31
(i)	time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day;
(ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week.
12.09
(a)	An employee working at a higher paying job than his normal classification will receive the higher rate of pay for the actual hours worked in that higher classification unless those hours are in excess of one-half of the scheduled hours of that shift, in which case the employee will receive the higher rate of pay for the entire scheduled shift. This provision will not apply to those employees receiving training in higher paying positions.
(b)	An employee temporarily assigned to work in a lower classification will be paid at his regular rate of pay.
(c)	Employees working in a higher classification on his last shift prior to a Statutory Holiday not worked, will receive the higher rate for Statutory Holiday Pay, provided that the employee works in the higher classification on his first shift after the Statutory Holiday.
12.10	Shift and Weekend Premiums
Employees working other than day shift shall be paid the following premiums per hour, in addition to their
Twelve Hour Shift Schedule Night Shift - 80v per hour
12.11	Employees working on regular schedule shift on Saturdays and Sundays shall be paid a premium of one dollar and sixty-five cents ($1.65) per hour.
12.12	The premiums referred to in Sections 12.10 and 12.11 will not apply when overtime or other premium pay is being paid.
12.13	An employee who is required to work before his regular starting time shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
ARTICLE 13:
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
13.01
(a)	An employee shall receive Statutory Holiday pay at his regular hourly rate for each of the following Statutory Holidays, provided he has complied with the provisions of Article 13.04, in accordance with the payment schedule outlined herein:
New Year’s Day '
Good Friday Canada Day
Remembrance Day Thanksgiving Day B.C. Day Boxing Day Victoria Day Labour Day Christmas Day
Effective June lst/86 an employee will be entitled to one Floating Holiday, for each six months of continuous service. Floating Holidays will be scheduled on an individual basis by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor. Payment for Floating Holidays will be equal to the number of hours the employee would normally have worked on the day the Floater is taken.
(b)	An employee shall receive eight (8) hours Statutory Holiday allowance, except when an employee who is normally scheduled to work the Statutory Holiday is required by the Company to take the Statutory Holiday off. In this case, the employee will receive holiday allowance equal to the number of regular hours he normally would have worked.
(c)	(i) Employees may bank Floating Holidays up to a maximum of four (4);
(ii)	An employee will receive payment for any unused floating holidays upon the termination of his employment.
(d)	Statutory Holidays will begin at the commencement of day shift on the day in question, and will conclude twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
13.02	Employees who are requested to work on a Statutory Holiday and have complied with the provisions of 13.04, may elect to take an alternate day off without pay, up to a maximum of four (4) in any calendar year. These days must be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor.
13.03
(a)	For work performed on a regularly scheduled shift on a Statutory Holiday, an employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 Vz) times his basic rate in addition to any amount payable under Article 13.01 (a). Such hours worked will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
(b)	An employee required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of his normal shift schedule.
13.04
(a)	Except if he is on vacation or any authorized leave of absence, an employee shah not receive Statutory Holiday allowance if:
33
(i)	He does not work his last regularly scheduled shift before or his first scheduled shift after the Statutory Holiday;
(ii)	He fails to work on a paid Statutory Holiday which he has been scheduled to work;
(iii)	The paid holiday falls, while he is on lay-off that exceeds twenty (20) calendar days;
(iv)	He has not completed his probationary period.
(b)	In applying Article 13.04 (a) (i), an employee shall be deemed to have worked the qualifying shifts if his absence is excused anch or otherwise authorized by the Con\panv. However.. Qayment of such holiday pay in case of excuse or authorized absence shall be limited to one holiday per absence.
In cases where the absence commences after the Remembrance Day Holiday and encompasses any or all of Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day, the employee will be paid for up to three (3) Statutory Holidays.
(c) An employee shall be entitled to an additional day off for each Statutory Holiday that falls within an employee’s scheduled vacation period.
ARTICLE 14:
VACATION
14.01	Employees will be entitled to annual vacation with pay, in accordance with the following schedule:
14.02	An employee who is on the payroll on January 1, who has been continuously employed during the qualifying period and-who has:
Length of Service	Hours	Payment
Less than one year preceding the vacation year preceding the vacation maximum 80/84 hours)
8 hours for each full month of employment excluding taxable year.
8/10 Hour Shifts 12 Hour
0\
One year preceding the vacation year Two years preceding the . vacation . yeir
Three y ear s preceding thef) vacation year	''
Four years preceding the vacation year
80
o

96
96
120
-I 96
/"i A
U )
120
120
120
4% of earnings of the previous year (Minimum 1 shift, benefits
Shifts
4.4%
5.3%
^ 6.3%
6.3%
34
Five years preceding the vacation year	''
Six years preceding the vacation year Seven years preceding the vacation year Eight years or more preceding the vacation year.
144
152
144
156
6.8%
7.2%
7.2%
7.8%
14.03	For the purpose of calculating vacation entitlement, a vacation year shall be from January 1st to December 31st.
14.04	Employees shall be required to submit their preference for vacation time to their immediate Supervisor before January 31st in each year. Following this the Company will post approved vacation schedules, by department, no later than March 3lst.
14.05	Preference for vacation entitlement will be determined on the basis of departmental seniority of those employees whose applications for vacation are received by January 3 1st in each year. Vacation requests received after January 31st will be allocated, based on the dates they are received, on a first received, fist scheduled basis.
The Company will grant vacations at times most preferable to employees, provided that such requests do not unreasonably interfere with the requirements of operations.
Vacation schedules may be subject to changes made necessary by operational requirements or personal requests. The Company shall advise employees affected by any changes as far in advance as possible.
14.06	Vacations must be taken during the year of its entitlement, and unless an employee has more than two shift cycles in his entitlement he may not break his vacation up into blocks of less than one cycle except where there is less than one cycle remaining in his entitlement.
Employees with more than two shift cycles of vacation entitlement may elect to be paid for their vacation entitlement in excess of two shift cycles in lieu of taking vacation, and1'Of may choose to split the portion of his vacation entitlement in excess of two shift cycles into increments of his choosing.
14.07	An employee shah receive his vacation pay with his regular pay that immediately precedes the commencement of his vacation.
14.08	The Company will give three (3) months notice of a planned vacation shutdown. In the event an employee has scheduled and received approval
A
35
for his vacation within the three (3) month period referred to above, the employee will have the option of taking his vacation as previously approved.
ARTICLE 15:
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
15.01
(a)	(i) An employee may be granted a leave of absence wifhflnt pay for sufficient reason. A leave of absence form must be in writing and authorized by a management representative.
(ii)	All requests for leave of absence and floater(s) will be answered by the Company, in writing, within 10 calender days.
(b)	The Company may at its discretion, grant reasonable leave of absence to an employee for education or training purposes, conditional but not limited to the following:
(i)	Such leave will not interfere with the efficiency of the operations;
(ii)	The education or training has application in the operations;
(iii)	That the employee apply in writing at least one month in advance unless grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen;
(iv)	Leave is approved by a management representative.
(c)	Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend union conventions or do other similar work for the Union will be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Normally not more than five (5) employees will be granted leave at any one time. However, in situations of special training, such as shop steward or safety representative schools or seminars, leave without pay will be granted for up to an additional five (5) employees.
Not more than two (2) employees from any one shift in any one department may be on leave at any one time.
The Union agrees to give the Company one (1) weeks notice in writing and such leaves are not to exceed two (2) weeks nor interfere with operations.

(d)	The Company will grant not more than two (2) employees a leave of absence for one (1) year to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union. This leave may be extended for additional one (1) year periods for local representatives and is limited to three (3) consecutive one (I) year extensions for International Representatives. During absence under this clause the employee’s seniority continues to accumulate. Upon expiry
36
of the leave he will return to work at the job which he left and if unable to do so will exercise his rights as per the terms of this agreement. All benefits terminate while the employee is on leave as an International Representative.
(e)	Upon written request and on reasonable notice from the Union and subject to the requirements of the operation, the Company may grant leaves ol absence without pay to.employes selected to do work for the Union such as negotiations,
(0 Where spouses have made"arrangements to take their vacations at the same time, and one is entitled to a vacation of greater duration, the Company will grant an unpaid leave of absence to the employee with the lesser vacation in the amount required to make up the difference to a maximum of five (5) shifts. The leave will be granted provided it does not require the Company to exceed the total number of employees allowed away for vacation purposes in any classification and on any one shift at any one time. Upon presentation of special circumstances, the Company agrees to give consideration to lengthening the period of leave.
15.02	Bereavement leave with pay of four (4) regularly scheduled shifts will fl/Ube granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family, provided / j/the leave is taken within ten (10) calendar days of the death. Prior to taking such leave, the employee must advise his immediate supervisor which days / * he will be taking. “Immediate family” means the employee’s spouse, child or step-child, parent or step-parent, brother, sister, parent-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
(b)	An employee eligible for a bereavement leave which occurs during his vacation shall be entitled to have that portion of his vacation rescheduled.
, 15.03 An employee who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness . -’Obul not in his own defence), will be paid an allowance equal to the difference KV between the payment, excluding travel allowance, he receives for each day xj'f of such service and his straight time pay for work which he would have been
71
scheduled and which he would otherwise have performed on those days.
15.04	A female employee may apply in writing and shall be granted unpaid maternity leave to a maximum of 24 consecutive weeks (or less as may be
* requested by the employee) in accordance with the Employment Standards Act. Upon presentation of medical evidence the leave may be extended for a maximum of an additional six (6) weeks. Requests for additional leave - under this clause will be considered on a case by case basis. 'X^’{	,
15.05	The Company recognizes that a request for Paternity leave is a legitimate reason for leave of absence. Leave will be granted as provided for in Article 15.01, for a duration mutually agreed upon between the employee
37
and his supervisor.
ARTICLE 16:
SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01	The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interest of all concerned to maintain high standards of Safety and Health at the Company’s operations in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
To this end, it is expected that all persons on Quintette Coal Limited property shall co-operate to promote safe work conditions, practices, and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct and safety on the property. In the interest of safety the Company will continue with sound safety education and training programs and will communicate and discuss substantial changes to the program with the Union and the Union agrees to develop and maintain internal education programs on accident prevention and health through such media as membership meetings, seminars and Union publications. If requested the Union agrees to assist the Company in the development of safety, educational and training programs. In order to meet our mutual objectives in matters related to safety and health, a Joint Safety and Health Committee will be established as outlined below.
16.02	The Joint Safety and Health Committee shall be composed of not more than five (5) members appointed by the Union, one of which shall be the Union Safety Committee Chairman. There shall be one employee appointed from each of the following areas: Process Plant, Mesa/ Wolverine Pit Operations, Shikano Production/Mine Maintenance, and Mine Maintenance Mesa/ Wolverine, and not more than five (5) members appointed by the Company. For each regular member appointed, there may also be an alternate appointed to act in the absence of the regular member. In addition a representative from each party shall be designated as co-chairman of the Committee. The function of the Committee shall be to recommend solutions to problems relating to the promotion of safety and health on the job site. The Union and the Company shall notify each other in writing of the identity of their Joint Safety and Health Committee representatives. If the Company expands its operation with the introduction of a new pit or its equivalent, the parties will address whether the new operation requires an expansion of the Joint Health and Safety Committee in order to provide the Union with effective representation for the new operation. The employer will not unreasonably refuse to expand the Committee to meet the need for representation.
16.03	(a) When conducting monthly Safety tours of each area of the operation, the Union Safety Chairman (or his alternate), and the Union Joint Safety Committee member from the area being inspected, together with the Company representatives, shall conduct the inspection. A crew safety rep-
38
resentative will accompany the Joint Safety Committee members on the tour of their respective area.
(b)	Where the Joint Safety Committee	f|p jpsper.t.kirL.anrUhejii^a^
find an unsafe condition, they shall immediately notify the supervisor for the area and advise him of the unsafe condition and discuss what is required to correct the problem. If agreement is not reached and corrective action is not taken, the Joint Safety Committee shall by majority decision have the authority to stop the work in question until the condition is rendered safe in the opinion of the majority of the Joint Safety Committee.
(c)	After completion of the inspection tour, those members of the Joint Committee conducting the tour in that area, with the safety representative, shall meet with the manager or superintendent from that department to take up such Safety and Health matters as have arisen on the tour. In addition, all reportable incidents in that area in the previous month will be reviewed and further remedies or preventive action may be recommended.
(d)	Minutes of all meetings of the Joint Committee; reports of all inspections; or other investigations and recommendations made by the Joint Committee shall be prepared by the Company and provided to the Union within four (4) business days from the date the tour ended. If the Union disagrees with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared, it may set forth the reasons in writing and forward them to the Company. The disagreement shall then form part of the minutes. The minutes shall be jointly signed.
(e)	All regular members of the Joint Committee or their designates shall meet every two (2) months with the Operations Managers to review recommendations contained in inspection reports with special attention to repeat items and to discuss other matters pertaining to Safety and Health which may be raised.
Where agreement has been reached to implement recommendations contained in inspection reports, the department manager will give an estimated time for the recommendations to be implemented.
16.04	(a) The crew safety representative will be present and involved when there is an investigation of any accident or incident which caused, or had the potential to cause, significant equipment damage or personal injury requiring medical aid.
The crew safety representative will be given access to a telephone and instructed to notify the area safety committee member. If the area representative is at work, the investigating supervisor will assist the crew safety representative in contacting him.
39
In cases where a management representative more senior than those on shift participates in an accident or incident investigation, he will be responsible to notify the Union Safety Chairman or his designate immediately and inform him of the situation.
(b)	In the case of a fatal accident, the Union Safety Chairman or Local Union President, or their designates, shall be notified immediately and access to conduct a full investigation will be provided. SuchJnvestigation_mav be conducted independent of the Company, if the Union chooses to do so.
(c)	All reportable accidents or reportable incidents filed with the Ministry of Mines shall be forwarded to the Union office within 24 hours of mailing to the Ministry.
16.05	The Mines Inspector will be accompanied by the Union Safety Chairman or his designate during either a safety tour or accident investigation on the property unless the Inspector advises the Safety Chairman or his designate otherwise.
16.06	The Company agrees to acquaint and instruct members of the Joint Safety and Health Committee with equipment and techniques of sampling and analysis for potentially toxic substances occurring within the Company’s operations within three months of the employee’s appointment to the joint committee.
16.07	On request of the Union Safety Committee Chairman, and at a mu-
tually agreed upon time, the Company will acquaint the Union Crew Safety representatives with sampling and monitoring techniques related to their respective areas of work within three months of receiving notification of iheir appointment ,	Ci ’
employee to attend at a medical examination for reasons of health and safety. The Company will, prior to requiring an employee to attend for a medical examination, discuss the reasons with a member of the Union executive. If the Company is unable to contact a member of the Union executive, they will discuss the reasons with the employee’s shop steward and crew safety representative.
(b)	Where such an examination occurs on a regularly scheduled work day, the employee will suffer no loss of regular pay. If the examination occurs on a scheduled day-off, he will receive four (4) hours pay for each day of travel required to attend the appointment, and four (4) hours pay for the appointment. Such hours will be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
16.08
(a) Where reasonable justification is shown,
maf require an
40
The Company will arrange and pay for the employee’s travel and accommodations and reimburse him for reasonable meal costs.
16.09
(a)The Company shall provide the Union with the following information:
)	j?-'	•	•
'QJ^‘ (*) .An infformation sheet on toxic chemicals used in the various processes, 1 " ; emergency proceduTesT

(ii) Information on major new tools and equipment;
(iii)	A copy of all WCB 7A’s for all employees and any associated First Aid reports within three (3) business days;
(iv)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertaining to them.
(b)	The Union agrees that prior to discussion with governmental agencies or the public, it will discuss any Safety or Health concerns with the Company as soon as the concern arises.
16.10	The Union agrees that the provisions of Article 16 shall be used for legitimate safety concerns only. The parties further agree that any interruption shah be restricted to the specific hazard identified.
16.11
(a)	The Company agrees that there shall be regularly scheduled safety meetings Qn Company time for all members of every crew once per calendar month. Tentative times for these meetings will be posted during the first week of each month, and will be scheduled in such a fashion so as each crew’s meeting will be separated by at least three (3) weeks and no more than six (6) weeks. ;	-'T.
{y^'L
Meetings will not normally be scheduled so as to coincide with shift end.
Meetings will be held where noise from operations does not unduly interfere. Safety meetings will include in their agenda:
(i)	Reading of the previous meeting’s minutes for errors or omissions;
(ii)	Outstanding safety items from previous meetings and progress update, if any;
(iii)	Report of new safety concerns or suggestions.
Further, it is recognized that the use of safety videos, guest speakers or other 41
outside sources can serve as useful tools for promoting safety awareness.
All suggestions or complaints shall be discussedand recorded. Copies of crew safety meeting minutes compiled by the Supervisor shall be given to the Crew safety representative, the Department Safety Committee member and the Union office, within four (4) working days.
(b)	The President and Safety Committee Chairman or their designates shall meet quarterly with the General Manager and Director Personnel/ Loss Control to review the reports and recommendations of the Joint Safety and Health Committee and discuss other matters pertaining to safety, accident prevention and industrial hygiene. The Union and the Company shall exchange agendas of the matters they propose to discuss at least two weeks prior to the meeting. For special needs related to safety, the Union or the Company may request a meeting of the two (2) parties.
16.12	In dealing with Safety and Health conditions affecting employees, the Union or members of the Joint Safety and Health Committee shall have access to the operations to investigate and discuss such matters. Access for such investigations shall be arranged by the Loss Control Department at a mutually agreed time and Company officials shall accompany Union officials on such investigations.
16.13	It is agreed and understood by the parties that a lock-out procedure is an integral part of the safety program on the property for the protection of both employees and equipment. In order to re-inforce the importance of locking out equipment the Company will provide booklets outlining the proper procedures for each area and employees and management personnel will be required to follow these procedures at all times.
16.14	(a) It is not the Company’s intent that employees work in any situation which is unsafe or hazardous beyond the normal hazards inherent in the coal mining and processing operations in British Columbia.
\ (b) An employee shall immediately report to his supervisor unsafe equip' ment, conditions or practices which he is unable to correct. The supervisor shall investigate promptly the unsafe equipment, condition or practices so reported and shall take steps as appear necessary in his opinion to correct the unsafe situation.
. (c) Where an employee is able to demonstrate on reasonable grounds that ’	situation of hazard, as referred to in (a) preceding, exists at his work lo-
cation, he shall cease the work and immediately contact his supervisor and detail the nature of his concern. He shall not be subject to discipline by reason of so refusing to work at that place. The supervisor shall then investigate the employee’s concern.
42
(d)	The employee will not have to resume the work he ceased unless he has received instruction from the supervisor that the supervisor is satisfied that the work does not constitute a situation that is unsafe or hazardous, as described in (a). If the employee still considers the work to be unsafe he shall be given the assistance of his crew safety representative who together with the employee shall discuss the matter with the supervisor. If the matter is still unresolved it will be referred to the members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee from the area.
(e)	No employees will be required or permitted to perform work, where another employee has refused to work, unless the employee, in the presence of his Safety Representative, has been informed of the refusal and the reason thereof.
(f)	It shall be the responsibility of the employee’s supervisor to not allow any employee to work in an unsafe area or condition as described in (c).
(g)	Every reasonable effort shall be made to temporarily reassign, with no loss of regular pay and within his department, an employee referred to in
(c)	preceding.
16.15
(a)	An employee who is injured on the job and is unable to complete his shift will have his regular earnings maintained for the balance of that shift.
(b)	The Company agrees to replace or repair personal clothing that is damaged and rendered unsuitable for an industrial setting as the result of an unusual OCCUrance in the workplace.
16.16
(a)	The following items of personal protection equipment and apparel shall be supplied by the Company on a loan basis and the employee will be required to sign for them and return them in good and serviceable condition (fair wear and tear excepted). If the employee fails to do so, he shall be charged with their replacement costs:
Personal Protection Equipment and Apparel
Safety Hat
Safety Hat Liner
Safety Hat Chin Strap
Safety Glasses (clear and dark)
Respiratory Protection
Hearing Protection
Balaclava
Monogoggles
Gloves
Reflector Vests Hot Gloves Rubber Sleeves Rubber Slickers Welder’s Gloves
Electricians’ High Voltage Gloves Asbestos Gloves Cutting Goggles
Aprons and Face Shields Re: Corrosive Material
Safety Belts and Lines
Welder Hard Hat and Helmet
Safety Shields for Cutting and Grinding
Welding Lenses
Life Jackets
Painter’s Masks
Flashlights
Hip Waders
Locks for Switch-gear
Blaster’s Knife
Welder’s Jackets
Knee Pads
Hair Nets
Belts for Miner’s Lamps
(b)	The Company will maintain a coverall program that will provide field maintenance, blasting crew, pit services and plant operations employees with two pairs of coveralls per shift cycle, and all other employees with one pair per shift cycle. Coveralls will be distributed on an exchange basis.
Insulated coveralls will be supplied to employees who are required to work outside in inclement weather. Coveralls that have lost their insulating value will be removed from service.
(c)	Any other safety equipment the Joint Safety and Health Committee deems necessary, shall be requested through the Loss Control Department.
16.17 New employees who require corrective lenses must possess safety lenses and safety frames prior to the commencement of work. The company will pay the cost of an employee’s original safety lenses and safety frames obtained after commencing work and thereafter will replace safety lenses and /or safety frames when an employee can substantiate they were damaged while at work. The Company will not be responsible for costs under this section that may be recoverable from another source such as a Health Plan or Workers’ Compensation.
44
16.18
i"a) Employees involved in authorized safety meetings, inspections, investigations or tours will suffer no loss of regular earnings while in attendance at such meetings.
(b) The Union Safety Chairman or his alternate, and the Union Safety Committee member attending monthly safety tours, as outlined in 16.03(a), on their days off, will receive their regular straight time rate of pay for actual hours spent on the tour. Such hours will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
16.19
(a)	In Mine Operations, the shift supervisor and the crew safety representative will inspect all work areas within the supervisor’s responsibility sometime during the first two shifts of each cycle.
(b)	Should production be curtailed in any work area on the property for safety reasons, the crew or area safety representative directly affected will be advised.
16.20	In recognition of the committment to educate employees and management representatives, and to ensure that acceptable standards are met regarding allowable dust levels, it is agreed that a continuing program of dust control will be supported by both parties.
To this end, the Company commits their resources to maintain air pressurization systems in an efficient and proper manner and to supply and require the use of respirators where employees must work outside of equipment cabs or control rooms in dusty conditions.
In recognition that a proper dust control program requires the co-operation of employees, it is flnderstood that machinery operators will take all reasonable steps to ensure the cleanliness of their operating cabs and treat cab doors, seals and pressurizing equipment with due care in order to maximize the effectiveness of the pressurizing system. It is also understood that equipment operators will inspect, clean and change cab filters as required, and report defective components of the pressurizing system to their supervisors.
It is further understood that the Union will provide its full support to the program and assist in the objectives outlined through education and promotion of the contents of this article.
16.21
(a) Should the Company request a formal meeting with an employee to discuss his claim with the Worker’s Compensation Board, he will be entitled to a Union representative from the W.C. B. committee.
45
(b) The Company shall provide copies to the concerned employee of any claim related information it submits to the Worker’s Compensation Board.
16.22	In the event the Company intends to dispute an employee’s claim for workers compensation benefits, the Company will, prior to filing their dispute, advise the Union in writing of their intent, and outline their reasons for disputing the claim.
16.23	It is recognised that Safety Complaint Forms are a legitimate manner in which to bring safety concerns to the attention of the Company.
Prior to presenting such a form the employee must have discussed the matter with his Supervisor and have given him an opportunity to respond. Should this response be unsatisfactory and a Safety Complaint Form is filed, the Company will respond in writing.
ARTICLE 17:
HEALTH AND WELFARE
17.01 The Company agrees to pav the full cost of providing the benefits set out below for any employee wKohas elected or m the future may elect to
be covered by the Plans; provided that such employee meets the eligibility requirements for enrollment. Coverage provided is subject to the terms of the respective insurance policies.
^'/''.-./a) Medical Service Plan of British Columbia*
t	Effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
a? (b) Prescriptions/Medi-Care Supplement*
Svyy After $10.00 deductible, pays 100*% of prescription drugs KJ'-J	/ v
‘/f‘jvy Effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
(c)	Vision Care*
r f / The maximum amount payable will be $60.00
(a) f°r Persons under age 18 during any 12 month period;
A | $ J (b) for persons age 18 antLover during any 24 month period, i ~ Effective on the first day of^ne month following the date of employment.
, „ (d) Dental Plan* v Plan A - Basic Dentistry - 100% coverage , - Plan B - Crowns, Bridges - 80% coverage ;rfj0 ^an C ' Orthodontics - 50% coverage
[ The maximum coverage for Plan A & B combined is $1000.00 per year per person. The maximum coverage for Plan C is $1500.00 per lifetime per person.
Effective upon completion of the probationary period.
46


mi) (y\°	' .. ,,,V.h
(e) Weekly Indemnity ! '» w	. , s '
Effective June 1st, 1989, weekly payment of $400.00, or at no time less than unemployment Insurance Benefits.
Effective June 1st, 1990, the weekly payment will increase to $450.00, and on June 1st, 1991 to $500.00.
Benefits are provided from the 1st day of accident and the 4th day of sickness for 52 weeks (1-4-52 Plan).
Effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment. Employees off on Weekly Indemnity who experience undue delay in receiving benefits through no fault of their own, may, upon signing a promissory note assigning the benefit cheque to the Company, receive an advance on such benefit. Advances will be issued if the benefit cheque is not received by the end of the first two weeks following submission of claim form.	5
f s '
(f) Long Term Disability Benefit Available to employees who suffer non-occupational injuries. Payments commence upon the expiration of Weekly Indemnity payments and continue until recovery, age 65 or death, whichever comes first,
Benefits shall be calculated as follows:
Effective June 1st, 1989, the difference between the Company payment of $800.00 per month and the total of all payments made by the Government (calculated monthly) to such disabled employees.	A
Effective June 1st, 1990, $900.00 per month,	,
Effective June 1st, 1991 $1000.00 per month.	„ t~'
n
(g) Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment r. f Life Insurance:
<|	_	$32,500.00
is



< i
Accidental Death and Dismemberment: $32,500.00
Eligible on date of hire.
y *includes qualified dependents
17.02
(a) A summary of the benefits plan will be provided to each employee.
(b) A copy of the benefits master plan will be provided to the Union office.
17.03 An employee with one full year of seniority who is laid off by the Company will be provided with Medical Services Plan (as provided for in 17.01 (a)) and Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment (as provided for in 17.01 (h)), for a period of thirty (30) days from the effective date of his layoff.
ARTICLE 18: GENERAL PROVISIONS
18.01		
(a)	Unless advised of changes, any registered mail required to be given to the Company under the terms of this agreement shall be addressed to the:
General Manager Quintette Coal Limited Box 1500 Tumbler Ridge, B.C.
VOC 2W0
(b)	Unless advised of changes, any registered mail required to be given to the Union under this agreement shall be addressed to:
United Steelworkers of America Local Union 9 113 Box 1810
Tumbler Ridge, B.C.
VOC 2W0
(c)	Any registered mail shah be deemed to be given on the next business day following the day of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
18.02
(a)	An employee who is laid off for a period of more than two (2) weeks or is terminated by the Company will be paid all wages forthwith.
(b)	An employee who gives seven (7) days notice of termination shah be paid all wages no later than two (2) business days from his last day worked.
(c)	An employee who gives less than seven (7) days notice of voluntary termination shall be paid all wages no later than six (6) days from his last day worked.
(d)	Where it is determined that an employee is not in receipt of his full wages for a pay period he will, upon request, be reimbursed within two (2) business days from the time that such determination is made.
18.03	The Company and Union agree to hold Union Management meetings on a monthly basis if requested by either party. In any event the meetings will be held at least once quarterly.
The party requesting the meeting will provide the other party with an agenda at least one week prior to the meeting date.
Employees shall suffer no loss of regular earnings while in attendance at such meetings.
48
18.04	The lunchrooms provided will be maintained in a clean condition. Lunchrooms in the Pit are for the use of the Blast and Pit services crews only.
18.05	The normal procedure for payment of wages will be by direct deposit every second Tuesday to the saving institution of an employees choice.
18.06
(a) An employee will be reimbursed the replacement value of his tools anchor tool box, lost or damaged beyond normal use, through no fault of the employee while on Company property.
(b) The Company will provide a tool allowance on a yearly basis to employees required to provide their own tools as outlined below.
H.D. Mechanic, Millwright, Machinist
Electrician, Lineman
Welder
Effective June 1st, 1989 $100.00
40.00
25.00
Effective June 1st, 1990 $200.00
75.00
50.00
18.07	The cost of Medical Examinations required in compliance with the Coal Mines Regulation Act shall be paid for by the Company. All employees shah be required to take such examinations outside regular working hours and shall be paid four (4) hours’ pay at straight time and these hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
18.08	Employees who attend voluntary training courses on their scheduled days of rest will not be eligible for overtime rates for the time spent training.
18.09	Union/Management Committee members (as outlined in 18.03), and all regulafmembers of the Joint Committee (as outlined in Article 16.03e), who are requested to attend these meetings with the Company, shall be granted a four (4) hour leave of absence with pay either at the end of the shift immediately prior to, or at the commencement of the shift immediately following such meet-
mgs-	(dj/)
18.10	' '
(a) The Company will pay travel assistance of $4.00 per shift worked to those employees required to provide their own transportation to the McConkey Gate.
(b) In the event a new work location(s) is established whereby an employee is required to provide transportation to a point further in distance than the McConkey Gate, the travel assistance provided for in 18.10(a) will be increased proportionately to the greater distance for those employees affected.
18.11	Rules and regulations of the Company will not be inconsistent with the
49
terms of this agreement.
18.12	The Company will bear the cost of printing the collective agreement and will provide all employees with a copy as soon as they are available.
18.13	The Company will make available a reasonable number of collective agreements to the Union.
18.14	Upon request by the Union, the Company will implement a payroll deduction to collect monies from employees to be used to provide financial assistance to other employees or their families.
18.15	The present practice with regards to mutual shift exchanges will be continued.
18.16	The Company and Union agree that continued support of the Employee and Family Assistance Program is beneficial and therefore agree to maintain the highest level of co-operation for the continued development of the program.
18.17	Joint Savings Plan
(a)	This is an optional benefit plan which employees may join during the first three (3) months of employment and thereafter during February and August of each year.
(b)	Employees contribute monies in increments of 1% of straight time basic earnings (through payroll deductions) drawing an employer contribution as per the following table:
Years of Service Employee Contribution Company Contribution
Up to 1 year	1 - 4%	20%
1 - 2 years '	r^4%	40%
2 - 3 years	1-4%	60%
3 - 4 years	1 - 4%	80%
4 - 5 years	1 - 4%	100%
5 - 6 years	1-5%	100%
6-7 years	1 - 5%	100%
More than 7 years	1- 6%	100%
(c)	Contributions may be directed to a Non-registered and/or Registered j (RRSP) account. Within each account employees may choose to invest in ! a Savings, Equity and/or Income fund. Employees may change investment j options up to four (4) times annually.	'
50
(d)	The employee has immediate ownership of the Company contribution and investment income'as~welTas'llis uwfl contribution.
(e)	Every twenty-four (24) months the employee can make a withdrawal of funds without penalty. If an employee makes more than one withdrawal (excluding emergency withdrawals), in a twenty-four (24) month period, an automatic six (6) month suspension of company contributions is applied.
(f)	Emergency withdrawals can be made without penalty as a result of the death of a family member (as per article 15.02 (a) of the CBA), for emergency medical situations and for layoff of more than seven (7) days.
(g)	The current value of the Savings Plan account will be paid to the employee upon his leaving the Company; or will be paid to the employee’s beneficiary upon his death.
00	The Company agrees that excess funds will be distributed amongst the plan participants on a pro-rata basis, on May 31st of each year of the plan.
Excess funds is defined as the difference between the amount actually paid by the Company into the Savings Plan and the amount the Company would have been required to contribute had all employees made maximum contri-
butions.
d
(i) The parties agree to prepare a document that will outline the specific details with regards to the savings plan, including the method of disbursement of budgeted excess funds to plan participants.
It is expressly understood that the provisions of this document will form part of the Collective Agreement and will therefore be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
18.18 For the purpose of International Aid and Development, the Company agrees to deduct on a bi-weekly basis the amount of (not less than $0.01) per hour from the wages of all employees in the bargaining unit for all hours worked, and on a bi-weekly basis, to pay the amount so deducted to the “Humanity Fund” and to forward such payment to United Steelworkers of America National Office, 234 Eglinton Avenue East, Toronto, Ontario M4P 1K7, and to advise in writing both the Humanity Fund at the aforementioned address and the local union that such payment has been made, the amount of such payment and the names of all employees in the bargaining unit on whose behalf such payment has been made.
The first “Humanity Fund” deduction as aforesaid shall be for the fifth week following ratification of this agreement.	.
51
It is understood and agreed that participation by any employee in the bargaining unit in the program of deductions set forth above may be discontinued by any employee in the bargaining unit after the receipt by the Company and the local Union of that employee’s written statement of his desire to discontinue such deductions from his pay which may be received during the four weeks following ratification of this agreement or at any time thereafter.
18.19 Upon submission of a receipt, employees will be reimbursed 50% of the cost of new work boots to a maximum of Sixty (60) dollars every eighteen (18) months.
ARTICLE 19:
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
19.01
(a)	Any apprenticeship training sponsored by the Company will "conform with the laws of the Province of British Columbia.
(b)	The course content, evaluation of apprentice performance and matters
related thereto* or regulated by statute or government regulations shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.	•. .
19.02	While an apprentice is at school attending the courses prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship the Company will maintain his earnings at his regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours in each week for eight (8) hour and ten (10) hour shift workers, for forty-two (42) hours in each week for twelve (12) hours shift workers, less any subsidy paid by the Government with the exception of travel and living out allowance. The Company’s obligation is limited to one repeat at any stage of the employee’s apprenticeship. The Company will discontinue the sponsoring of the apprenticeship where the apprentice has failed the required schooling more than once during the term of the apprenticeship.
19.03
(a)	The basic hourly rates for apprentices shall be in accordance with Appendix B-Wage Schedule.
(b)	Rate increases are contingent upon successful completion of the previous practical requirements, and Apprenticeship examinations. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date.
19.04	Employees interested in being considered for apprenticeships must contact the Training Department and arrange to write the pre-apprenticeship examination. The passing grade for such apprenticeship testing has been es-
52
tablished as being 70%. Where a candidate has failed tO pass the examination, he may be entitled to one re-write.
19.05
(a) Vacancies for apprenticeships will be posted for eight (8) calendar days and candidates for apprenticeships will be evaluated and selected in consideration of the following criteria:
(i)	Length of service with the Company;
(ii)	Previous related experience or training in the applicable trade;
(iii)	Previous related apprenticeship training in the applicable trade;
(iv)	Education qualifications;
(v)	Successful completion of the pre-apprenticeship examination.
Where candidates are for all intents and purposes equal, length of service will be the deciding factor.
(b) Notwithstanding (a) above, it is agreed that for every third apprenticeship posting in each category of apprenticeship, the selection will be made on the basis of Company seniority provided however the conditions of both 19.04 and government apprentice requirements have been met.
19.06	Upon successful completion of each year’s Technical Training assignment and submission of receipts, the Company agrees to pay the apprentice a textbook allowance to a maximum of $120.00.
ARTICLE 20:
LEADHANDS
The parties agree that the use of Leadhands is beneficial to both employee(s) and the Company when they are not subject to abuse or misunderstanding.
It is therefore agreed that Leadhands may be used to permit the Company tO evaluate employees who wish to become permanent supervisors.
It is further agreed that a Leadhand acts as a leader of a group of employees working on similar or related work under the direction of a salaried employee.
Leadhands will assign work as directed by the salaried employee and co-ordinate this work among the crew members.
The Leadhand functions as a leader and is differentiated from a supervisor 53
in that he is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personnel matters which are the responsibility of the salaried employee to whom he reports.
Leadhands will be selected by the Company at the Company’s discretion; and will have an evaluation period of no more than three (3) months during the period of this Agreement. To meet unusual circumstances the parties may agree to extend this time limit.
During the period that an employee is acting as a Leadhand, he will be paid a premium of $.50 per hour for all hours worked, but will not be eligible for overtime except as a Leadhand.
After completion of the evaluation period, a Leadhand will be returned to the job previously held prior to the evaluation period or promoted to a permanent supervisory position.
The parties understand that Leadhands will not be entitled to repeat their evaluation period during the term of the Agreement.
The Company will supply to the Union an up-to-date list of Leadhands indicating the starting date of each Leadhand and in the event a Leadhand is unsuccessful in completion of the evaluation, the date of his removal from Leadhand position.
ARTICLE 21:
TRAINING
21.01	The Company recognizes the need for training opportunities to enable each employee to improve his knowledge and skills to equip himself for future positions of greater responsibility or higher pay for which he is eligible within the Line of Progression .or through Job Postings.
21.02	rt^\
(a)	Each employee in training within a Line of Progression shall meet with his supervisor or the training supervisor at least quarterly to review his progress. More frequent meetings will be arranged upon request of the employee in training.
(b)	Every attempt shall be made to enable an employee in training to successfully develop the requisite qualifications and ability. In the event an employee fails to qualify for progression in training, the Company shall advise the employee in writing of the reasons for such failure and the employee shall be removed from further training.
(c)	Employees in training and Trainee positions will be given a course outline,
54
and appropriate training manuals. Copies of the above will be made available to the Union.
(d)	If an employee has demonstrated the ability to accelerate through training, exceptions to the normal accumulation of training hours or days will be made.
(e)	Determination of qualifications and provision for reasonable training opportunities shall be made by the Company in a just manner and shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
(0 All employees, other than those in Trainee positions while training up through the Line of Progression will receive the rate of pay for the job they normally perform.
(g)	Employees bidding down a Line of Progression, will receive the rate of pay applicable for the position to which they posted.
(h)	Subject to prior approval by the Employee Development department employees who require driver’s licence endorsements other than Class 5 will be reimbursed for the costs of the course, and/or required textbooks, if they are successful in obtaining the licence endorsement.
(i)	In recognition of the importance of employees being properly qualified to operate mobile equipment, it is agreed that employees will not be permitted to operate equipment until such time as they have been checked out by a supervisor designated and trained by the Company for the particular mobile equipment in question. The Company will provide the Union with a list of these supervisors and the equipment they are authorized to check out employees on and any changes in the same.
21.03 PLANT OPERATION DEPARTMENT
(a)	It is the objective of the Company to train senior plant operations employees in each classification at least one job ahead. Where there is more than one employee in a classification on a shift, the senior employee will complete training prior to the other one starting.
(b)	Employees training ahead in the Plant shall become qualified when they have successfully completed both the practical and theory portions of the module training program.
(c)	All employees in classifications in the Plant Operations Line of Progression marked with a “X” who apply for other postings will only be awarded the job if a qualified replacement is available in the Line of Progression.
55
(d)	(i) Employees being trained on Bradford Breaker must back train
through Screen & Crusher and Overland Patrol if not previously trained.
(ii) Employees being trained on Dryer Control must back train through Dryer Patrof DryerHelper if not previously trained.
(iii)	Employees being trained on Modules must back train through Thickner Patrol and Pumps and Magnetite and whichever of Thermal or Loadout if not previously trained.
(iv)	Employees in Shift Utility must train ahead into each of Dryer Helper, Pumps and Magnetite,and Overland Patrol.
(e)	Employees who wish to be considered for positions beneath the one they currently occupy in the lines of progression may either bid on a vacancy when it is posted, or submit a notice of such intention in writing to their supervisor. This notice must include the position (s) for which they wish to be considered and whether or not they wish to retain the opportunity to return to their present position.
In filling either of a vacancy for which they expressed preference or for their present position, (if they so indicated) they will be considered along with other qualified employees as in 10.03 (a). The senior such employee shall have preference.
21.04	ROAD CREW DEPARTMENT
(a)	It is the objective of the Company to train senior Road Crew employees in each classification at least one job ahead.
(b)	The required hours for employees undergoing training for the Road Crew department shall be:
Utility Backhoe ■ 400 hours Dozer/Grader - 900 hours
(c)	Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before the employee is deemed qualified.
56
21.05	MINE OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
(a)	Successful applicants for Trainee positions will receive training when so scheduled and will be paid the appropriate Trainee rate for the hours while they are training.
(b)	In order to complete training in an efficient and productive manner, employees will have averaged approximately 50% of their regular scheduled hours in training during the Trainee 3 and Trainee 2 phase of the program. Once advanced to Trainee 1, the employee will be scheduled for the remainder of his training on a full time basis. This schedule is subject to operational factors and individual abilities. If more than one-half of the trainees in any classification are in the Trainee 1 phase at one time, an adjustment in full time training may be made.
(c)	AU employees in classifications in the Mines Operations Line of Progression marked with an “X” who apply for Trainee or other positions on their shift will only be awarded the job if a Trainee 1 or qualified back-up operator is available on their shift, or another employee in a back-up position or a trainee 1 volunteers to trade shifts provided a vacancy exists in his current classification.
(d)	P&H, Drill, Demag and Front End Loader applicants for Trainee positions on a different shift will only be awarded the job if a vacant position for which they are qualified exists on the same shift as the trainee position, or another employee in a classification for which they are qualified volunteers to trade shifts. If the vacant position is not in his current classification, he may opt not to accept the trainee position.
(e)	The junior Dozer/Grader Operator on a shift in which any of a P&H, Demag, Front End Loader or Drill training vacancy occurs, must switch shifts if the successful applicant is a Dozer/Grader Operator from another shift, provided the vacancy has to be filled.
(0 It is the objective of the Company to train senior employees in each classification in Lines of Progression other than Trainee positions at least one job ahead.
57
(g)	An employee who is training or has completed his training in a trainee position will not be eligible for other trainee vacancies or posted jobs until he has completed one (1) year from the time he was qualified as an operator; and he must accept an operator’s position in the classification for which he has last received training, if the vacancy occurs within a year of his becoming qualified as an operator, and the vacancy is on his current shift in his work area. In applying this clause, it is understood that when there is more than one qualified back-up for an operator’s vacancy, the senior employee will be given preference.
(h)	Employees who voluntarily withdraw from a training program after having completed the trainee 3 phase will not be eligible for further training for a six (6) month period.
(i)	Employees who have been specifically designated by the Company to train other employees to operate haul trucks shall be paid a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour for each hour in which they are engaged in such training.
21.06
(a) The average training hours for advancement through Trainee positions shall be:
1) P&H Shovel Trainee	3	to 2	300 hours
	2	to 1	450 hours
1 to qualified Operator			450 hours
2) Demag Operator Trainee	3	to 2	200 hours*
	2	to 1	350 hours*
1 to qualified Operator			350 hours*
*These hours will be spent on both the Shovel and Backhoe portion of the Demag.
3)	Dozer/Grader Trainee 1 to qualified Operator
3 to 2	300 hours
2 to 1	550 hours
550 hours
4)	Drill Operator Trainee 1 to qualified Operator
3 to 2	300 hours
2 to 1	450 hours
550 hours
5)	Front End Loader Trainee 3 to 2	100 hours
2 to 1	250 hours
1	to qualified Operator	250 hours
6)	Backhoe Operator Trainee 3 to 2	100 hours
58
2	to 1	250 hours
1 to qualified Operator	250 hours
(b)	Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before a Trainee is qualified.
(c)	The required time for advancement from Utility Man II to Utility Man I shall be nine (9) months.
21.07	It is the objective of the Company to have:
(a)	Four (4) fully qualified back-up P&H Trainee Ts available on each shift;
(b)	Three (3) fully qualified back-up Demag Trainee I’S available on each shift:
(c)	Five (5) fully qualified back-up Dozef Grader Trainee I’S available on each shift;
(d)	Three (3) fully qualified back-up Drill Trainee Ts available on each shift;
(e)	Three (3) fully qualified back-up Front End Loader Trainee Ts available on each shift;
(f)	Two (2) fully qualified back-up Backhoe Trainee Ts available on each shift.
21.08	Training opportunities for the dragline will be made available to employees who possess previous operating experience on either a dragline or cable crane. The senior employee will be given preference unless a demonstrable difference in previous experience can be demonstrated between the candidates. The maximum number of employees qualified on this machine will not exceed eight (8).
21.09
(a)	Notwithstanding 10.09, in the case of the Shikano Operation, all employees working in the Mine Department will be eligible to bid on operator vacancies.
(b)	(i) Trainee vacancies in Me&Wolverine and Shikano will be posted separately, however should there not be a successful applicant, the vacancy will be re-posted in the other area. Applicants will only be eligible for vacancies in the other operating area if a vacancy for which they are qualified exists on the same shift as the trainee vacancy.
59
(ii)	When applying Article 10.02 (b) in filling operator vacancies in Mesa / Wolverine, the senior qualified Trainee I from either Mesa/Wolverine or Shikano will be given preference.
(iii)	Employees wishing to transfer to Mesa/Wolverine from Shikano may either bid on posted operator vacancies outside of their current classification, or may request a transfer through their supervisor within their current classification.
(c) Haul truck vacancies in the Shikano operation will be posted within the department prior to following the normal procedure for filling haul-truck vacancies.
ARTICLE 22:
STUDENTS
22.01	Students may be employed for a period not exceeding four and one-half (4Vi) months. In the event a student is hired as a regular employee, his probationary period shall commence at the time of re-hire.
22.02	In the event of a crew reduction at the operation, students shall be laid off before regular employees.
22.03	Students hired in accordance with the foregoing shall not acquire seniority, and will waive seniority with respect to Job Postings.
22.04	The company will supply the union with a list of names and employment dates of all students.
ARTICLE 23:
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	This agreement shall commence onJuje 1st. 1989. It shall continue in full force and effect to and including Mav 31st. 1992 and thereafter from year to year unless either Party gives written notice, within (90) ninety days prior to the expiry date or of any subsequent anniversary date thereafter, requiring the other Party to commence collective bargaining with the intent of concluding a renewal agreement.
23.02	Should either Party give written notice to the other Party pursuant to Section 23.01, this Agreement shall thereafter continue in force and effect until the Union gives notice of strike or the Company gives notice of lockout in accordance with the Industrial Relations Act of British Columbia, or the Parties conclude a renewal Agreement.
23.03	The operation of Section 66 (2) of the Industrial Relations Act of British Columbia is hereby excluded.
60
ARTICLE 24:
CHANGE IN JOB CONTENT
24.01
(a)	If any new job classifications are established or if there is a substantial
change in the job content on any job classification set forth in this Wage Schedule or if any job classifications have been overlooked in this Wage j / Schedule the Parties agree to negotiate a rate for the jobs in question and i where required elect a suitable job title.	,
(b)	If the parties are unable to reach agreement on a dispute as to whether or not there is a substantial change in job content the dispute shall be settled by arbitration.
ARTICLE 25:
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01
(a)	It is recognized that the introduction of technological change may become necessary for the purpose of monitoring processing, for the viability of the Company and the security of its employees. But both parties also recognize the necessity to reduce the effect of these changes on employees security and earnings.
(b)	For the purpose of this agreement technological change shah be defined as the automation of equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which alters the material, process, methods or organization that affects one or more employees in the bargaining unit through lay-off, demotion, or transfer to a different job classification.
(c)	The Company shah, prior to the introduction of any technological
change, provide notice to the Union at a meeting which shall be held at least four months before implementation of the change. The Company will hold meetings with the Union, as requested, for the purpose of discussing and im- ^ -j plementing opportunities for re-training or transfer of employees affected by L the change, reviewing the effects the change will have on employees and dis-	;
cussing alternatives, and reviewing methods of job placement assistance in	1
the event of lay-offs.
77,
The notice referred to will include the nature of the change, the proposed i-AA date of the change, the names, classifications, and locations, of the employees j directly affected byThe change, and an outline of other aspects of employment the technological change may impact upon.
(d)	An employee who is initially give notice of layoff, demotion, or transfer as a direct result of the introduction of a technological change may:
(i) Fill any available vacancy for which he has seniority and which he is able 61
to perform; or
(ii) Displace another employee with less seniority provided he is able to perform the job; or
,&) Be given retraining for new positions that arise as a direct result of the ^ technological change provided those employees have the required qualifications and experience to satisfactorily undertake and complete the required training within 60 days. The requirements of the job posting provisions will be waived with respect to the filling of any such new positions. During training the employees previous rate will be maintained and upon satisfactory completion of that training, the employee will receive the rate of pay for the job in which he is being trained.
(iv)	Where an employee is able to provide proof of previous experience in a position he is applying for under this clause, he will be provided with a familiarization period of up to one (1) shift cycle. Such proof of experience will not be required for labourer positions.
25.02	The Company will co-operate with the Provincial or Federal Government and participate in every way possible in training or retraining of employees affected by technological change. This shall include educational leaves of absence for retraining, if required.
ARTICLE 26:
TRADES COMMITTEE
26.01	The Company will recognize a Trades Committee to deal with trades-related concerns that arise in their area. The Committee will be composed of four (4) tradesmen appointed by the Union and four (4) members appointed by the Company. The Committee will meet as required, (not less than quarterly), at no loss of regular wages. The function of the Committee will be:
(a)	Set standards and review in-house trades training programs for each trade;
(b)	Discuss and recommend improvements to trades-related procedures and methods of work and submit the results of their discussions to the respective Maintenance department for consideration;
(c)	Discuss progress of apprentices in on-the-job training programs established by the Company. A periodic review of the established programs and recommendations to improve the content will be the responsibility of the committee;
(d)	Recommend solutions to problems in the apprenticeship area as perceived
62
by either Union or management.
ARTICLE 27:
LABOUR RELATIONS ENHANCEMENT FUND
Both the Company and the Union recognize the key role of good safety practices and smooth labour relations in the development of an efficient operation. These practices, always important, are essential to Quintette during the critical period it will face during the term of this contract. A sum of $15,000.00 will be made available on an annual basis to fund seminars concerning the development of professional approaches to these topics.
63
APPENDIX A
WAGES (per hour)
CLASSIFICATIONS
' I	Vi
l.yA'rades (Certified*) l
Shovel Operator (Cable)
Central Control Room Operator Dragline
Crane (100 t Tons, Mobile)
June 1/89
20.87
19.93
June 1/90
21.60
20.63
June 1/91
22.25
21.25
3.	Demag Operator	19.02	19.68	20.27
Rotary Drill Operator Uncertified Trades Module Operator Warehouse Person (Certified)
4.	Front End Loader Operator	18.50	19.15	19.72
( 112 yds)
Road Crew Operator Blaster
Dryer Control Room Operator Float/Skunk Operator 1 5
5.	Dozer/Grader Operator	18.08
Bradford Breaker Control Room Operator
Road Crew Operator 1 Backhoe Operator
Loadout Operator v Tank Drill	^
Crusher Operator Shovel Trainee 1 Demag Trainee 1 Rotary Drill Trainee 1 Float/Skunk Operator II Thermal Plant Patrolman Steam Truck Operator
7. Backhoe Trainee 1
Dozer/Grader Trainee 1 Front End Loader Trainee 1
16.82
64
/Haul Truck
17.45
18.71	19.27
18.06 18.60
17.41	17.93
APPENDIX A - Continued
CLASSIFICATIONS	June 1/89 June 1/90 June 1/91
Lube Serviceman
Mine Operation Serviceman
Utility Man 1
8.	Dryer Patrolman	16.52	17.09	17.61
Screen & Crusher Patrolman Road Crew Operator 2 Thickener Patrolman
9.	Lube Serviceman 1	16.20
Overland Conveyor Patrolman Dryer Helper Service Truck Operator Utility Man 2 Road Crew Operator 3 Blaster 1
Pumps and Magnetite Patrolman Pit Services Utilityman
10,	Demag Trainee 2	15.57	16.11	16.59
Rotary Drill Trainee 2 Front End Loader Trainee 2 Dozer/Grader Trainee 2 Backhoe Trainee 2 Shovel Trainee 2 Utility Loader Operator (Plant)
Crusher Attendant
17.27
11 Demag Trainee 3 Shovel Trainee 3 Rotary Drill Trainee 3 Dozer/Grader Trainee 3 Backhoe Trainee 3 Front End Loader Trainee 3 Dempster Dumpster Cable Reeler Lube Serviceman 2
12.	Steam Truck Attendant Blaster Helper
Shift Utility (Plant)
13.	Labourer
15.27
14.96
15.80	16.27
^Certified trades are defined as follows:
i)	Electrician
ii)	Welder
iii)	Plant Mechanic
iv)	Heavy Duty Mechanic
v)	Lineman
vi)	Machinist
Inter-provincial, Provincial and Territorial Trade Certificates will be
recognized.
66
APPENDIX B
Job Classifications and Wage Rates (Apprenticeships)
Apprentice:
Welders:
Module 1
Module 2
Module 3
Module 4
Module 5
Module 6
Module 6 and
(1 to 6 months experience)
Module 6 and
(7 to 12 months experience)
Mechanics:
Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6 Module 7 Module 8
Electricians:
Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6 Module 7 Module 8
Warehouse Person:
Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6
June 1/89 June 1/90 June 1/91
16.52	17.09	17.61
16.82	17.41	17.93
17.14	17.74	18.27
17.45	18.06	18.60
18.08	18.71	19.27
18.69	19.34	19.92
19.32	20.00	20.60
19.93	20.63	21.25
16.52	17.09	17.61
16.82	17.41	17.93
17.14	17.74	18.27
17.45	18.06	18.60
18.08	18.71	19.20
18.69	19.34	19.92
19.32	20.00	20.60
19.93	20.63	21.25
16.52	17.09	17.61
16.82	17.41	17.93
17.14	17.74	18.27
17.45	18.06	18.60
18.08	18.71	19.27
18.69	19.34	19.92
19.32	20.00	20.60
19.93	20.63	21.25
14.75	35.27	35.73
34.84	15.36	15.82
15.83	16.39	16.88
16.75	17.33	17.85
17.68	18.30	18.85
18.35	18.99	19.50
67
APPENDIX C
LINES OF PROGRESSION (Road Crew)
Road Crew Operator
I
Road Crew Operator I
I
Road Crew Operator II
I
j^/Road Crew ‘Operator III
Labourer
Operator III - Water Truck Sand Truck Tandem Dump Packer Boom Truck*
Operator II - Operator III 4- Front End Loader -f 5 yd Operator I • Operator II -f Grader and Dozer Operator -Operator I + Utility Backhoe
*Employees receiving training on the Boom Truck must successfully complete a rigging course.
68
LINES OF PROGRESSION
Want Operation Department) XC.C.R
I
X MOD OP X DRY CON OP
I
X BRADFORD BREAKER
I
THERMAL/LOADOUT
DRYER PATROL.	THICKNER PATROL SCREEN & CRUSHER
I	I	I
DRYER HELPER PUMPS &MAGNETITE OVERLAND PATROL
\
SHIFT UTILITY
/
UTILITY^ LOADER A DEMPSTER DUMPSTER
LABOURER
69
LINES OF PROGRESSION
(Mine Operations Department)
SERVICEMAN
SECTION 1
SERVICE
CRUSHER TRUCK OPR BLASTER OPERATOR (Boom. Water)
TANK
DRILL
BLASTER I
P&H OPR iX)
Trainee I
Trait
iTrairee 3
Ablaster Acrusher Aca'ble
HELPER ATTENDANT REELER
T "
LABOURER
Employee bidding from Section I to Section 2 must bid on a Haul Truck posting before becoming eligible for other vacancies in Section 2.
Employees undergoing Boom Truck training must successfully complete a rigging course.
Employees required to use oxy-acetylene torches must successfully complete the prescribed training course.
70
LINES OF PROGRESSION
(Mine Operations Department)
Jh.MAC
iPR.iXi
BACKHOE OPR(X)
SECTION 2
ROTARY
DRILL
OPR.lXi
DOZER
GRADER
OPR.iX)
FLOAT/
SKUNK OPERATOR I
UTILITY MAN 1
A UTILITYMAN
3
------1----- Bellydump
HAULTRUCK Terex
^	(Water & Sand)
All employees in Section 2 must be capable of driving Haul Truck.
LINES OF PROGRESSION
(Mine Maintenance Dept.)
LUBE SERVICEMAN
LUBE SERVICEMAN I	STEAM TRUCK OPERATOR
LUBE SERVICEMAN II BOOM TRUCK STEAM TRUCK ATTENDANT
I labo'ureTH
The time constraint for progression from Lube Serviceman II to I, and from Lube Serviceman I to Lube Serviceman is 1000 hours each.
An employee training on Boom Truck must successfully complete arigging course.
72
By and Between
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
The Union agrees that the use of work stoppages to resolve disputes is not in the best interest of smooth labour relations.
The executive and members of Local 9113 agree that in all future cases where disagreement may arise, that the grievance and arbitration procedures of Article Five and Six will be used to settle disputes.
The Union executive will take all steps necessary tO prevent any work stoppage in the future.
In recognition of the commitment from the Union, and in the interest of good labour relations the Company agrees to withdraw both grievances against the Union without prejudice.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
WAYNE FOX
JOHN OLYNYK
WAYNE ST. DENIS
BILL COOLING
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
By and Between
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 Re; Vacations
In recognition of the vacation time provided for current twelve (12) hour shift employees it is agreed that the schedule for these employees will be as follows:
One year preceding the vacation year Two years preceding the vacation year Three years preceding the vacation year Four years preceding the vacation year Five years preceding the vacation year Six years preceding the vacation year Seven years preceding the vacation year The payment for these employees will be as provided for in Article 14.02. Employees with 8 or more years of service and those hired after August 17th, 1986 will be allotted vacations as provided for in Article 14.02.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
8
li
96 hours 120 hours
144 hours /
144 hourSt 144 hours!
144 hours 144 hours f X
3
WAYNE FOX
DAVID HONSBERGER
BILL COOLING
74
JOHN OLYNYK WAYNE ST. DENIS KEITH TURCOTTE
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
By and Between
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
Leadhands
The parties agree that the use of leadhands is beneficial to both employee(s) and the Company when they are not subject to abuse or misunderstanding.
It is therefore agreed that leadhands may be used to permit the Company to evaluate employees who wish to become permanent supervisors.
The Company may temporarily promote an employee to a leadhand position to fill a vacancy resulting from holidays, illness or short-term abnormal requirements.
An employee shall not remain in a lead hand position for a period exceeding fifty (50) working days during each year of this Collective Agreement.
Leadhands will be selected by the Company at the Company’s discretion.
The leadhand functions as a leader and is differentiated from a supervisor in that he is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personal/ personnel matters which would be the responsibility of a salaried employee.
During that period that an employee is acting as a leadhand he will be paid a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour for all hours worked, but will not be eligible for any overtime except as a leadhand. While an employee is acting as a leadhand he will continue to pay Union dues.
The Company will supply to the Union an up-to-date list of leadhands indicating the start date of each temporary promotion and when the employee returned to the bargaining unit.
Work Leaders
Under the direction of a supervisor, a work leader may be designated by the Company to act as a leader of a group of employees working on similar or related work. He co-ordinates work with the men as directed by the supervisor and may work among them.
He is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personal/personnel matters which are the responsibility of the supervisor to whom the work leader reports.
A work leader is an occasional function and not a full time job, and while performing the duties of a work leader he shall receive a premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour.
Should either party determine that the provisions of this letter did not satisfactorily address the concerns outlined during negotiations, this letter will be considered void, and the parties agree the language on Leadhands as outlined in Article 20 of the Collective Agreement would remain in full force and effect for the purposes of bargaining a renewal agreement.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
WAYNE FOX
JOHN OLYNYK
WAYNE ST. DENIS
BILL COOLING
KEITH TURCOTTE
76
Letter of Understanding
By and Between
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA and
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Re: Expansion of the Operation
It is recognized that the continued viability of the Company, as well as the continued employment of members of the Union, may be dependent on future expansion of the operation.
The Company understands the Union’s stated concern for the security of its membership and agrees to meet with the Union to exchange information regarding labour stability, and both development and production costs of expansions. It is understood that in the event the Company and the Union agree that the project or any portion of the work can be performed by Quintette employees as efficiently as an independent contractor, then such work will be performed by members of the bargaining unit.
Quintette agrees that it will require that all bids contain a provision to accommodate any Quintette employee who may be laid off during the term of this agreement in the contractors work force, provided the laid off employee is qualified to perform the work.
Nothing in this letter abrogates the Union’s rights under the Industrial Relations Act of British Columbia.
FOR THE COMPANY
WAYNE FOX DAVID HONSBERGER BILL COOLING
FOR THE UNION
JOHN OLYNYK WAYNE ST. DENIS KEITH TURCOTTE
RESTRUCTURING
As was the case during the 1986 contract negotiations, the Company is confronted with serious financial difficulties. Currently the Company is involved in a Coal-Price Arbitration and will face the need to restructure its debt load upon the conclusion of the arbitration hearings. The Union acknowledges that the successful resolution to these concerns is vital to the continued viability of the Quintette operation and the continued employment of members of the bargaining unit.
To this end, the Company agrees to provide periodic updates with regards to the coal-price arbritation and restructuring and to discuss their impact on labour relations.
In recognition of the Union’s contribution to this end initiated in 1986 and continuing throughout this Collective Agreement, the Union agrees as follows:
(i)	to decrease the paid work breaks as outlined in Article 11;
(ii)	decreased vacations as outlined in Article 14 for employees hired after August 17th, 1986;
(iii)	a revised method of payment for statutory holidays as outlined in Article 13;
(iv)	a revised formula for earning floating holidays as outlined in Article 13.
FOR THE COMPANY
WAYNE FOX
DAVID HONSBERGER
BILL COOLING
FOR THE UNION
JOHN OLYNYK WAYNE ST. DENIS KEITH TURCOTTE
78
July 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
The Company recognizes the Union’s concern over the use of contractors to do work that bargaining unit employees normally perform, have the requisite skills to perform, or can be trained within a reasonable time frame to perform. As such, the Company will continue to evaluate its use of contractors, and as has been the practise, where it is determined that it is cost-effective for the work to be performed by bargaining unit personnel, assign such work internally.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
July 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 • 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
This letter will serve as confirmation of the agreement in principle reached at negotiations with regards to the manning of new departments, or new work areas within a department, and reopening of existing pits.
The parties agree that senior qualified employees will be entitled to preference with regards to the manning as referred to above. Such transfers should be effected with the current operation being considered.
With these factors in mind, the parties agree to meet as far in advance as possible to discuss the orderly transfer of senior employees. Such discussions should include, but not be limited to, the posting of a pre-selection list, possible increase in training numbers, and the requirement of transfers.
In all cases of transfers^the senior qualified employee indicating preference will be given an approximate transfer date.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Pox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
80
Julv 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 • 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
This letter will confirm our agreement to meet following the conclusion of bargaining to review the current methods of overtime allocation and to reach agreement on methods in each area that will stay in effect for the life of the new agreement.
Such a review will commence within two months of the ratification of this agreement and will be concluded within six weeks of that date.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WI?sb
July 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
The Company and the Union agree that the availability of suitable light duty for employees who are recoyeriffrg’ft'&rn illness or injury (whether occupational or otherwise) is beneficial.
The Joint Safety and Health Committee will be responsible to establish, through consultation with appropriate health professionals, a general list of movement or activity restrictions suitable for common injuries.
The Committee will also identify specific jobs which comply with these restrictions, by category and will review them on a monthly basis.
The Committee will be encouraged to review any questionable jobs with health professionals in specific detail, including on-site tours whenever possible.
An injured employee will be responsible to advise his physician of the availability and nature of the light duty programs.
If the physician feels that the program is suitable for the employee-, he must provide details of his recommendations to the employee on a form provided for that purpose. The employee will contact the Superintendent of Loss Control or his designate to coordinate his return to work.
While the choice of accepting or rejecting light duty is at the discretion of the employee, rejecting an offer of suitable light duty may jeopardize an insurance or WCB claim.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED
J.W. Sanders Senior Vice President and General Manager
JWS/sb
82
July 10.1989
Mr. Keith Turootte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 • 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
This letter will confirm our commitment made to you during negotiations with regards to wages for employees who do not become indentured in the Provincial Warehouse Apprenticeship program.
It is agreed that these employees will be maintained within their current classification and will receive the wage increases that come due during this Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
July 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
Re: Warehouse Apprenticeship Program
This will confirm our intention to indenture warehouse employees currently participating in the in-house training program into the British Columbia Apprenticeship Program. As in other trades, the Company may, from time to time alter or amend the number of apprentices in this trade.
When filling future openings in this apprenticeship program the normal selection process shall apply, except that current warehouse employees will be given preference in order of their Company seniority.
It is further understood that should the number of seats offered for schooling of these apprentices be reduced, the Company will review this program, and either supplement or replace it with an in-house program.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
Wtysb
84
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at bargaining with regards to the filling of internal vacancies in the Warehouse Department.
Employees who wish to be considered for vacancies must prc-sdect the areas they are interested in and submit these in writing to their supervisor. Upon a vacancy, the supervisor will review the pre-selections, and with the senior employee having preference, will arrange for up to three employees to change positions as a result of the initial vacancy. Employees who exercise preference under this provision will be restricted from further moves within the Warehouse Department for a six (6) month period.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 ■ 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
Further to our discussions during negotiations, this letter will confirm our committment to review the actual number of hours that trainees have spent in each classification and phase of training to successfully complete the trainee program.
If it is found that the actual average is less than that outlined in our Collective Agreement, the lesser numbers will become the average for future training.
Such a review will take place at the half-way point of the Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WFsb
July 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1-352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.c.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
During bargaining we introduced a new concept that involved the grouping of jobs within the Plant Department.
While you indicated some interest, you felt that a more thorough review of this concept would be of benefit. This letter will confirm our agreement to hold further discussions after the conclusion of bargaining.
It is expressly understood and agreed that both parties may enter these discussions with no obligation to alter the negotiated lines of progression in the Plant Department.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
July 10, 1989
Mr. Keith Turcotle Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
This letter will serve as confirmation of our understanding reached at bargaining with regards to the preparation and presentation of a joint orientation package.
The parties agree to meet within two months of the ratification of the Collective Agreement to complete a package that would outline the role of the Union at the workplace, and the interaction between various departments of the Company and the Union committee’s representatives. The parties further agree that such presentations will be done in a professional manner and should be of a duration compatible with the remainder of the orientation process.
Yours truly,
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
July 10,1989
Mr. Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 • 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Keith:
This letter will confirm our intent to continue our present practice regarding the departure and return to the dry, of mine operations employees, as follows:
(1)	Employees receive their instructions in sufficient time to board the busses which depart the mine dry at 6:45.
(2)	Busses will commence picking up employees for shift end at 6:45.
(3)	Employees who arrive at the dry after 7:00 at shift end will be paid overtime as provided for in Article 12.02.
Yours truly,
QUINTET-I-E COAL LIMITED Wayne Fox
Manager Personnel and Employee Relations
WF/sb
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
By and Between
QUINTETTE COAL LIMITED   (the Company)
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (the Union)
The parties to this memorandum have reached agreement upon the terms and conditions which will constitute a new collective agreement between the parties, subject to ratification of the memorandum by the Union membership on or before July 13, 1989. The term of the agreement will be as specified in the attached document including various letters of understanding.
This memorandum is reached with the understanding that the majority of the Union negotiating committee will recommend acceptance to their membership of the terms and conditions attached hereto.
Upon acceptance by a majority of the bargaining unit employees who vote on the proposed settlement, the terms and conditions attached hereto will become binding and final on both parties.
Signed the 10th day of July, 1989.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
WAYNE FOX
JOHN OLYNYK
WAYNE ST. DENIS
BILL COOLING
JERRY OLYNYK
KIRK BAKER
KEITH TURCOTTE
90
INDEX
CLAUSE	PA(i!
Accidental, Death and Dismemberment . .	.	.	...... 4'
Address, Employees/ Layoff.. .	.	.	17	&	19
Apprenticeship Program, Selection......................................  52
Apprenticeship. Wages..................................................  67
Arbitration, Arbitrator...........................................11 & 12
Benefits.............................‘..................................49
Boots, Allowance.......................................................  52
Breaks; Coffee, Lunch...................................................29
Bulletin, Boards........................................................15
Bereavement, Leave & Pay................................................ 37
Call Out................................................................ 30
Change In Job Content.......................... ..................*.....61
Compensation Claim Information .........................................41
Committee, Grievance.. . ................* .............................9
Committee, Joint Health and Safety.......................................38
Committee, Trades....................................................... 62
Contracting Out.......................................................... 8
Dental Plan.............,.......,.......................................46
Designated Individuals................................................... 6
Disabled, Employee......................................................47
Discipline & Discharge.................................................. 12
Discrimination, Intimidation, Harassment, Favouritism....................15
91
Disputes, Settlement of....................
Dues.......................................
Duration of Agreement......................
Employee Definition........................
Employee and Family Assistance Program.
Fatalities................................
Floating Holidays.........................
Glasses...................................
Grievance Committee........................
Grievance, Discharge......................
Grievance, Discipline.....................
Grievance, Group..........................
Grievance, Interpretation, Procedure......
Grievance, Policy, Time Limits.............
Grievance, Tie Off........................
Group, Life Insurance......................
Health and Welfare, Benefits...............
Hours Of Work.............................
Humanity Fund.............................
Job Postings..............................
Job Vacancy Forms.........................
Joint Meetings............................
Jury Duty.................. ..............
Labour Relations Enhancement Fund...., . . .
92
... 9
.6
.60
.5
SO
40
.33
13
12
,12
.10
...	.9
..	.9
.9 & 14
.46
.28
.51
.20 .23 & 24 .45
.37
.63
Lay Off.
Leadhands ................
Leadhands (Letter of Understanding)...........
Leave Of Absence.............................
Leave of Absence, Bereavement.................
Leave of Absence, Maternity...................
Leave of Absence, Paternity...................
Leave of Absence, Spousal Vacation............
Leave of Absence, Union ......................
Letters Of Understanding (see table of contents).
Lines Of Progression, Job Postings ...........
Lines Of Progression, Maintenance.............
Lines Of Progression, Mine Operations........
Lines Of Progression, Processing Plant........
Lines Of Progression, Road Crew...............
Light Duty...................................
Lockouts .....................................
Long Term Disability..........................
Management Rights.............................
Medic&.......,................................
Medicare......................................
Mutuals.......................................
Overtime......................................
93
S'*
75
36
37 37 ,37 37 .36
.2
20
72
70 & 71 ....	69
... 68 .82
8
47
... 6 40 & 41 ........ 46
50
30
Overtime, Meals
.30
Payment, Meeting Attendance....................
Payment, Staff Working.........................
Permanent Postings............................
Permanent Shutdown...............,.............
Payroll, Deduction.............................
Preamble.......................................
Prebid.........................................
Premiums, Saturday, Sunday, Weekend, Shift.
Probationary Period............................
Recall.........................................
Recognition of Union...........................
Safety and Health..............a...............
Safety, Accident Investigations...............
Safety, Access To Property.....................
Safety, Committee Pay..........................
Safety, Committees.............................
Safety, Complaint Form.........................
Safety, Coverall Program.......................
Safety, Crew Meetings..........................
Safety, Cycle Inspection Tours.........,.......
Safety, Disputes..............................
Safety, Dust Control Program..................
94
48
5
.27
50
4
,25
.32
14
.19
...5
.38
39
40 40 38 46 44
41
.45
46
45
Safety, Equipment and Apparel..
Safety, Information Supplied..............
Safety, Inspection Tours.. ..............
Safety, Lockout Procedure................
Safety, Medical Examinations/Pay........
Safety, Mines Inspector Tours............
Safety, Monitoring Techniques............
Safety, Quarterly Meetings...............
Safety, Replacement Of Clothing..........
Safety, Reportable Accidents/ Incidents . . Safety, Right To Refuse Unsafe Work
Safety, Safety Glasses...................
Safety, Unable To Complete Shift.........
Savings Plan.............................
Seniority................................
Seniority, Bumping.......................
Shift Change.......................,.....
Shift, Schedules........................
Shift, Starting Times...................
Sick Benefit............................
Statutory Holidays, Holiday Pay..........
Stewards.................................
*
43
.41
38
.42
.40
40
40
42
43 40
42
44
....43
50
15
16 & 18 & 19
.........29
......	29
.....29& 89
......*..47
.... 32 & 33
14
95
Strikes
8
Students.	60
Suspensions ..	..12
Technological Change. .	.6 1
Termination, Wages.. . .	. 48
Tool Allowance		. . . . 49
Training			54-60
Training Freezing			2 1
Training Pay For Voluntary			,	,...49
Travel Allowance 	, 			49
Union, Payment			6
Union, Representation		14
Union, Security			,...6
Vacancies, Temporary			20
Vacation				34
Vacation, Buy Out		35
Vacation, Eligibility		,	,	,.34
Vacation, Entitlement			34&74
Vacation, Pay	,					34
Vacation, Scheduling	, . ,			,35
Vision Care			,...,.46
Wages 			64
Wages Pay Day			49
Wages Apprenticeship Program			52
Wages Apprenticeship Program.
52
Weekly Indemnity. Work, Hours Of.. .
47
2K
Workers’ Compensation Board, Dispute In Writing.................-45
Workers’ Compensation Board,	Representation.......................46
Work, Emergency.........................................................29
Work Leaders...................................,.......................25
Work Schedules.........................................................  28