COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
Local 9346
00195 (04)
CONTENTS
GENERAL PURPOSE...................1
ARTICLE 1	SCOPE OF EMPLOYEES................1
ARTICLE2	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.................3
ARTICLE 3	NO STRIKES OF LOCKOUTS............3
ARTICLE 4	SAFETY & HEALTH...................4
ARTICLES	SENIORITY.........................6
ARTICLE6	LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB
POSTING SYSTEM................12
ARTICLE7	HOURS OF IM)RK...................17
ARTICLES	OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY.........20
ARTICLE9	STAT HOLIDAYS....................25
ARTICLE 10	VACATION.........................28
ARTICLE 11	LEAVE OFABSENCE..................30
ARTICLE 12	OFFICERS. COMMITIEESAND STEWARDS . 34
ARTICLE 13	PROCEDURE FOR SETTLING DISPUTES .. . .35
ARTICLE 14	ARBITRATION......................38
ARTICLE 15	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE.........39
ARTICLE 16	HEALTHAND 11\ELFARE..............41
ARTICLE 17	GENERAL PROVISIONS...............43
ARTICLE 18	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM...........41
ARTICLE 19	LEADHANDS........................48
ARTICLE20	TRAINING.........................49
ARTICLE21	TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE..............55
ARTICLE22	CONTRACTING OUT .................56
ARTICLE23	JOINT LABOUR MANAGEMENT..........57
ARTICLE24	TERM OF AGREEMENT................57
APPENDIX "A' RATES CF PAY...................58
APPENDIX "B‘ COAL PLANT OPS. LINES OF
PROGRESSION .................GO
COAL PLANT MAINT. LINES OF
PROGRESSION .................61
APPENDIX 'C‘ MINE MAINTENANCE LINES OF
PROGRESSION .................62
APPENDIX "D" MINE OPERATIONS LINES OF
PROGRESSION ...............63-64
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING:
-	SEXUAURACIAL HARASSMENT..........65
-	NEW HIRE RESTRICTIONS............66
-	SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS..............67
-ACCUMULATION OF SENIORITY
DURING LAY-OFF.....................69
-TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
AFTER PROLONGED ABSENCE ...........70
-TRAINING - COAL PLANT .............71
-	UTILIZATION OF COMPANY SENIORITY
FOR SHORT TERM LAYOFFS ............72
-	UNION LEAVE PAY..................73
-Ml NE OPERATIONS- BLASTING CREW
REVISED SHIFT SCHEDULE.............74
-COAL PLANT-REVISED SHIFT
SCHEDULE ..........................76
-ADDITIONAL VACATION ENTITLEMENT ...78
-SPLIT CLASSIFICATION OVERRIDE RATE ....79
-	EXTRA VACATION ENTITLEMENT.......80
-	STATUTORY HOLIDAY VARIANCE.......81
-OVERTIME BANKING...................82
-	FIRST CONTRACT BONUS ............84
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT......................85
GENERAL PURPOSE
The Parties are agreed that the general purpose of this Agreement is to promote harmonious industrial relations in the mutual interest of the Company and its employees; to provide for the operation of the Mine under methods which will ensure the safety, health and welfare of the employees; the highest level of economy and efficiency of operations, and quantity and quality of output, orderliness of mine and plant; to maintain an uninterrupted operation at the highest level of performance; to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union, to secure prompt and equitabledisposition of grievances, and to maintainmutually satisfactory hours, wages and working conditionsfor the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE1
SCOPE OF EMPLOYEES
1.01	(a) T^ “employees” as used in this agreement
means production and maintenance employees working in the Elk Valley at the Elkview Coal Corporation mining site on Highway 3 near Sparwood, B.C. except, office and technical employees, foremen, employees above foremen, L.P.A.'s and those excluded by the B.C. Labour Code.
(b)	Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
1.02	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined in Article 1.01.
1.03	Employees and/or Union representatives shall not engage in any Union activity during working hours, except as expressly provided for in this Agreement, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
1.04	The Company recognizesthat it is not normallythe function of personsof or above the rank of Foreman to perform work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except under
1
emergency conditions, for purposes of testing or training or to assist employees for short periods of time where bargaining unit employees are not readily available and it is necessary to perform those duties to ensure work is being done safely and production is not interfered with.
105	Designated Individuals - it is expressly understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designateto the Union, individuals who agree to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company not exceeding at any one time one percent (1 %) of the employees; and to promote and demote such individuals and direct their efforts from time to time, provided however, that the employment of any such individuals shall not affect the seniority nor result in the demotion of any employee, and further that any such designation of individuals will last for a period no more than four (4) calendar months. Individuals named underthis clausewill be placedwith the regularly assigned employee who will familiarize this person with his job function.
106	Each employee shall as a condition of his hiring or continued employment:
a)	Authorize the Company in writing to deduct union dues from his pay. The authorization shall be in a form agreed to between the Company and the Union.
b)	Become a member of the Union and maintain membership in good standing.
1 07 (a) The Company will honour written assignment of wages for Union dues, and shall remit such dues to the Union monthly together with information as to the persons from whose pay such deductions have been made. All such deductions shall be remitted to the Union no later than the 15th
2
day of the month following the month in which such deductionswere made.
(b)	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, of the amount of union dues to be deducted from employees each pay period.
1.08	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless against any claims which may arise in complying with the provisions of Articles
1.06	and 1.07.
1.09	If an employee works less than twenty (20) hours in a pay period, his dues shall not be deducted for that pay period (paid days on vacation and paid holidays will be considered as days worked).
ARTICLE2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Company shall retain, maintain and exercise all managerial rights, authorities, and prerogatives, subject only to the express terms and provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 3
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
3.01	The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its officers nor representatives, nor its members, nor the employees, shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, work stoppage, walk-out, slow-down or any act of similar nature which would in any way inteifere with, limit or impede the operations of the Company during the term of this Agreement.
3.02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees during the term of this Agreement. In the event the Company should lockout its employees in violation of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to seek all remedies that it may be entitled to by law.
3
ARTICLE 4
SAFETY AND HEALTH
4.01	It is in the interest of all concerned to ensure high standards of Safety and Health at the Company's operations in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
To this end, it is expected that all persons on Elkview Coal Corporation property shall co-operate to promote safe work conditions, practices, and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct and safety on the property. In the interest of safety the Company will provide sound safety education and training programs. In order to meet mutual objectives in matters related to safety and health, a Joint Occupational, Health and Safety Committee will be established as outlined below.
4.02	A joint management/union Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall be composed of an equal or greater number of union representatives chosen by their peers, one of which shall be the Occupational Health and Safety Co-Chairperson. There shall be one person from the Plant, Pit Operations, and Mine Maintenanco, and not more than three (3) members appointed by the Company. The function of the committee shall be to recommend solutions to problems relating to the promotion of safety, health and the environment on the job site, and shall conduct meetings and monthly tours in accurdanco with the Health, Safety, and Redamation Code for Mines in B.C.
4.03	(a) The Company shall provide to the Joint Committee
the following information:
i)	An information sheet on toxic chemicals used in the various processes, including emergency procedures as per H.S.R. Code for Mines in B.C. (1992) WHMIS.
ii)	Information on major new tools and equipment;
iii)	A copy of all first aid reports for employees;
4
iv)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertaining to them.
4.04	There shall be regularly scheduled safety meetings on company time for all members of every crew once per month. Meetings will not normally be scheduled so as to coincidewith shift end. Meetings will be held where noise from operations does not unduly interfere. Safety meetings will include in their agenda:
i)	Reading of the previous meeting's minutes for errors or omissions:
ii} Outstanding safety items from previous meetings and progress update, if any;
iii) Report of new safety concerns orsuggestions. Further, it is recognizedthat the use of safety videos, guest speakers or other outside sources can serve as useful tools for promoting safety awareness.
4.05	An employeewho is injured on the job and is unable to complete his shift will have his regular earnings maintainedfor the balance of that shift.
4.06	The following items of personal protection equipment and apparel shall be supplied by the Company on a loan basis and the employeewill be required to sign for them and return them in good and serviceable condition (fair wear and tear excepted). If the employee fails to do so, he shall be charged with their replacement costs:
Personal Protection Equipment And Apparel
Safety Hat Safety Glasses Respiratory Protection Hearing Protection
Reflector Vests Hot Gloves Welder's Gloves
Cutting Goggles Aprons and Face Shields Safety Belts and Lines Safety Shields for Cutting and Grinding Balaclava Safety Locks Flashlights
5
Goggles	Electricians' High Voltage Gloves
Asbestos Gloves Rubber Gloves
Rubber Boots (Steam Cleaner)
Lined Gloves (Steam Cleaner)
4.07	New employees who require corrective lenses must possess safety lenses and safety frames prior to the commencement of work. The company will pay the cost of an employee's original safety lenses and safety frames with sideshields and thereafter will replace safety lenses and/or safety frames when an employee can substantiate they were damaged while at work. The Company will not be responsible for costs under this Article that may be recoverable from another source such as a Health Plan or Workers' Compensation.
4.08	Employee's time while involved in authorized safety meetings, inspections, investigations or tours, on the mine site will be considered as time worked while in attendance at such meetings and tours.
4.09	The cost of Medical Examinations required in compliance with the Health, Safety, and Reclamation Code shall be paid for by the Company. All employees shall be required to take such examinations outside regular working hours and shall be paid four (4) hours' pay at straight time id these hours shall not be considered as hours v. ked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
ARTICLE
SENIOR!"
5.01	It is recognized that job shall increase in proportior In cases of vacancy, pron between jobs, training opp working force and recall at employees shall be entitle dance with the specific prc
iportunity and security > length of employment. lion, demotion, transfer unities, decrease in the ■ lay-off, senior qualified to preference in accor-sions outlined.
6
5.02	Employeeswho have not completed Three Hundred Sixty (360) regularly scheduled hours (exclusive of overtime) worked within a six (6) month period shall be considered probationary employees and shall have no seniority. Upon completion of the probationary period, an employee shall acquire seniority and his name shall be entered on the seniority list according to his most recent hiring date. For the purpose of this clause the probationary period shall commence on the first day of employment.
5.03	There shall be two (2) types of seniority; namely Company and Department.
(a)	The Company seniority means the length of time of his continuousemploymentwith the Company since his last hiring by the Company.
(b)	Departmentseniority shall mean the length of an employees' continuous employment within the department.
(c)	Departments for the term of definition shall be, but not limited to the following:
i)	Mine Operations
ii)	Mine Maintenance
iii)	Coal Plant
iv)	Warehouse
Employees shall accumulate seniority in one department only, except as provided for elsewhere.
(d)	If the transfer of an employee is required by the Company, from one Department to another, for the efficient conduct of operationsor because an employee is transferred for considerations of health, the employee's seniority in the new Department shall be deemed to be equal to that which he previously held in the former Department. On being transferred at the employee's request, (ie. job posting,bump etc.) such employee shall have no department seniority on entering the new Department.
7
5.04	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority maintained and accumulated during:
(a)	The period of time that an employee is absent and is in receipt of weekly indemnity, long term disability benefits up to 104 weeks.
(b)	Authorized absence under Article 11.
(c)	Absence if injured while working and in receipt of W.C.B. benefits.
5.05	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority maintained but not accumulated during:
Absence due to lay-off not exceeding;
(a)	one (1) year where the employee has less than two (2) years of seniority.
(b)	two (2) years where the employee has two (2) or more years of seniority. Plus one additional month for each year of seniority, up to an additional six (6) months.
(c)	Strikes/Lockouts.
5.06	An employee who has acquired seniority shall have that seniority completely lost and his employment as an hourly employee terminated if he:
(a)	Quits his employmentwith the Company.
(b)	Is discharged but not reinstated under the grievance procedure.
(c)	Is laid of for a period beyond that, described in Article5.05(a) and (b) above.
(d)	Is sent notice of recall by double registered mail to his last address of record with the Company and fails to report within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice, unless he has contacted the Company and has received an extension to report. A notice of re-call which has been returned as unclaimed or refused will be considered received.
(e)	Accepts a salaried position.
(f)	Is absent due to temporary illness or injury beyond the period provided for in Article 5.04(a) .
8
5.07	(a) The Company shall maintain up-to-date
"Company" and "Departmental" seniority lists showing each employee's order of seniority with his name, payroll number, employment date, and classification.
(b)	The seniority list shall be posted on all department bulletin boards every month and a copy sent to the union.
(c)	The seniority for employees hired on the same day will be determined by earliest birth date in the calendar year.
5.08	An employee refusing recall under Article 5.06(d) for work expected to exceed one month will be deemed to have terminated, and shall lose all recall rights.
5.09	Procedures Governing Lav-offs and Lines of Progression
(a)	Temporary or Emergency Layoff
i)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay off of eight (8) calendar days or less, the employee with the greatest departmental seniority in the classification required, from the crew who normally do the work, shall be required to work.
ii)	The eight (8) calendar day time limit may be extended by mutualagreement of both parties.
(b)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay of of at least nine (9) calendar days but less than thirty (30) calendar days, the employee with the greatest departmental seniority in the
area affected will be retained provided he is qualified to do the work. For the purposes of this clause, work areas shall be defined as follows: i} Mine Operations:
Production Road Crew
ii)	Mine Maintenance:
Main Shop/Field
9
Machine Shop Predictive Maintenance Shovel/Drill Crew
iii)	Warehouse
iv)	Coal Plant
Operations
Maintenance
(c)	Permanent or Indefinite Layoff
i)	In the event of a reduction of a classification i n a lay off of thirty (30" calendar days or more, or where an area of the operation permanently closes that does rot result in lay off, the employee with the least Company seniority will be reduced from the classification. An employee displaced from his classification may displace an employee in any other classification within the bargaining unit on the basis of Company seniority, provided he is qualified to do the job The employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least Company seniority in that classification
ii)	For the purposes of Article 5 09(c) and 5 11 qualified is deemed tu mean
(a)	classification wag previously held and is deemed still qualified to the standard set by the department for the position, or
(b)	the employee is qualified and competent to the standards set by the department for the position, er
(c)	the employee has provided reasonable proof of previous experience in the position applied for and can become qualified to the standards set by the department within a familiarization period of up to one
(1)	shift cycle Such proof of experience will not be required for labour positions
in) Employeesdisplacedfrom their classification may displace other employees as outlined in
10
(i) (ii) above, or elect to be laid-off from the Company.
iv)	For the purpose of defining competence as desaibed in Artide5.09 (c) (ii) (b) the following criteria wil apply:
(a)	the employee's work experience at the Operation;
(b)	the employee'sskills;
(c)	the employee's ability to perform the work;
(d)	the employee's aptitude for the job;
(e)	the employee's physicel fitness.
5.10	The Parties will meet as far in advance as possible to discuss the orderly application of the provisions of Article 5 with respect to lay-offs, closure of a work area(s) and crew reductions.
5.11	Employees laid off will be recalled in the inverse order, provided they possess the qualifications to perform the available work.
It shall be the responsibility of employees who have been laid off and wish to be available for recall to keep the Employee Relations Department informed of their current mailing address.
5.12	Laid off employees to have recall rights not to exceed those expressed in Article 5.05 (a) and (b) from the date of lasl lay-off.
5.13	Crew Reduction
(a)	i) \/Vhere there is a crew reduction, resulting in a change of classification which does not involve lay-off, senior qualified employees so reduced will be entitled to displace junior employees on the basis of departmental seniority.
ii) Qualified employees displaced as a result of the exercise of a more senior employee’s
11
preference, may also elect to displace a more junior employee within their existing department on the basis of departmentalseniority.
iii} Employees who are unable to displace other employees will be assigned vacancies in order of departmental seniority. iv) In all cases, the employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least departmental seniority in that classification.
(b)	Where there is a crew reduction of tradesmen resulting in a change of (classification within his department which does not involve lay-off, the tradesman may displace, on the basis of Company seniority, the least senior employee in the same trade in another department. This clause only affects tradesmen where the same trade is practised in more than one (1} department.
(c)	For a crew reduction, which does not result in a reduction in classification within the department, reductions will be done on the basis of department seniority amongst the employees in that classification on that crew.
ARTICLE6
LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB POSTING SYSTEM
6 01 (a) The following departments shall have Lines of Progression i} Mine Operations ii} Mine Maintenance
iii)	Coal Plant
(b) Other vacancies will be subject to the provisions as outlined inthis Agreement
6 02 (a) There will be two (2) types of Job Postings within a Lines of Progression
12
i)	Entry Level Job Postings
ii)	DepartmentalJob Postings
(b) The Companywill not be requiredto post positions above jobs marked with a triangle in the Lines of Progression Chart provided there is a qualified employee within that Line of Progression Wiere a qualified employee rn that Line of Progression is awarded the job, the Company will post the name and department seniority date of the employee who is awarded the job If there are no qualified employees within that Line of Progression the Company wil post the job in accordance with Artide 6 06
6.03	(a) Permanent vacancies in a Line of Progression above the job defined with a triangle shall be filled by the qualified employee with the greatest department seniority in the job dassification immediately below the vacant job
(b)	Temporary vacancies in ex^ces of one (1) shift shall be filled by the senior qualified employee on that shift inthat Line of Progression
(c)	Temporary vacancies or assignments of one shift or less may be filled by any qualified person
6 04 (a) Employees, exceptthose in Trainee positions have the right to freeze themselves in the Line of Progression Employeeswho exercise the rightto freeze will sign a waiver form supplied by the Company and submit it to their foreman
(b) Employeeswho elect to freeze must remainfrozen at least until the next employee in the Line of Progression has completed his training inthe position that the frozen employee would normally have been trained on
6 05 (a) In the event an employee in a Trainee Positionwho has not completed all the presoribedtraining hours
13
elects not to advance in a Line of Progression, or is unsuccessful in completing the training, he will be removed from further training
(b)	Employees who bid on positions that result in a change of dassification and are unsuccessful in either completing the training or i n performing the duties for the new dassification will be returned to their former position if it remains vacant Failing such a vacancy, the employee will be re-assigned to a vacant position for which he is qualified in his new department, and failing that, to a vacant position for which he ts qualified elsewhere in the Company
Job Postings
6 06 (a) Notice of all job vacancies that require posting shall be made known on all appropriate department notice boards and shall be posted for eight (8) calendar days Copies of job postings will be sent to the union upon request
(b)	In awarding Job Postings to Entry Level Jobs (defined by a ■). the employee with the greatest Company seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training If there are no successful applicants the Company may recruit
(c)	i} In awarding Departmental Job Postings,
(defined by a A) the employee with the greatest Departmental seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training
ii)	Failing successful applicants based on Departmental seniority, the Company will award it to the employee bidding with the greatest Company seniority provided he possesses the ability to undertakethe training If
14
there are no successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(d)	In awarding Departmental job postings above jobs marked with a triangle (except trainees), the Company shall consider the following factors:
i)	Departmental seniority of each employee.
ii)	Only qualified applicants will be considered.
The determining factor between two qualified applicants shall be seniority, Failing successful applicants within the department, the Company wll consider other applicants basedon Company seniority, and the qualified applicants with the greatest Company seniority will be awarded the job. Failing successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(e)	Within a further eight (8) calendar days the successful applicant's name will be posted on all appropriate bulletin boards. Copies to be sent to the Union upon request.
However,should the Company cancel ajob posting, notice will also be posted.
(f)	Every attempt shall be made to transfer an employee who is successful on a job posting within two (2) cydes of the posting being awarded, however the transfer will be in effect within four cydes of the date of the award. In any event he will receive the new rate of pay for the job awarded if it is higher than his current rate no later than two (2) cydes after the posting is awarded.
(g)	If the posted job is in another department, the employee will accumulate seniority in the tnew department from the date cr the award, and will also accumulate seniority in his existing department until the date the transfer is effected.
15
6.07 Notices of all job vacancies shall be in the following fonn:
®ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION JOB VACANCY NOTICE
DATE POSTED:._____________POSTING#:
lte ^^^vacancy(ies) in the
Department for the job(s) of___________________
is paid at tie rate of $______per hour. This
^^^is^^ruren1on_________________________ .shift
^^^^will be	by tie	i1 boxes
i1 the	dry cn:t cm jiBtdry.
The <^dosi1g daE for 1his	is___________________
must be by the	and
6.08	An employee who applied for a Job Posting and is the successful applicant must accept the position. Employees may be excused from accepting such positionsfor medical reasons, provided such reasons are acceptable to the Company.
6.09	An employee is not eligible to bid on a vacancy within his existing department and dassification except as specifically provided fur.
6.1	o An employee may make application in anticipation of up to two (2) job vacancies, (in order of preference), that may occur while he is absent on vacation or on approved leave of absence of two work cycles or less. Such application must be made prior to the commencement of the leave or vacation period and shall be effective for that time period only. Should two (2)job vacancies for which the employee has so
16
applied become vacant, he must accept the first for which he is qualified that becomes vacant.
6.11	A promotion is considered an upward change in classification and a demotion is considered a downward change in classification.
6.12	(a) Employees who hire into one department will not
be eligible to bid on vacancies outside their department for a nine (9) month period, with the exception of employees hired at the entry level who may post on jobs outside their department above entry level after six (6) months.
(b)	An employee accepting a job outside his existing department must remain in the new department for a period of one year before applying for a job posting in any other department.
(c)	Notwithstanding, (a) and (b) above, employees will be eligible to apply on apprenticeship notices.
6.13	Employees requesting crew transfers within their department and classification must do so in writing. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for the exercise of the employees' preference, except if be works additional hours which qualify for overtime.
ARTICLE 7 HOURS OF WORK
7.01	This artide is intended to definethe normal hours of work and shall not be construed as any guarantee of work, or pay, or of hours of work per day, or per week, or days of work per week.
7.02	(a) The term 'work week means that period of time
cemmencing 8:00 a.m. on Monday and terminating one hundred sixty-eight (168) hours thereafter.
(b) The term 'Work day'' means that period of time cemmencing at the start of shift and terminating twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
17
7.03	At its discretion, the Company mayfrom time to time initiate, maintain or discontinue to conduct, all or any part cl its operations on a multiple shift and/or multiple continuous shift basis, subject to the pertinent statutes and regulations of the Province of British Columbia.
Priorto introducing a shift schedule outside cl those referred to in 7.04 the Company will meet with the Union to discuss the new schedule, the impact it will have on employees and consider alternatives that may arise from these discussions.
7.04	The Company may schedule any operation, employee or group cl employees at other times because of emergencies, break-downs, preparation for start-up of work and efficiency of the operation. The normal hours of work for employees shall be based on one of the following schedules:
(a)	Eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per week.
(b)	Ten (10) hours per day four (4) days per week.
(c)	Twelve (12) hours per day based on a work cycle which is eight (8) consecutive weeks (four (4) shifts on, four (4) shifts off) averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
(d)	i) Twelve (12) hours per day based on an alter-
nating cycle cl four (4) day shifts one week followed by three (3) night shifts the next week averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
ii)	Twelve (12) hours per day based on an alternating cycle of three (3) day shifts one week followed by four (4) night shifts the next week averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
(e)	Normal shift starting times will be as follows:
Twelve Hour Shifts:
Day Shift Night Shift
8:00 a.m. 8:00 p.m.
Ten Hour Shifts: Day Shift
8:00 am.
18
Eight Hour Shifts:
Day Shift	800 a.m.
These starting times may be varied up to one hour on either side of these times for experimentation purposes or to meet operational requirements. Starting times may vary beyond one hour providing such times are mutually agreed to by the parties.
7.05	(a) Employees will receive their instructionsin suffi.
cient time to commence their shift at the designated starting time and work place and shall ceaseat the designated stoppingtime and place. (b) Departure and return to the dry of Mine Operations employees will be as follows:
i)	Employees will receive their instruofions in sufficient time to board the buses which depart the mine dry at 7:45.
ii)	Buses will commence picking up employees for shift end in sufficient time to arrive at the dry at800.
iii)	Employees who arrive at the dry after 8:00 will be paid overtime as provided for in Article 8.03.
7.06	Paid Work Breaks
Eight-hour and ten-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirty (30) minutes,designated by the Company during the period of the fourth and fifth hours of the shift. They will have ceffe breaks, at the work place.often (10) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the second and third hours and the sixth and seventh hours of the shift.
7.07	Twelve-hourshiftemployeeswill havea lunch break of thirty (30) minutes designated by the Company during the period of the fourth and fifth hours of the shift and the ninth and tenth hours of the shift.
OR
19
Twelve-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirty (30) minutes designated by the Company during the period of the fifth and sixth hours of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the workplace, of fifteen (15) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the third and fourth hours and the eighth and ninth hours of the shift. The selection of which system ri breaks is most suitable for each area of the Operation will be at the discretion of the Company.
7.08	With respect to the lunch break provided in Articles 7.06 and 7.07, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance d service but shall not be required to do any work which can reasonably be postponed to the end of their lunch break.
ARTICLES
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
8.01	Overtime will be voluntary provided that operating requirements are met.
8.02	(a) The Company will continue its present practice
of ensuring that opportunities for overtime will be distributed as equitably as is practicable among the employees in the Department and in the classification who normally perform the work in the area for which overtime is required. A record of overtime opportunities will be posted in each department.
(b) The parties are not precluded from mutually agreeing to alternative methods of distributing overtime opportunities.
8.03	An employee's working time shall be calculated to the one quarter (1/4) hour at which he is directed to stop work, or, if he is directed to stop work between one quarter (1/4) hour, to the one quarter (1/4) hour next following the time he is directed to stop work.
20
8.04	(a) An employee working overtime for a period in
excess of two (2) hours beyond the end of his normal shift shall be entitled to a hot meal and choice of beverage during the period of such overtime. An additional meal shall be provided for each additional four (4) hours of continuous overtime worked.
(b) Employees may opt to accept a eight ($8) dollar credit in lieu of an overtime meal once during any one continuous period of overtime.
8.05	(a) An employee celled out to work during other
than his regular hours will be paid the applicable overtime rate for actual hours worked, or four (4) hours at his regular rate, whichever is greater.
(b)	Maintenance employees celled out will not be
required to perform work other than that for which they were called out, unless a second emergency situation arises.	.
(c)	'Mlere an employeewho reports for work for his regular or overtime shift, and who has not been notified not to report to work and is sent home because no work of any kind is available be shall be paid an amount equal to two (2) hours pay at his straighttime hourly wage rate.
8.06	Consecutive hours worked will be deemed to fall in the same work day for the purpose of calculating overtime premiumsfor that day.
One and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's
regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week;
ii)	the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days;
iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day.
8.07
21
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for
i)	time worked in excess of ter (10) hours in a work day;
ii)	time worked ir excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week, excluding those hours ir excess cf eight (8) ir a scheduled work day.
iii)	time worked ir excess of eight (8) hours or a scheduled rest day.
(b)	Ten Hour Shift
Ore ard ore-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked ir excess of forty (40) hours ir a work week;
ii)	the first eight (8) hours worked or scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked ir excess of ter (10) hours ir a work day;
ii)	time worked ir excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week, excludirg those hours worked ir excess of ter (10) ir a scheduled work day.
iii)	time worked ir excess of eight (8) hours or a scheduled rest day.
(c)	Twelve Hour Shift (4X4)
Ore ard ore-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
I) the first twelve ( 12) hours worked or scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked ir excess of twelve (12) hours per day;
22
ii)	all hours worked in excess rl twelve (12) hours on scheduled days off.
i)	The Company shall give an employee forty-two (42) hours notice or a change in his regular s^chedule. ^bere such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times for regularhours worked on the first shift following the change. This provision shall not apply to a tnew employee's initial assignmentto a regularshift. Such hours worked will not be used for the calculation rl overtime.
The provisions of this Artide shall not applyto a change requested by an employee for personal reasons. No employee shall be allowed to change shifts under any circumstances without first receiving the approval rl his immediate Supervisor.
ii)	During the week rl transition where the employee works a combination of shifts (eight hour/twelve hour) the following will apply, and Artides 8.07 (a), (b), and (c) will not apply.
1.	Eight (B) hour shifts going to twelve (12) hourshifts:
i)	after forty (40) hours per work week all hours worked will be paid at one and one-half (1 1 /2) ti^mes
ii)	after forty-eight (48) hours per work week all hours will be paid at two (2) times;
iii)	all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day will be paid at two
(2)	times.
2.	Twelve (12) hour shifts going to eight (8) hour shifts or twelve (12) hourshifts going to twelve (12) hour shifts:
23
i)	one and one-half (1 1/2) times will be paid for the first twelve (12) hours in the work week that exceed the number of hoursthe employeewould have worked on his old shift schedule:
ii)	two (2) times will be paid for all hours worked in the work week beyond those described in 8.08 (a) (ii) 2. (i);
iii)	all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day will be paid at two (2) times.
iii)	If an employee is not required to work a combination of shifts in the week of change, then the effective date of change is always 8:00 a.m. on Monday and Artide 8.08 (a) ii) provisions do not apply.
8.08	(b) Shift Changes
The Company shall give an employee twenty-two (22) hours notice of a change in his regular shift pattern. VI/here such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times for regular hours worked on the first shift following the change. Such hours worked will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
Overtime will be paid in accordance with Article
8.07	(a),(b), and (c).
8.09	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
8.10	As the twelve (12) hour shift schedule (4X4) results in an average of forty-two (42) hours per week over an eight week cycle, an employee working such a schedule shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate for the last two (2) hours of his scheduled shift in the week.
Any unpaid leave during the week shall result in an equal loss of the overtime payment set out above (ie. one hour's absence shall result in a one hour loss of overtime).
24
Forthe purposesofthis payment, vacation, floaters, statutory holidays, bereavement, non-rebillablepaid union leave, and jury duty are considered as paid leave. All other absences are considered as unpaid leave.
8.11	(a) An employee working at a higher paying job
than his normal classification will receive the higher rate of pay for the actual hoursworked in that higher classification unless those hours are in excess of one-half of the scheduled hours of that shift, in which case the employee will receive the higher rate cf pay for the entire scheduled shift. This provision will not apply to those employees receiving training in higher paying positions.
(b) An employee temporarily assigned to work in a lower classification will be paid at his regular rate of pay.
8.12	Shift and Weekend Premiums
Employees working other than day shift shall be paid the following premiums per hour, in addition to their regular rate:
Twelve Hour Shift Schedule Night Shift - 800 per hour
8.13	Employees working on regular scheduled shift on Saturdays and Sundays shall be paid a premium of one dollar and sixty-five cents ($1.65) per hour.
8.14	The premiums referred to in Articles 8.12 and 813 will not apply when overtime or other premium pay is being paid for the shift. These premiums will not be paid if the employee does not work on the shift attached to the premium.
ARTICLE 9
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
9.01	(a) An employee shall receive a Statutory Holiday allowance equal to eight (8) hours pay at his reg-
25
ular rate for each of the following Statutory Holidays, provided he has complied with the provisions of Article 9.04, in accordance with the payment schedule outlined herein:
Normally these days will be observed on the calendar day on which they fall commencing at day shift on the day in question, and will conclude twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
(b)	An employee shall receive eight (8) hours StaMory Holiday allowance, excopt when an employee who is normally scheduled to work the Statutory Holiday is required by the Company to take the Statutory Holiday off. In this case, the employee will receive holiday allowance equal to the number of regular hours he normally would have worked.
(c)	i) Employees will be entitled to one Floating
Holiday as of each January 1st and July 1st of each calendar year, provided they have completed their probation period. Floating Holidays will be scheduled on an individual basis by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor. Payment for Floating Holidays will be equal to the number cl hours the employee would normally have worked on the day the floater is taken.
ii)	Employees may bank Floating Holidays up to a maximum of four (4);
iii)	An employee will receive payment for any unused Floating Holidays upon the termination of his employment up to a maximum of four (4) as described in 9.01 (c) ii)
iv)	An employee who is off on Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity or Long
NewYear's Day Canada Day Thanksgiving Day
Boxing Day Labour Day
Good Friday Remembrance Day B. C. Day Victoria Day Christmas Day
26
Ten Disabilityshall continue to accumulate up to the maximum of four (4) Floating Holidays.
9.02	Employees who are requested to work on a Statutory Holidayand havecompliedwiththe provisions of Article 9.04, may elect to take an alternate day off without pay, up to a maximum of four (4) in any calendar year. These days must be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and his supen.isor. All lieu days will be waived at the end of the year following the year earned.
9.03	(a) i) Forwork performed on a regularly scheduled
shift on a Statutory Holiday, an employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 112) times his basic rate in addition to any amount payable underArticle9.01 (a). Such hours workedwill not be used for the calculation of overtime.
ii) An employee required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at two (2) times the employee's hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of his normal hours of work.
(b) Forwork performed on a Statutory Holidayon a scheduled day of restall hourswill be paid at the applicable oveitime rates.
9.04	(a) Except if he is on vacation or any authorized
leave of absence, an employee shall not receive Statutory Holiday allowance if:
1) He dees not work his last regulariyscheduled shift before or his first scheduled shift after the Statutory Holiday;
ii)	He fails to work on a paid Statutory Holiday which he has been scheduled to work;
iii)	The statutory holidayfalls, while he is on lay-of that is scheduled for more than twenty (20) calendar days;
iv)	He has not completed his probationary period.
(b) In applyingArticle9.04 (a) i), an employee shall be deemed to have worked the qualifying shifts
27
if his absence is excused and/or otherwise authorized by the Company. However, payment of such holiday pay in case al excused or authorized absence shall be limited to one holiday per absence.
In cases where the absence commences after the Remembrance Day Holiday and encompasses any or all of Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day, the employee will be paid for up to three (3) Statutory Holidays.
9.05	An employee shall be entitled to an additional day off without pay for each Statutory Holiday that falls within an employee's scheduled vacation period. The additional day must be taken consecutively with the vacation period or be lost.
ARTICLE 10 VACATION
10.01	(a) Employee'swith seniority will be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the following schedule.
Ammfcteri Seriorilv
After ore (1) completed year After two (2)	years
Afterthree (3) ^^^Wyears After four (4) completed years Afterfive (5) ^^^Wyears Afe' (6) i^^^^years
	Payment
96 Hours	4.8%
96 Hours	4.B%
120 Hours	6.0%
120 Hours	6.0%
120 Hours	6.0%
144 Hours	7.2%
For the purpose of this Artde, one (1) completed year means three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days employment where an employee's seniority has been maintainedand accumulated.
(b) For those employees whose seniority was maintained but not accumulated in accordance with Artide 5.05, vacation entitlement will only be equal to the total number of days worked for which seniority accumulated.
28
10.02	Employees shall be required to submit their preference for vacation time to their immediate Foreman before February 15th in each year. Following this the Company will post approved vacation schedules, by department, no later than April 15th.
10.03	Preferencefor vacation entitlementwill be determined on the basis ct ^mpany seniority within the department of those employees whose applications for vacation are reived by February 15th in each year. Vacation requests reived after February 15th will be allocated, based on the dates they are received, on a first received, firstscheduled basis.
The Company will grant vacations at times most preferable to employees, provided that such requests do not unreasonably interfere with the requirementsof operations.
Except for instances ct a planned vacation shutdown or where an employee exercises preference, through job posting etc., vacation schedules, once approved, may only be changed by mutual consent
10.04	Vacation time may be carried overfrom one vacation year to the next if prior written approval is obtained from the employee's superintendent Should vaca-ton time not be taken by the end cf the employee's vacation year, nor agreement reached on carry-over, vacation time will be lost and such employee will be paid out al vacation monies owed in the following pay period.
10.05	The Company will give three (3) months notice of a planned vacation shutdown. In the event an employee has scheduled and received approval for his vacation within the three (3) month period referred to above, the employee will have the option of taking his vacation as previously approved.
10.06	Through no fault of the employee, and upen receipt of proof of loss, the Company shall reimburse an employee for reservation deposits lost as a result of his approved vacation being rescheduled by the
29
Company because of a planned vacationshutdown, provided the employee notifies the Company of his loss within two weeks of the date be was rescheduled.
10.07	(a) Vacation time off may be broken into any block
of shifts, provided the scheduling requirements outlined in 10.01 (b). 10.02, and 10.03 above are followed.
(b) Employees may take upto one(1) cyde ofvaca-tion in blocks cf one (1) shift at a time.
10.08	Vacation pay will be paid to an employee as a daily rate for each day of vacation taken.
Vacation pay for a daily rate wil be calculated as gross vacation pay divided by hours of vacation, times the employee's normal hours of work in a work day.
10.09	The Company may allow employees to take an unpaid Leave of Absenca as the last portion of his annual vacationfor the purposeof rounding out his work period provided all vacation time and floaters have been exhausted. The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and con-duding at the end of the first occurring rest day.
10.10	Vacation pay will be paid on the pay day for the pay period in which vacation is taken.
ARTICLE 11 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	(a) i) An employee may be granted a leave of absence for sufficient reason. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. Subject to such leave being granted, the employee(s) must use any banked time, floating holidays, and days-in-lieu first.
ii) A leave cf absenca form must be in writing and authorized by a management representative. All requests for leave of absenca and
30
floaters will be answered by the Company, in writing,within 10 calendar days.
11.02	An employee who fails to return to worl< from an authorized absence may be disciplined up to and induding discharge unless his reason for failure to return is acceptableto the Company.
11.03	(a) A bereavementleavewith pay ct four (4) censec-
utive regularly scheduled shifts will be granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family, provided the leave is taken within seven (7) days of the funeral. Prior to taking such leave, the employee must advise his immediatesupervi-sor. Immediate family means those na^ed as related to the employee and indude employee's: spouse, child or stepchild, parent or step-parent, brother, sister, parenl-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
(b)	StaMory holidays are indudedas a shiftforthe purpose ct this clause.
(c)	An employee eligible for a bereavement leave which occurs during his vacetion shall be entitled to have that portion of his vacetion rescheduled.
11.04	An employee who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness (but not in his own defence), will be paid an allowance equal to the difference between the payment, excludingtravel allowance, be receives for each day of such service and his straight time pay for work which he wcuid have been scheduled and which he would otherwise have performed on those days.
11.05	MaternitvLeave
(a) A female employee shall apply in writing in accordance with 11.05(c) and shall be granted a maternity Leave of Absence to a maximum of twenty-four (24) conserutiveweeks (or less as may be requested by the employee) or in accor-
31
dance with the Employment Standards Act of B.C., whichever is greater.
(b)	An additional Leave of Absence, without pay, at the request of the employee beceuse of related medical reasons which are substantiated to the satisfaction of the Company, shall be granted up to a total of six (6) weeks.
(c)	The employee shall give the Company thirty (30) calendar day's notice in writing of the day upon which she intends to commence her Leave of Absence and shall furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is pregnant, and the estimated date of delivery.
(d)	An employee who intends to resume reemployment after maternity leave shall endeavour to give as much notice as possible, but in no case less than two weeks notice to her crew foreman. She mustfumish the Companywith the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is able to resumefull time work. On her return to work the Company shall reinstate the employee to her previous position, or should her former position be redundant, provide her with alternate work at no less than her job group at the time her leave ofabsence began.
(e)	The period of such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority and vacation entitlement (butnot vacation pay) only. The Company will continue to provide medical, extended health, dental and optical plan and group insurance benefits during the period of leave and the Company shall continue to make payment to the plan in the same manner as if the employee were not absent.
11.06	(a) i) Upon written request and on reasonable notice from the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence with pay to employees
32
selected to do work for the Union, subjectto the requirements of the operation.
Normally not more the three (3) employees will be granted leave at any one time. However, in situations of special training, such as shop steward or safety representative schools or seminars, leave without pay will be granted for up to an additional three
(3)	employees.
Not more than one (1) employee from any one shift in any one department may he on leave at any one time.
The Union agrees to give the Company one (1) weeks notice in writing and such leaves are not to exceed two (2) weeks nor interfere with operations.
ii) Employeesgranted such leave will have their wages maintained by the Company. The Companywill submitthistimetothe Unionfor reimbursement at an amount equivalent to the Company'scost, once per month.
(b) The Company will grant not more than one (1) employee a leave cf absence for ninety-six (96) calendar days to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union. This leave may be extended for an additional ninety-six (96) calendar days for local representativesand s limited to three (3) consecutive ninety-six (96) calendar day extensions for International Representatives. During absence under this clause the employee's seniority continues to accumulate. Upon expiry of the leave he will return to work at the job which he left and if unable to do so will exercise his rights as per the terms of this agreement. All benefits terminate while the employee is on leave as an International Representative.
33
ARTICLE 12
OFFICERS, COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS
12.01	The Union may appoint up To one steward and one safety representative for each foreman Additionally, the union may appoint an alternate for each of the above to act in the absence of the regularsteward or safety representative
12.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of all Officers, Committeepersons, Stewards, Safety Representatives, and members of the Grievance Committee and of any changes in the same The Company shall post the names and tides of foremen
12.03	The Union Officers, Grievance Committeeporsons, Stewards and Safety Representatives shall notify their foreman and they shall arrange a mutually satisfactory time to leavetheir worl< to attend to their duties on the mine site as outlined in this Agreement. Such leave shall not bo unreasonably withheld and will be considered as time worked.
(a) The functions of Stewards and Grievance
Committeeporsonsare to investigate and attempt to settle grievances. If in the course of investigating a grievance, a Steward or Committeepersons enters a department or section of the operation other than that of their authorized work place, or If it involves the investigation of the condition of
equipment, they must notify the responsible member of supervision and they shall arrange a mutually satisfactory time for such investigation.A foreman shall accompany the Steward or Committeeperson tothe place where the investigation is to be carried out. Ir is understood that the Steward or Committeeperson upon reaching the place where the investigation is to occur, shall have the opportunity of consulting privately with the employee(s) concerned.
12.04	(a) The Company shall provide designated depart-
mental bulletin boards for the exdusive use of
34
the Union, where officers ct the union shall post notices pertainingto
i) time, place andtype of Union meeting, ii} noticesasto Unionnominationsand elections,
iii)	list of Union officers and Stewards,
iv)	notices ct Union social affairs
12	05 Supervisors will make an earnest effort during the
first shift to introduce new employees to their Shop Steward and Union Safety Representative A rnew crew member will be introduced to his Shop Steward and Safety Representative
ARTICLE 13
PROCEDURE FOR SETILING DISPUTES
13	01 (a) The parties agree that it is desirable that any
complaintsor grievances should he reseived as quickly as possble Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their Foreman as soon as they occur
(b)	The Company agres to meet any of its employees, or their representatives, for the purpose of discussing grievances or cemplaints with the objectof reaching a satisfactory solution In the event of any meeting between any employee(s) and Company representatives that occurs during working hours, such employee's time shall be considered as time worked In the event of any such meeting between any employee(s) and Company representatives that occurs outside regular working hours, such employee(s) shall he paid their regular straight time hourly rate for the periodof the meeting All time spent during these meetings shall he considered as time worked Such meetings shall be held at a mutually agreeable time
(c)	Prior to the submission of a grievance, it is normally expected that the steward will meetwilh his foreman aed attempt to resolve the matter
35
13.02	Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regarding the application, interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
Step One
Within ten (10) daysafterthe alleged grievanca having arisen, or within ten (1 O) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee and his Steward may present the grievance in writing to his Foreman. Failing settlement to the employee's satisfaction within seven (7) days, the employee may process the grievar1te to Step 2.
Step Two
Within seven (7) days from the time settlement should have been made in step one, the employee, accompanied by his Steward, or a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his General Foreman. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (7) days, the employee may process the grievanca to Step 3.
Step Three
Within seven (7) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous Step, the employee, accompanied by his Steward, Chief Steward, Grievance Chairman, and/or Union President or designates thereof, and if requested a representative of the I ntemational Union may take the matter up with the Department Superintendent or his designate. Prior to submission to the Department Superintendent there shall be a written statement outlining the nature of the grievanca, the remedy sought and the Article or Articles of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (7) days the matter may be referred to arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days.
36
13.03	VVhere Step 3 has been exhausted and the matter has been referred to arbitration, the Local Union President or his designate and the Company representative may without prejudice attempt to resolve the matter.
13.04	In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and the recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
If a grievance is not advanced through the Steps of the grievance procedure within the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The abandonment cf a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice future cases of a similar nature.
13.05	Answers shall be given in writing to the grievor on a first, second and third stage grievance and a copy shall be sent to the union.
13.06	If it is not practical to follow the steps in the Grievance Procedure because some department may have no Company or Union representative or the Company or Union representative is not available, then by mutual consentthe next step may be proceededto.
13.07	The grievance procedure shall be carried out on the Company's property or at such other place or time as the Union and the Company shall mutually agree upon. The Company and Union agree to schedule meetings in advance for grievances submitted at Step 3.
13.0B If it is necessary for a Steward or other employee(s) to take time of during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must notify his foreman and they must arrange a mutually satisfactory time. Time of shall not be unreasonablywithheld.
37
13.09	If an alleged violation of this Agreement affects more than one employee or affects the interests of the Union as a party to the Agreement, the Union may sign and file the grievance on behalf of the employee(s) specifying the alleged violation of the Agreement and if identifiable, specifying name and department. Such grievance shall be presented at Step 2.
13.10	The provisions of Section 96 (1) of the Industrial Relations Act are specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE 14 ARBITRATION
14.01	Either party must within thirty (30) calendar days uponthe completionof Step 3 of the grievance procedure outlined in Artide 13, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submitto arbitrationan unsettled grievancerelatingto the application,operation, interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement induding any question as to whetherthe matter is arbitrable.
14.02	Should the parties mutually agree to submit the matter to a single arbitrator, then within seven (7) days following such notice,eitherpartywill notifyan arbitratorselected from the following list:
Vince Ready	Stephen Kelleher
Rod Germaine	Bruce Greyell
Dalton Larson	Ken Albertini
or such other person as the parties mutuallyagree. If none of the arbitrators listed above are available, an appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of the Province of B.C. upon request of either party.
14.03	The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall within a maximum of thirty (30) days following arbitration render a decision.
38
14.04	The parties shall jointly bear the costs of the arbitrator. Each of the parties shall bear the expenses of the witnesses called by it. No costs of arbitration shall be awarded against either party.
14.05	Arbitration procedure shall be e^edited by the parties.
14.06	Ai. arbitration, the parties may have the assistanco of the employee(s) concerned and any necessary witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made to permit the conferring parties access to the property to view the operations in question and to conferwith the necessary witnesses.
14.07	An Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or alter, modify or amend any part of the provisions.
ARTICLE 15
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
15.01	(a) If it is alleged that an employee has been discharged without just cause the grievance shall start at Step 3 and if it is allegedthat an employee has been suspended without just cause the grievance shall start at Step 2 of the grievance procedure, within five (5) working days of the discipline or discharge being affected. The discharged or suspended employee shall be given the opportunity of seeing a Steward and/or Union President before he is required to leave the premises, providing one is available on site.
(b) If it is agreed or decided at any stage of the grievance procedure, except arbitration, that an employee has been suspended or discharged without just cause, the Company shall reinstate him in his job without loss of seniority. A reinstated employee is to be paid his wages at his hourly rate for the time loss limited to a maximum of the employee(s) regular number of hours perweek. The provisionof thisArticle may
39
be waived if both parties mutually agree to other methods of resolving the grievance.
(c) Where an arbitrator has been selected to determine a question respecting an alleged unjust discharge or suspension, he shall have power and jurisdiction to:
i)	uphold the discharge or suspension, Or
ii)	vary the penalty, Or
iii)	substitute a different penalty, Or
iv)	direct reinstatement,
and in ceses ii), iii), and iv) the arbitrator may in addition order the Company to pay the employee full or partial compensation in accordance with his hourly rate. It is understood, however, that if an employee is reinstated, he shall retain his full seniority, unless otherwise directed by the arbitrator.
15.02	(a) Only Discipline Letters, Discharge/Suspensions,
shall be considered as a form of discipline and shall be subject to the provisions of the Grievance Procedure. A copy of each letter shall be sent to the Union, within thirty (30) days of the imposition of such discipline.
(b) A Shop Steward in the department and on shift, will be present during Discipline and Counselling meetings provided one is available in the department. Employees that choose not to be represented must notify the Shop Steward of their intentions prior to the meeting.
15.03	In recognition by the parties that the purpose ci a probationary period is for the Company to evaluate new employees, it is agreed that probationary employees are subject to dismissalfor a lesser cause. For the purpose cf this clause the employment of a probationary employee may be discontinued where the Company in its discretion,determihes he is unsuitable or unsatisfactory. A probationary employee shall
40
have rights to the grievance ^^beure except in res^ctito seniority.
15.04	An employee's personnel file shall be available and open tothe employeefor his inspection alongwith his foreman, ata time mutually agreed uponbetween the employee and his foreman.
ARTICLE 16
HEALTH AND WELFARE
16.01	The Company agrees to pay the premiums to the insurance companies for providing the benefits set out below for any employee who has elected or in the Mure may electto be covered by the Plans; provided that such employee meets the eligibility requirements for enrolment. Coverage provided is subject tothe terms ofthe respective insurance policies. All the benefits provided in this agreement are payable by the insurer and not by the Company.
(a)	Equivalent to the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia*
Normally, effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
(b)	Prescriptions/Medi-Care Supplement*
$25.00 annual deductible per person or family and the difference between the B.C. pharma-cere coverage or equivalent and the cost of prescribed drugs to a maximum lifetime health cere benefit level of $100,000 per person. Effective on date of employment.
(c)	Vision Care*
The maximum amount payable will be $80.00
i)	for persons under age 18 during any 12 month period;
ii)	for persons age 18 and over during any 24 month period.
41
Effective or date of employment.
Effective the second year of this agreement the maximum amount payable will be $100.00
(d)	Dental Plan*
Plan A - Basic Dentistry - 100% coverage Plan B - Crowns, Bridges - 80% coverage Plan C - Orthodontics - 50% coverage The maximum coverage for Plan A & B combined is $1500.00 per year per person after one (1 l year. In the first year of employment maximum is $500.00 per person.
The maximum coverage for Plan C is $1600.00 per lifetime per person.
Effective the first day of the third month following the date of employment.
Effective the second year of this agreement the maximum coverage for Plan C is $2000.00 per lifetime per person.
(e)	Weekly Indemnity
Weekly benefit of $500.00, or at no time less than Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
Benefits are provided from the 1st day of accident and the 4th day of sickness for 52 weeks (1-4-52 Plan).
Effective on date of employment
(f)	Long Term Disability Benefit
Available to employees who suffer non-occupational injuries. Payments commence upon the expiration of Weekly Indemnity payments and continue until recovery, age 65 or death, whichever comes first.
Benefits shall be the difference between the payment of $1000.00 per month and the total of all payments made by the Government (calculated monthly) to such disabled employees.
42
Effectivethe third year of this agreement the diJ. ferencewill be$1200.00 per month.
(g)	Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Life Insurance:
$40,000.00
Accidental Death and Dismembennent: $40,000.00
Eligibleon date ct hire.
*indudesqualified dependents E^ctive on date of employment.
16.02	(a) An employee with one full year of seniority who is laid off by the Company wil be provided with Medical Services Plan (as provided for in 16.01
(a)) and Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismembennent (as provided for in 16.01
(g)), for a period a thirty (30) days from the effective date of his layoff.
(b)	Employees on W.C.B. will have Health and 1/1/elfare benefits continuedas outlined in Artide 16, until such time they are re-trained by W.C.B. and/or have found alternative employment.
ARTICLE 17 GENERAL PROVISIONS
17.01	(a) An employee who is laid offor a period cf more than two (2) weeks or is tenninated by the Companywill be paid all wages forthwith.
(b)	An employee who gives seven (7) days notice a termination shall be paid all wages no laterthan five (5) business days from his last day worked.
(c)	An employee who gives less than seven (7) days notice of voluntary termination shall be paid all wages no laterthan seven (7) days from his last day wor1<ed.
(d)	V'v1ere it is deterrrined that an employee is not in receipt a his full wages for a pay period he
43
will, upon request, be reimbursed as soon as possible.
17.02	The normal procedure for payment of wages will be by direct deposit every second Tuesday to the banking institution of an employees choice.
17.03	(a) The Company will provide a tool allowance each year to tradesmen provided the tradesman continues to maintain the required tools for his trade from the tool list provided by the Company as follows:
	Jan. 1st	July 1st
Madinst	$250.00	$250.00
	$250.00	$250.00
H.D. M^echanic	$250.00	$250.00
	$250.00	$250.00
	$200.00	$200.00
pPe Frt	$200.00	$200.00
Gas Fit	$200.00	$200.00
Instrumentation	$200.00	$200.00
IPla1 Lubeman	$150.00	$160.00
	$100.00	$100.00
	$100.00	$100.00
Lineman	$100.00	$100.00
Fuel/Lube Tn.d<	$ 75.00	$ 75.00
Belt	$ 75.00	$ 75.00
This allowance will be paid on the first pay period following each of these dates commencing January 1st., 1994, fo r each employee on payroll that pay period.
An employee who has been continuously absent during the six months preceding these dates will not be eligible for this allowance.
Apprentices and Uncertified Trades shall be entitled to the tool allowance paid to the journeymen in their trade classification.
44
(b) Tool boxes damaged beyond repairthrough legitimate accidents proven to he no fault cf the owner will be replaced by the Company to a comparable standard at no cost to the employee.
17.04	Employees who attend voluntary training ccurses on their scheduled days of restwill not be eligiblefor overtime rates for the time spent training.
17.05	Safety boots and gloves will not be provided, however, employees will receivean allowance equal to:
$100 each calendar year
All Employees not listed below
Road Crew
Excavator and Drill Operators Mine Maintenance Labourers $200 each calendar year Blasting Crew Pit Utilityman Coal Plant Millwright All Mine Maintenance employees except Labourers
All Coal Plant Employees except equipment operators.
This allowance will bo paid in the first pay period in July to all employees on payroll during that pay paribo.
An employee who has been continuously absent during the six months precedingthese dates will not be eligible for this allowance.
17.06	Fmnlovee Registered Retirement Savings Plan
The Company will provide, in accordance with Company policy, an Employee RRSP Contribution Plan as follows:
(a)	Eligibility
All permanent employees will be eligible for a contribution under the plan beginning the first day of the third month following the date of employment. Summer Students and Temporary
45
Employees will not be eligible to receive an RRSP contribution under this plan.
(b)	RRSP Account
Contributions made under this plan will only be made into an employee's RRSP account. Such payments will be made on an annual basis, except as provided in (d), for the precedingyear by the end of February. It isthe responsibility cf all eligible employees to supply the Company with your RRSP account information.
(c)	Contribution
The Company will contribute in accordance with the plan, either 3.5% of the employee's eligible earnings paid in the preceding year or $.75 per hour for each eligible hour paid in the preceding year, whichever is greater.
Eligible hours are all hours worked but include vacation hours taken in accordance with Article 1 O.Q1 and hours paid under 8.05 (a), and 4.05.
Eligible earnings are all earnings for hoursworked but indude vacation pay in accordancewith Article 10.01, and pay under8.05 (a) and4.05.
Except as noted above all hours paid or unpaid will not be includedforthe purposed determining RRSP benefits.
(d)	Exceptions to (b) above
In the event of an eligible employees resignation, retirement or death the accrued entitlement will be paid into their RASP account within thirty (30) days.
17.07	Election Day
All employees scheduled to work overtime during day shift on Election Days will only be scheduled to work eight (8) hourssuch days.
46
ARTICLE 18
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
18.01	The Companywill sponsor an apprenticeship training program in accerdance with the laws of British Columbia.
18.02	(a) \Nhile an apprentice is at school attending the
courses prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship the Companywill reschedule the apprentice to day shift (5 x 2) and maintain his earniogs at his regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours in each week, less any subsidy paid by the Government with the exceptioncf travel and living out allowance. The Company's obligation is limited to one repeat at any stege of the employee's apprenticeship. The Company will discontinue the sponsoring^ the apprenticeship where the apprentice has failed the required schooling more than once during the term of the apprenticeship.
(b)	Upon removal from an apprenticeship due to failure the employeewill he ineligible from posting on foture apprenticeship vacendes in that trade.
18.03	(a) The basic hourly ratesfor apprentices shall he in
accordance with Appendix A - Wage Schedule. (b) Rate increases are contingent upon successful completion of the previous practical requirements, and Apprenticeship examinations. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date.
18.04	Employees interested in being considered for apprenticeships must contact the Employee Relations Department and arrange to write the preapprenticeship examination. The passing grade for such apprenticeship testing has beenestablished as being 70%. \Nhere a candidate has failed to pass the examination, he may he en^ed to one re-write.
47
18.05	Vacancies for apprenticeships will not be posted. Those wishing consideration, may apply to the Employee Relations Department at any time, and candidatesfor apprenticeships will be evaluated and selected in consideration of the following criteria:
i)	Company seniority;
ii)	Previous related experienceor training in the applicable trade;
iii)	Previous related apprenticeship training in the applicable trade;
iv)	Education qualifications;
v)	Successful completion cf the pre-apprenticeship examination.
Where candidates are for all intents and purposes equal, Company senioritywill bethe deciding factor.
18.06	Upon sucoessfal completion of each year's Technical Training assignment and submission of receipts, the Company agreesto pay the apprentice a textbook allowance to a maximum of $120.00.
ARTICLE 19 LEADHANDS
19.01	Leadhands will assign work as directed by a salaried employee and co-ordinate this work among the crew members.
This is a job on which the employee under the direction of a salaried staff member has the combined responsibility of directing the work of a group of employees on other hourly rated production and maintenancejobs and performingsome of the same work as that cf the group directed unless such work indudes operating pit production equipment. The direction generally consists of activities such as required to:
1.	Plan to be performed by the group;
2.	Determine "on-the-job working procedure in the case cf repair and maintenance work;
48
3.	Arrange for r^^^rytos, supplies andfacilities;
4.	Assign and instruct members of the group;
5.	Inspect, co-ordinate and record the work performed by the group.
During the period that an employee is acting as a Leadhand, he will be paid a premium of $ .75 per hour over the highest classification directed for all hours worked.
ARTICLE 20 TRAINING
20.01	The Company and Union ^recognizes the need for training opportunities to enable each employee to improve his knowledge and skills to equip himself for future positions of greater responsibility or higher pay for which he is eligible within the Line of Progression or through Job Postings.
20.02	(a) Each employee in training within a Line of
Progression shall meet with his foreman or the training foreman at least quarteriy to review his progress. More frequent meetings will be arranged upon request of the employee in training.
(b} Every attempt shall be made to enable an employee in training to successfully develop the requisite qualifications and ability. In the event an employee fails to qualify for progression in training, the Company shall advise the employee and Union in writing of the reasons for such failure and the employee shall be removed from further training.
(c) All employees whiletraining up throughthe Line of Progressionwill receive the rateof pay for the job they normally perform.
49
(d)	Employees bidding down a Line of Progression, will receive the rate of pay applicable for the position to which they posted.
20.03	Plant Operations Department
(a)	The Company will train accordingto the requirements on each particular crew using the training Lines of Progression as outlined in Appendix B.
(b)	i) All employees in classitlcetions in the Plant
Operations Line of Progression marked with an “X“ who bid for other postings will only be awarded the job if a qualified replacement is available in the Line of Progression.
ii) lfa vacancy is not filled according to normal lines of progression it will be posted Departmental^ and Company wide simultaneously and awarded to the senior qualified applicant, based on Department seniority firstly and Company seniority secondly. Failing this the Company may recruit.
(c)	i) It is the objective of the Company to train
senior Plant Operations employees in each classificationat least one job ahead. VVhere there is more than one employee in a classification on a shift, the senior employee will complete training priorto the otherone starting.
ii) Employees training ahead in the Plant shall become qualified wben they have successfully completed both the practical and theory portions of the module training program.
(d)	Senior Load Out Operators will be:
i) Given the choice of becoming Plant Operator Trainees or Plant Equipment Trainees. A minimum of three (3) employees in this classification must go to the Plant Trainees Line of Progression. A minimum of two (2) employees must go to the Plant EquipmentTrainee Line of Progression.
50
ii) Load Out Operators must remain in the Line of Progression they have initially chosen.
(e)	i} Employees in the Load Out Operator classi-
fication will upon becoming qualified for the PlantTrainee positions recaive the rate while performing the work in that classification. Once such work is completed, be will be paid Load Out Operator rate.
ii) Those employees that choose to become Plant Equipment Trainees will recaive the rate for such classification onca qualified on all jobs pertaining to the classification, and only while performingwork in the classification.
Onca such work is complete, he will be paid LoadOut Operator rate.
iii} All senior Labeurers selected for advancement will be paid Labourer rate until such time they are qualified on all jobs associated with Load Out Operator. At that time, they will be re-classified as Load Out Operators.
(f)	Plant Equipment Trainees onca qualified on haulage truck or Inpit Servicaman or Tailings Attendant, will recaive the rate of pay wben performing eitherjob.
(g)	The two senioremployees in the haulage truck, Inpit Servica of Tailings Attendant group who want further training will be given the option of training on either Plant Utility Trainee or Dozer/Grader Trainee. Only one employee will be trained in each trainee classification.
(h)	i) The dotted lines in the Line of Progression
designate informal training. However, to advanca to Plant Utilityman employees in the equipment line of progression must be qualified to run two (2) plant circuits.
51
ii) For the Plant Utilityman to advance to Plant Operator he must be qualified to run all three (3) plant circuits.
(i) The average training hours through the Plant Line of Progression shall be:
Spray	7 Trains
	13 Tirlils
Front End	15T^ns
^Utility L^anr	40 Hrs. and 6 Trains
	8 Tr.ins
^Breaker-Operator	240 Hrs.
	240 Hrs.
	240 Hrs.
Fines Orrult	450 Hrs.
HM ■ Cyc	450 Hrs.
Ves Ora.it	450 Hrs.
Dryer Floor	450 Hrs.
Dryer	600 Hrs.
	600 Hrs.
Dozer/Grader	800 Hrs.
Utilityman	1300 Hrs.
20.04	Mine Operations Department
(a)	Successful applicants for Trainee positions will receive training when so scheduled and will receive the rate of pay for the job they normally perform.
(b)	In order to complete training in an efficient and productive manner, employees will have averaged approximately 50% of their regular scheduled hours in training during the Trainee 3 and Trainee 2 phase of the program.
Once advanced to Trainee 1, the employee will be scheduled for the remainder of his training on a full time basis. This schedule is subject to operational factors and individual abilities. If more than one-half of the trainees in any classification are in the Trainee 1 phase at one time, an adjustment in full time training may be made.
52
(c)	All employees in classifications in the Mines Operations Line cl Progression marked with an “X“ who bidforTrainee or other positions on their shift will only be awarded the job if a Trainee 1 or qualified back-up operator is available on their shift, or another employee in a back-up position or a trainee I volunteers to trade shifts provided a vacancy exists in his current classification.
(d)	All operators marked with an “X” bid for Traine positions on a different shift w* only be awarded the job if a vacant position for which they are qualified exists on the same shift as the trainee position, or another employee in a classification for which they are qualified volunteers to trade shifts. If the vacant position is not in his current classification, he may opt not to accept the trainee position.
(e)	It is the objective cl the Company to train senior employees in each classification in Lines cl Progression other than Trainee positions at least one job ahead.
(f)	AA employee who is training or has completed his training in a trainee position will not be eligible for other trainee vacancles or posted jobs until be has cempleted one Ill year from the time lie was qualified as an operator; and he must accept an operator'sposition in the classification for which be has last ^received training, if the vacancy occurs within a year cl his becoming qualified as an operator, and the vacancy is on his current shift. In applying this clause, it is understoed that wben there is more than one qualified back-up for an operator's vacancy, the senior employee will be given preference.
(g)	Employeeswho voluntarilywithdrawfrom a training program affer having cempleted the trainee 3 phase or blaster helpertraining, will not be elign bleforfurthertraining for a six (6Jmonthperiod.
53
(h)	Employees who have benspecificallydesignat-ed by the Company to train other employees to operate haul trucks shall be paid a premium of $0.50 cents per hour for each hour in which they are engaged in such training.
20.05	The average training hoursfor advancement through Trainee positions shall be:
1)	Excavator
1 lo	Operator
2)	Dozer/Grader Trainee 1 to
3)	MOperatorTr^ee
1 to	Operator
4)	Front End LoaderTi^ee
(Mine Production)
1 to ^^^Operator
3 to 2 30
2	to 1 550 hours
550
3	to 2 300
2	to 1 550 hours
550
3	to 2 300
2	to 1 450 hours
550 hours
3	to 2 100 hours 2 to 1 250 hours
250
20.06	(a) It is the objective ct the Company to train senior
Road Crew employees in each classification at least one job ahead.
(b} The average hours for employees undergoing training for the Road Crew department shall be:
Utility Backhoe - 400 hours
Dozer/Grader - 900 hours
(c)	Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before the employee is deemed qualified.
20.07	(a) It is the objective of the Company to have suffi-
cient qualified, Trainee l's on each shift to meet operational requirements.
54
(b) Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before a Traine is qualified.
20. OB
The average hoursto completetrainingforjobs listed in the mine maintenanca line of progression is:
Crane ^serator - government regulation Maintenanca Support -	288 hours
Fuel/Lube Truck	-	288 hours
Steam Truck	-	144	hours
Steam Bay	-	72	hours
ARTICLE 21
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
21.01	The Company andthe Unionagre that technological ofiaoge is both necessary and desirable for the viability of the company and the ongoingjob security of its employees.
In recognition of the foregoing, the Company undertakes to reduce the effects of technological change on the job security and earnings of employees who are laid off, or permanently demoted as a direct consequence of technological change. Any dispute regarding the implementation of technological change shall commence at step three of the grievance procedure.
21.02	For the purpose of this agreement, a technological change shall be defined as the automation of equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which adversely affects employees in the bargaining unit through layoff or demotionfrom their presentjob classification.
21.03	The Company shall notify the Union not less than three (3) months in advance of intent to institute technological change, setting forth the estimated number of employees affected, together with the nature and extent of the change anticipated.
55
21.04	An employee who is initially given notice of layoff, demotion, or transfer as a direct result of the introduction of a technological change may:
(a)	Fill any available vacancy for which he has seniority and which he is able to perform; Or
(b)	Displace another employee with less seniority provided he is qualified to perform the job.
ARTICLE 22 CONTRACTING OUT
22.01	The Company and the Union agree that contracting out of work performed by the employees in the bargaining unit will not be done for the purpose of laying off, demoting, terminating, or deferring the recall of bargaining unit employees.
22.02	Concerns regarding Contracting Out will be referred to the Joint Union Management Committee as per Article 23.
When reviewing contracting out practices the
terms of referenco shall be;
i)	to preview major work expected to be contracted out and explore possible alternatives taking into consideration the efficiency of the operation, the urgency of the work to be performed, and the availability of the equipment, skills and manpower.
ii)	to review contracted work, with a view to what other options may have been possible and practicable.
iii)	to make recommendations to the company respecting contracting of work as set out in i) and ii) above.
22.03	The job steward in the area affected will be notified when contractors are working on site in their respeo-tive area.
56
ARTICLE 23
JOINT LABOUR MANAGEMENT
23.01 (a) The Labour/Management Committee shall consist cl three (3) Employerdesignates and three (3) employees appointed by the Union. The Committee shall ^eet at the request cl either party but not more than once per month at a place and time to be mutually agreed.
(b) The Committee shall be co-chaired by an Employer and Union Representative. The purpose ci the meeting shall be to exchange information cl mutual interestto review administrative matters arising from this Agreement, to review trends in training programs for the purpose cl evaluating employee needs and to maintain e^^ve Union/Management relations.
ARTICLE 24 TERM OF AGREEMENT
24.01	The term cl the Collective Agrement shall be three (3) years from the date cl ratification,from June 19, 1994 to June 18, 1997.
24.02	The Company will print the Collective Agreement and will provide each employee with a copy.
57
APPENDIX “A"
JOB CLASSIFICATION/RATES ($/HR)
Year 1 -2% Year 2-2% Year 3 -11/2% 6 Months-2%
Job Class Classification	Rates ($/Hr)	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3 GMo.	
1 Tradesman- Certified	22.00	22.44	22 89	23 23	23.69
2 Excavator Operator Plant Control Room Operator Crane Operator	21.00	21.42	21.85	22.18	22.62
2A Warehouseman (Celt)	2075	21.17	21.59	21.91	22.35
3 Rotary Drill Operator Dryer Control Room Operator 20.50		20.91	21.33	21 65	22.08
4 F.E. Loader (Mine Production) Blaster Road ^ew Operator	20.00	20.40	20.81	21.12	21.54
Plant Operator Uncertified Tradesmen 4th. Yrs Apprentice
5	Oozei/Grader Operator Plant Utililyman
Pit Utihtyman 1 Road Crew Operator 1 PlantTrainee tA Maintenance SuPPOrt Operator
6	Haulage Track In-PitServiceman Crusher Operator Blaster!
Tark Drill
Road Crew Operator 2 Tailings LineAttendant Plant Trainee 1B 3rd. Yrs Apprentice
7	lube/Fuel Truck Operator Plant Equipment Trainee Plant Lu^ron Plant Trainee 1C Road (Crew Operator 3 Pit UBilyman 2
19.45	19.84	20.24	20.54	20.95
18.90	19.28	19.67	19.97	20.37
18.35	18.72	19.09	19.38	19.77
58
Job
Class Classification
Rates	Year	Year
($/Hr)	1	2
Year3
6Mo.
8	PlantTrainee2 Dryer Floor Operator Steam Truck Operator 2nd Year Apprentice
9	CrusherAttendant Load Out Operator Plant Trainee 3 Steam BayAfendaot
10	Blaster Helper Pit Utilityman 3 Plant Trainee 4
1st YearApprentice Warehouse Helper
11	Labourer
17.80	18.16	18.52	18.80	19.18
17.20	1754	17.89	18.16	18.52
16.60	16.9:!	17.27	17.53	17.88
16.1O	16.42	16.75	17.00	1734
59
APPENDIX “B"
PLANT OPERATIONS LINES OF PROGRESSION
’Janl ^Coircl	|
loom Op .	(X) I
<X)
60
PLANT MAINTENANCE LINES OF PROGRESSION
Plam Lubeman
l^^^n T^rane
Lebourer
61
APPENDIX “C
MINE MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT LINE OF PROGRESSION
STEAM TRUCK
ENTRY ILEVEL LABOURER
Employees other than journeyman and apprentices will receive regularratewhen trainingforthe nextjob up inthe line of progression.
Oncetraining is complete, they will receive the rate for the job they are perfonning.
62
APPENDIX D
MINE OPERATIONS- LINES OF PROGRESSION
SECTION 1
>H( Tl'O (21 S.!kIW	SPHBIOBS
UiWWUl BE tIUl|M£0 !JI SCBJPcI.
63
APPENDIX D
MINE OPERATIONS- LINES OF PROGRESSION CONTINUED
SEC T I 0 N 2.
S E C T I 0 N J
i • eft*. ? • *»«[» i oo<»»
UP1 »*!(•» t • <*{». I • itU0!»
f'l>lox»s cftfivilln -»»i«ihC Ol ittf r"'J<c 'Ijsi sijcci ivum c^..nc
A SlCCIlit
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BE'TWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL9346 (the Union)
SEXUAL/RACIAL HARASSMENT
The parties agree that a work environment fre of sexual and racial harassment is conducive to high morale and good relations between employees and employees and/or employees and management.
To obtan this environments partiesagree to establish a joint committee whose duties will be to designajointpo-icy that expresses both parties wishes to maintaina work environment free of sexual and racial harassment.
The criteria of the committee will be to define sexual and racialharassment so that all employees clearly understand harassment and the consequences of that harassment.
The parties will advise each other of their committee members as soon as possible after the executbn of this agreement.
The committee will be made up of three (3) from the employer and three (3) from the union. The Company agres that a representative of the Steelworkers Unionhas the right to attend and participateat the meetings.
U.S.W.A., I^LOCAL.9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Q^uebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW ^COAL
Darwin Robinson VIJcjf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyf/J.
Tan Wight
June 19, 1994
65
LEITER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
NEW HIRE RESTRICTIONS
The Company agrees to waive the provisions outlined in Artide 6.12 (a) for all employees who have completed their probation period.
It is understood however, that the Company reserves the right to revoke this Letter if operational requirements change, and the Company determines it is not feasible to continue this practico
U.S.W.A., LOCAL9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank Leclair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORAllON
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin C^oombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tan Wright
June 19, 1994
66
LEnER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL9346 (the Union)
SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS
In an effort to reduce contracting out and to provide employment in the Elk Valley, the Company and the Union agree to the following terms and cenditionsfor the hiring d employees underthis Letterof Understandng.
The needmay arise to hire employees to performspecial assignments^ work from time to time where it is not tea-sible to utilize or hire a regular employee.
Accordingly the following terms and conditions will apply to SpecialAssignments:
1.	Special assignment is defined as wor1< which is d a temporary nature. The following are only examples and it is agreed that special assignmentsate .not limited to these examples.
i)	vacation relief
ii)	sickness and aceident relief
iii} special projects
iv)	special maintenance
v)	leaves of absences
2.	Persons hired on special assignmentwill beterminat-ed when that s^dal assignment d wor1< cemes to an end, and shall have no seniority rights.
3.	Special assignments will be clearly defined as to the type of wor1< to be done and the duration d the work.
4.	Special assignments will not exceed ninety.six (96) celeedar days unless both parties mutually agree to extendthesetime limits.
5.	Special assignment employees will receive the rate of pay for the job they are doing and in addition will receives .60 per hour in lieu of benefits.
67
6.	Special assignment employees must be members of the union as perArticle 1 .06 of the collective agreement.
7.	Employees considered for special assignment will be hired on their own merits and any previous mining experience will be considered an asset. Former mine site employees will be given consideration for hiring under this letter providing they meet criteria set by the Company hiring policy. It is understood that the hiring of special assignment employees is not subject to the grievance procedure.
8.	There will be no more than a number equal to 5% of the bargaining unit workforce hired under this Letter at any given time.
9.	The hiring of special assignment employees will not replace permanentjobs or employees.
10.	All Special Assignment employees shall receive 4% vacation pay on gross wages. Vacation pay will be paid bi-weekly.
11.	Both parties recognize that an additional purpose cf this Letter of Understanding is to afford the company better opportunities to provide leave of absence, preferred vacation times and time of for permanent employees.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346 ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs
Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19, 1994
68
LETER OF UNDERSTANDING BE^TWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL9346 (the Union)
ACCUMULATION OF SENIORITY DURING LAY-OFF
Company seniority will accumulate during lay-off for the following purposes only:
1.	Considerations future job postings once recalled,
2.	For the purpose of recall in accordance with Article
5.05	(a) and (b).
3.	Consideration of seniority for future lay-offs or crew reductions.
If recalled back to their original department employees will be considered to have continued to accrue departmental seniority for the same purposes as those described above.
if recalled to another department such employees new departmental seniority will begin in his new department and all previous departmental seniority from his previous department will be lost.
It is understood by both partiesthat seniority will not accumulate during lay-off for any other purpose.
U.S.W.A.,
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeC lair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
June 19, 1994
ELKVIEW
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (theCompany) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AFTER PROLONGED ABSENCE
In cases where the company receives pertinent medical information that provides a specific return to work date, employeeswill be exempt from termination of employment as provided for in Article 5.06 (f).
However in such cases the following conditions will apply:
1.	Such medical information must be in the company's possession one (1) month prior to the end of the 104 week period described in 5.06 (f).
2.	The specific returnto work date must be within a reasonable time frame acceptable to the company.
3.	Should the employee not return to work after the agreed to extension, the provisions outlined in Article
5.06	(f) will be applied and the employee will be terminated
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom \/\hight
June 19, 1994
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
TRAINING • COAL PLANT
The parties agree to form a committee comprised of not more than three (3) representatives of the Union and not more than three (3) representativesof the Company.
The purpose of this committee is to review, advise, and assist training proceduresthroughoutthe Coal Plant Lines of Progression where deemed practical and necessary.
This committee will be formed within sixty (60) days upon the ratification of this collective agreement and will meet thereafter on a regular, mutually agreeable basis.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346 ELKVIEW COAL
AND
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand
Roger Chramosta
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs
Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton
Mark Olson Dan \/Vy'att Tom Wright
Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
June 19,1994
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
UTILIZATION OF COMPANY SENIORITY FOR SHORT TERM LAYOFFS
For short term layoffs of nine (9) calendar days to thirty (30) calendar days, employees may utilize their company seniority as outlined in Article 5.09 (c) providing the following conditions are met:
1.	The Company has two months advance notice that a situation will occur that will result in a definite layoff.
2.	Because of the short term nature of the layoff, the provisions of Article 5.09 (c) ii) (c) will not apply. Employees must be qualified as per 5.09 (c) ii) (a) and (b).
In such cases where timing allows this Letter to be invoked, both parties shall meet to discuss the details of the layoff.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wcif Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19, 1994
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION(the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
UNION LEAVE PAY
Elkview Coal Corporation agrees to continue wages and benefits of those on union leave subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	All amounts paid will be re-billed to the Union for the purpose of reimbursement as per Artide 11.06,
2.	The rebilling will indude:
i)	Hours paid x applicable hourly rates. (including premiumsetc.)
ii)	Vacation pay percentage,
iii)	R.R.S.P payment a^^^,
3.	The re-billing will occur onca each monthfor the pay periods ended in the previous month.
4.	The Unionwill remit paymentwithin thirty (30) days of receiving the billing.
u.s.w.A., ^LOCAL.9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW ^COAL
Darwin Robinson Nickel
Jim Henderson Rob Schtt KevinCoombs Mark Olson DenWymt Tom Wight
June 19,1994
73
LEITER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
MINE OPERATIONS - BLASTING CREW REVISED SHIFT SCHEDULE
The parties agree that in orderto maximize the extended daylight hours during the summer months, the blasting crew will work the following shift schedule beginning May 16, 1994.
Monday and Thursday will be eight (8) hour day shifts, while Tuesday and Wednesday will be twelve (12) hour day shifts.
Overtime will be paid as follows:
For Scheduled Einht 18) Hour Shift
1.	1.5 X regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day.
2.	2 X regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a work day.
Fnr Rp-hgHnlftH Twelve Hour Shift
2 X regular hourly ratefor time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a work day.
1.	1.5 X regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week.
2.	1.5 X for the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days.
3.	2 X regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours in a work week, excluding those hours in excess of scheduled work day (ie: 8/12).
AND
74
4.	2 X regular hourly rate for time worked in excess a eight (8) hours on a scheduled rest day.
US.W.A., LOCAL 9346 Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank Leclair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride	ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom \/\hight
June 19, 1994	
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BE^TWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
COAL PLANT - RREVISED	SCHEDULE
The parties agreethat the following conditions will apply to the forty (40) hour work schedule implemented in the Plant.
1. Shift Schedule
The schedule shall be based on a three (3) week cycle consisting cl twelve (12) hour shifts; averaging forty (40) hours per week.
This schedule repeats over the next three (3) weeks in reverse.
2. Overtime - Plant 12 hour shift:
One and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i) the first twelve (12) hours worked on scheduled rest days.
76
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess cf twelve (12) hours per day;
ii)	for all hoursworked on the second or more scheduled days off.
The averaging formula will be applied in the same fashion as the current Plant Variance, with the exception that hours will be averaged over a three (3) week cycle versus the current two (2) week cycle, and over a forty (40) hour week versus the current forty-two (42) hour week.
3.	This schedule will commence May 16, 1994
U.S.W.A., LOCAL9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand RogerChramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson 'Wclf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19, 1994
n
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
ADDITIONAL VACATION ENTITLEMENT
Forthe purpose of vacation entitlementfor the term of this collective agreement only, the Company is prepared to do the following:
1.	All employees will be entitled to an additional forty-eight (48) hours of vacation time for 1994.
2.	All employees will be entitled to an additional twenty-four (24) hours of vacation time for 1995.
All employees will be paid their hourly rate times the applicable number of vacation hours for this additional time.
It is understood by the parties that this time will not carry over into future years.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wdf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19. 1994
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
SPLIT CLASSIFICATION OVERRIDE RATE
For those employeeswho are qualified to operate eitherthe Dozer or the Grader in the Dozer/Grader dassification, the following rate will apply when they operate such equipment: Dozer	$19.10
Grader	$19.10
For those employees who are qualified to operate either a Cable Shovel or a Hydraulic Shovel in the Excavator das-sification.
The following rate will apply when they operate such equipment.
Cable Shovel	$20.00
Hydraulic Shovel	$20.00
These rates will be subjectto the rate increases outlined in Appendix" A.
This Letter will not apply to any employees in trainee das-sifications.
u.s.W.A., LOCAL9346 Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wdf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tern Wright
June 19, 1994
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
EXTRA VACATION. ENTITLEMENT
The forty-eight (48) hours of extra vacation in 1994 and the twenty-four (24) hours of extra vacation in 1995 will only apply to those employees who are active on the payroll the date of ratification.
Any newemployees hired during the term ofthis agreement will not be eligible for extra vacation. Such employees will only earn vacation as outlined inArticle 10.01 (a) and (b).
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19, 1994
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
STATUTORY HOLIDAY VARIANCE
The union agrees to make a joint submission with Elkview Coal Corporationto the Ministry ct Labourand other con-corned agencies if necessary in regards to a variance for the purpose of Artide 9.01 (a) and (b).
It is understoodby both partiesthat should this submission fail the forty-eight (48) hours of extra vacation for 1994 will be reduced to twenty-four (24) hours.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand RogerChramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Q^uebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wolf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob
Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Den Wjat.
Tom Wight
June 19, 1994
81
LETIER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
OVERTIME BANKING
Banked time is established to allow employees the opportunity to take time off without loss of pay. It is available to those employees who have completed their probationary period.
Employees working overtime may elect, at the time the overtime is worked, to bank the overtime instead of receiving payment.
Overtime hours worked will be banked at the applicable overtime rate (ie. two (2) hours overtime worked at one and one-half (1 1/2) times = three (3) hours banked at straight time).
Only overtime worked over and above your normal work schedule may be banked. (training hours, hours paid under 8.05 (a), all hours worked on scheduled statutory holidays, all hours described in Articles 8.08 (a) i), 8.08 (b) and 8.1 0 cannot be banked)
Employees may accumulate a maximum ct forty-eight (48) hours straight time at any given time.
Employees may take a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours banked time off in any calendar year. Bankedtime off may be broken into blocks of hours at a time, provided it is mutually agreed to between the parties. Acorued banked overtime hours may be carried over into the next calendar year, but the maximum of forty-eight (48) hours banked time off in any calendar year applies.
If the scheduling of banked time of conflicts with the scheduling cf vacation, vacation requests received priorto February 15 will be given preferenca.
82
Preference for banked time of will be determined on the basis of department seniority of those employees whose applications for banked time off are received by February 15th in each year. Banked time off requests received after February 15th will be allocated, based on the dates they are received, on a first received, first scheduled basis.
The Company will grant banked time off at times most preferable to employees, provided that such requests do not unreasonably interfere with the requirements of operations.
An employee may request one pay-out of banked time per calendar year.
All banked time will be paid out upon termination.
Hours will be banked at the employee's base hourly rate and hours will be paid out at the rate they were banked. Any rate overrides associated with working in a higher classification associated with the overtime hours banked will be paid in the pay period earned.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank Leclair Chris Nand RogerChramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wdf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scett Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wight
June 19. 1994
a3
LETIER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
FIRST CONTRACT BONUS
The Company agrees to pay to each employee who is active on payroll atthe date cf ratification, a one time only First Contract Bonus in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each employee will receive the above noted sum, less applicable deductions on their pay cheque in the first pay period following the ratification of this agreement.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wblf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19, 1994
84
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company) AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OFAMERICA, LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
The parties to this memorandum have reached agreement upon the terms and conditions which will constitute a new collective agreement between the parties, subject to ratification of the memorandum by the Union membership on or before June 20, 1994. The term of the agreementwill be as specified in the attached document indudingvarious letters of understanding.
This memorandum is reached with the understanding that the majority of the Union negotiatingcommitteewill recommend acceptance to their membership of the terms and conditions attached hereto.
Upon acceptance by a majority of the bargaining unit employees who vote on the proposedsettlement, the terms and conditions attached hereto will become binding and final on both parties.
Signed the 3rd day of June 1994
U.S.W.A., LOCAL9346
Ron Schmidt Ewan Gordon Frank LeClair Chris Nand Roger Chramosta Gary Borgen Dean Conners Cal Moulton Dennis Quebec Rob Kilbride
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
Darwin Robinson Wdf Nickel Jim Henderson Rob Scott Kevin Coombs Mark Olson Dan Wyatt Tom Wright
June 19, 1994
85
INDEX
Accidental. Death and Dismemberment.......................43
Apprenticeship Program..............................47 - 40
Arbitration, Arbitrators ...	 38
PortUnH Tima	.........................26 - 30
Benefits .................................................41
Bereavement, Leave & Pay..................................31
Boot & Glove Allowance ...................................45
Breaks, Coffee, Lunch.....................................19
Bulletin Boards ..............................9 - 14 - 34 - 35
Call Out .................................................21
Committee. Grievance.................................34 - 35
Committee, Joint Occupational Health & Safety.......4 - 34-35
Committee. Joint Labour/Management .......................57
Contracting Out...........................................56
Crew Reduction............................................11
Dental Plan ..............................................42
Designated Individuals.....................................2
Discipline & Discharge........................8 - 31 . 39-40
Disputes. Setlement of .............................35 - 36
Election Day..............................................46
Employee Definition .......................................1
Floating Stats......................................25-26-30
Safety Glasses .........................................6-41
Grievance: ...............................................35
Committee.......................................... 35
Procedure.....................................36 to	38
Policy. Time Limits .............................37-36
Group. Life Insurance.....................................43
Health and Welfare. Benefits .......................41 ta	43
Hours of Work.......................................17 to 20
Job Postings .......................................12 to	17
Job Vacancy Forms ........................................16
Jury Duty ............................................... 31
Lay OH:
Temporary or Emergency...............................9
Permanent or Indefinite ............................10
Benefits............................................43
Leadhands ................................................48
Leave of Absence..........................................30
Bereavement.........................................31
Maternity ..........................................31
Jury Duty...........................................3 1
Union..........................................32 - 33
86
Letters of Understanding - See "Contents"
Lines Of Progression...............................12 to 17
Job Postings ........................................14
Coal Plant......................................60 - 61
Mine Maintenance.....................................62
Mine Operations.................................63 - 64
Long T^ Disability.................................8 - 27 - 42
Management Rights...........................................3
Medicals....................................................6
Officers, Committees & Stewards ..........................214
Overtime & Special Pay: ...........................20 to 25
Meals/Credit ........................................21
Medicals .............................................6
Crew Transfers ......................................17
Arrival at Dry.......................................19
Opportunities........................................20
Schedule Changes.....................................23
Shift Change.........................................24
Paid Work Breaks..........................................1 9
Pay, Reporting ...........................................1 6
Payroll Deduction...........................................2
Personnel Files............................................41
Premiums, Shttl/Weekend....................................25
Probationary, Period/Employees.....................7 • 27 • 40
Recall....................................................1 1
Recognition of Union........................................1
Registered Retirement Savings Plan.........................46
Safety and Health:.....................................4 to 6
Personal Protection Equipment.........................5
Committee PayAme Worked...............................6
Committee.............................................4
Safety glasses........................................6
Meetings..............................................5
Medical Examinations/Pay..............................6
Information Supplied .................................4
Unable to Complete Shift/Pay .........................5
Tours/Audits..........................................4
Seniorty...................................................61
Definition............................................7
Transfer required by company..........................7
Lists, posting of.....................................9
Loss of ..............................................8
Maintained but not accumulated........................8
Maintained and accumulated............................8
87
Shift: Change............................................23-24
Schedule...............................17 to 19, 20 to 24
Starting Times................................... 1B-19
Sick Benefits...............................................41
Strikes/Lockouts.............................................3
Statutory Holidays..........................................25
Qualifiers...........................................27
Floaters.......................................26 -27
Suspensions/Discharge ................................8 - 31 - 40
Technological Change........................................55
T^i of Agreement.......................................... .. .57
Termination.................................................43
Tool Allowance .............................................44
Training:.............................................49 to 55
Freezing.............................................13
Voluntary............................................45
Within Lines of Progression:
pay/progress review/qualifications..............49
Plant Ops - Lines of Progression...............50 to 52
Mine Ops - Lines of Progression................52 to 55
Mine MIc - Lines of Progression......................55
Union: Dues..................................................2
Representation......................................1
Security............................................1
Vacation:...................................................26
Eligibility .........................................28
Entitlement..........................................26
Pay............................................28 to 30
Scheduling.....................................29 to 30
Shutdown..........................................29-30
Vision Care.................................................41
Wages: ...............................................58 - 59
Pay Day..............................................44
Appreniceship Program................................47
Waekly Indemnity......................................6 - 26-42
Work: Hours Of...........................................20-21
Emergency........................................18-21
Schedules.....................................17 to 19
88