INDEX
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
2
ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS................2
RECOGNITION............................2
Union Recognition......................2
Employees Covered by the Agreement....2
No Discrimination......................3
Bulletin Boards........................5
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLES ARTICLE 6
ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8
ARTICLE 9
MANAGEMENTRIGHTS.....................5
UNION SECURITY.......................6
UNION BUSINESS.......................8
Leave of Absence.....................8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.................10
Union Activities on Company Time....10
Procedure for Settling Disputes.....10
SAFETY AND HEALTH,..................14
Accident InvestigationProcedure.....14
Joint Safety and Health Committee...15
Safely Complaints and Disputes......17
Safety Rules and, HazardousMaterials.19
Personal Protective Equipment.......20
Medicals............................21
Environment.........................21
HOURSOF WORK........................22
Supervisors.........................23
ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12
ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14
ARTICLE 15
ARTICLE 16
OVERTIME RATES.......
Change of Work Schedule
Call Out.............
Eight (8)Hour Rest Period Reporting Pay........
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS. SALARIES.............
25
26 27 27
27
28 30
Salaried Job Evaluation (See Appendix
PREMIUMS.......................
On Call........................
Emergency Rescue Team Premiums.
SENIORITY......................
Probationary Period............
Reductions in Work Force.......
Recall.........................
31
32
33
33
34
37
39
POSTINGS, PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS,
TRANSFERS...........................41
Vacancies...........................41
Job Posting Procedure...............42
Selection Procedure.................44
Temporary Job Assignment and Rate of Pay .46 Temporary Assignment Which Changes
to a Temporary Job Vacancy........47
Temporary Job Which Changes to
a PermanentJob....................49
Return cf Absent Employee...........49
TRAINING............................50
Trades Committee....................51
II
ARTICLE 17
ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25
ARTICLE 26
ANNUAL VACATIONS...................51
Vacation Scheduling................53
Vacation Adjustment................54
Unpaid Leave.......................54
SPECIAL VACATIONS..................56
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE..................58
JURY DUTY/WITNESS PAY..............58
MATERNITY LEAVE....................59
BENEFITS...........................60
Medical Plans......................60
Sick Leave Plans...................60
Long Term Disability Plan..........61
Group Life Insurance...............62
Dental Plan........................64
Optical Plan.......................65
Premium Rebates....................65
PENSION PLAN.......................65
ON LOAN..
.66
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.................67
Purpose..............................67
Definition...........................68
Prior Notice.........................68
Company-Union Meetings...............68
Maintenanceof Rate Benefit...........68
Training Benefit.....................69
Severance Benefit....................69
HUMANITY FUND........................69
ARTICLE 27 LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING....70
TERM..................................86
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 4 DAYS ON, 4 DAYS OFF 12 HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE.
.88
A.	Employees Covered by this Agreement..............88
B.	General Condition................................88
C.	Ove rti me Wo rk.................................90
D.	Statutory Holidays...............................91
E.	Bereavement Leave................................93
F.	Annual Vacations.................................93
6.	Special Vacations................................96
H.	Basic Sick Leave.................................96
I.	On Call..........................................96
J.	Exclusions.......................................96
APPENDIX “A” - Salaries.............................97
Job Promotion Procedure.............99
Classificationof Employees.........101
COLA...............................104
APPENDIX “B”- Joint Job Evaluation Committee........106
Standards..........................106
Proceduresfor Job Evaluation.......107
Rate Protection....................107
IV
THIS AGREEMENT made the 4th day of January, 1993, A.D. effective December 22, 1992.
BETWEEN:
FORDING COAL LIMITED
(hereinafter called “the Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
(hereinaftercalled "the Union")
OFTHE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
1
ARTICLE 1. PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to establish settled conditions of employment and to ensure the prompt and equitable disposition of any grievances which may arise.
The Company and the Union agree to meet from time to time to discuss matters of mutual concern at the request of either party.
1.02	Words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
ARTICLE 2. NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS
2.01	The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union nor any representative thereof, nor any employees shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, walkout, suspension of work, or slow down on the part of any employee or group of employees during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3. RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding all working conditions of employees employed at the Company's operations, and the Company will continue to so recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Employees Covered by the Agreement
(a)	The term “employees” as used in this Agreement means all those people employed by the Company at the Company's operations twenty-nine (29) kilometres north
of Elkford, B.C., by road, employed in the classifications listed in Appendix "A"or such new classifications as the Company may establish as required and which classifications the parties may agree are included within the unit.
For the purpose of this Agreement the term ’’persons” shall mean all people not represented by U.S.W.A., Local 9702.
(b)	The “Company's Operations” shall mean the operations of Fording Coal Limited described in sub-paragraph (a) above.
3.03	The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons not in the U.S.W.A. Local 9702 bargaining unit to perform work that is normally performed by an employee in the bargaining unit where qualified employees are reasonably available to do such work except when it is deemed necessary by the Company to instruct employees, assure proper performance of the work and continuity of operations, proper operation of equipment, to protect Company property, to assure safety and health of employees, to operate pilot or test programs or to man new facilities during start up programs, and in the case of emergency, or in the performance of occasional unforeseen and necessary work when production facilities or troubles are encountered on the job. The Company agrees that these functions shall not be abused. In no case shall an employee in the bargaining unit be displaced by performance of such work by such other person.
3.04	No Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of his legitimate activities as a member, Steward or Officer of the Union. The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part towards any employee of the Company. The parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia.
3
3.05	The Company shall provide the Union with the following information pertinent to employees in U.S.W.A., Local 9702:
A listing of employees (quarterly) showing names, addresses and job classifications listed in order of seniority, and will also provide on a current basis:
(a)	copies of job postings, job awards and employee demotions;
(b)	listings of hirings, discharges, resignations, retirements and deaths;
(c)	job classifications and job evaluation descriptions;
(d)	descriptive information relating to pension and welfare plans;
(e)	exact copies of all disciplinary notes;
(f)	monthly, a list of contractors on the property;
(g)	bi-weekly, a list of Acting Supervisors from U.S.W.A., Local 7884;
(h)	monthly, a list of temporary employees;
(i)	a list of plants which the Company considers necessary to operate on a continuous basis;
(j)	weekly, copies of accident investigation reports and work-related first aid treatment slips for U.S.W.A., Local 9702;
(k)	minutes of all safety committee meetings as per marginal paragraph 8.05;
(l)	annually, or as changes occur, a list of all hazardous materials and/or procedures for handling such, as per marginal paragraph 8.10.
3.06	The Company will issue to each new employee an envelope provided by the Union containing an application form for Union membership and a list of names of the Union
4
executive and stewards. The Company will provide the Union with a list of new employees hired each month and also with a list of employees who have severed each month.
3.07	Bulletin Boards
The Company agrees that a section of a bulletin board in each section of the operation shall be made available to the Union for its purposes provided that the use of such boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union, and the reports of various committees of the Union, and provided that no such notice may be posted unless the approval of the Company to the posting has first been obtained and the notation of the approval endorsed on the notice.
The Company agrees to furnish to the Union a key for each bulletin board and to keep the bulletin board in reasonable repair.
Until further notice from the Company to the Union, the approval referred to above need not be obtained.
ARTICLE 4. MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
4.01	The Union recognizes the undisputed rights of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Union further recognizes that the Company retains all the customary rights, responsibilities, functions and prerogatives of management, except as expressly modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
4.02	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties or any part thereof.
4.03	The Company shall always have the right to hire, to discipline, demote and dischargeemployeesforjust and suffi-
5
clent cause; and to retire an employee at his normal retirement age.
4.04
(a)	Supervisor Job Opportunity
When there is a requirementfor supervisory personnel, the Company shall place job opportunity postings on local bulletin boards. Employees who wish to be considered for such positions may submit their names to the Employment Supervisor, Personnel, in accordance with notice instructions. Due consideration shall be given to all applicants.
(b)	Selection <f Supervisors
The selection of supervisors shall be entirely a matter for the Company’s decision.
ARTICLES. UNION SECURITY
5.01	The Company shall deduct, as a condillon of each employee's continued employment a sum equivalent to Union dues prorated to conform with the semi-monthly pay system as follows:
5.02	Upon receipt of a signed authorization card, the Company shall deduct from each employee's salary: initiation fees, dues, death benefit assignments as set by the Union, and one International Union assessment (excluding fines) not exceeding four dollars ($4.00) per year.
5.03	The deductions referred to above shall commence In the case of each employee who is in the employ of the Company at the effective date of this Agreement and in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the pay period for which his first Pay cheque from the Company is received by him,
5.04	Union dues for each employee shall be equal to one point three percent (1.3%) of total (gross) earnings each
semi-month during the reference period (as defined herein) save that the minimum and maximum dues during such period shall be as communicated by the Union in writing to the Company.
5.05	Total earnings for the purpose of calculating Union dues shall be deemed to include base salary and all premiums (if any) including shift premiums, weekend premiums, incentive bonus pay, vacation pay, statutory holiday pay, overtime pay, COLA earnings, call-in and reporting pay, etc., but shall not include any Workers' Compensation payments or payments under any benevolent, sickness or accident plans.
5.06	The reference period shall be the semi-month period immediately prior to each pay day. Dues shall be deducted from each employee every pay period and remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union by cheque payable to the InternationalTreasurer of the United Steelworkers of America no later than the 10th day following each pay day. The Company shall include with each cheque a list of employees indicating the amount of dues deducted from each.
5.07	In the event an employee does not work at least twenty (20) hours or be paid for at least twenty (20) hours of vacation or unworked statutory holidays in the reference period, then no dues will be deducted. Also, no dues will be deducted if at the time of preparation of the pay cheque there are insufficient funds owing to the employee concerned except to the extent that such funds are owing to the employee.
5.08	As early as possible in each calendar year, and no later than February 15th, the Company shall provide the Local with an individual statement listing the total of Union dues (or equivalent) deducted from the pay of each employee during the calendar year and paid to the Union in accordance with this Article. In addition, the Company shall cause to be printed on the T-4 slips issued to each employee by the Company, the amount of each employee's union dues.
7
5.09	Notwithstanding any provisions contained in this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees or dues of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
ARTICLE 6. UNION BUSINESS
6.01	Leave for International Union Business
On two (2) weeks notice and written application by the Union to the General Manager, Fording River Operations, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence, without pay, to an employee appointed to a position with the International of the United Steelworkers of America or for the business purposes of the International. Such leave of absence shall be limited to a maximum period of one year. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under this section to more than one (1) employee at the same time.
6.02	Leave of Absence
The Company will grant unpaid leave of absence to an employee who is appointed or elected to Union Office for a period not exceeding three (3) years. Application for such leave shall be made in writing to the Superintendent, Employee Relations of the Company. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under marginal paragraph 6.02 to more than one (1) employee at the same time.
6.03	Time spent under marginal paragraphs 6.01 and 6.02 above shall not in any way jeopardize an employee's seniority nor service for pension purposes, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining specific vacation entitlements or other benefits.
6.04
(a) The Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay to employees to attend such items as labour conventions, Union matters, labour arbitrations, labour schools or grievance matters beyond the third step as
8
set forth in this Agreement, provided the leaves of absence granted under marginal paragraph 6,04 for all such Union purposes shall not interfere with the normal operations of the Company and shall not, in aggregate, exceed one hundred twenty-five (125) man-days in any one (1) calendar year. Unless mutually agreed otherwise, the Company will place all Union Bargaining Committee members on a 5x2 day shift for the duration of the bargaining.
An employee who is on leave of absence pursuant to this marginal paragraph and such leave exceeds thirty (30) calendar days shall also be required to pay all the costs of all benefits provided under Article 22. This marginal paragraph shall not apply to an employee if the absence is for the purpose of collective bargaining between the Union and the Company.
6.05	Upon two (2) weeks' notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence without pay to an employee to attend a labour school. The maximum time of such leave for any one occurrence shall be two (2) weeks with the aggregate leave in one calendar year not exceeding one (1) month. The Company shall not be obligated to grant a leave under marginal paragraph 6.05 to more than five (5) employees at the same time, of which no more than two (2) employees can be from the same department.
6.06	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues for the Union or any other labour organization, or engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time or within the plants of the Company except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement.
6.07	The Company will forward to the Union at the beginning of each month a sum equivalent to 20 hours’ pay at Job Group 31, Step 3, for the purpose of conducting off-property Union business.
9
ARTICLE 7. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The Union will advise the Company of three regular employees selected as members of a grievance committee and this committee shall act regarding the interpretation, or a violation, of this Agreement. The Company shall endeavour to place the Chairman of the grievance committee of the Union on steady day shift.
7.02	Union Activities on Company Time
The time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by the Union for that purpose shall be considered as time worked and pay shall be on the basis of straight time. Under no condition shall overtime rates be paid.
Prior to leaving the job to investigate or process a grievance, a Steward, Grievance Committee member, or Union Executive member must first obtain permission from his immediate supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and if so, the reason shall be stated in writing. Grievances will be handled during working hours.
7.03	Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee or group of employees regarding the interpretation or a violation of the Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute as soon as possible. Employees, with or without a Shop Steward, must try to settle their dispute with their immediate supervisor.
Failing settlement, a written grievance will be presentedto the Company at Step 1.
Step 1 Within thirty (30) calendar days after the alleged dispute has arisen or within thirty (30) calendar days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence giving rise to the alleged dispute, the employee, with a shop steward, may present a written grievance to his Foreman/Administrator. The Foreman/Administrator will record the facts as presented, investigate the
10
grievance and provide a written answer to the grievance within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays) of receiving the grievance.
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
Step 2 Within seven (7) calendar days of receiving the answer at Step 1, the employee, with a Shop Steward, may present the written grievance to the General Foreman/Senior Administrator, who shall investigate the grievance and provide a written answer to the grievance within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays).
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 3.
Step 3 Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) calendar days after the dispute was submitted at Step 2, the grievance committee may submit the dispute which shall be in writing outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section^) of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated to the Industrial Relations department. A staff representative of the Union may be present at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (7) calendar days of the submission at Step 3, the grievance may proceed to Step 4.
Step 4 Within thirty (30) calendar days after a decision was made or should have been made by the Company at Step 3, the Union may, by written notice to the Company, refer the dispute to arbitration. Within ten (10) calendar days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one arbitrator from the following panel of arbitrators and mutually set a date(s) for an arbitration hearing.
11
1.	M.l. Chertkow
2.	A.H. Hope
3.	V. Ready
4.	B. Williams (Swinton & Co.)
The selection of an' arbitrator shall be by alphabetical order from the panel if available to act. The selection of an arbitrator for the next arbitration shall commence with the next name in alphabetical sequence. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10) calendar days, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia upon request of either party.
The arbitrator shall hear the parties to the grievance and shall render his decision within a maximum of thirty (30) days following the hearing.
The decision of the arbitrator in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties. Each party shall pay the expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its own case. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
Note: Prior to proceeding to arbitration, if new facts regarding the grievance are revealed and those facts were not previously considered during the grievance procedure, then the General Manager of the Company and the Local Union President may meet to discuss those facts.
7.04	If a grievance is not advanced through the steps of the grievance procedure within the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
If a grievance is not replied to within the time limits as specified in Steps 1, 2, and 3 of the grievance procedure, then the grieving party shall retain the right to proceedto the next step
12
within the time limits specified.
The abandonment of a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice any future cases of a similar nature.
Any time limits provided for in this Article may be varied by the mutual consent of the Company and the Union and confirmed in writing.
7.05	The Company shall have the right to submit any dispute regarding the interpretation of or a violation of this Agreement in writing to the grievance committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) calendar days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to arbitration constituted in accordance with this Article.
7.06	The Union shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of or a violation of this Agreement to the Company at Step 3 where:
(a)	There is no aggrieved employee or employees possible of identification at the time the dispute arose, or
(b)	The grievance involves Company policy, in which case the grievor or grievors possible of identification shall be named on the face of the grievance form.
7.07	In all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employee(s) and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension, must continue to work, but where an employee(s) has been discharged by the Company, he shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his case is being investigated and settled. Where an employee(s) has been suspended or discharged and it is decided by arbitration that he or they were unjustly suspended or discharged, he or they shall be reinstated and the same arbitrator who dealt with the claim shall fix the compensation, if any, for the time lost by the employee(s) concerned and his decision shall be final.
7.08	In the case of a discharge or suspension, a Chief
13
Steward (or his designate) must be present. On all disciplinary suspensions and discharge cases, a Chief Steward will be given a copy of the employee's work record and disciplinary notes at the discharge or suspension meeting.
Grievances involving discharge or suspension must be presented directly at Step 3 by a member of the grievance committee. The Step 3 reply will be given within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays) of submitting the grievance.
7.09	Any agreement in writing, concerning the outcome of a dispute, between the Company and the grievance committee shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee(s) concerned.
7.10	An employee will have the option of having a shop steward present at any meeting or hearing involving any kind of discipline.
A shop steward must be present when an employee is suspended pending investigation.
ARTICLE 8. SAFETY AND HEALTH
8.01	The Company and the Union, realizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment, agree that they and all employees, Union safety representatives, stewards and officers and supervision at all levels shall co-operate to promote safe work practices, health conditions and the enforcement of safety rules.
8.02	Accident Investigation Procedure
(a)	The Company and Union agree to co-operatively conduct accident investigations. Such investigations will involve supervision from the area and/or a Company Safety Officer and a Union Safety Representative. Prior to the conclusion of that work day if possible, the Union Safety Representative and the Company will prepare the proper documentation and distribute copies to those concerned. The Foreman and Union Safety Represen-
14
tative will determine whether or not an investigation is required.
(b)	The Company and Union agree to investigate as soon as reasonably possible all accidents to make recommendations for remedial or preventative action. The Company's Safety Officer will be responsible for notifying the Union Safety Representativeand will arrange for the time and place of investigation prior to the conclusion of that work day. Such investigationswill include at least one Safety Committee member from the Union and one from the Company.
(c)	Should a disagreement arise about whether or not an investigation should take place, a referee process shall be initiated immediately. The decision of the referees shall be final and binding on both parties. The Union Representative will be the Safety Committee Chairman or designate. The Company Representative will be the Administrator, Loss Control or designate. Where the referee process has been initiated, the accident/incident scene in dispute shall not be disturbed unless reasonable to do so. The Safety Representative, or a Union Representative if no Safety Representative is available, shall view the scene immediately with the supervisor prior to the scene being disturbed.
(d)	It is recognized that there will be occurrences for which an indepth investigation may or may not be required. For all such occurrences for which an indepth investigation is not required, a report will be filed and made available for review by the Union Safety Chairman or his designate.
8.03	Joint Safety and Health Committee
(a)	The Company and Union agree to appoint a Joint Safety and Health Committee composed of not more than four (4) members appointed by the Union, who shall be selected from employees in each of the four (4) areas of
15
work (Mine Operating, Processing, Maintenance and Warehouse) and not more than four (4) members appointed by the Company. For each member it appoints, the Union may utilize any other member from its Safety Committee in the absence of a regular member. The function of this Committee shall be to recommend solutions to problems relating to the promotion of safety, good housekeeping and health at the Company's operations. The Union and the Company will notify each other in writing of the identity of their Joint Safely and Health Committee representatives.
(b)	Safety tours shall be attended by the Safety Chairman or his designate and the Committee Member, if available, from the area being inspected and all follow-up regular meetings shall be attended by the Safety Chairman or his designate only.
8.04	The responsibilitiesof the Joint Committee shall be:
(a)	To make regular inspections of the plants and areas of work.
(b)	To review reports of accidents and incidents and to make recommendations for remedial or preventive action.
(c)	To meet regularly to take up such safety and health matters which may be brought before it by either the Union or the Company.
(d)	To review the Company's Safety Rules and make recommendations on amendments or additions.
8.05	The Company Safety Representative will act as secretary of all safety committees and will provide minutes of meetings for management, for all committee members, for those who attended the meeting, for the Union, and will have posted a copy of the minutes on the bulletin boards. At following meetings, discussion of the minutes shall be the first order of business.
16
If the Union disagrees with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared, it shall set forth reasons for such disagreement in writing and forward to the Company, which disagreements will then form part of the minutes.
8.06	Quarterly Safety Meetings
The President, Safety Chairman and Chief Shop Steward of the Local Union shall meet quarterly with the General Manager and safety representativesof the Company's operations to review the reports and recommendationsof the Joint Safety and Health Committee and discuss other matters pertaining to safety, accident prevention and industrial hygiene. The Union and the Company shall exchange agendas of matters they propose to discuss at least one (1) week prior to the meeting. These meetings shall be scheduled to take place in March, June, September and December.
For special needs related to safety, the Union Safety Chairman, the President of the Local Union or the Company may request a meeting of the parties. The parties agree that such a meeting when requested by either party will be held within twenty-four (24) hours of the request, or at such time as may be mutually agreed to by the parties.
8.07	The time spent by the Safety Chairman in the performance of his duties of attending scheduled safety meetings, mine and plant safety tours and accident investigations shall be paid for by the Company at straight time rates.
8.08	Procedure for Settling Safety Complaints and Disputes (Non-Supervisory Staff)
It is the intent of the parties that no employee or employees shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unusually hazardous beyond the normal hazard inherent in the operation or process in question. Where an employee is able to demonstrate on reasonable grounds that a condition of unusual hazard exists at his working place, he shall not be subject to discipline by reason of refusing to work at that place.
17
(a)	An employee shall immediately report unsafe equipment, practices or conditions to his supervisor, and his supervisor shall investigate the concern promptly, and take steps as deemed necessary to correct the situation.
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor he may refer the matter to the next level of supervision, who together with the Union Safety Representative will discuss the matter with the supervisor and the employee concerned, and that level of supervision shall decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
(c)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, the Union Safety Representative may notify the Union Safety Chairman, or his designate, who, with the employee and the Union Safety Representative will discuss the matter with the Superintendent/Senior Administrator, and if in their opinion it is desirable to discuss it with the Department Manager, who will decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the Safety Chairman's designate in each of the appropriate departments (Plant, Maintenance, and Mine Operations).
(d)	If the Union Safety Chairman is not satisfied with the answer of the Department Manager, the Safety Chairman, after consulting with the employee, may refer the matter to the General Manager and if he is still not satisfied with the answer he received, the Company and Union may jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretationon the applicable regulation(s) in the Health, Safety and Reclamation Code for Mines in British Columbia.
(e)	Upon making the appropriate arrangements with the section General Foreman/Administrator or the Department Superintendent/Senior Administrator, the Union Safety Chairman will have access to any area of the
18
operations at any time. The Department Superinten-dent/Senior Administrator or his delegate will accompany the Union Safety Chairman.
8.09	Procedure for Settling Safety Complaints and Disputes (Supervisory Staff)
(a)	An employee shall immediately report unsafe equipment, practices or conditions to his supervisor, and his supervisor shall investigate the concern promptly, and take steps as deemed necessary to correct the situation.
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor he may, with or without his Union Safety Representative, discuss the matter with his Department Superintendent or Administrator.
(c)	If the employee is not satisfied with the answer of the Department Superintendent or Administrator, the employee, together with the Safety Chairman, may refer the matter to the Activity Manager and General Manager, and if they are still not satisfied with the answer they received, the Company and Union may jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretation on the applicable regulation(s) in the Health, Safety and Reclamation Code for Mines in British Columbia.
8.10	Safety Rules and Hazardous Materials
The Company will provide each employee with a copy of its Safety Rules, information on hazardous materials, and supply each employee upon request a copy of the Health, Safety and ReclamationCode for Mines in British Columbia.
The Company shall forward to the Union Safety Chairman the following information:
(a)	A list of toxic and hazardous materials used in the various departments.
(b)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertaining thereto.
19
(c)	Records of work-related first aid treatments received by employees.
(d)	The Company and the Union shall provide each other with copies of reports, correspondence, etc., to the Provincial Mines Inspectorconcerning safety-relateddis-pute@)or accident(s) and will also advise each other on other appropriate safety-related matters and provide any follow-up correspondence.
8.11
(a)	The Company will familiarize the Union Safety Chairman, and upon request, other appropriate safety representatives, with the equipment and techniques of sampling and analysis for potentially toxic substances monitored by the Company. He/They will also be instructed in the techniques of monitoring for subsidence in the mine spoil.
(b)	It is recognized that there may be other areas where it would be mutually desirable for the Union Safety Chairman and Safety Representatives to be made familiar with other safety techniques in use at the property. Both parties agree to discuss such matters in a co-operative and reasonable manner.
(c)	Such familiarization will be done on Company time with no loss of pay when conducted during the employee's regular shift or if such familiarization is on off shifts only straight time rates would apply.
8.12	The Company shall provide all supervisors with St. John Ambulance Standard First Aid Training and general knowledge of equipment hazards and hazardous conditions in the working areas.
8.13	Personal Protective Equipment
The Company shall continue to furnish protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the present policy subject to such improvements or changes as may be
20
implementedfrom time to time.
The frequency of issue and replacement of personal protective equipment shall be determined by Company Policy in effect. Each department will familiarize all employees as to the personal protective equipment provided in their area.
The steel-toed safety footwear rebate shall be 65%.
The prescription safety glass lens rebate shall be 100%.
Annually on January 1st of each year, the Company will provide a clothing allowance of one hundred dollars ($100) to each employee on the Company's rolls.
8.14	Medicals
Employees on 5 and 2 (Monday through Friday) steady day shift schedule shall be given paid leave to obtain re-medicals required by the Mines Act. Such leave shall start one (1) hour prior to the examination appointment time but no earlier than two (2) hours prior to the end of the shift. Transportation is the employee's responsibility.
8.15	If the Company does not accept a medical certificate produced by an employee, or has cause to suspect a physical condition of an employee, the Company may require said employee to undergo an examination by a medical practitioner named by the Company. The Company will pay for the cost of this required examination and under no circumstances shall an employee suffer a loss of pay.
8.16	An employee who is injured on the job will have his normal earnings maintained for the balance of his scheduled shift on the date of the injury.
8.17	Environment
The Company and the Union affirm their joint objective of achieving a work environment in the Company's operations and a general environment in the communities which these operations affect, which is pollution-freeto the extent practical, recognizing the nature of the Company's industrial operations.
21
ARTICLE 9. HOURS OF WORK
9.01	This Article is intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as any guarantee of work or pay or of hours of work per day, or per week, or of days of work per week. This Article shall not be considered as any basis for the calculation or payment of overtime which is covered solely by Article 10.
9.02	The regular scheduled work week shall consist of (a) or (b), according to the designation of each classification as specified below:
(a)	thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
(b)	forty (40) hours between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
9.03	The regularwork day shall be seven and one-half (7VS>) or eight (8) hours of work, depending upon the classification of the employee as specified in marginal paragraph 9.02 at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four (24) hour period. The regular days of work for all employees, except those referred to in the following sections shall be Monday to Friday inclusive.
9.04	It is agreed that there are a number of employees required to work on schedules other than five (5) and two (2), Monday through Friday.
9.05	Employees shall be required to work on recognized forty (40) hour schedules, but their average weekly hours shall be reduced to thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours by granting the employee one hundred and twenty (120) hours of paid time off per year (prorated to ten (10) hours per month). The paid time off shall be taken at the convenience of the Company. Any portion of the one hundred and twenty (120) hours entitlement not taken prior to the end of the calendar year shall be paid for at normal straight time standard hourly rates.
22
The equivalent hourly rate for the purpose of overtime calculation for employees on the one hundred and seventy-four (174) hour work schedule shall be established by dividing the base monthly salary by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours.
A thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hour work week applies to all job classifications except for the following jobs for which a forty (40) hour work week applies:
Janitorial Supervisor Processing Labour Supervisor Warehousing Supervisor Laboratory Supervisor Equipment Supervisor Dragline Supervisor Drill Supervisor Shovel Supervisor Truck Supervisor Mine Services Supervisor Tire Shop Supervisor Environmental Services Supervisor Pit Supervisor Blasting Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor, H.E.
Maintenance Supervisor, L.E.
Machinist Supervisor Electrical Supervisor Electrical Supervisor (Processing)
Welding/Fab Supervisor Carpenter Supervisor
23
Maintenance Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor, Proc. Instr.
Field Maintenance Supervisor Pipefitter Supervisor
9.06
(a)	Employees who are employed in sections of the operations which operate on a continuous basis shall be employed on schedules which average not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37%)or forty (40) hours per week as providedfor in marginal paragraph 9.02 above.
(b)	The Union agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the appropriate legislative body under the provisions of the “Employment Standards Act” of B.C. and to make such other applications that may be required under the provisions of any other relevant statute or regulation for the approval of schedules put into effect by the Company for this operation where it is necessary to comply with such statute or regulation.
9.07
(a)	The sixth work day in a work week, occurring every twenty-eight (28) days under the Company's seven (7) and three (3) continuous operations schedule, will normally be scheduled as a regular work day to be worked by the employee concerned and the days so worked will be accumulated as rest days to be taken as time off.
(b)	The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company in periods of five (5) successive work days. However, if some other arrangements for taking accumulated rest days off can be arrived at by an employee and the Company which is mutually agreeable, this may be done. Accumulated rest days may not exceed nine (9) in number.
9.08	Under no circumstances will an employee lose hours
24
worked in a pay period as a result of the Company changing
his work schedule.
ARTICLE 10. OVERTIME RATES
10.01	Overtime work by an employee must be authorized by the Company. Overtime for work performed as outlined herein shall be paid at the following rate:
(a)	Work in excess of the normal hours of work as defined in Article 9, will receive payment at one and one-half (1%) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked.
(b)	Overtime which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be paid at two (2) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked. Overtime which is in excess of eight (8) hours overtime shall be on a voluntary basis with the exception that in any continuous operation where a qualified replacement is not available, the employee may be required to remain at work.
10.02	The initial eight (8) hours overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period;
OR
(b)	where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger;
OR
(C) where there is a necessityfor a periodic change of shift.
10.03	The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work
25
day and concluding at the end his last scheduled rest day.
10.04	For the purposes of this Agreement, equivalent hourly rate is defined as the base monthly salary divided by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours or one hundred seventy-four (174) hours, as appropriate.
Note: For the purposes of calculating overtime for employees who are required to work a one hundred seventy-four (174) hour per month schedule, the equivalent hourly rate shall be established by dividing the base monthly salary by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours.
10.05	If mutually agreed, an employee may elect to receive time off in lieu of overtime pay. Where an employee elects to receive time off in lieu of payment for overtime hours worked, he shall receive no payment for the overtime hours worked but at a time convenient to the operation shall receive one hour off, with pay at straight time rates, for each overtime hour worked.
10.06	Overtime rates shall be paid for work performed by employees on their regularly assigned days off duty including relief days where such relief days occur on a fixed basis and are not banked.
10.07	Change cf Work Schedule
Where the Company changes an employee's work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day cf his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusion of the rest days of his previous schedule.
10.08	Where the Company changes an employee's work shift with the result that the employee has a short change which is not a normal part of a work schedule, the employee shall be paid overtime rates for the hours worked on the second shift which are within the same work day as the first shift.
26
10.09	Call Out
If an employee is called out to work at a time other than the beginning of his regular shift he shall receive either overtime rates for the time actually worked outside of his scheduled work shift or four (4) hours pay at his base rate, whichever is the greater. The four (4) hours minimum does not apply however, when the call out overtime continues into the employee's regular work or if the employee is called back to work before leaving the premises.
10.10	Eight (8)Hour Rest Period
An employee who is called out to work more than four (4) hours in advance of the beginning of his next regular shift, or who performs overtime work in a work day and which work does not result from a shift change, shall be entitled to an eight (8) hour rest period commencing at the time the actual overtime work assignment is completed. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of this rest period, he will be permitted to remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works, he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor or elects to work on that part of his said regular shift which falls within the said rest period, he shall be paid the applicable overtime rates. Ifthe employee is not so directed or elects not to work he will remain at rest for the eight (8) hour rest period.
10.11	Reporting Pay
(a)	When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid four (4) hours at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium if applicable for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time he shall be paid straight time for such work up to eight (8) hours in that work day.
(b)	These provisions shall not apply when an employee has
27
been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
(c)	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
10.12	An employee who supervises a crew on the continuous Mine Production relief schedule shall be paid a premium of eighteen dollars ($18) for each complete work day worked. In the event that on occasion the relief to relief system requires longer than forty (40) minutes to effect, applicable overtime rates of pay shall apply.
10.13	When an employee works continuously more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours he shall be entitled to a ten (10) hour rest period. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of this rest period, he will be permitted to remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works, he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor to work on that part of his said regular shift which falls within the said rest period, he shall be paid the appropriate overtime rate for all work performed on his said regular shift. If not so directed, the employee will remain at rest for a ten (10) hour period.
ARTICLE 11. STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
11.01	The following days will be observed as statutory holidays; New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, first Monday in August, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, plus two (2) floating statutory holidays.
(a)	To qualify for a Floating Statutory Holiday, an employee must have had at least one hundred and fifty (150) days
28
continuous service with the Company immediately prior to the holiday.
(b)	In situations involving transfers into or between the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 and U.S.W.A., Local 7884 the total annual Statutory Holidays and Floating Statutory Holiday entitlement for such transferred employees will be no more or less than twelve (12).
11.02	An employee who is required to work on a statutory holiday or a day that is declared in lieu of a statutory holiday will be paid as follows:
(a)	If the holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, he will receive two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked, or
One and one-half (1 A) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number cf hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
(b)	If the holiday falls on a normal work day, he will receive one and one-half (1 U)t i mes his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked, or
One-half ('A) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
If an employee works more than eight (8) hours, he will be paid two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of eight (8) hours on such work day.
Marginal paragraph 11.02 applies only to time worked on the day designated by the Company as the statutory holiday.
11.03	Employees who do not work on a statutory holiday will receive normal pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)	An employee who has been assigned to work on a 29
statutory holiday and does not work shall not receive any pay for the holiday under this Article.
(b)	An employee who is absent without leave on the last work day immediately preceding the statutory holiday or the first work day immediately following the statutory holiday according to the work schedule to which he is assigned, shall not receive any payment for the statutory holiday.
(c)	If a statutory holiday occurs during the employee's vacation as provided in the Agreement and if the employee would normally have been paid for the statutory holiday had he not been on vacation, such employee shall be given an additional day's vacation with pay for each statutory holiday occurring during the vacation.
(d)	If a statutory holiday falls on the employee's day of rest, the employee shall receive an additional day off with pay at a time mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If no mutually suitable day has been agreed upon within ninety (90) days of such holiday, the Company shall designate such day.
(e)	Marginal paragraph 11.03 (a), (c) and (d) will not apply to the floating statutory holiday. The floating statutory holiday may be taken at any time convenient to the operation.
ARTICLE 12. SALARIES
12.01	All salaries shall be detailed in Appendix “A.
12.02	The Company shall maintainthe U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Job Group 32, Step 3, Schedule “A” salary at a minimum of $200.00 per month higherthan the average certifiedjoumey-man tradesman base rate of pay. Any future adjustment to Job Group 32, Step 3, Schedule "A"for this purpose will be applied uniformly to all U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Step 3 salaries. Coincident with the above all Step 3 salaries will hereafter indicate the standard for the job group and as such any pre-
30
sent and future adjustments will be applied to the Step 3 salary only. Step 1 and Step 2 salary levels will be maintained as follows:
(a)	Step 1 to equal 92.5% of Step 3
(b)	Step 2 to equal 95% of Step 3
12.03	Salaried Job Evaluation
All jobs will be rated by a Joint Job Evaluation Committee under one of the following job evaluation systems:
(a)	U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Office Staff
(b)	U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Technical/Supervisory Staff
The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will have the primary purpose of evaluating all eligible jobs.
Appendix “B” sets out the policies and procedures for the evaluation of all U.S.W.A., Local 9702 jobs during the term of this Agreement.
12.04	Employees, upon request in writing, may have their wages deposited in any bank or credit union in British Columbia or Alberta or can receive it by cheque.
ARTICLE 13. PREMIUMS
13.01	The following premiums shall be paid to an employee who is required to work regularly on the following schedules:
5 and 2 - two shifts
(i)	days/afternoons
(ii)	days/graveyards
(iii)	steady afternoons
10 and 4 steady day shift
10 and 4 - two shifts
(i)	days/afternoons
December 22,1992
$39.00/month
$77.00/month
$77.00/month
$44.00/month
$66.00/month
31
Continuous operation - 3 shifts  4x4 schedule
(i)	steady day shift
(ii)	days/nights
These premiums shall be prorated and payable in cases of temporary transfers.
Premiums will be paid on a prorated basis in accordance with the existing premium structure should the Company implement a new schedule.
13.02	Supervisor’s Allowance
The Supervisor’s Allowance shall be four percent (4%) of Step 3 of the individual’s Job Group per month to be paid to any employee who is required to carry out preparatory planning and reporting prior to and following the normal hours of work of the work force as an integral part of their supervisory duties.
This allowance will be reduced on a prorated basis for any period of absence from the job exceeding two (2) weeks in duration, with the exception of paid annual vacations.
Applicable overtime rates will be paid to any supervisor in receipt of this allowance who is directed by the Company to commence work for a period of time in excess of twenty (20) minutes prior to the start of his regular scheduled shift.
13.03	On Call
An employee required to standby for a possible call into work shall be paid a premium of twelve dollars ($12.00) for each shift on call. If called out to work, pay will be in accordance with marginal paragraphs 10.08 and 10.09.
13.04	On call shall be voluntary except as provided in the following:
(a) where urgent work may be necessary to the continuance of the operation:
32
(b)	where no qualified employees are regularly scheduled to work;
(c)	where an employee normally scheduled to be on shift to cover a given skill is absent with no qualified replacement available.
13.05	Emergency Rescue Team Premiums
Active, regularly practicing members of the Emergency Rescue Teams shall be paid the sum of forty-five dollars ($45.00) per month, and the Shift Emergency Rescue Team Captains shall be paid the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. The time spent in practice by such members shall be considered as time worked.
13.06	Under no circumstances shall there be pyramiding or compounding cf premiums.
ARTICLE 14. SENIORITY
14.01	For the purposes of this Agreement there shall be two (2) types of seniority: Company seniority and Bargaining Unit seniority. Whenever the word ''seniority" is used in this Article without qualification it shall mean the total of an employee's Company seniority.
(a)	Company seniority shall be established on the basis of the employee's service with the Company (whether broken or continuous) according to the records of the Personnel function. Company seniority shall continue to accumulate so long as the employee remains on the Company's rolls.
(b)	For the purpose of Job Posting, Vacation Scheduling, and 14.09(b) (ii) only, Bargaining Unit seniority shall apply, which is defined as the employee's service in the bargaining unit at the Company's Fording River Operations, whether broken or continuous, according to the records of the Company's Personnel function.
33
(c)	A Technician or Supervisory employee shall not be deemed to have any Company or Bargaining Unit seniority in the operation until he has been regularly employed in the operation for ninety (90) calendar days.
(d)	An Office Staff employee shall not be deemed to have any Company or Bargaining Unit seniority in the operation until he has been regularly employed in the operation for sixty (60) calendar days.
14.02	Probationary Period
(a)	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, Technicians and Supervisory employees shall be on probation for a period of one hundred and eighty-two (182) calendar days from the date of last hiring by the Company, provided, however, that such employee has worked nine hundred and seventy-five (975) working hours. If he has not worked nine hundred and seventy-five (975) working hours the probation period shall be extended until he has completed nine hundred and seventy-five (975) working hours.
(b)	Notwithstandinganything in this Agreement, Office Staff employees shall be on probation for a period of ninety (90) calendar days from the date of last hiring by the Company, provided, however, that such employee has worked four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%) working hours. If he has not worked four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%) working hours, the probation period shall be extended until he has completed four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%)working hours.
(c)	The parties recognize that probationary employees are, during the probationary period, employed on a trial basis and are subject to dismissal for a lesser cause. Union activity shall not be considered as a reason for discharge under this Section. This clause shall not apply to an employee who is rehired within ninety (90) days of severance.
34
(d)	Hours worked as a temporary employee shall be considered as hours worked during the probationary period for the purpose of meeting the requirement of nine hundred and seventy-five (975) working hours in Article 14.02(a) and four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%) working hours in Article 14.02(b) provided:
(i)	the hours were worked in the same classification as the probationary employee's present job classification, and
(ii)	the hours were worked in the six (6) months previous to the date of the probationary employee's commencement in the permanent job.
14.03	Upon completion of his probationary period the employee shall have his name placed on the seniority lists effective from the date of his employment.
14.04	Employees originally hired by the Company for a special assignment of work may be released when employment at such special assignment of work comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary. Within two (2) weeks the Union shall be notified in writing of such employees and their status.
Employees shall not be continued as special assignment employees for a continuous period (f time longer than twelve (12) months.
14.05
(a)	The Company shall have the right from time to time to select or accept persons for the purpose of giving them special experience or training at jobs within the U.S.W.A. 9702 unit in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company, or for future service outside the Company, so long as such special training does not reduce job posting opportunities or cause displacement or demotion of employees. The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to these persons during such training. The num-
35
ber of such persons shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the number of employees.
(b)	The Company may offer such special experience or training to employees for the same purpose as in (a) above and would be able to direct their training free from any limitations in this Agreement.
14.06	Students employed during the regular holiday period of the educational institution to which they have been admitted or are attending shall be deemed to be temporary employees. During this period students may be assigned to positions of a temporary nature as the Company requirements dictate, provided that such assignment does not result in the demotion or displacement of any employee or would result in the filling of a job vacancy that would normally be posted. In the case of a permanent or indefinite reduction in workforce at the operation, students shall be laid off before regular employees. In the event a student‘s employment on the student roll is terminated but he is rehired by the Company with no break in service, then the time spent on the student roll from the last date of hire shall be considered as continuous service with the Company with respect to the probationary period.
14.07	The Company shall have the right to transfer any person in its employ at the operation covered by this Agreement who has served in a classification as defined in Appendix “ A to a job classification within the definition and to assign to him a job at the operation commensurate with his qualifications provided that such assignment does not result in the displacement of any current job incumbent. Such a person transferred into the unit shall not be eligible to bid on a job for a period of ninety (90) days following his entry into the unit.
14.08	Periods spent by an employee serving with His Majesty’s Forces, in World \Nar li if he entered the employ of the Company within the three (3) month period after his discharge from such forces, and a former employee who after July 5, 1950 and before July 1, 1955, left the Company’s
36
employ to serve as a member of the Special or Regular Forces of Canada, on his return to the Company’s employ, if he is then covered by the Veterans Benefit Act, 1954, shall be considered as service with the Company for the purpose of establishing seniority.
14.09	Reductions in Work Force
(a)	Permanent or Indefinite
In the event of a general reduction of work force, other than those cf a temporary or emergency nature, employees shall be laid cf in the inverse order of Company seniority provided that those senior employees being retained meet the requirements cf the operation and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
In the event of a permanent or indefinite layoff, the employee may use his Company seniority to claim any job classification listed in Appendix “A, provided he can satisfactorily perform the required work and does not displace a more senior employee.
An employee who requires a period of familiarization on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
The Union and the employees concerned shall be notified, whenever possible, thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date cf such layoff or as provided in the Employment Standards Act, whichever is the greater.
When it is necessary to increase forces, former employees with more than thirty (30) days service will be reemployed as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off.
The Company agrees that, so far as is practicable, no new employees shall be hired at the operation until those laid off have been rehired, except in the case of employees covered by marginal paragraph 14.04 of this Article.
37
In the event of a general reduction of work force, the Union Local President, Vice President, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary, Treasurer, Shop Stewards and Safety Representatives shall be the last employees to be laid off, provided they have completed their probationary period and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(b)	Temporary or Emergency Layoff/Shutdown
(i)	In the event that the operation or a part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period of time (not exceeding eight (8) calendar days) employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their job classification seniority.
(ii)	In the eventthat the operation or a part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period of time (exceeding eight (8) calendar days, but not exceeding forty (40) calendar days) employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their bargaining unit seniority within their department, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(iii)	Employees who are temporarily laid off will be recalled in the inverse order in which they were laid off and shall retain all benefits including statutory holidays and continue to accrue seniority during the time of temporary layoff.
(c)	Reduction of Manpower or Equipment
(j)	In the event that the Company reduces the equipment or manpower required in a department, employees affected by the reduction may first move to displace less senior employees within the department, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work. The employee may then use his Company seniority to claim a job in another department, provided he does not displace a more senior employee and can satisfactorily perform the
38
required work.
(jj) An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
14.10	Supervisor Bumping Rights
(a)	In the event that the number of Supervisors required in a Supervisor Classification, as defined in Appendix “A”(2), is reduced, the procedure will be as follows:
(i)	Employees shall be displaced from their supervisory classification in the inverse order of their Company seniority.
(jj) A Supervisor who is displaced from his classification may use his Company seniority to claim a supervisory job that he has previously held on a permanent basis, or a non-supervisory position within the bargaining unit provided that the employee who is displaced can satisfactorily perform the required work and does not displace a more senior employee.
(5) An employee in a non-supervisoryjob classification who has previously been a Supervisor will not be able to bump a Supervisor.
(c)	An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
14.11	Recall
(a)	If an employee is laid off as part of a general reduction of the work force, he shall have preferential rights (hereinafter called “recall rights”) for rehiring for jobs in the bargaining unit. These recall rights shall not exceed
39
twenty-four (24) months from the date of last layoff, and recall shall be in accordance with employee seniority, provided that such employees are able to satisfactorily perform the work which has become available. An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
(b)	Those former employees who qualify for recall shall be notified by the Company by double registered mail at their last known address when a vacancy exists. It shall be the responsibility of the laid-off employees to notify the Personnel representative of any changes in their postal addresses. The recalled employees must notify the Company of their intention to return to work within seven (7) days of the receipt of the recall notice and must return to work within fourteen (14) days of such date or make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Company. The Company shall not be required to rehire at any time any person who failed to acknowledge within the said seven (7) day period the notification to return to work.
(C) Supervisors who are displaced as a result of a general reduction of the work force or the elimination of their job and/or classification, including displaced supervisors who have retained employment under the jurisdiction of Local 7884, shall have preferential rights for hiring for a period of two (2) years into their former job classification, should a vacancy arise in the employee's former job classificationwithin the eligible period.
This provision 14.11 (c) does not affect a supervisor’s rights under 14.11 (a).
(d)	Employees who have been displaced by the Company to other job classifications within the bargaining unit shall have preferential rights for up to two (2) years from
40
the time of their displacement to return, in order of their Company seniority, to the job from which they were displaced as vacancies arise.
(e)	Employees displaced as per 14.11 (c) and (d) who refuse the first opportunityto return to the job from which they were displaced will lose their rate protection if applicable.
14.12	An employee who has completed his probationary period at the time he is laid off shall not be required to serve a probationary period upon rehire if he is rehired within the twenty-four (24) month recall period as defined in marginal paragraph 14.11(a) above.
14.13	A probationary employee who is laid off and rehired within twenty-four (24) months pursuant to marginal paragraph 14.11(a) shall, for the purpose of marginal paragraph 14.02, be credited with the period of time he had been a probationary employee prior to layoff.
ARTICLE 15. POSTINGS, PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS
15.01	Vacancies
Temporary Vacancies shall be defined as a permanent job temporarily vacated for any reason or a job created by the Company for a specific purpose(s) and a specific period of time.
Permanent Vacancies shall be defined as an established job which is permanently vacated by an employee or a newly created permanentjob.
15.02	Vacancies To Be Posted
All permanent jobs that are vacant for thirty (30) calendar days or more shall be posted.
All temporary job vacancies to be filled, will be posted within five (5) calendar days after the Company becomes aware
41
that the time limits of a temporary assignment will be exceeded.
15.03	Job Posting Procedure
Parti: Permanent Job Posting Procedure
(a)	Vacant positions which are to be posted shall be on job posting forms and shall contain the following:
(1)	Job Title
(2)	Job Group
(3)	Department (Area)
(4)	Present Shift (may be changed as required)
(5)	Length of Job Vacancy (temporary or permanent)
(6)	Brief Description of Vacancy
(b)	Job Postings shall be posted on 9702 bulletin boards for nine (9) calendar days.
(c)	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting being closed, the successful applicant shall be selected and his name shall be posted. All employees who applied for the vacancy will be advised of the disposition of their application.
(d)	Within thirty (30) calendar days of being selected, the successful applicant shall occupy his new job at the new salary or rate of pay as per Appendix “A” Salaries. Once selected for the new job, the successful applicant will be confirmed in the job as of commencement of his new duties.
(e)	An employee who will be absent due to vacation or authorized leave who wishes to be considered for a job which may become vacant during such absence, may complete a job posting application and forward it to the Personnel Department prior to taking such vacation or leave. If the position applied for becomes vacant, the Personnel Department shall include that application with
42
others who apply for the position.
Part II: Temporary Job Posting Procedure
(a)	Vacant positions which are to be posted shall be on job posting forms and shall contain the following:
(1)	Job Title
(2)	Job Group
(3)	Department (Area)
(4)	Present Shift (may be changed as required)
(5)	Length of Job Vacancy (temporary or permanent)
(6)	Brief Description of Vacancy
(b)	Job Postings shall be posted on 9702 bulletin boards for seven (7) calendar days.
(c)	All employees who applied for the vacancy will be advised of the disposition of their application. Within seven (7) calendar days of the posting being closed, the successful applicant shall be selected and his name shall be posted.
(d)	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of being selected, the successful applicant shall occupy his new job at the new salary or rate of pay as per Appendix "ASalaries. Once selected for the new job, the successful applicant will be confirmed in the job as of commencement of his new duties.
(e)	An employee who bids to a temporary job vacancy shall, upon termination of the same, return to his previous job or equivalent.
(f)	The temporary job posting procedure shall only be used to fill the initial temporary vacancy. Consequential vacancies arising from the application of the temporary job posting procedure will be entirely a matter for the Company's discretion.
43
15.04	Selection Procedure
(a)	It is understood that no person shall be hired until such time as it has been established through the job posting procedure that there is no employee available who is qualified for such position.
Local 9702 Bargaining Unit employees who have applied to a job posting shall be given first consideration.
(b)	In cases of transfers, promotions and placements to lower job groups, the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee(s) shall receive the transfer, promotion, or placement to the lower job group:
(i)	the seniority of each employee concerned, and
(ii)	the ability, qualifications and experience of each employee concerned.
When factor (ii) is relatively equal between two (2) or more employees, the employee having the greater seniority shall be entitled to preference. The qualifications of employees shall be determined in a fair and equitable manner.
Note: It is recognized that qualifications for jobs once established, would not change unless the job content or the job standard change.
(c)	The selection of supervisors will be as per marginal paragraph4.04 of the Agreement.
(d)	An employee, who is an unsuccessful applicant for a job posting, may request a meeting to discuss the disposition of his application.
(e)	If as a result of the Company awarding a bid position a dispute arises, no employee shall occupy that position on a permanent basis until the dispute is settled. Such a dispute shall be decided in arbitration.
44
15.05	All persons hired to fill a permanent job within the unit will be placed on salaried rolls immediately. Such persons shall not be eligible for a promotion unless the probation period has been completed.
15.06
(a)	An employee desiring a change in shift or work group assignment for personal reasons shall make the same known to his supervisor by filling out duplicate transfer request forms. The supervisor shall award the change on the basis of seniority as vacancies occur provided it does not interfere with the efficiency of the operations.
(b)	For the purposes of the above only: An assignment is a situation where there is no significant change in job duties or any change in job group. An assignment from one job to another involving no change in job group shall not be considered as a transfer, promotion or demotion. A transfer situation involves inter-departmental moves where there is a significant change in job content.
15.07
(a) When the Company temporarily promotes a person covered by a Collective Agreement to a position within the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit to fill a vacancy of twenty-nine (29) calendar days or less resulting from holidays, illness, or short-term abnormal requirements, such person is not covered by this Collective Agreement, but he shall continue to be covered by the Collective Agreement applicable to the Unit from which he was promoted save and except for wage rates. The wage rate paid will be the Step 1 rate applicable to the position included in the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit. Such person shall not remain in a Local 9702 Bargaining Unit job position in excess of eighty-four (84) working days in aggregate in a calendar year.
Note: Notwithstanding Article 15.02, the above time limits may be extended by mutual consent.
45
(b) When the Company temporarily employs a person not covered by a Collective Agreement to a position within the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit, such person is not covered by this Collective Agreement, save and except for wage rates. The wage rate paid will be the Step 1 rate applicable to the position included in the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit. Such person shall not remain in a U.S.W.A., Local 9702 job position for a continuous period exceeding five (5) working days, except where by mutual consent it has been agreed that the person should or should not be covered by the Collective Agreement or where the job has been posted as a temporary job vacancy as per marginal paragraphs
15.01	and 15.02
15.08
(a)	An employee who has been partially disabled as a result of an accident or industrial disease within the meaning of the Workers' Compensation Act, incurred in the course of his employment with the Company, shall be given preference over other employees for employment in any job for which he has the necessary qualifications, whether or not a vacancy exists. The Company may, in consultation with the Union, extend this privilege to an employee who becomes disabled from any other cause.
(b)	If an employee is the incumbent of a job before the job is made available by the Company under this Section for partially disabled employees, he shall, upon being replaced in that job by a partially disabled employee, have his rate of pay maintained at a rate not less than the rate of the job from which he was moved.
(c)	Displacement from action of paragraph (a) shall not result in layoff of any other employees from Local 9702.
15.09	Temporary Job Assignment and Rate of Pay
If an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher paying job
within the unit due to illness, vacation, etc., of another
46
employee he will be paid a temporary rate for the job for the full period of such assignment. The temporary rate will be an increase of five percent (5%) of his present salary provided, however, that if the resulting salary falls outside the range of the job group in which he is relieving he will be paid either:
(i)	The minimum (Step 1) rate of the job if the five percent (5%) increase results in a rate which is lower than the minimum (Step 1) rate for the job.
(ii)	The maximum (Step 3) rate of the job if the five percent (5%) increase results in a rate which is higher than the maximum rate for the job.
An employee who is temporarily assigned to a lower rated job will retain his current salary during this period.
15.10	Temporary Assignment Which Changes to a Temporary Job Vacancy
(a)	An employee on temporary assignment shall upon termination of the same, return to his previous job or the equivalent. Temporary assignments shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days. If it becomes apparent that the temporary assignment will extend beyond the thirty (30) calendar day period due to sickness or accident, the Company shall post the position as a temporary job vacancy unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and the Union.
(b)	Employees who have been assigned to any job which changes to a permanent or temporary job vacancy shall not be considered to have an advantage over other more senior qualified employees who apply for the permanent or temporary vacancy.
(c)	Persons employed to fill temporary vacancies shall be covered by the Collective Agreement save and except for the following:
47
(i)	Probationary Period
The probationary period under marginal paragraph
14.02	in this Collective Agreement must be served each time persons are employed to fill a temporary vacancy.
(ii)	Job Postings
Persons hired as temporary employees, who are the successful applicant for a job posting, shall be required unless mutually agreed otherwise to fulfil the tenure of their present temporary position before being assigned to their new positions. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(iii)	Vacation pay at four percent (4%) of the temporary employee's earnings shall be paid at the end of the temporary vacancy, or when the temporary employee is terminated.
(iv)	Bereavement Leave as defined in marginal paragraph 19.01 and Jury Duty/Witness Pay as defined in marginal paragraph 20.01 will become available upon completion of the probationary period as defined above.
(v)	The medical plans in marginal paragraph 22.02 will be made available on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period.
(vi)	Basic Life Insurance as outlined in marginal paragraph 22.05 shall be immediately available, however, optional coverage shall not be available unless the temporary employee becomes a full time employee.
(vii)	The Optical Plan benefits provided for in marginal paragraph 22.07 shall be available upon completion of the Probationary period.
48
15.11	Temporary Job Which Changes to a Permanent Job
If, for whatever reason, such temporary job assumes permanent status, the employee occupying the job shall be confirmed in the position on a permanent basis.
15.12	Return of Absent Employee
When an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness or accident he shall, on his return, be reinstated in the job he held. During such absence, his seniority shall accumulate as if he had not been so absent. This privilege will also be extended to employees, including Union Officers, returning to work from a leave authorized by the Company.
15.13	Where an employee is to be placed in a lower job group for reasons not attributable to the employee, the following Rate Protection will apply:
(a)	Upon being placed in the position, the employee will retain his current salary.
(b)	If the employee's salary is within the salary range of the lower job group, he will receive such general increases as accrue to his new group.
(c)	If the employee's salary is above the standard of the new job group, he will receive general increases only to the extent of the new job group that he is currently occupying.
(d)	Rate protection will cease should an employee successfully bid to another job with an equal or lower rate of pay and the new job shall become the employee'sjob classification.
(e)	When an employee bids to anotherjob with a higher rate of pay, he shall maintain his rate protection until such time as the rate of pay of his new job meets or exceeds the rate of pay for which he was rate protected.
49
ARTICLE 16. TRAINING
16.01	The Company and the Union mutually recognize the importance and necessity of assisting employees to improve their skills and knowledge so that they may keep abreast of technological advances, have opportunity for advancement and maintain credentials required by the Company. It is acknowledged that both the employee and the Company have responsibilities in advancing the employee's knowledge and skills in order to meet the Company's needs in these areas. Employees who are enrolled in training programs required by the Company, which may include programs sponsored by government agencies, shall have their normal salaries maintained. Employees required by the Company to take additional training at times other than their regular hours of work shall be paid at their regular equivalent hourly rate for such time, which time will not be considered as time worked for any purpose under this Agreement. Should an employee fail to complete a training program and/or fail to pass the examination at the end of his training and is subsequently permitted to repeat the training, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the employee as provided herein while he is repeating his training. In order to assist older employees to adapt to technological change and to learn new methods, the Company will endeavour, whenever possible, to give older employees preference for training to assist them to compete on an equal basis for promotions and new jobs with younger employees.
16.02	Employees affected by technological change will be given prior consideration for training to fill job openings providing that such employees have the necessary ability to do the job and are willing to participate fully in the training. Should the required training not accommodate all employees affected by such change, training will be offered in accordance with the principlesof marginal paragraph 15.04(b). On successful completion of training, placement to fill the jobs shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
50
16.03	Trades Committee
A committee will be appointed consisting of two (2) employees representing the U.S.W.A. Local 7884 Union, one (1) employee representing the U.S.W.A. Local 9702 Union and three (3) representatives of the Company.The Company will reimburse employees who may lose time from their normal work as a result of acting as Union Representatives on the committee at straight time rates to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day. This paragraph will also apply to time spent off the property to attend meetings called by the Company and do committee work as authorized by the Company CoChairman. Requests for off property trades committee work will not be unreasonablywithheld.
ARTICLE 17. ANNUAL VACATIONS
17.01	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one year prior to the first day of January in any year shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, ten (10) working days off with pay.
(b)	If hired between September 1st and December 31st inclusive of the previous year, five (5) working days off with pay, plus five (5) unpaid work days off if requested.
17.02	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete Yrs. Service As Of The First Day In January rf Any Yr.
Days of Vacation With Pay
Entitlement Plateau Years
1
12
2
15	3 weeks
51
Complete Yrs. Service As Of The First Day In	Days of Vacation With Pay Entitlement
3	15
4	16
5	17
6	18
7	19
8	20
9	20
10	21
11	21
12	22
13	22
14	23
15	23
16	24
17	24
18	25
19	25
20	26
21	26
22	27
23	27
24	28
25	28
26	29
27	29
28	30
52
Plateau Years
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
The word “pay” shall mean remuneration for eight (8) hour days of vacation, as the case may require, at the employee's regular base rate of pay during the calendar month immediately preceding the vacation.
17.03	Employees entitled to ten (10) or more working days paid vacation may split their vacation subject to the approval of their supervisor.
17.04	If an employee has been absent from work without pay during the preceding calendar year for any reason other than the employee's sickness or accident, or maternity leave, the periods of vacation with pay, as specified in the above paragraphs, shall be reduced by 1124th for each full pay period by which the absence exceeds thirty (30) consecutive days; provided, however, that in the case of sickness the employee will not be entitled to any vacation with pay after the absence exceeds twelve (12) consecutive months.
17.05	Vacation Scheduling
Vacation entitlements will be posted as soon as possible but no later than January 15th of each year. Employees may then indicate their preference in vacation dates to supervision up to and including February 15th.
After February 15th of each year, supervision will schedule vacations in accordance with Bargaining Unit Seniority for those employees who have indicated their preference. Employees who did not indicate their preference will have their vacation periods scheduled by the Company. Nothing in this Article shall affect the right of the Company to schedule vacations.
The Company will post vacation schedules no later than April 15th of each year with a copy being sent to the Union. Once vacation lists have been posted, vacations can only be changed with the mutual consent of the employee and the Company except where a major business circumstance that could not have been reasonably anticipated by the Company requires the rescheduling of some or all of the vacations.
53
The Company will schedule vacations in 40-hour blocks with the following exceptions:
(a)	at the beginning and end of shutdowns;
(b)	the final portion of vacation entitlement;
(c)	other durations as requested by the employee and approved by the Company.
Upon receipt of proof of loss, the Company shall reimburse an employee for reservation deposits lost as a result of his vacation being rescheduled by the Company, provided the employee has made arrangements through his supervisor to have the vacation time off and makes the supervisor aware in writing at the time the vacation is rescheduled of the deposits the employee will lose as a result of the rescheduling.
17.06	Vacation Adjustment
A vacation adjustment will be implemented, in addition to the vacation entitlements listed above, as follows. In those years that an employee first achieves the vacation plateaus of each of the three (3), four (4), five (5) and six (6) weeks of vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitled to a vacation adjustment equivalent to 0.208 days, with pay for each foil one-half (14) month of service between his date of last hire with the Company and December 31st of that same year. The time entitlement shall be rounded off to the nearest full day.
17.07	Unpaid Leave
An employee shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of his annual vacation for the purpose of rounding-out his work period (as defined in marginal paragraph 10.03) subject to the following conditions:
(a)	An employee who is employed on the 7&3 continuous operations schedule shall be entitled to a maximum of two (2) days unpaid Leave of Absence to be taken as the last portion of each vacation week.
(b)	Employees on any work schedule shall be entitled to
54
unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of their final vacation period.
NOTE: This entitlement shall only apply if the employee has scheduled such entitlement with his annual vacation prior to April 1 st of the vacation year.
Where an employee has not scheduled this entitlement and wishes to at a later time, the employee shall make such request to his immediate supervisor before the start of such vacation period. Approval in such cases shall be subject to the efficiency of the operations.
17.08	Vacation Shutdown
In the event a portion of the operation is shut down for vacation purposes, employees will be required to take their vacation during the shutdown. If work is available during a shutdown, the Company will offer work to employees in order of Bargaining Unit seniority, within their department, on their shift, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work.
This procedure shall not apply to employees who do not have sufficient unused vacation entitlement to cover the shutdown period. Employees who do not have sufficient unused vacation entitlement to cover the shutdown period, will receive first consideration for available work in order of Bargaining Unit Seniority within their department, on their shift, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work.
Employees who have their requests for vacation to be taken outside of vacation shutdowns approved, will not be eligible for work during vacation shutdowns for a period of time equal to the vacation time taken or scheduled outside the vacation shutdown, unless the employee has sufficient unused vacation entitlement to cover the duration of the shutdown.
17.09	Employees will not be permitted to take cash in lieu of earned vacations or any portion thereof. An exception to this rule will occur only in the case of severance from the Company's rolls, or retirement to pension.
55
ARTICLE 18. SPECIAL VACATIONS
18.01	Effective January 1st, 1979, employees with five (5) years or more of service who did not previously qualify for Special Vacation will be entitled to a Special Vacation of three (3) weeks in addition to their normal vacation entitlement to be taken within the five (5) year period ending December 31st, 1983. During each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period these employees shall become eligible for a further three (3) weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who complete their five (5) years of service after January 1st, 1979, shall be eligible for this program during the five (5) year period commencing with the January 1st following the year in which they complete five (5) years service and during each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period they shall become eligible for a further three (3) weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who had attained fifteen (15) years service prior to January 1st, 1978 will continue to earn a Special Vacation of three (3)weeks in each five (5) year qualifying period commencing with January 1st of the year in which they first qualified for Special Vacation.
18.02	Special Vacations shall be governed by the following conditions:
(a)	They shall be taken at times which are suitable to both the Company and employee and must be taken within the designated five (5) year period. In the event the previously scheduled and agreed to Special Vacation period is cancelled by the Company during the final year of the five (5) year period, the employee will receive a one (1) year extension from the date of cancellation in which to reschedule the Special Vacation.
(b)	The allocation of regular vacations shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations.
(c)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation, a week shall mean a work week as defined in marginal para-
56
graph 9.02. If a Statutory Holiday falls within the period and the employee concerned would have become entitled to pay for such holiday not worked, if he had not been on Special Vacation, the Special Vacation period shall be extended by seven and one-half (7%)hours or eight (8) hours with pay or the day will be banked and taken at a time mutually convenient to the Company and employee.
(d)	Special Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of thirty-seven and one-half (37!4) hours or forty (40) hours of remuneration per week based on the employee's regular base rate or the base rate on which the employee worked the majority of the time during the calendar month immediately preceding the Special Vacation.
(e)	On retirement an employee shall receive pay for any unused Special Vacation plus payment for the full allotment for which he is currently qualifying.
(f)	On death, pay for any unused Special Vacation to which an employee would have been entitled plus a pro rata payment towards his next Special Vacation allotment shall be paid to his estate.
(g)	If an employee leaves the service of the Company or his employment is terminated during any five (5) year qualifying period, he shall receive pay for any unused Special Vacation to which he is entitled plus a pro rata payment towards his next Special Vacation allotment.
(h)	Absences from work during a qualifying period for reasons of sickness or accident in excess of twelve (12) months or for any reason other than sickness or accident, or maternity leave in excess of three (3) months will result in proportional reduction of benefits. In the case of absence at the commencement of a Special Vacation qualifying period no allotment will be made until the employee returns to work at which time the allotment will be proportionately reduced.
57
ARTICLE 19. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
19.01	On request by an employee, Bereavement Leave with pay shall be granted in the event of death in the employee's immediate family in accordance with the following conditions:
One shift, due to the death, and up to an additional three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a spouse, child, father or mother, OR
Up to three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a mother-in-law,father-in-law, brother, sister or grandparent.
The definition of spouse will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the employee for two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1) year where there is no such bar and the employee and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife.
ARTICLE 20. JURY DUTY/WITNESS PAY
20.01	A regular full-time employee who is required to report for jury duty in family court, county court, provincial court, supreme court or coroner's court or who is subpoenaed by the crown to appear as a witness at any proceedings in the aforementioned courts on a work day on which he would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between his regular base rate of pay and the jury duty pay or witness pay received for that day. Reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of the employee's normal work day or work week. The employee will be required to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court to the Company before payment is made.
Time paid for jury or witness duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and statutory holidays but will not be counted as hours worked in a work day for the purpose of computing overtime.
58
ARTICLE 21. MATERNITY LEAVE
21.01	A female employee may apply in writing and shall be granted a maternity Leave of Absence to a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive weeks (or less as may be requested by the employee) or in accordance with the Employment StandardsAct of B.C. (1980), whichever is greater.
An additional Leave of Absence, without pay, at the request of the employee because of related medical reasons which are substantiated to the satisfaction of the Company, shall be granted up to a total of six (6) consecutive weeks.
21.02	The employee shall give the Company thirty (30) calendar days notice in writing of the day upon which she intends to commence her Leave of Absence and shall furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is pregnant, and the estimated date of delivery.
21.03	An employee who intends to resume employment after maternity leave shall endeavour to give as much notice as possible, but in no case less than one (1) week's notice to her crew or unit supervisor. She must furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is able to resume full-time work. On her return to work the Company shall reinstate the employee to her previous position, or should her former position be redundant, provide her with alternate work at not less than her job group at the time her Leave of Absence began.
21.04	The period of such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority and pension purposes, and vacation entitlement with pay only.
21.05	The Company will continue to provide medical, extended health, optical plan, dental and group insurance benefits during the period of leave and the Company shall continue to make payment to the plan in the same manner as if the employee were not absent where:
59
(a)	the Company pays the total cost of the plan, or
(b)	the employee elects to continue to pay her share of the cost of a plan that is paid for jointly by the Company and the employee.
Basic Sick Leave and Long Term Disability benefits will not be available during the leave.
ARTICLE 22. BENEFITS
22.01	The following employees' benefits program with respect to medical plans, sick leave plans, long term disability plan, group life insurance, dental plan and optical plan shall be in effect during the term of this Agreement.
22.02	Medical Plans
The Company shall pay the entire premium cost per employee per month, if any, for both married and single employees under the British Columbia Medical Services Plan and the Extended Health Benefit Plan with M.S.A. as licensed carrier. As part of the eligible expenses under the Extended Health Benefit Plan with M.S.A., employeeswill receive100% reimbursement of the cost of prescription drugs as defined in the M.S.A. group insurance contractafter each employee has satisfied an annual deductible of $25 of medical expenses underthe extended health plan of M.S.A.
The Company will provide “out-of-province” medical coverage under the existing medical plan. Premium costs for this coverage will be paid by the Company.
22.03	Sick Leave Plans
The Company shall pay the entire cost of plans summarized in this clause. The benefit amounts under both the Basic Sick Leave Plan and the Long Term Disability Plan are designed to provide an employee with a guaranteed level of disability income. If an employee is also eligible for disability income through Workers' Compensation, the Canada Pension Plan, or similar programs, the benefit amounts under
60
the Company plans will be reduced by the amount of this other income.
Basic Sick Leave Pian
An employee is eligible after three (3) months of continuous service.
Benefits are paid for ninety (90) days.*
-	full salary to the extent of accumulated sick credits.
-	partial salary for the balance (if any) of the ninety (90) days.
Sick credits accumulate at the rate of twelve (12) days per year to a maximum of ninety (90) days.'
* If an employee had accumulated more than ninety (90) days prior to February 1st, 1968, he is eligible for full salary benefits to the extent of the accumulation.
When an employee has used up his sick credits he shall receive partial salary as set out below:
3 months to 5 years - 40% of salary 5 years to 10 years - 50% of first $1,400 and 40% of balance
over 10 years - 60% of first $1,400 and 50% of balance. Minimum benefit is two-thirds (2/3) U.I.C. insurable earnings.
22.04	Long Term Disability Plan
An employee is eligible for benefits after three (3) months of continuous service.
Benefits commence after all Basic Sick Leave benefits have been used, providing that an employee's disability meets the terms of the insurance policy.
The benefit period is related to service:
61
-	if an employee has less than ten (10)years of service, the benefit period is equal to his service rounded to the next full year. For example, if an employee's service is two (2) years and one (1)month, his benefit period will be three (3) years.
-	if an employee has more than ten (10)years of service his benefit period will extend until he retires.
The benefit amount is also related to service and is calculated in the same manner as the partial salary amount under the Basic Sick Leave Plan:
3 months to 5 years - 40% of salary
5 to 10 years	- 50% of first $1,400 and
40% of balance
over 10 years - 60% of first $1,400 and 50% of balance
Minimum benefit is two-thirds (2/3) U.I.C. insurable earnings.
22.05	Group Life Insurance
Eligibility
All full-time employees are eligible on employment. Coverage for new employees becomes effective on the date of hire. Beneficiaries are as recorded with the Company.
Basic Coverage
An employee’s basic coverage of life insurance is an amount equal to one and one-halftimes (1J4 x) his previous year’s annual income from employment with Fording Coal Limited, roundedto the next higher $1,000 if not already a multiple of $1,000. The entire program for this coverage will be paid by the Company.
Optional Coverage
Within thirty (30) days of date of hire, an employee may purchase additional insurance equal in amount to one (1), two (2), or three (3)times his previous year’s annual income as
62
outlined under Basic Coverage; spousal coverage may be purchased in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the employee’s optional coverage; and dependent child coverage may be purchased in an amount of $10,000 per child as specified by the insurance carrier. These Optional Life Insurance Coverages will be effective on the first day of the month following the date of hire and will be based on smoker and non-smoker rates. This additional coverage is optional, with the monthly cost to the employee, per $1,000 coverage, being the average cost of all coverage as determined by claims experience. This option shall not be available after retirement.
Revisions to Optional Coverage
Optional coverage may be cancelled effective the last day of any calendar month, provided sufficient notice is given. Where an employee chooses not to participate when first eligible, or where, after a period of participation, an employee cancels and at a later date wishes to again participate, evidence of insurability satisfactory to the carrier will be required.
To change his coverage, an employee must contact the Personnel Function of the Company and arrange to complete the appropriate authorization card.
Revisions Related to Salary Change
Revisions related to salary change are effective on the first of the following month. When an employee's Basic Coverage is so revised, the Optional Coverage is revised accordingly.
Coverage for Retired Employees
Coverage for retired employees is related to final earnings, i.e., a percentage of active basic coverage. The monthly premium for this coverage shall be paid by the Company.
Optional coverage is not available. The levels of insurance after retirement are as follows:
63
Percentage of Pre-retirement
Age	Annual Income
60 to 64	100%
65	80%
66	70%
67	60%
68	50%
69	40%
70 and over	30%
Coverage is reduced by $2,500 at age 65 if the employee was age 45 to 55 at hire.
No coverage is available after age 65 if the employee was age 55 or over at hire.
Certificates of Insurance
Each employee will receive a Certificate describing the coverage.
Extended Coverage and Disability
Should an employee, prior to age sixty (60) become disabled under the terms of the Policy and be unable to work for a period exceeding six (6) months, the employee's Basic Coverage will be continued subject to normal retirement reductions. In addition, the employee's Optional Coverage will be continued without payment of premium until retirement, as long as the employee provides regular proof of continuing disability.
22.06	Dental Plan
The cost of the Dental Plan will be paid for by the Company. The Dental Plan provides for payment of 100% of the basic services commonly referred to as Plan "A" and 80% of the services commonly referred to as Plan “B". Employees and their spouse, and unmarried dependent children under the
64
age of twenty-one (21) will be eligible for this coverage on the first of the month following six (6) months of continuous service at Fording River Operations.
The Company will provide a dental services plan which will provide for payment of 50% of services commonly referred to as Plan “C” to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per family member.
The Dental Plan will be carried by a commercial insurer and the terms of any such insurance policy will be binding on the employees. The Company's obligation under the Plan is restricted to paying the actual premiums charged by the insurer.
22.07	Optical Plan
The Company shall maintain a vision care plan paid by the Company. The plan will provide employees and their dependents with 100% reimbursement of the cost of frames and/or prescription lenses after the employee has satisfied an annual deductible of $25 of medical expenses under the Extended Health Plan of M.S.A. The maximum payable is $100 per calendar year for employees and each of their dependents.
22.08	Premium Rebates
The employee's portion of the reduced Unemployment Insurance Commission premiums resulting from registration of the Sickness and Accident Benefit Plans will continue to be directed toward employee benefit plans.
ARTICLE 23. PENSION PLAN
23.01	The Fording-Union Pension Plan Agreement effective May 1st, 1980, shall be deemed to form part of this Agreement. For administrative purposes, the pension plan is printed in a separate booklet.
The Company will guarantee that no current employee who is now age 55 or older will receive lower benefits at any time
65
than he or she would have under the presentU.S.W.A., Local 9702 Pension Plan. This applies at normal or early retirement, in the case of payment to the widows, or in the case of a deferred payment to a vested employee who commences his or her pension at age 65.
For either Pension Plan, the definition of “dependent spouse” will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the pensioner for two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1) year where there is no such bar and the pensioner and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife and have so advised the Company in writing.
ARTICLE 24. ON LOAN
24.01	In the interest of making the most flexible use of the skills available within the Company it is desirable from time to time to loan employees between various operations of the Company on a temporary basis. The following conditions will apply to employees on loan where the employee is required to live away from his normal place of residence:
(a)	All loan assignments shall be voluntary.
(b)	The rate of pay of an employee on loan will be the greater of his regular rate of pay or the rate provided for the job in the Collective Agreement in effect at the receiving operation. If there is no Collective Agreement in effect at the receiving operation, the employee will be paid no less than his regular rate of pay.
(c)	Employees “on loan” will be required to work on one of the schedules in effect at the receiving operation. The duration of a normal work shift and all other provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect at the dispatching operation will prevail.
(d)	Accommodation and board will be selected by and provided at Company expense. Employees will be advised of accommodation and board prior to assignment.
66
(e)	Transportation will be supplied by the Company. If an employee elects to use his personal car for transportation, he will be reimbursed at the rate per mile which prevails in the Company regulations at the time the assignment is carried out. Such reimbursement will be made for the initial trip and the trip home at the conclusion of the loan assignment.
(f)	Travel time paid in any one day will be limited to eight (8) hours. It is agreed that employees who travel on their rest days will be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
(g)	A loan assignment will be a maximum of five (5)weeks. If an employee elects to remain on loan for a period in excess df five (5) weeks he will be provided with transportation home after every five (5)weeks on loan.
(h)	A day off with pay shall be granted for each regular work week on loan, and such accumulated leave may be taken before returning to work after conclusion of a loan assignment.
If leave is not taken at the end of the loan assignment, it shall be taken at the convenience of the operation.
(i)	An allowance of fifty dollars ($50) per week will be paid to employees on loan for each week on loan. Loan assignmentsof less than one (1) week will be prorated.
(j)	The Company will advise the Union in writing of employees accepting loan assignments.
ARTICLE 25. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01	Purpose
The parties acknowledge that the long term interests of both the Company and the employees are best served if the Company maintains and, if possible, improves its competitive position. In order to do this the Company may make technological changes. However, both parties also recognize the
67
importance of lessening the effects of technological change as much as reasonably possible on the security and earnings of employees, particularly those more senior in the service, who may be displaced as a result of technological change.
25.02	Definition
For the purpose of this Article, “Technological Change” means the automation, modification, or replacement of machinery or equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which causes the displacement of an employee(s) or has a detrimental effect on the incumbent'swage rate.
25.03	Prior Notice
The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, ninety (90) days prior notice of the implementation of any technological change.
25.04	Company-Union Meetings
On request by either patty, the Industrial Relations department and Union President or his designate will meet for the purpose of discussing the effects of any technological change. Further meetings will be held, as far in advance as practical of the time the technological change is to take place, for the purpose of implementing the specific application of this Article. At all meetings, meaningful discussions shall be held to resolve issues arising from the effects or implementation of technological change.
25.05	Maintenance of Rate Benefit
In the event that technological changes are instituted at any time in this operation which result in the demotion of any employee, the rate of pay of such employee shall be protected in accordance with the provisions of marginal paragraph 15.13. It is understood that this shall not apply in the case of demotions for other reasons including reduction of crews for reasons other than technological change.
68
25.06	Training Benefit
The Company will provide an employee with training or retraining on the job which will provide as closely as possible, the job classification level which the employee held before his displacement. To provide this traininghetraining, the Company and Union mutually agree that the provisions of the Collective Agreement regarding the posting of jobs shall not apply, provided such assignment does not result in the displacement of any current job incumbent. This training or retraining period will be up to thirty (30) days in duration.
If the employee chooses not to accept the training/retraining offered, the provision of marginal paragraph 25.05 shall not apply. However, all rights provided for in the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
25.07	Severance Benefit
If an employee loses his employment with the Company as a result of technological change, he will be entitled to a termination allowance, in addition to the normal severance pay, at the time of his termination, as follows:
-	a minimum of two (2) weeks' pay at his normal base salary;
PLUS
-	one (1) additional week's pay at his normal base salary for each complete year of service to a maximum of eight (8) weeks in total.
Note: This Article shall apply to non-probationary permanent employees.
ARTICLE 26. HUMANITY FUND
26.01 Effective September 1st, 1989, the Company agrees to deduct on a monthly basis the amount of one cent (1C) per hour from the salaries of all employees in the bargaining unit for all hours worked during the month and, prior to the 15th day cf the month following, to pay the amount so deducted to
69
the “Humanity Fund” and to forward such payment to United Steelworkers of America National Office, and to advise in writing both the Humanity Fund at the aforementioned address and the local union that such payment has been made and the amount of such payment.
26,02 It is understood and agreed that participation by any employee in the bargaining unit in the program of deductions set forth above may only be initiated by the employee providing a written statement to the Company and Local Union stating his desire to initiate such deductions from his pay.
ARTICLE 27. LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
27,01 The following Letters of Understanding are in effect during the course of the 1992-1996 Collective Agreement:
Subject Index
1.	Counselling Interviews
2.	Standing Contract Language Committee
3.	Joint Training
4.	Partial or Temporary Layoffs or Shutdowns
5.	Labour-Management Relations Committee
6.	Supervisor's Bumping Rights
7.	Engineering4 ON, 4 OFF Schedule
8.	Grouping of Statutory Holidays
9.	Job Evaluation Plan
10.	Supervisory Transfers
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- NO. 1 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERSOF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT Counsellino Interviews
The Company uses a counselling procedure regarding improvements or lapses in employee work performance and recognition of meritorious work performance. Generally, the supervisor involved prepares a Counselling Interview Report (C.I.R.) after such counselling sessions. A counselling session is a matter between the supervisor and the individual employee.
One purpose of counselling is to identify and correct lapses in work performance so that formal disciplinary action will not be necessary. Without such a procedure, it is likely that there would be far more discipline given out for what could be easily correctible work performance situations.
In all cases where a C.I.R. is prepared for filing, the employee will be advised and given the opportunity to read, discuss, and sign (as acknowledgement of having read) the C.I.R. with his supervisor. Each employee will be given a copy of the Counselling Interview Report if requested.
The counselling procedure is a positive step in establishing and maintaining good relationships between employees and supervision.
The parties agree to meet to discuss any concerns re: the application of this procedure.
71
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING- No. 2 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Standing Contract Language Committee
The parties agree, that because of the length of this contract, it may be appropriate from time to time to consider revisions to the Collective Agreement in respect to non-cost contract language items to the Employer.
Therefore, the parties agree to establish a Standing Committee on Contract Language, which shall consist of three (3) Senior members of the Bargaining Unit chosen by the Union, and three (3) Senior members of Management, chosen by the Company, one of which will be the Superintendent, Employee Relations. The Employer and the Union shall designate one (1) of their appointees to act as a co-chairman.
The Standing Committee shall meet to consider revisions to the Collective Agreement at the call of either the President of the Local Union or the General Manager, or at the call of the co-chairman.
Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the call, either party may make proposals for contract language change. The parties agree that the proposals (including the rewording of a proposed changed clause), and a complete written rationale for each proposal will be presented.
The Standing Committee shall have the power to make rec-ommendationsto both parties for contractual revisions, and in the event the recommendationsare accepted, subject to ratification by the Local 9702 membership, such revisions shall be incorporated into the Collective Agreement and shall be binding on the parties.
It is agreed that this committee will be constituted effective six (6) months from the date of ratification of this Contract.
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 3 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Joint Training
The parties agree to implement a program of Joint Company/Union training as follows:
1.	During the course of the 1992-1996 Collective Agreement,
joint training sessions will be developed to cover such areas as:
a)	Changes to the 1992-1996 Collective Agreement arising from bargaining;
b)	The roles of Stewards and Supervisors/Foremen in grievances, safety, contract administration, efficiency of operations, etc.;
c)	Working together - workplace relationships.
Course content and material will be developed from resources available through the Company and U.S.W.A. office.
2.	The Company will ensure no Steward will suffer any loss
of regular earnings as a result of attendance at these seminars.
3.	The parties will meet prior to these seminars to arrange
satisfactory dates, times and course content.
73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 4 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Partial or Temporary Layoffs or Shutdowns
It is the intent of the Company to notify the Union as far in advance as possible of any pending layoff or shutdown. This advance notice shall be accomplished by notifying the Union fourteen (14) days in advance, if practical, with a minimum of one (1) week's notice.
The Union President will be invited to a meeting prior to the actual layoff or shutdown date. The purpose of such a meeting will be to formally advise the Union of the pending layoff or shutdown and the operating plans, if any, the Company has during such periods. Examples of information provided will be: areas, functions and equipment required, job categories and numbers of employees required, and, as current as possible, listings of those employees scheduled to work. Scheduling of employees will be in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
It should be recognized that any information provided will be subject to change as circumstances change up to and during the layoff or shutdown period. It should also be recognized that errors or other problems in scheduling could arise and that the Union undertakes to bring them to the attention of the Company as quickly as possible and prior to embarking on any grievance activity.
The purpose of such meetings and information sharing is to ensure fairness in terms of employment opportunity to all affected employees, safety considerations and reasonable efficiency and productivity of the operation during the layoff or shutdown period.
74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 5 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITEDSTEELWORKERSOF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Labour-Management Relations Committee PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Company and the Union recognize the mutual benefits of ongoing meetings and open communications between employer and employees. To this end, the parties have agreed to establish a Labour-Management Relations Committee on a trial basis for the term of this Agreement.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE:
The Committee shall consist of the following:
a)	Up to three (3) appointees from Senior Management Staff;
b)	The President, Vice-president and one employee appointee designated by the Union.
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
The Labour-Management Committee is intended to be an open forum wherein matters of mutual concern and benefit can be freely and candidly discussed. Standing topics for the agenda in each meeting are Employee-Company relations, work assignment, effective and efficient operations, and general working conditions.
LIMITATION:
a) The parties understand and agree that the Labour-Management Committee is not intended to serve as a supplement or alternative to the grievance-arbitration process; nor to interfere with or attempt to renegotiate
75
	any provision of the Collective Agreement.
b)	The Labour-Management Committee is limited to sewing as a vehicle for joint discussion with a view to exploring possible solutions to mutual problems and concerns. The Labour-Management Committee is in no way intended to limit or restrict the rights reserved to the Company to manage its operations or affairs.
FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS:	
a)	Meetings will be scheduled on a monthly basis, but more or fewer meetings may be scheduled as needs and circumstances dictate.
b)	Ad hoc meetings of the Labour-Management Committee may be called on reasonable grounds and with reasonable notice. The request for such a meeting will not be unreasonably refused by the Company, but the right is always resewed to the Company to require that such meetings be scheduled as to cause minimum interference to normal operations.
REMUNERATION MAINTAINED:	
a)	An employee appointee who is participating in meetings of the Labour-Management Committee will not suffer any loss of pay when such meetings are held during working hours.
b)	The parties recognize and agree that on occasion it may be desirable that the Labour-Management Committee meets at a time other than during working hours.
	76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- NO. 6 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERSOF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Supervisor’s Bumping Rights
For the purpose of Article 14.10 only, the supervisor classification of Maintenance Supervisor, H.E., shall be deemed to include job numbers 51.697, 51.769 and 51.765; the supervisor classification of Welding/Fab Supervisor shall be deemed to include job numbers 51.574 and 51.716; and the supervisor classification of Electrical Supervisor shall be deemed to includejob numbers 51.736 and 51.571.
It is understood that the Company will review the updated job classification lists under Appendix “ A (1 & 2) prior to its implementation.
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 7 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT Engineering 4 On. 4 Off Schedule
All provisions of the Collective Agreement and the 4x4 Memorandum in effect between the parties shall apply to the employees covered by this Letter of Understanding, except as modified or restricted by this Letter.
1.	Employees Covered By This Letter Of Understanding
The provisions of this Letter of Understanding shall apply to all employees engaged in a four (4) days on and four (4) days off, eleven (11) or twelve (12) hour shift schedule in the Engineering Department.
2.	General Conditions
a)	The normal work day shall be twelve (12) consecutive hours on Saturdays and Sundays and eleven (11) consecutive hours from Monday to Friday inclusive at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
b)	The work cycle shall be fifty-six (56) consecutive days. Hours of work shall average thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours per week over the complete work cycle. The average thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hour week shall be accomplished by paying out forty (40) minutes worked at the rate of one and one-half (1 Yz) times at the end of each complete work cycle worked by the employee.
c)	The normal shift shall be from 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. on weekends, and 8:00 am. - 7:00 p.m. on weekdays.
d)	On the twelve (12) hour shifts, two (2) twenty (20)
78
minute unpaid lunch periods will be provided and eleven (11) hours, twenty (20) minutes will be the normal working hours. On the eleven (11) hour shifts, one (1) thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period will be provided and ten (10) hours, thirty (30) minutes will be the normal working hours.
3.	Reporting Pay
When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid six (6) hours for the twelve (12) hour shifts or five and one-half (5%) hours for the eleven (11) hour shift at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium, if applicable, for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time, he shall be paid straight time for such work up to twelve (12) or eleven (11) hours in that work day.
These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
4.	Statutory Holidays
The provisions of Section D 1 to 5 of the 4x4 Memorandum shall apply save and except for the following:
a)	If an employee is required to work more than the normal working hours in a shift on a Statutory Holiday, or a day that is declared in lieu of a Statutory Holiday, he will be paid two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of the normal working hours in such shift.
b)	Any reference to eight (8) hours work or pay shall be
79
amended to reflect seven and one-half (7%)hours work or pay.
5.	Annual Vacations
a) For the purpose of this Letter of Understanding, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off. For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours. NOTE: Roundout provisions shall be in accordance with Marginal Paragraph 17.07.
1.	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one (1) year prior to the first day of January in any year, shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
i) If hired between January 1st and August 3rd inclusive of the previous year, thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours off with pay, plus thirty-seven and one-half (Z7'A) unpaid hours off, if requested.
2. An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete Yrs./Service	Hours of Vacation	
As of 1st. Day Jan.	With Pay	Plateau
Anv Year	Entitlement	Years
1	90	
2	112.5	3 weeks
3	112.5	
4	120	
5	127.5	
6	135	
7	142	
8	150	4 weeks
9	150	
10	157.5	
80
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
157.5 165 165
172.5
172.5 180 180
187.5	5 weeks
187.5 195 195
202.5
202.5 210 210
217.5
217.5
225	6 weeks
b) For the purpose of this Letter of Understanding, an employee vacation adjustment entitlement under Marginal Paragraph 17.06 will be calculated in terms of seven and one-half (7%) hour work days.
6.	Special Vacations
The provisions of Section “G” of the 4x4 Memorandum shall apply save and except for the following:
For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting thirty-seven and one-half (3714) hours.
7.	Sick Leave
The Basic Sick Leave Plan shall apply, except for sick credit accumulation. Sick credits shall accumulate at the rate of seven and one-half (714) hours per month, ninety (90) hours per year, to a maximum cf six hundred and seventy-five (675) hours.
81
8.	On-Call
The On-Call premium shall be eighteen dollars ($18.00) for the twelve (12) hour shift and sixteen dollars and fifty cents ($16.50) for the eleven (11) hour shift.
9.	Exclusions
The following Marginal Paragraphs of the Collective Agreement and sections of the 4x4 Memorandum shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement:
9.02(a), (b); 9.03; 9.05; 9.07; 10.01; 10.02; 10.11; 11.02; 13.03; 17.01; 17.02; 17.03; 17.04
B(1), (3), (4), (5), (6); C(5); F(1), (2), (6); H, I and J.
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 8 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITEDSTEELWORKERSOF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Grouping of StatutoryHolidavs
The parties agree on a trial and mutual consent basis to allow pooling of statutory holidays for certain groups of shift workers.
Hours worked on statutory holidays in such cases would be at straight time rates and the normal statutory holiday pay would apply to the exchange days taken off.
The benefit to employees would be to allow longer duration consecutive days off for example in the Christmas period. The benefit to the Company would be a reduced number of starts/stops to the operations.
All such exchanges would have to be agreed to by the crews affected, the Union and the Company prior to implementation in any given year.
83
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 9 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL9702
SUBJECT: Job Evaluation Pian
The Union and the Company agree to:
1.	freeze all current jobs at their current job groups until a new Job Evaluation Plan(s) is agreed upon;
2.	establish a new Job Evaluation Plan(s) by agreementto be effective not later than six (6) months after a new collective agreement is ratified;
3.	temporarily rate by agreement if possible, and otherwise by the Company, any newly created jobs or jobs that have been significantly changed prior to the new plan(s) becoming effective;
4.	evaluate all jobs within one year of the new Job Evaluation Plan(s) being agreed to;
5.	pay retroactive to the date the new plan becomes effective if the subsequent job evaluation results in a higher job group being assigned to the job;
6.	apply “Blue Circling” rate protection as provided in the Collective Bargaining Agreement 1989-1992 if the first new job evaluation results in a lower job group being assigned to the job;
7.	all other existing practices shall remain in effect until the new plan becomes effective.
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- No. 10 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITEDSTEELWORKERSOF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT Supervisory Transfers
The Company agrees that prior to a supervisor being transferred, the Company will consult with the employee.
The purpose cf the consultation will be to communicate the Company's needs, discuss the employee's concerns, if any, and the suitability of the employee for the new position and explain the purpose of the transfer.
Should the employee, before the transfer, request a further meeting to clarify any area of concern, such meetings shall be held without undue delay, with any level of supervision, including the General Manager, but in any event prior to the actual transfer taking place.
At the employee's option, a union representative may be present at the meeting.
85
The term of the Collective Agreement will be from December22, 1992 to Anril 30. Iflafi.
It is specifically agreed between the parties hereto, in accordance with Section 50, subsection (4) of the Labour Relations Code of British Columbia, that the operation of Section 50, subsections (2) and (3) of said Code are hereby excluded and shall not be applicable to this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective successors and assigns.
86
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
FORDING COAL LIMITED
“W.J. FOSTER
“P.J. KOSKI”
‘D. LEHOUX’
“K. AUSTMAN”
“R.H. NOONAN"
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9702
“G. LUCAS”
“L. MARKUSON”
‘R. DEAN”
“R. MATSEN”
‘E. LAYBOURNE
“R. KILBRIDE”
87
MEMORANDUMOF AGREEMENT 4 DAYS ON, 4 DAYS OFF,
12 HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
All provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect between the parties shall apply to the employees covered by this Agreement except as modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
The parties shall mutually agree before any employee or group of employees are included in the four days on and four days off, twelve hour shift schedule, provided these inclusions are approved by the Minister of Mines and the Minister of Labour. Such employees will be covered by this Agreement with such modifications as may be required and which are agreed to by the parties.
A Employees Covered by This Agreement
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees engaged in the four days on and four days off, twelve (12) hour shift schedules.
B. General Condition
1.	The normal work day shall be twelve consecutive hours of work at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four hour period.
2.	The work period shall be defined as an employee’s complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end of his last scheduled rest day.
3.	The work cycle shall be forty-two (42) consecutive days. Schedules of work shall average forty (40) hours per week over the complete work cycle. The average forty (40) hour week shall be accomplished by banking the last twelve (12) hour shift worked as a rest day once during every work cycle of forty-two (42) days or another twelve (12) hour shift designated by the Company dur-
88
ing the forty-two (42) day cycle instead of the last twelve (12) hour shift during the work cycle. Such twelve (12) hour shifts during the work cycle shall apply to all employees on the shift in the department, including employees assigned or transferred to the shift during the work cycle.
A twelve (12) hour shift designated by the Company for each work cycle will, provided the needs of the operation are met, precede or follow the employees' four (4) consecutive days of rest; and/or precede or follow statutory holidays not worked by the employees.
An employee assigned to work the last twelve (12) hour shift during the work cycle or another twelve (12) hour shift as designated by the Company during the work cycle instead of the last shift, shall have the option of working that shift at overtime rates in lieu of banking a rest day.
The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company in periods of four (4) successive working days. However, if some other arrangements for taking accumulated rest days off can be arrived at by an employee and the Company which is mutually agreeable, this may be done. Accumulated rest days may not exceed six (6) in number.
4.	The work schedule of each employee shall be four (4) consecutive days of work followed by four (4) consecutive days cf rest. The four (4) consecutive days of work shall consist of two (2) consecutive day shifts of twelve (12) hours each, followed by two (2) consecutive night shifts of twelve (12) hours each or such other shift arrangement as may be agreed upon by the parties.
5.	The normal shift will be day shift, commencing at 7:00 A.M., and night shift commencing at 7:00 P.M. or such other arrangements as may be agreed upon by the parties.
89
6.	Two paid lunch periods of twenty (20) minutes duration each will be provided during the twelve (12) hour shift. Subject to the needs of the operation during such lunch periods, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of services. Employees are responsible for providing their own lunches.
C.	Overtime Work
Overtime occurs when an employee is required to work more than his scheduled hours of work in a work day or on a scheduled rest day. Overtime shall be paid as follows:	
1	For the first six (6) hours of overtime worked during an employee's work period, the rate of pay shall be one and one-half (1%)times the base rate of the employee.
2.	For all overtime worked by an employee during his work period which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during that period, the rate of pay shall be two (2) times the base rate of the employee.
3.	Overtime which is in excess of eight (8) hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be voluntary with the exception that in any operation where a qualified replacement is not available the employee may be required to remain at work.
	All overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
	(a) where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period; OR
	(b) where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger; OR
	(c) where there is a necessity for a periodic change of shift.
	90
4.	Where the Company changes an employee's work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day of his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusion of the rest days of his previous schedule.
5.	When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid six (6) hours at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium if applicable for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time he shall be paid straight time for such work up to twelve (12) hours in that work day.
These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work. Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
D.	Statutory Holidays
1.	An employee’s entitlement is to be determined in accordance with the provisions of marginal paragraph 11.01 of the Collective Agreement.
2.	An employee who is required to work on a Statutory Holiday or a day that is declared in lieu of a Statutory Holiday will be paid as follows:
(i) If the holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, he will receive two and one-half (2%)times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked.
OR
91
One and one-half (1%) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
OR
(jj) If the holiday falls on a normal work day, he will receive one and one-half (VA) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked.
One-half (’A) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
If an employee works more than twelve (12) hours, he will be paid two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of twelve (12) hours on such work day.
Section D, subsection 2 applies only to time worked on the day designated by the Company as the Statutory Holiday.
3.	When a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s rest day or during a scheduled vacation, the provisions of marginal paragraph 11.03, sections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) shall apply except for pay. Pay will be for eight (8) hours at the employee's base rate.
4.	An employee who is scheduled to work on a Statutory Holiday and who works only part of his assigned shift will be paid one and one-half (1%) times his base rate for the time worked.
An employee who is required to work on a Statutory Holiday which falls on his scheduled day of rest and who works only part of his assigned shift will be paid two and one-half (2%)times his base rate for the time worked.
If the period worked is less than twelve (12) hours, the employee shall be paid his base rate exclusive of con-
92
tinuous schedule differentials, overtime bonuses, holiday or other premiums for the difference between his actual hours worked and twelve (12) hours.
5.	Pay for Floating Statutory Holidays will be for a maximum of twelve (12) hours at the employee's base rate.
6.	When a Statutory Holiday fells on an employee's regularly scheduled work day and the employee is not assigned to work on the Statutory Holiday, the employee shall receive twelve (12) hours at the employee's base rate.
E.	Bereavement Leave
Provisions of marginal paragraph 19.01 of the Collective Agreement shall apply to employees covered by this Agreement except for pay. Pay will be up to thirty-six (36) hours in 19.01 (i) and up to twenty-four (24) hours in 19.01 (ii) at the employee's base rate for the period of bereavement. If required, the employee will be granted an additional twelve (12) hours of unpaid leave to complete his entitlement.
F.	Annual Vacations
For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off. For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the work “week” shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours.
Note: Roundout provisions shall be in accordance with marginal paragraph 17.07.
1. An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one (1) year prior to the first day of January in any year shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, eighty (80) hours off with
pay.
(b)	If hired between September Istand December31st
93
inclusive of the previous year, forty (40) hours off with pay, plus forty (40) unpaid hours off if requested.
2,	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete Yrs./	Hours of
Service As Of	Vacation
The First Day In	With Pay
January of Anv Yr. Entitlement______Plateau Years
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
96
120	3 weeks
120
128
136
144
152
160	4 weeks
160 168 168 176 176 184 184 192 192
200	5 weeks
200 208 208 216 216 224 224 232 232
240	6 weeks
94
3.	If an employee has been absent from work without pay during the preceding calendar year for any reason other than the employee's sickness or accident, or maternity leave, the periods of vacation with pay, as specified in the above paragraphs shall be reduced by 1 /24th for each full pay period by which the absence exceeds thirty (30) consecutive days provided, however, that in the case of sickness the employee will not be entitled to any vacation with pay after the absence exceeds twelve (12) consecutive months.
4.	Employeesentitled to two (2) weeks or more paid vacation may split their vacation subject to the approval of their Supervisor.
5.	An employee shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of his annual vacation for the purpose of rounding out his work period (as defined in marginal paragraph 10.02) subject to the following conditions:
(i) Employees on any work schedule shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of their final vacation period.
Note: This entitlement shall only apply if the employee has scheduled such entitlement with his annual vacation prior to April 1st of the vacation year.
Where an employee has not scheduled this entitlement and wishes to at a later time, the employee shall make such request to his immediate supervisor before the start of such vacation period. Approval in such cases shall be subject to the efficiency of the operations.
6.	For the purpose of this Agreement, an em ployee's vacation adjustment entitlement under marginal paragraph 17.06 will be calculated in terms of eight (8) hour work days.
95
G.	Special Vacations
The provisions of Article 18 of the Collective Agreement shall apply save and except for the following:
(a)	For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vacation shall consist of one work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off.
(b)	For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours.
H.	Basic Sick Leave
The provisions of marginal paragraph 22,03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply, except for sick credit accumulation. Sick credits shall accumulate at the rate of eight (8) hours per month, ninety-six (96) hours per year to a maximum of seven hundred twenty (720) hours.
I.	On Call
An employee required to standby for a possible call into work shall be paid a premium of eighteen dollars ($18.00) for each shift on call. If called out to work, pay will be in accordance, with marginal paragraphs 10.08 and 10.09.
J.	Exclusions
The following marginal paragraphs of the Collective Agreement shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement:
9.02 (a)& (b), 9.03, 9.07, 10.01, 10.02, 10.11, 11.02, 13.03, 17.01, 17.02, 17.03, 17.04.
96
APPENDIX “A”
Appendix "A'to the Agreement effective between Fording Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 9702.
Salaries
The following schedules set out the salary rates and provisions effective December 22, 1992 or as otherwise stated during the term of this Agreement.
97
	[	1.22,1992		HAY 1,1993			I	1Y1,19			/UJ!	5	
JOB	SIP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	SIP	STEP	STEP	JOB
J3BDU1	11	12	«	#1	»2	13	fl	12	13	#1	12		_GBQL!E
17	2432	2498	2629	2481	2548	2682	2555	2624	2762	2668	2740	2884	17
18	2545	2614	2752	2596	2667	2807	2674	2746	2891	2787	2862	3013	18
19	2662	2734	2878	2716	2789	2936	2797	2873	3024	2910	2989	3146	19
20	2780	2856	3006	2836	2913	3066	2921	3000	3158	3034	3116	3280	20
21	2900	2978	3135	2958	3038	3198	3047	3129	3294	3160	3245	3416	21
22	3018	3099	3263	3078	3162	3328	3171	3257	3428	3284	3373	3550	22
23	3137	3223	3392	3201	3287	3460	3297	3386	3564	3410	3502	3686	23
24	3259	3346	3522	3323	3412	3592	3423	3515	3700	3535	3631	3822	24
25	3378	3469	3652	3446	3539	3725	3549	3645	3837	3662	3761	3959	25
26	3479	3574	3761	3548	3644	3836	3655	3753	3951	3768	3869	4073	26
27	3582	3678	3872	3653	3752	3949	3762	3864	4067	3875	3980	4189	27
28	3682	3782	3981	3756	3858	4061	3869	3974	4183	3982	4090	4305	28
29	3754	3856	4059	3830	3933	4140	3944	4051	4264	4057	4167	4386	29
30	3846	3949	4158	3923	4029	4241	4040	4150	4368	4153	4266	4490	30
31	3937	4044	4256	4015	4124	4341	4136	4247	4471	4249	4363	4593	31
32	4022	4131	4348	4102	4213	4435	4225	4340	4568	4338	4456	4690	32
33	4105	4216	4438	4187	4301	4527	4313	4430	4663	4426	4546	4785	33
34	4190	4303	4530	4274	4390	4621	4403	4522	4760	4516	4638	4882	34
35	4272	4388	4619	4358	4475	4711	4488	4609	4852	4601	4725	4974	35
36	4356	4474	4709	4443	4563	4803	4576	4700	4947	4689	4816	5069	36
37	4438	4558	4798	4527	4649	4894	4663	4789	5041	4776	4905	5163	37
Job Promotion Procedure
Where an employee bids to a higher rated job, the following procedure will apply:
(a)	If the new job is equal to, one (1) or two (2) job groups higher than the employee's current job, the employee shall retain his step.
(b)	If the new job is three (3) job groups higher than the employee’s current job, the employee, if on a step higher than Step 1, shall be slotted one step lower than the employee’s current step.
(c)	If the new job is four (4) or more job groups higher than the employee’s current job, the employee shall be placed on Step 1 of the new job group.
Where appropriate certain individuals will have blue circle rate protection (Appendix “B”) as a result of the changed salary schedule.
Note: The normal progression through the steps requires six (6) months on Step 1 and six (6) months on Step 2 effective from the date the employee started the job. Progression dates will be adjusted to cover absences in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days excluding vacations.
Accounting Clerk Starting Schedule
Basic requirements - Graduate of a technical school in a finance accounting discipline.
-	Start at Job Group 21, Step 1
-	After six (6Jmonthsto Job Group21, Step 2, OR Step 1 of assignedjob if greater than Job Group 21.
An employee in the Accounting Clerk Starting Schedule who successfully bids to another job will be taken off the starting schedule and paid the appropriate rate for the new job classification.
99
Technician Starting Schedule (TSS)
Technical School Graduates - Two (2) Year Graduates
Start at Job Group 20, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group 21, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group 22, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group23, Step 3
Three (3)Year Graduates
Start at Job Group 21, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group 22, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group 23, Step 3
Related Experience
Employees with related experience will start at the level shown and advance according to the basic starting schedule.
Less than one year - start at Job Group 20, Step 1
With one (1) to two (2) years - start at Job Group 20, Step 2
With two (2) to four (4) years - start at Job Group 20, Step 3
Greaterthan four (4) years - start at Job Group 21, Step 3
Basic Starting Schedule
Start at Job Group 20, Step 1
After six (6) months to Job Group 20, Step 2
After six (6) monthsto Job Group 20, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group 21, Step 3
After six (6) monthsto Job Group22, Step 3
After twelve (12) monthsto Job Group 23, Step 3
An employee on the Technician Starting Schedule who successfully bids to another job will be taken off the starting schedule and paid the appropriate rate for the new job classification.
100
Technical Advancement Schedule (TAS)
After a Technician has advanced to Job Group 23, Step 3, he may bid to an appropriate job vacancy at Job Group 25 and will advance as follows:
Star! at Job Group 25'
After six (6) months to Job Group 26, Step 3 After nine (9) months to Job Group 27, Step 3 After nine (9) months to Job Group 28, Step 3
* The employee will start at the appropriate step level in Job Group 25 and progressto Step 3 before advancing.
Classification of Employees included in the Bargaining Unit:
1. OFFICE STAFF
Job No.	Job Title
51.015	Receptionist
51.158	Accounting Clerk Typist
51.907	Purchasing Clerk
51.135	Payroll Clerk
51.778	Warehouse Clerk
51.370 EnvironmentalServices Clerk 51.580	Maintenance Records Clerk
51.676	Maintenance Planning Clerk
51.056	Personnel Services Clerk
51.132	Payroll Clerk Staff
51.608 Departmental Clerk, Mine Ops. 51.109	Payables Clerk
101
Job Group
17
17
17
18 18
19
19
19
20 20 20 20
51.117	Payables Data Entry Clerk	20
51.224	Mine Engineering Clerk -	20
51.680	Backlog Clerk	20
51.144	Computer Operator	20
51.448	Steno-Clerk Project Engineering	20
51.112	Accounting Clerk, General	21
51.111	Accounting Clerk, Receivables	21
51.116	Accounting Clerk, Costs	21
51.155	Micom Operator/Communications Clerk 22
51.775	Inventory Control Clerk	22
51.905	Expediting Clerk	22
51.543	Plant and Traffic Clerk	22
51.776	Invoice Clerk	22
51.113	Accounting Clerk, Ledgers	24
51.145	Computer Systems Coordinator	24
51.777	Stores Clerk	24
51.134 Senior Payroll Clerk
2.	TECHNICIANS AND SUPERVISORY Job No.	Job Title
TSSorTAS SurveyingTechnician
TSSorTAS ElectronicsTechnician TSSorTAS DevelopmentTechnician
25
Job Group
Technician starting Schedule (TSS orTAS)
102
TSS orTAS	EnvironmentalServicesTechnician
TSSorTAS	Geological Technician
TSS orTAS	DraftsmanTechnician
TSSorTAS	Mining Technician
51.719	Janitorial Supervisor
51.774	Stores Supervisor
51.559	Process Labour Supervisor
51.902	Buyer
51.903	Senior Buyer
51.623	Equipment Supervisor
51.626	Dragline Supervisor
51.625	Drill Supervisor
51.627	Shovel Supervisor
51.624	Truck Supervisor
51.544	Laboratory Supervisor
51.674	Materials Coordinator
51.259	Senior Surveyor
51.772	Warehousing Supervisor
51.640	Tire Shop Supervisor
51.367	EnvironmentalServices Supervisor
51.577	Area Planner, Processing
51.672	Area Planner
103
25
26
27
27
28
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
30
30
30
30
30
51.658	Pit Supervisor	31
51.619	Blasting Supervisor	31
51.633	Mine Services Supervisor	31
51.446	Electrical Design Draftsman	31
51.697	Maintenance supervisor, H.E.	32
51.769	Maintenance Supervisor,H.E.	32
51.722	Machinist Supervisor	32
51.736	Electrical Supervisor	32
51.574	Welding/Fab Supervisor	32
51.716	Welding/Fab Supervisor	32
51.578	Carpenter Supervisor	32
51.573	Maintenance Supervisor	32
51.705	Maintenance Supervisor, L.E.	32
51.572	Maintenance Supervisor, Proc. Instr. 32
51.765	Field Maintenance Supervisor	32
51.571	Electrical Supervisor	32
51.575	PipefitterSupervisor	32
51.445	Electrical Designer	34
Cost of Living Allowance
(a)	Each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive a cost of living allowance (COLA) during the term of this Agreement as hereinafter provided.
(b)	The Cost of Living Allowance shall be based on the Consumer Price Index - Canada (all items - base 1986 equals 100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as CPI).
104
(c)	The Cost of Living Allowance shall be equal to one cent ($0.01 )for each 0.11 point rise in the CPI as hereinafter determined counting as a full cent any fraction of one-half cent ($0,005) or more.
(d)	The Cost of Living Allowance shall only be paid for hours actually worked and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be included in the calculation of overtime rates, vacation and statutory holiday pay, incentive plans or any other premiums or benefits.
(e)	In the event that Statistics Canada does not issue the CPI on or before the beginning of the periods referred to, any pay adjustments required shall be made at the beginning of the first pay period after publication of the CPI and shall be retroactive to the commencement of the appropriate period. In the event that a retroactive adjustment is made by Statistics Canada to the CPI, it is agreed that the paid allowance to the employees will not be adjusted retroactively.
(f)	The parties to this Agreement agree that the continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance will depend on availability of the monthly Statistics Canada CPI in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the indexfor 1986. If Statistics Canada changes the form or basis of calculating the CPI, the parties shall attempt to determine an appropriate index figure by agreement. If agreement is not reached the parties agree to request Statistics Canada to make available for the rest of this Agreement a monthly CPI in its present form calculated on the same basis as the indexfor 1986.
(g)	Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) will be in effect from May 1st, 1993 to April 30th, 1996.
(h)	COLA payments shall be calculated annually on the basis of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increase in the previous 12 month period from March to March. COLA payments will apply based only on an increase in the
105
CPI in excess of five percent (5%) in the previous year. COLA payments for the amount the CPI exceeds five percent (5%) will be made on the basis of Appendix “A. COLA adjustments are not to be rolled into salaries.
APPENDIX “B”
1.	Joint Job Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will be composed of a Union committee chairman and one (1) Union Representative and one (1) Company committee chairman and one (1) Company Representative. The Committee will be under the chairmanship of the Company chairman. Alternate committee members may be designated by the Union and the Company by mutual agreement of the chairmen. Members of the Joint Committee who are relieved from their jobs during working hours to assist in carrying out the functions of Joint Job Evaluation will be paid by the Company at their regular job rates for the time during their regular shifts, thereby preventing any loss in regular income.
(b)	The Joint Committee will have access to any relevant information it requires such as interviewing the job incumbent and his supervisor or observing the job. This will be arranged by the Company chairman at the convenience of the Joint Committee and the section of the operation or office concerned. For the purpose of joint interviews, the job incumbents shall be mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
2.	Standards
(a)	Job Evaluation Descriptions
Job Evaluation Descriptions are for the purpose of assigning a job group level to a job. They shall be prepared as factually, concisely and unambiguously as possible.
Job Evaluation Descriptions shall outline the basic responsibilities of the job and shall not be intended to
106
be, or replace position manuals or guides, and as such are not to be construed as an “all inclusive” document of the job.
(b)	The evaluation of all jobs will be done in accordance with the Company's existing benchmark system for job evaluation.
(c)	Additions and deletions to benchmarks in the existing system shall be mutually agreed to by the Joint Job Evaluation Committee.
(d)	Requests for evaluation must be in writing to either the Company Chairman or the Union Chairman, and maybe made by management, the employee, the Union, or either of the Committee Chairmen.
The two (2) chairmen will keep each other informed of any requests for evaluation.
Before a job is eligible for evaluation, one of the following conditions must apply:
(i)	a new job has been created,
(ii)	a significant change has occurred in an existing job.
3. Procedures for Job Evaluation (a) New Jobs
When a new job is created, the Supervisor shall submit a Job Evaluation Description to the Company Committee Chairman.
The Company Committee Chairman will review the Job Evaluation Description and assign a temporary job group. The new Job Evaluation Description and the temporary assigned job group will be reviewed immediately with the Union Committee Chairman.
The Joint Committee Chairmen will set an evaluation date which shall not exceed 120 calendar days from the
107
day the job is occupied.
Three (3) weeks prior to the evaluation date, the Job Evaluation Description shall be reviewed by the supervisor and the employee to finalize and sign. The Joint Committee Chairmen will be available to assist if required.
Finalized copies cf the Job Evaluation Description shall be forwarded to the Company Committee Chairman for distribution to the Union Committee Chairman two (2) weeks prior to the evaluation date.
(b)	Changes to an Existing Job
When an existing job is changed, the supervisor shall review the changed Job Evaluation Description with the Company Committee Chairman.
The Company Committee Chairman will assign a temporary job group, if necessary. The changed Job Evaluation Description and the temporary assigned job group will be reviewed immediately with the Union Committee Chairman.
The Joint Committee Chairmen will set an evaluation date, if necessary, which shall not exceed 120 calendar days from the day the change is effected.
Three (3) weeks prior to the evaluation date the changed Job Evaluation Description shall be reviewed by the supervisor and the employee to finalize and sign. The Joint Committee Chairmen will be available to assist if required.
Finalized copies of the changed Job Evaluation Description shall be forwarded to the Company Committee Chairman for distribution to the Union Committee Chairman for joint evaluation, if necessary.
(c)	On a continuing basis, the Company will ensure that each Job Evaluation Description is reviewed at least once every four years.
108
(d)	All jobs reviewed in joint session will be classed as completed, incompleted, or disputed jobs. The following definitions will be used to determine the classifications:
(i)	Completed Jobs:
Jobs which have been evaluated to the satisfaction of the two (2) committee chairmen.
(ii)	Incompleted Jobs:
Jobs for which the Job Evaluation Descriptions are found to be incomplete or in error.
Incompletej obs will be reviewed again in joint sessions within thirty (30) calendar days. This time limit may be extended by mutual consent of the two (2) chairmen.
(iii)	Disputed Jobs:
Jobs which have been reviewed in joint session but have not been ranked due to disagreement.
In the case of disputed jobs, the Company ranking will be used to establish the job groups. The Union will then have fifteen (15) working days to refer the matter to arbitration. The parties agree that the decision handed down under this procedure will be binding on both the Company and the Union.
(iv)	In the event of wrong job group applications due to clerical error, the error will be corrected immediately and the proper salary paid. Rate protection will not apply to job incumbents in case the proper salary is lower than the former wrong salary. The Union Committee Chairman will be notified immediately of the wrong job situation and the action taken.
(v)	The Company will keep the Union Chairman advised of all jobs which cease to be active.
(vi)	The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will endeavour
109
to obtain consensus on all jobs referred to it.
Committee decisions will be binding to both the Company and the Union.
(vii)	When the Joint Committee has established the permanent job group for the job, the Company will process the necessary authorizations.
(viii)	When joint evaluation of an existing job results in a higher job group, the rate will be retroactive to the date of request as per 2(d), unless it is mutually agreed that some other date should apply. When the job group is lowered, the applicable rate protection provision of red or blue circling will apply.
(ix)	“Red Circling”
When a job group of a job is lowered due to evaluation, the applicable rate protection provision of “red circling” shall apply.
“Red circled employees shall receive eighty percent (80%) of the wage increase applicable to the standard for the job on which they are the incumbent until such time as the “red circle” differential disappears. “Red circled” employees who are fifty-five (55) years of age or over or who have had twenty years (20) of service or over on the date that any increase becomes effective shall receive the full amount of the standard increase.
(x)	“Blue Circling”
“Blue circling” shall be applied to the current incumbents of jobs affected by job evaluation changes under the following circumstances:
1.	The job group of a job is reduced as a result of the implementation of a new job evaluation plan.
2.	The job group of a job is reduced because of
110
changes to an existing job evaluation plan.
3.	The salary of an employee is higher than the highest salary of a job group due to transition from a system providing for separately rated jobs with performance premiums above the standard salary to a system where the maximum salary levels are attained on a time basis.
Employees who are “blue circled” shall receive the full salary increase applicable to the new job group in which the job falls.
“Blue circle” protection shall cease when an employee is promoted to a new job, the rate of which is equal to or higher than his salary at the time of promotion.
111
1993
JANUARY FEBRUARY	MARCH
S	M T W T F S
1	2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
S M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
1
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
5	M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5
6	78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
112
1994
JANUARY FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S
1
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
5	M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6	78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
5	M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M	T	W	T	F S
I 2	3	4	5	6 7
8 9	10	11	12	13 14
15 16	17	18	19	20 21
22 23	24	25	26	27 28
29 30 31
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER
S M T W T F S
1
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
5	M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6	78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
113
1995
JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S
1
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
1
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
5	M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5
6	7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
114
1996
JANUARY FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
S M T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER
5	M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
O 21 22 23 24 25 26
7	28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
115
ACCIDENT PREVENTION STARTS WITH YOU
Government of Canada
Gouvernement
du Canada
Fording Coal Ltd.
200-205 Ninth Ave. S.E.
Calgary
Alta.
T2G OR4
Fording Coal Ltd. (Office/Tech.) Elkford, B.C,
U n ited Steelworkers o f America Local 9702
(office and clerical employees)
September 28,1998 File: 0019404
Terminating:	April 30,1996	.
The Workplace Information Directorate maintainsan extensive library of collective agreements in both
the federal and provincialjurisdictions. With respect toyour organization, the collective agreement described above is the latest we have on file.
In its Federal Plan for Gender Equality (1995), the Government of Canada committed Itself “to ensuring that all future legislation and policies include, where appropriate, an analysis of the potential for different impacts on women and men,“ In accordance, we are requestingto the extent possible, a numerical gender breakdown of your membership.
Could you pleasesend us a copy of any subsequent agreementor amendment (preferably on diskette, including the format), includingany attachments which are partoftheagreementor supplementary documents (such as pension or health plans) referred to in the agreement.
Please show s eparately, the number of employees covered by the agreement in the space provided on the return part of this form.
Your co-operation will help the Workplace Information Directorate maintain its services in the ^ ~\"^j ^ collective bargainingfield.	"y
Yours sincerely,	' ' y
Collection of Agreements Unit	"
Telephone: 1-800-567-6866 or (819)997-0232
Ur.


Please complete this part and forward
with copy of collective agreement-to:-
Workplace Information Directorate Collection of Agreements Unit Labour Branch
Human Resources Development Canada
Hull, Quebec	s-; .........
K1A0J2	■■
/H	11+1
Canada
l+fi
1