00191 (05)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
General Purpose , . . , , . ,............
ARTICLE
1	Recognition ....................
2	No Discrimination or Intimidation
3	Union Security.................
4	Reservation of Management
Functions ......................
5	Union Representation ...........
6	Grievance Procedure............
7	Arbitration ....................
8	Strikes and Lockouts ...........
9	Seniority Provision ............
10	Job Posting ....................
11	Students .......................
12	Apprenticeship Program .........
13	Statutory Holidays .............
14	Hours of Work and Overtime	.	.
15	Vacations ......................
16	Wages ..........................
Page
. . 1
2-5 . 5 6-7
8-1 0 1 O-l 3 14-1 9 20-21 . . 22 22-29 29-33 33-35 35-38 39-44 44-50 50-54 54-62
I
$
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
Letters
Safety and Health.............
Welfare Benefits..............
Leave of Absence..............
Premiums and Allowances . . .
Discipline ...................
General Provisions ...........
Review, Amendment, Renewal
and Termination...............
of Understanding..............
. 62-76 . . 77-84 . . 85-89 . . 89-92 . . 92-93 . . 94-95
. ,(2>>99
. . . . 100
II
INDEX
Page
Absence ..............................
Accidental Death & Dismemberment
Address, employees ...................
Agreement, amendment .................
Agreement, duration...................
Apprenticeship .......................
Apprenticeship, committee ............
Apprenticeship, education pay . . . . Apprenticeship, book allowance . . .
Apprenticeship, wages ................
Apprenticeship, work conditions . . .
Arbitration ..........................
Arbitration, costs ...................
Arbitration, referral.................
Arbitrator, board of .................
Arbitrator, decision..................
Arbitrator, guidelines ...............
26
80
26
96
96
35
37
38 38
36 36 20 2 1 20 20 20 20
iii
Arbitrator, replacement Arbitrator, rights . . . . Arbitrator, rotation . . .
,	20
,	21
,	20
Bereavement Pay..........., .
Boots & Clothing Allowance Breaks, lunch and coffee . ,
Bulletin Boards...........,
Bus Transportation........
Buyback System............
. , , . 88 . . . . 90 102-103 . . , . 94 . . , 100 106-107
Call out............................
Coffee Break .......................
Cold Weather........................
Committee, apprenticeship ..........
Committee, grievance................
Committee, labour-management . . , . Committee, safety - department . . . .
Contracting out ....................
Contractors ........................
, 47-48 102-103 . ... 74 . . , , 37 ... 12 . . . 13 .	62-63
. 2-3 . . , 2-4
IV
Dental Plan .................
Disabled Employee ...........
Discharge ...................
Discrimination & Intimidation
Dispute Resolution ..........
Dual Trade Allowance.........
Dues........................
.......83
28 & 77-79 ,......18
5-6
122-128
115-117
.....7
Emergency, definition Emergency, work . . . Employee, definition . Employee, free issue . E.R.C.B. Allowance . Extended Health Care
......9
9 & 47-48 .... 6-7 , .... 90
.....92
.....83
Fatality.........................,...................80
General Purpose ...
Glasses...............
Grievance, committee
1
82
12
v
Grievance, contract . . . . Grievance, discharge . . . .
Grievance, group...........
Grievance, interpretation . Grievance,	job posting	.	.
Grievance,	payment .	.	.	.
Grievance,	procedure	.	.	.
Grievance,	time limits	.	.	.
Grievance, time off .......
Grievance, witnesses . . . Group Life Insurance . . . .
. . 17 18-19 . . 17 .16 . . 18 . . 18 14-15 16-17 12-13 . . 17 . . 79
Hiring, company right.............................., . 8-9
Hours of work......................................44-45
Intimidation...............................................5
Job Opportunity,	trial period ........................ 23
Job Opportunity,	training	period .................. 23-24
Job Posting, after recall	...................... 26-27
vi
Job Posting, bidding . . ,.....,
Job Posting, return to previous job
Job Posting, selection............
Job Titles, Human Resources . . . .
Job Titles, Processing............
Job Titles, Surface Mine . . . Job Titles, Underground Mines . . .
Job Titles, Warehouse ............
Joint Meeting ....................
Jury Duty ........................
........29
. . . 32-33
........31
. . . 60-61 . . .	57-58
. .	58-60
. . .	56-57
......61
13 & 62-63 .........88
Lay Offs ......................
Leave of Absence...............
Leave of Absence, bereavement Leave of Absence, jury duty . .
Legislative changes............
Letters of Understanding ......
Lockout .......................
Long Term Disability...........
Lunch Breaks...................
. 25-26 . ... 85 . ... 88 . ... 88 . . . . 96 . . . 100 . . . . 22 . . . . 79 102-103
vii
Management	Functions......................... 8
Management,	Rights............................ 8
Maternity Leave............................ 88-89
Medicals ..................................... 74
Medicare...................................... 77
Notices
94
Overtime................................ 44-50
Overtime Agreement......................... 45
Payment, meeting attendance
Payment, staff working........
Pension Plan .................
Premium, Saturday.............
Premium, Sunday...............
Premium, underground .........
Premium, weekend..............
Probation ....................
Processing, Progression System
12 & 73 ....	9
81-82 . . .	89
. . .	89
...	90
. . .	89
22-23 118-121
VIII
Promotion
Pyramiding
4-5 & 24 ...	92
Recall ......................................... 26-27
Recognition ........................................ 2
Red Circle Employees ......................... 112-114
Review, Amendment, Renewal and Termination . . 96
Safety..............................
Safety, committees .................
Safety, committee payments .........
Safety, courses - seminars, time off
Safety, disputes....................
Safety equipment....................
Safety, inspections.................
Safety, investigations .............
Safety, issues .....................
Safety, testing.....................
Safety, work stoppage ..............
Saturday premium ...................
. . . 62 62-72 ... 73 . . . . 71 122-128 . . .	75
64-67 ...	67
. . .	75
70-72 ... 70 ...	89
ix
Seniority...........................................22
Seniority, bumping................................. 27-28
Severance pay.....................................110-111
Shift Change.............	• ■ ■ 48-49
Shift Differential..................................89-90
Short Pay..............................................56
Sick Benefit	........................ ■ 77-78
Statutory Holidays.....................................39
Statutory Holidays, pay............................ 39-44
Statutory Holidays, scheduling.......................  44
Stewards...........................................    IO
Stewards, duties Stewards, investigation . . Stewards, notify company Stewards, payment Stewards, time off Strikes Students Subcontractors Subcontractors, Pension
10 11-12 10-11
11 11 22
33-35 3
3-4
X
Sunday premium . . Supervisors, acting . Supervisors, working Suspensions .........
. . 89 . . .4 . . .9 92-93
Temporary Employees Testing and Training . Time off - executive . Tool Allowance . . . .
Training ............
Transfer ............
Travel Allowance . . .
. . . 34
, . . .9 . . . 13 89-90 9 & 23 . . . 27 91-92
Union Activity ....
Union, dues..........
Union, payments . . Union Representation Union Security ....
. 6 . 7 . 7 IO 6-7
Vacation
. ... 50
xi
Vacation, deemed time . .
Vacation, eligibility........
Vacation, entitlement . . .
Vacation, pay................
Vacation, plateau............
Vacation, plateau payment Vacation, scheduling . . . . Vacation, seasonal bonus Vacation, statutory holiday
Vacation, week...............
Vacation, year...............
Vision Care..................
50-51
50-51
50-51
52-	53 . . 51
. . 51 . . 53 . . 54
53-	54 . . 51
. . 50 . . 82
Wages ...........
Wages, temporary Warning Slips . . .
Wet Pay .........
Work, notice . . . . Work schedules . .
54-55 . .55 92-93 . . 91 48-49 44-45
xii
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN:
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED Grande Cache, Alberta
(hereinafter called “the Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART,
-and-
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7621
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART.
WITNESSETH
GENERAL PURPOSE
The Parties are agreed that the general purpose of this Agreement is to promote harmonious industrial relations in the mutual interest of the Company and its employees; to create an atmosphere of fairness through mutual dignity and respect; to provide for the operation of the Mine under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety, health and welfare of the employees; economy and efficiency of operations, and quantity and quality of output, orderliness of mine and plant; to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union, to secure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to maintain mutually satisfactory hours, wages and working conditions for the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the
sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for all employees employed in connection with the mining operations of the Company at Grande Cache, Alberta, except office staff, engineering and survey employees, security guards, uniformed police and supervisory staff including supervisors with authority to hire and/or fire, in respect to terms and conditions of employment of employees including provisions with reference to rates of pay and hours of work.
With the exception of emergencies, the Company agrees that prior to any contracting out of work the Company and Union executive will meet to discuss:
a)	Scope of the work being contracted out and
b)	Duration of the contract and
c)	Anticipated number of contractor employees
d)	All options of directing the work
towards employees of Smoky River Coal.
Such discussion will occur at least three (3) working days prior to the commencement of the contract work with the exception of emergency circumstances. The Contractor will not perform work
2
unless the Union has been notified, and such work has been discussed with the Union.
In any event the contractor shall not be given preference in overtime work which is being performed by Smoky River Coal employees. In all other respects the parties will follow past practice regarding the treatment of short term and long term contractors.
The Company further agrees that any contractor or other agent employed by the Company to carry out work falling within the scope of this clause who is not affiliated to The Alberta Federation of Labour or the Canadian Labour Congress, shall be required as a condition of such employment to carry out such work in accordance with the terms and conditions of this agreement and such contractor or agent shall endorse a memorandum of intent to this effect with the Union. The Company will advise the Union each month, in writing, of the names of any sub-contractor and the number of employees employed by those subcontractors.
1.02	The Company agrees that it will not contract out work that is normally done by its employees, if such contracting out would result in demotion or a loss of employment through layoff.
1.02.1	Notwithstanding the foregoing it is understood that any contractor or agent will not be obliged to create or set up a pension as contemplated
3
by 18.07 of this agreement provided however, the Union shall be entitled to obtain an alternate benefit if the cost of such alternate benefit is not in excess of the Company pension plan on a per employee basis, but if the contractor is already party to a pension plan then that contractor's employees will remain covered by that pension plan.
1.03	The word “employee” or “employees” wherever used in this agreement shall mean any and all employees covered in the bargaining unit as defined above. The male gender when used in this agreement, shall include the female gender.
1.04	Supervisors shall not be covered by this Agreement. Any person who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall, if he remains promoted after three months (90 calendar days), lose all seniority and if he later rejoins the bargaining unit he will be treated as a new employee.
In any event he will not be allowed bumping
rights.
1.05	Employees in an acting supervisory capacity shall be covered by this agreement, while holding such a position. While an employee is in an acting supervisory capacity, his probation period as per Article 1.04 shall accumulate and be used to decrease his
4
probationary period. These employees shall be used only in vacation or other short term relief requirements.
Should an employee then be promoted to a supervisory position out of the bargaining unit, the time spent as an acting supervisor will count as probation.
The Company will supply to the Union upon request a list of the time spent by hourly employees in acting or probationary supervisory capacity on a monthly basis.
The time limits for Article 1.04 and 1.05 shall not exceed three (3) months (90 calendar days) in any year of this collective agreement.
Should an acting supervisor be used for more than ninety (90) calendar days in any one (1) year then that employee shall not be used again as an acting supervisor during the life of this collective agreement.
ARTICLE 2 - NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION
2.01	It is agreed that there will be no
discrimination or intimidation by the Company or the Union against any employee because of race, creed, colour, age, sex, national origin, union membership or lawful union activity. The parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Individual Rights Protection Act of Alberta.
5
2.02	It is further agreed that there will be no
Union activity on the premises of the Company, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	The Company will print the agreement and agrees to supply the Union with an amount equal to one and one half times the number of active employees. All new employees will be acquainted with the conditions of employment set out in the following articles on Union security. The Company will supply all new employees with a copy of the Collective Agreement.
3.02	All employees covered by the Agreement and employed by the Company who are now members in good standing of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, remain members in good standing. All employees of the Company hired after the execution of this Agreement shall become and remain members in good standing of the Union. Furthermore, the employees of all long term (ie. more than 3 months) contractors who are not party to other collective agreements shall similarly be required to, as a condition of employment with their employer, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. The Company shall deduct commencing with the first full pay cheque of an employee, the initiation fee and the first month's dues and thereafter the then prevailing monthly Union dues. Such dues deduction shall be made, after the initiation fee and first month's dues deduction, in
6
respect of the second pay period in each month and shall be a condition of employment for each employee.
Contractors will be required to pay any applicable Union fees. The Company will be responsible for the enforcement of such payments.
3.03	On or before the 15th day of each month, the Company shall remit the total amount of Union dues deducted in the preceding month, to the Financial Secretary of the Union Local, United Steelworkers of America. Such remittance shall be made payable to the International Secretary Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America, and shall be accompanied by a list of employees from whose wages such deductions have been made.
Upon receipt of proper invoices from the company, the Union agrees to pay all amounts owing to the Company within thirty (30) days of receipt of the invoices.
3.04	The amount of dues to be deducted shall be the regular monthly dues duly authorized by the Constitution of the Union. The Union shall certify to the Company in writing the monthly amount of such dues and any changes therein, and such certification shall be the Company's conclusive authority to make the deductions specified. Thirty (30) days notice in writing shall be given to the Company of any changes in the amounts of dues.
7
ARTICLE 4 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the
exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	Hire, classify, transfer, promote, demote and also to discharge, suspend or otherwise discipline employees for just and sufficient cause, subject to the provisions of this Agreement;
(c)	Manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of its mines, plants, mine openings, shops and working places, the methods of production, schedules of production, kinds and locations of equipment, machine and tools to be used and the number of employees required by the Company at any place from time to time;
(d)	To operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time-to-time rules, regulations and policies to be observed by employees, which rules, regulations and policies shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement; provided
a
these rules, regulations and policies do not nullify any other clauses of this agreement. Such rules, regulations and policies will be issued to the Union Executive and all new employees. Any changes in such rules, regulations and policies will be posted on the Company notice boards and updated when deemed necessary by Management.
4.02	Supervisory	employees	and other Company
employees not in the	bargaining	unit shall not be
permitted to perform work on any hourly rated job except for:
(a)	testing with	respect to	testing procedures:
(i)	A bargaining unit member must be
present when any testing of equipment is carried out.
(ii)	Individuals conducting such tests must comply with all provisions of the acts in force.
(b)	or training,
(c)	or in an emergency, which is defined as an unusual condition that may arise which is a serious detriment to the safety of employees, equipment or the mines.
9
4.03	In the event supervisory or non-bargaining
unit personnel breach the provisions of 4.02 other than in a trivial manner, the Union shall have the right to require the Company to pay sixteen (1 6) hours pay to the Union as a penalty for such breach or in the case of twelve (12) hour shifts payment will be twenty-four (24) hours. Such pay will be based on the rate of pay of the employee whose work was performed by the non-bargaining unit person.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	The stewards shall be chosen by the Union and will be employees of the Company with seniority status and shall not exceed on the average of an aggregate total of more than one steward for each 20 employees.
5.02	The duties of the stewards shall be to receive, investigate and attempt to settle grievances as outlined in the Grievance Procedure.
5.03	The Company will be officially notified in writing by the proper officer of the Union of the names of the stewards and the departments each represent, and any changes in the same, before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
The Company will inform stewards in connection with their duties regarding grievances as to the names of an employee's immediate supervisor and
10
as to the names of others above that rank who at that time are authorized to handle grievances in the various stages.
5.04	If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during his working hours in connection with a grievance, he will notify his immediate supervisor. Providing only brief matters are dealt with, the supervisor and steward and/or other employee will make arrangements to do so at a time which will least interfere with the work.
The time spent in connection with such disputes or grievances during their working hours shall be paid at the employee's regular rate.
The Company also agrees where grievance meetings are scheduled, personnel will be allowed to attend such meetings. While attending such meetings the Company agrees to pay wages and applicable premiums of up to five (5) Grievance Committee members during their working hours, and payment at their regular base rate for time spent after working hours.
5.05	If an investigation of a grievance involves a steward entering a department, sub-department, or section other than his authorized working place, or if it involves investigation of the conditions of a working place or of equipment, he will be permitted full access, if safe, to such place or equipment. Such steward will
11
be accompanied on any such investigation by the supervisor or designated company official in the department, sub-department or section concerned.
5.05.1	The President of Local 7621 of U.S.W.A. shall be an ex-officio member of all committees but shall not be counted as a voting member of that committee unless he replaces some other Union member of the Committee.
5.06	There shall be a grievance committee of five (5) members elected by the Union. Three (3) members shall form a quorum. One of the Committee shall be a chairman and another secretary of the Committee. The Company will be officially notified in writing by a proper officer of the Union of the names of members of the Grievance Committee.
5.07	Where the Company requests a meeting with a Union representative (including stewards) during the representative's working hours, he shall suffer no loss of pay as a result of attending such a meeting and any other employees required to attend said meeting will suffer no loss of pay. If such meetings are held on weekends or after hours, pay will be at their regular base rate for time spent at such meetings.
5.08	When a problem arises through no fault of Union members and a meeting is called by the Company to deal with the problem, the said members attending (including officers or stewards concerned) will suffer no
12
loss of pay. If such meetings are held on weekends or after hours, pay will be at their regular base rate for time spent at such meetings.
5.09	A joint meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held monthly. The delegation of the Company or the Union shall not exceed seven (7) persons. While attending such meetings, the Company agrees to pay wages and applicable premiums to Union representatives during their working hours and payment at their regular base rate for time spent after working hours.
5.10	The Company agrees to grant up to 40 hours per week (Monday to Friday) time off at his regular base rate and applicable premiums to a member of the Union Executive for the purpose of attending to the Company - Union labour relations matters. Such Executive member will account in writing to the Company with respect to the nature of the matters attended to and the approximate time spent on those matters.
5.11	All new employees shall be introduced to the nearest available Union Officer, by their shift supervisor or foreman, on the first cycle worked. The Company will provide to the Union a list of new hirees on a weekly basis.
13
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	If an employee has a question concerning
the interpretation, application or operation or any alleged violation of this agreement that he has been unable to settle with his immediate supervisor, the matter may be taken up in the following manner and sequence:
STAGE 1: By the aggrieved employee or employees and a steward in his department with the immediate supervisor. Failing a settlement within forty-eight (48) hours, then:
STAGE 2: By the aggrieved employee or employees and a steward in his department with the department superintendent or an equivalent level of supervision. If settlement of the grievance has not been reached under Stage 1, then the grievance shall be submitted to Stage 2 within 48 hours after the answer was given at Stage 1. At this stage, the grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision given in writing within forty-eight (48) hours after being heard at the Stage 2 grievance meeting, but in no event later than seven (7) days following receipt of the grievance.
STAGE 3: By the grievance committee and the department manager, at which time the aggrieved employee or employees may be
14
present. If settlement of the grievance has not been reached under Stage 2, then the grievance shall be submitted to Stage 3 within 48 hours after the answer was given at Stage 2. The written record of the grievance including the decision at Stage 2 must be presented. The decision shall be given in writing within seventy-two (72) hours after being heard at the Stage 3 grievance meeting, but in no event later than ten (10) days following receipt of the grievance.
STAGE 4: By the grievance committee and the general manager and/or any other person or persons designated by him, at which time there may be present the aggrieved employee or employees and a representative of the Union. If settlement of the grievance has not been reached at Stage 3 then the grievance shall be submitted to Stage 4 within seven (7) days after the answer was given at Stage 3. The complete written record of the grievance, including the decisions in Stages 2 and 3 shall be presented at this stage. The decision reached at this stage shall be given in writing within seven (7) days after the grievance is heard at Stage 4 grievance meeting, but in no event later than fourteen (14) days following receipt of the grievance.
15
6.01.1	In the event that the recipient of a grievance fails to answer the grievance at the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th Stages within the specified time period, the grievor may proceed immediately to the next step. In the event that the recipient of the grievance should require additional time to review the grievance, this may be arranged in writing by either party.
6.02	Failing settlement within twenty-one (2 1) calendar days after the decision in Stage 4 is given, of any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, the matter may be referred to arbitration by either party as hereinafter provided, and if no written request is received within such period the matter shall be deemed to have been abandoned. In the event that no action has taken place within six (6) months of the notice to arbitrate the matter will have deemed to have been abandoned.
6.03	It is understood that no complaint or grievance may be taken up under the grievance procedure after the expiration of thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance.
6.04	In the cases where there is no second line supervisor or equivalent official, Stage 2 of the grievance procedure may be by-passed.
16
6.05	When a group of two (2) or more employees or the employees of a department have a complaint or grievance to be taken up under this procedure, it shall first be taken up at Stage 2.
Such group grievances shall bear or have attached the names of all employees involved in the grievance. A grievance involving two (2) or more employees shall be presented by not more than two (2) of those employees in the group concerned.
6.06	Any differences arising directly between the Union and the Company as to the interpretation or an alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, may be submitted in writing by either party to the other at Stage 4.
6.07	Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays will not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be completed in each of the foregoing Stages 1 to 4, of the grievance procedure. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union.
6.08	At any stage of the grievance procedure, including arbitration: the conferring parties may have the assistance of any employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the property to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
17
6.09	When a grievance which alleges an employee has not been paid his proper rate of pay is settled or decided in his favour, it shall be made retroactive to the date the grievance occurred.
6.09.1	When a grievance which alleges overtime work has been performed by the wrong employee and settled in favour of the grievor, the grievor shall be given an opportunity to work an overtime shift at his convenience.
6.09.2	When a grievance which alleges that an employee has been unjustly denied overtime due to the work being performed by a contractor and such grievance is settled in favour of the grievor, the grievor shall be given an opportunity to work an overtime shift at his convenience.
6.09.3	Grievance relating to job posting may be commenced at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure.
6.10	In relation to the discharge of an employee who has acquired seniority, the matter may be taken up as a grievance at Stage 3 of the grievance procedure if presented within seven (7) days after the employee has ceased work with the Company.
6.11	If said discharge case is taken to arbitration the arbitrators may:
(a)	Sustain the discharge;
18
Reinstate the employee, without loss of seniority, and with payment of his wages at his regular base rate for the time lost since the grievance was presented in writing to the Company; less compensation received or amounts earned during the time lost;
Make any other decision deemed just and equitable in the circumstances.
Employees shall be entitled to have a Union representative present when they are being disciplined, suspended or discharged.
6.13 An employee whom the Company suspends shall be retained at work and normal rate of pay until any grievance contesting such suspension is finally resolved through the grievance and/or arbitration procedure, however, in a case of fighting on the job or alcohol/drug abuse, the employee may be sent home immediately for the remainder of the shift.
Grievances involving employees who are retained at work under this provision will be handled through an expedited grievance procedure unless the Union and the Company mutually agree otherwise.
If the arbitrator upholds the discipline, the penalty shall be instituted after receipt of the arbitration award.
(b)
(c)
6.12
19
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party desires that any difference be submitted to arbitration as hereinbefore provided, the following procedure shall be used.
7.02	Any	matter referred to arbitration as
provided in 7.01 hereof shall be submitted to a single arbitrator. Such arbitrator shall be selected from the following list of arbitrators:
Glen Power David Jones Colin Taylor Gerard Hawco Alan Beattie
7.03	The arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
7.04	The first arbitration shall be heard by the first above-named arbitrator, if the arbitrators are named, and the arbitrators shall thereafter rotate on each subsequent arbitration, but should anyone be unable to act within thirty (30) calendar days, he shall be passed over to the next arbitrator on the list.
7.05	The arbitrator shall notify the Company in advance and after such notification shall have the right
20
to enter any premises where work is being done or has been done by the employees or in which the Employer carried on business or where anything is taking place or has taken place concerning any of the differences submitted to him and inspect and view any work, material, machinery, appliance or article therein, and interrogate any person respecting any such thing or any such differences.
7.06	If during the life of this Agreement, one of the arbitrators named in 7.02 hereof withdraws from the list if there is one, or dies or becomes incapacitated, the parties shall appoint a replacement by mutual agreement in writing and failing such agreement, the appointment shall be made by the Director of Mediation Services upon application of either party.
7.07	The Union and the Company shall each pay one-half of the remuneration and expenses of the arbitrator.
7.08	Notwithstanding any sanction attaching to any violation of the time limits for processing a grievance from step to step up to and including arbitration, the arbitrator shall have the right to set aside any such sanctions and deal with any grievance on its merits provided that the delay complained of by the protesting party is reasonable and provided further that such delay has not prejudiced the party making the protest.
21
ARTICLE 8
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
8.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of employees.
8.02	In view of the orderly procedure for settling grievances, the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, or other stoppage of work either by individual or collective action which will stop or interfere with work or production and any employee or employees taking part in or instigating any such strike, slow-down, sit-down, or other stoppage of work may be disciplined or discharged subject to any rights the employee may have under the grievance procedure.
8.03	Notwithstanding Article 8 it is agreed that employees may fail to carry out a work assignment if they have reasonable grounds to believe there is danger to their life or limb or that of other workers.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY PROVISIONS
9.01	Seniority provisions shall not apply to
temporary employees engaged as such. During the first thirty (30) shifts worked or three hundred (300) hours worked whichever occurs first with the Company, an employee shall be considered to be on probation and he shall not acquire any seniority rights until the completion of the said period. After completion of his probationary period an employee's name shall be placed on the
22
seniority list, with seniority dating from the date and time he last commenced to work for the Company.
9.02	The parties recognize that job opportunity and seniority shall increase in proportion to length of service. It is further agreed that in all cases of vacancy, transfer, lay-off and re-hirings after lay-offs, the most senior qualified person who has sufficient skill to perform the work shall be entitled to preference.
The Company shall have the right to pass over any employee who, after a reasonable trial and familiarization period of not less than 30 days has not demonstrated the ability to perform the job. Employees must be given an appropriate level of guidance and training from a suitably qualified person through the trial period. All such employees shall be made aware of their progress at clearly established stages of the trial period and be coached and given the opportunity to correct any short-comings in their performance before the end of the trial period. Employees must, at all times, be treated fairly and with dignity and respect.
9.03	Entry level positions in training programs will be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article 10. In selecting applicants for one of the Company’s training programs, the Company will consider the following selection criteria as it relates to the position: education, aptitude, experience, work record, and physical fitness. It is understood that where these qualifications are relatively equal, employees with the
23
greatest seniority will be given preference. The Company shall have the right to pass over any employee who after a reasonable trial period of not less than thirty (30) days or three hundred (300) hours has not acquired the ability to perform the job.
9.04	Promotions to supervisory positions or transfers to other positions outside the bargaining unit shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
9.05	There shall be two types of seniority, namely, Departmental seniority and Company seniority.
9.06	Departmental seniority subject to the provisions of 9.02 shall govern promotions within the Department. Departmental seniority shall mean the length of continuous service in the Department, but subject to any special sections regarding transfers contained in this Agreement. Company seniority shall govern in considering applicants for apprenticeships, and entry level positions in training programs.
9.07	Company seniority, subject to the provisions of 9.02 shall govern in the event of lay-offs. Company seniority shall mean the length of continuous service with the Company from date of last hiring.
9.08	The Company's lists showing each employee's Departmental and Company seniority date shall be posted by the Company for a minimum of seven (7) days within two (2) weeks after the execution of
24
this Agreement. These lists shall remain open for a period of three (3) weeks after posting for the express purpose that an employee may register a complaint with the Personnel Department as to the correctness of his seniority date. Following this three (3) week period, the lists shall become final, at which time a copy will be furnished to the Union. They shall be brought up to date and posted every three (3) months and shall be available for scrutiny in all deployment centres by employees including the stewards. Any employee who is absent for legitimate reasons when these seniority lists are posted will be entitled to register with the Personnel Department a complaint as to the correctness of his seniority date within seven (7) days after returning to work.
9.09	The departments referred to in the seniority lists shall be as follows:
(a)	Underground Mines;
(b)	Surface Mines;
(c)	Processing;
(d)	Warehouse;
(e)	Human Resources.
With the exceptions of persons permanently transferred to the Human Resources Department, all persons will continue to accrue seniority in the department they came from.
9.10	An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
25
a)	Voluntarily quits the employ of the Company;
b)	Is justifiably discharged;
c)	Has been laid off for more than twenty-four (24) months without being re-called to work.
9.11	It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly of any change of their address. If an employee should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach such employee.
9.12	An employee shall not lose any seniority because of absence due to sickness, accident, or other unavoidable reasons. If an employee finds that he is unable to report for work because of sickness, or other legitimate reason, he shall notify the First Aid Department, not less than forty-five (45) minutes before the start of his shift, if possible.
9.13	When an employee is to be recalled, the Company will notify him by registered mail to his last place of residence known to the Company. Any employee shall be deemed to have voluntarily quit his employment and the Company shall be under no obligation to re-employ him if he fails to return to work within thirty (30) days after the mailing of such notice or fails to advise the Company within fourteen (14) days after mailing of such notice of his intention to return within a time deemed reasonable by the Company.
26
When an employee or employees accept recall and is/are employed in a job other than the job held previous to the lay-off, the employee or employees shall be given first opportunity to return to his/their original job when a vacancy occurs. The Company shall not be obligated to post such job openings until all such employees have had an opportunity to return to his/their original job.
Should the Company recall by classification, the Company will notify all qualified people of their possible recall on a seniority basis. The employees involved in that classification must respond as to their intent within the time specified in 9.13 Should a vacancy then occur, the Company will recall those employees that responded on the basis of seniority.
9.14	In the event that the transfer of an employee from one department to another is required by the Company for either:
(a)	The efficient conduct of operations; or
(b)	Consideration of health of the employee;
it is agreed that his accumulated Company Seniority shall be transferred to his new department as department seniority.
9.15	An employee who is transferred from one department to another department for reasons other than those stated in 9.14 (a) and (b) will not receive
27
Department seniority in advance of employees in the department to which he has been transferred except in the case of bumping due to layoff. When an employee bumps to another department as a result of a layoff, he will receive Department Seniority in the department to which he bumps equal to his company seniority.
9.15.1	Employees having permanent or temporary partial disability as a result of a job related accident or illness, shall be given preference over other employees in the class of work they can reasonably perform. To exercise rights under this paragraph, a vacancy must exist for a job prior to the disabled employee having preference of assignment.
9.15.2	Employees accommodated under 9.15.1 will remain in the new job until such times as:
a)	Their condition improves and they then return to their original position by regular job posting or successfully bid on a job of their choice, or;
b)	Their condition deteriorates and they are unable to perform their duties, in which case they will be able to fill a vacancy in a new job which they are able to perform.
9.16	The Company shall have the right to transfer any person in its employ who is not then within the definition of employee to a job classification within the
28
definition and assign him to a job commensurate with his length of service with the Company, ability and qualifications, provided any such transfer will not cause demotion or lay-off of any person within the bargaining unit. In ascertaining the amount of seniority of such a person it is agreed that employees who are transferred to a job which is out of the bargaining unit shall retain whatever seniority they had at the time of such transfer, while out of the unit for a period of three (3) months at which time such person shall lose all seniority.
9.17	An employee who is successful in a job bid shall accumulate department seniority in the new department from the date the employee was awarded the job.
ARTICLE 10 - JOB POSTING
10.01	An employee who wishes to be considered for a job vacancy may file an application with the Personnel Department.
10.02	When a permanent job vacancy occurs, the job will be posted on the Company and Union notice boards throughout the minesite for seven (7) consecutive days. Persons within the department where the job vacancy has occurred will be given first preference. If no one within the department possesses the required ability and qualifications for the job, then employees who applied from other departments will be considered. All postings shall specify the location of the
29
job, the shift, the job classification, the rate, a brief description of the nature of the job and the job posting number.
10.03.1	If no applications are received, or if none of the applicants possess the required ability and qualifications, the Company may:
a)	hire a qualified person to fill the vacancy, or
b)	fill the vacancy with an existing employee under the provisions of 9.03.
10.03.2	In the event that the Company is increasing the manpower complement and the jobs are posted, it is understood that the Company will agree to train existing unskilled employees in specific jobs in the operating areas, provided that the ratio of unskilled employees selected to be trained does not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the number of new employees to be hired in that specific job category.
10.03.3	In the event that the Company is hiring a replacement and the job is posted, it is understood that the Company will train existing unskilled employees in “specific jobs” provided that the ratio of unskilled employees trained does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the number of employees hired. The training opportunity will be created in the first “specific job” in which a vacancy occurs.
“Specific jobs” are as defined below:
30
Surface Mine:	- Truck driver
-	Loader
-	Dozer -Grader
Underground:	- Breaker Station
Operator
-	Mine Service Truck Driver
10.03.4	In the event that the Company is increasing the manpower complement or is replacing an employee, the opportunity for training in the trades area will be at the discretion of the Company and will be predicated on the ability of the Company to train as per relevant clauses in the Collective Agreement.
10.03.5	If a vacancy is not filled in six (6) months from either the workforce or by a new hire, it shall be reposted.
10.04	Applicants will be considered on the basis of provisions relating to seniority. When the job has been filled a notice specifying the name and seniority date of the person filling the job shall be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days. Bids can only be cancelled prior to the notice being posted.
10.05	An employee who has successfully bid for a job, may not bid for a further job for a period of six (6) months. A new employee will be eligible for a job bid if
31
he has less than six (6) months seniority if no other job bid has been filed.
10.05.1	In the case of job postings regarding apprenticeships Article 10.05 will not apply.
A new employee will be eligible to bid on an apprentice job posting if he has less than six (6) months seniority and if no other bids have been filed.
10.06	For the purpose of the job posting the departments of the Company shall be:
(a)	Underground Mines;
(b)	Surface Mines;
(c)	Processing;
(d)	Warehouse;
(e)	Human Resources.
10.07	A successful job applicant shall be released to his new job as soon as possible, but in any event, not later than forty-two (42) calendar days after the closing of the job posting.
10.07.1	In any event the successful job applicant will receive the new rate of pay for the job awarded if it is higher than his current rate not later than twenty-one (21) calendar days after the posting is awarded.
10.08	In the event any employee fails to fulfil the requirements of the job to which he has been transferred or promoted under Article 9.02 or 9.03, then
32
such employee shall revert to his original job and rate of pay. Other employees moved as a result of the original transfer shall in turn revert to their original job and rate of pay.
10.09	A copy of all job postings and awards shall be forwarded to the local Union when posted on the Company's notice boards.
ARTICLE 11 - STUDENTS
11.01	The Company may employ summer students to perform vacation relief work. No employees shall be laid off or demoted to make place for such students. Students will not be eligible for overtime unless all department employees who normally perform the work have first been offered and refused the opportunity to work.
Students will be paid Job Group 1 or the appropriate hourly rate of pay. The Company expressly reserves the right to hire, transfer, promote, demote, or dismiss such employees, exclusive of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company will notify the union of personnel who are covered by this article.
Students will not be allowed rights or receive benefits provided under the following sections of the CBA:
Pension benefits 33
Job posting and training
Any benefits for which they are
already eligible under their parent's
employee benefit plan
Long Term Disability
Sickness and death benefits except for
life insurance and accidental death and
dismemberment insurance.
Such employment and benefits will cease on August 31st of the year in which they are hired.
Summer students will be utilized as labourers, janitors and steam cleaners in all Departments and the incumbents in these positions will be trained in other areas of the Department for vacation relief.
In hiring summer students, preference will be given to sons and daughters of Smoky River Coal Limited employees.
11.02	If the parties mutually agree, the Company may hire temporary employees for short term periods not longer than 30 work days for non-routine work or special projects. Such temporary employees will not accumulate any seniority rights as per Article 9.01. No employees from the bargaining unit shall be laid off or demoted to make place for such temporary employees.
In hiring temporary employees, preference will be given to laid off employees and/or the sons and
34
daughters of existing employees who have the ability to perform the work.
ARTICLE 12 - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
12.01	The Company will undertake to train a limited number of apprentices. Entry level positions in apprenticeship programs shall be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
In selecting applicants for one of the Company's apprenticeship programs it is understood that where an applicant meets the minimum selection criteria, as outlined by Alberta Career Development, Apprenticeship and Industry Training Act, employees with the greatest seniority will be given preference.
Employees who possess a certified trades designation shall not be considered for an apprenticeship posting unless no other employee qualifies, however, the Company may hire entry level apprentices from outside the hourly workforce based on the following:
a)	Only one (1) in every four (4) apprentices may be hired from outside the hourly workforce.
b)	The apprentice hired must be a grade 12 graduate and have completed the “Elite
35
Program” at the Grande Cache Community High School.
c)	Sons and daughters of Smoky River Coal
employees will be given preference.
12.01.1	Where an apprentice fails to pass his apprenticeship, the vacant position shall be re-posted and the incumbent shall return to his previous position without loss of seniority.
12.02	The Company agrees that apprentices will be eligible for Union membership and come under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
12.03	Apprentices will be given work appropriate to orderly training in their trade. It is Company policy that apprentices will not work outside their trade except in cases of emergency.
12.04	The rates of pay for apprentices shall be the following percentages of the appropriate certified journeyman rate:
First Year:	80% of	appropriate	certified
	journeyman	rate	
Second Year:	85% of	appropriate	certified
	journeyman	rate	
Third Year:	90% of	appropriate	certified
	journeyman	rate	
36
Fourth Year:	95% of appropriate certified
journeyman rate
Apprentices who obtain a certificate from the department of Labour, Occupational Health and Safety Division, Mines Branch as an Underground Electrician prior to completing their apprenticeship, will, upon providing the Company with proof of such certification, be eligible to receive the E.R.C.B. allowance.
12.05	In the matters pertaining to the administration and training of apprentices, the evaluation of the apprentices performance and all matters regulated by the Apprenticeship Act and the Tradesmen's Qualifications Act shall not be subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement; provided however, the Company will notify the Union as to the intended implementation of the various apprenticeship programs and shall consult with the Union regarding the same.
12.06	The Company and the Union have established a joint committee (comprised of two (2) Company representatives and two (2) Union representatives, all of whom shall possess Alberta or Interprovincial Journeymen Certification), whose function shall be to fully examine the apprenticeship training program and make recommendations in respect thereto. Any changes made by the joint committee and
37
changes which the Company makes in addition, shall be in accordance with appropriate legislation.
12.06.1	The committee will meet every four (4) months or more often as necessary.
12.07	An apprentice absent from the job due to
attendance at a provincial apprenticeship school will be paid his regular pay less any training allowance received. To qualify for the above the employee must sign the appropriate educational loan forms.
The Company will make up the employees wages upon receiving the trades training allowance receipt and advance those monies to the said employee. While attending apprenticeship school, apprentices will continue to receive wages on normal pay days.
Should an apprentice fail to pass school term examinations but is permitted to repeat same, the Company shall not be required to pay the apprentice as provided herein while he is repeating his school term.
12.07.01	The Company agrees to pay book allowance of $220.00 per school term to each apprentice while attending school. In the event that an apprentice fails to pass the school term examinations, the book allowance will not be provided while he is repeating his school term.
38
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
13.01	The following Statutory Holidays will be recognized:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday
Miner's Day (to be observed Easter Monday)
Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day December 24th Christmas Day Boxing Day
In the event the Provincial or Federal Government proclaims an additional holiday, it shall also be observed.
In the event the Provincial or Federal government rescinds a holiday, it shall not be observed, exclusive of the above thirteen (13) named holidays.
The above statutory holidays for employees who work on the condensed work week schedule will be observed from 19:30 hours on the day immediately preceding the statutory holiday to 19:30 hours on the
39
day of the statutory holiday. This twenty-four <24) hour period will apply for statutory holiday pay rate calculations.
Employees who work a 5-2, Monday to Friday, 8 hour schedule who do not work on a statutory holiday, shall receive statutory holiday pay computed at their straight time rate plus applicable premiums for their normal scheduled hours of work.
Employees on a condensed work schedule shall receive statutory holiday pay as follows:
(a)	If a statutory holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, statutory holiday pay will be computed at his straight time rate for ten (10) hours and time and one-half for two (2) hours.
(b)	If a statutory holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest and the employee works, such statutory holiday pay will be computed at his straight time rate for ten (10) hours and time and one-half for two (2) hours.
(c)	If a statutory holiday falls on a scheduled day of work and the employee is not required to work, such statutory holiday pay will be computed at his straight time rate for ten (10) hours and time and one-half for two (2) hours plus applicable premiums.
40
(d)	If a statutory holiday falls on a scheduled day of work and the employee is required to work, such statutory holiday pay will be computed at his straight time rate for ten (10) hours and time and one-half for two (2) hours.
(e)	Work on statutory holidays for production or any other reasons will be covered by voluntary overtime. However in cases where insufficient volunteers are available, the Company shall retain the right to schedule the remaining personnel to make up the shortfall required for proper operation.
Employees who work on a statutory holiday will in addition receive two times his straight time rate for all hours worked.
13.02	Each employee will receive Statutory Holiday pay, computed according to clause 13.01 provided:
1.	He works his full regular scheduled shifts both immediately before and after the Holiday;
2.	Notwithstanding 13.02 (1 ) above an employee shall receive Statutory Holiday pay if:
41
(a)	He is on his authorized annual vacation during which time one of the aforesaid Statutory Holidays occurs and he has worked his regular full shifts both immediately before and after such vacation period;
(b)	He is absent due to a death in his immediate family as defined in 19.02;
<c)	While on his regular job an employee suffers
an accident which prevents him from working his regular shift on the day before or after the Statutory Holiday as required above and for which he receives no Workers Compensation benefits for time lost, such accident having been reported by him to his Supervisor and First Aid Department during or immediately at the end of the shift in which the accident occurred;
<d)	Having commenced work on his regular
scheduled shift before or after the Statutory Holiday concerned, the employee is prevented from completing such shift because of illness; provided however, that the employee reports immediately to his Supervisor and is subject to being examined by the Company's doctor and declared medically unfit to work;
42
(e)	He is absent due to an authorized leave of absence (including official Union business) which does not exceed thirty (30) days;
(f)	He is unable to return for his full regular shift immediately after the holiday due to delay, breakdown, or failure of public transportation, ie., bus, train, or plane, or due to breakdown or failure of private automobile, satisfactory proof of which must be furnished to the Company by the employee himself;
(g)	He misses one, but not both, of his regular scheduled shifts either before or after the Holiday and qualifies for benefits under
18.02,	or otherwise provides acceptable evidence of sickness or disability on one or other of the qualifiers. In this instance he will receive his normal Statutory Holiday pay, less any benefit paid for that day under
18.02.	In no event will an employee receive Statutory Holiday pay if his period of benefit under 18.02 exceeds 30 calendar days;
(h)	He reports late for work on either, but not both, qualifiers he shall be entitled to receive Statutory Holiday pay equivalent to the number of hours worked on the shift for which he reported late.
43
13.03	Unless otherwise mutually agreed, if a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday shall be observed on the Monday.
Regarding employees on a condensed work week schedule, it is agreed that where a Statutory Holiday is observed on an employee's scheduled day of rest, the employee may elect to take a substitute day off, without pay, provided he had been paid for his Statutory Holiday in accordance with this Agreement but in no case more than one hundred and twenty <120) days after the Statutory Holiday. Requests for substitute days off will be made in writing by the employee and replied to in writing by the Company. It is recognized by the Company and the Union that substitute days should not be banked to be used in conjunction with an employee's annual vacation.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME & SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
14.01	(a-1) In the case of Underground
employees, 8 hours, portal to portal, shall constitute a working shift. The Company will continue to operate the Underground Mines on a forty (40) hours per week Monday through Friday schedule. The Company will continue to operate the Tunnelway on a four
44
and four (4 & 4) continuous schedule.
<a-2) In the case of the Underground thirty-two (32) hours week-end schedule twelve (12) hours portal to portal shall constitute a working shift on Saturday and Sunday, eight (8) hours portal to portal shall constitute a working shift on Monday.
<b) In all other areas of the mine those persons required to work a continuous shift will work a four and four (4 & 4) continuous work schedule. This schedule will alternate between days and nights following each rest period except for those employees required to work days only.
For those employees not required on continuous shift, the standard work week will be forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday.
<c) Any changes to the present work schedules must be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
45
14.02
(a)	For employees on a Monday to Friday work schedule, time worked in excess of the employees' scheduled work week and the employees' scheduled work shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. Where hours worked exceed eight hours at time and one half in one scheduled work week all subsequent overtime hours shall be paid at double the employees regular rate of pay. Where the work in excess of the employees shift exceeds three (3) hours (more than eleven (11) hours total) such additional overtime work shall be paid at the rate of double the employees regular rate of pay. Overtime rates for work on Sundays shall be at double the employees regular rate of pay.
(b)	All employees on the condensed twelve (12) hour work schedule shall receive payment at regular rate for the first ten (10) hours and overtime at one and one half (1 - 'M times regular base rate for the last two hours of each scheduled shift. Overtime rates for time worked in
46
excess of the employees twelve (12) hour scheduled shift or on any day of rest will be two (2) times the employees regular base rate.
(c)	Overtime rates for employees on the underground weekend schedule shall be paid at double the employees regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 12 hours on Saturday or Sunday, and as per the provisions of Article 14.02 (a) in all other circumstances.
14.03	Employees who are called back to work for an emergency outside their regular hours shall be paid the greater of :
1.	six (6) hours at time and one half, or
2.	his appropriate overtime rate for actual hours worked.
The employee shall be entitled to return home after completing the work necessitating the call back.
Call out pay is not related to his regular shift. Where the call out hours are contiguous to his regular scheduled shift he shall still receive call back pay as outlined above. However, hours worked in the regular scheduled shift shall be paid at his regular rate
47
at straight time. Where the call out results in a full four or more hours on the job and the employee is required to commence his regular shift within six (6) hours of completing that call out, then such employee will be entitled to eight (8) hours rest with no loss of pay before reporting to his regular shift.
The employees time will start for such call out when the employee checks in at the main gate.
14.04	An employee who reports for work for his regular shift without having been given at least four (4) hours prior notice not to report is guaranteed four (4) hours work or at the Company's option shall be paid for (4) hours pay at his overtime rate, provided that this section does not apply in cases beyond the control of the Company such as failure of the main power supply, nor if caused by any labour dispute, nor shall it apply to employees returning to work after an absence without leave, or who if on leave fails to report for work at their regular shift immediately following their termination of the authorized leave of absence.
14.05	Whenever an employee is held for legitimate extra work, or is brought in on his day off or on a holiday, he shall not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to his normal work week
14.06	Employees shall be given sixty <60) hours advance notice of a shift or schedule change except in case of emergencies.
48
(a)	When an employee has his work shift changed and is required to report for work with less than sixty (60) hours notice, he will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all regular scheduled hours worked until the sixty (60) hours notice period has expired.
(b)	When an employee has his work schedule changed he will have a rest day designated in such a manner that he will not be required to work more than 48 hours in any work period without a rest day. If the employee is required to report for work with less than sixty (60) hours notice he will be paid at the rate of time and one half for all regular scheduled hours worked until the sixty (60) hours notice period has expired or appropriate overtime rates will be paid if the employee is required to work on the designated day of rest.
14.07	In the event an employee reports for work on his scheduled shift and is required to work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours, all hours worked will be paid at two (2) times his regular base rate.
14.08	The Company will distribute opportunities for available overtime equally among all employees in the department and classification who normally perform the work in the area for which overtime is required.
49
The Company will record on a monthly basis all overtime hours worked or refused. These records will be posted on the Company bulletin boards in each department.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
15.01	The vacation year shall be from July 1st to June 30th and eligibility for vacation shall be determined as of July 1st of each year. Continuous service for computing entitlement to vacation shall be calculated from the date last hired. Vacation entitlement shall be as follows:
15.01.1	As of July 1st in any year, employees whose date of hiring occurred during the previous vacation year will be entitled to receive a vacation whose length will be determined on the basis of 1 /1 2th of two (2) vacation weeks for each full month worked prior to June 30th.
15.01.2	Employees whose first anniversary of continuous service occurs prior to July 1st of any year but who have less than two (2) full years of continuous service will receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
15.01.3	Employees whose second anniversary of continuous service occurs prior to July 1st but who have less than six (6) years of continuous service will receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
50
15.01.4	Employees whose sixth anniversary of continuous service occurs prior to July 1st but who have less than ten (IO) years of continuous service will receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
15.01.5	Employees whose tenth or any subsequent anniversary occurs prior to July 1st in any year will be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
A vacation adjustment schedule in addition to the vacation entitlements listed above shall be provided as follows:
In the vacation year before an employee first achieves the vacation plateaus of each 3,4 and 5 weeks of vacation with pay, such employee will be entitled to a vacation adjusting equivalent to 0.292 days, with pay, for each full one-half month of service between his anniversary date of last hire with the Company and June 30th of that vacation year. The vacation pay entitlement shall be calculated as follows:
Half Months Worked X 2% Plus 24
the vacation pay is calculated in Clause 15.03. The time entitlement shall be rounded off to the nearest day.
15.02	Seven calendar days constitute a week of vacation.
51
15.03	Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
(a)	Employees entitled to two (2) weeks or less of vacation shall receive vacation pay based on five (5%) percent of gross earnings.
(b)	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks vacation shall receive vacation pay based on seven (7%) percent of gross earnings.
(c)	Employees entitled to four (4) weeks vacation shall receive vacation pay based on nine (9%) percent of gross earnings.
(d)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks vacation shall receive vacation pay based on eleven (11 %) percent of gross earnings.
(e)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks vacation and who have fifteen (15) years or more of continuous service shall receive vacation pay based on twelve (12%) percent of gross earnings.
Vacation pay shall be paid immediately preceding the employee's annual vacation.
15.04	When the employment of an employee is terminated, he shall receive vacation pay based upon five (5%), seven (7%), nine (9%), or eleven (1 1 %) or twelve (12%) percent of his gross earnings depending
52
upon what entitlement he had to vacation as of the date of the termination.
15.05
(a)	Vacations for eligible employees shall be scheduled from July 1 to June 30 following, but so far as possible will be granted at times most desired by employees; provided, however, the employer reserves the final right to allotment of vacation periods to ensure orderly operations of the mine, but shall give the employee at least twelve (12) weeks notice in advance of the date of commencement of his annual vacation. These scheduled vacations cannot be altered unless the employee submits a written request stating a valid reason for such a request. The Company will consult with the Union prior to settling the annual plant shutdown dates. Notice of such plant shut-downs shall be given by March 1st annually.
(b)	The Company will make every effort to schedule vacations for employees with dependent school age children during the months of July and August.
(c)	Vacations will be taken in multiples of one week and two splits of the entire vacation entitlement will be allowed.
15.06	In the event a recognized Statutory Holiday or Holidays falls within an employees' vacation period,
53
he shall have his vacation with pay extended one working day for each Statutory Holiday.
15.07	In the event an employee is absent from work due to an on-the-job accident (for which he receives Workers' Compensation) or in the event an employee is ill and qualifies for benefits under 18.02, such time lost from work up to a maximum six (6) months in any year shall be taken into account in computing vacation pay, that is, such time shall be deemed to be time worked at the employees' regular base rate.
15.08	An employee who takes a vacation during the months of October, November, December, January, February, March, April and May will receive an additional $75.00 per week of vacation. These months will be considered “out of season” periods.
ARTICLE 16-WAGES
16.01	The wage rates payable under this Agreement are set forth as follows:
54
JOB CLASSIFICATION AND SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
GROUP OCTOBER 1, 1995	OCTOBER 1,1996
OCTOBER 1, 1997
.19.18
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11
16.01(a) Employees on the Underground week-end schedule will work thirty-two (32) hours but will be paid for forty (40) straight time hours plus the forty (40) hours applicable premiums will be paid for all hours worked.
16.02	When an employee is temporarily assigned to and works in a higher paying classification, he will be paid the rate of the higher paying classification for all the hours of that shift. When an employee is temporarily assigned to and works in a lower paying classification, he will be paid his regular base rate.
55
16.03	When an employee is not in receipt of his full wages for a pay period, he will be reimbursed:
(a)	within forty-eight <48) hours for employees who bank within Grande Cache, and
(b)	within seventy-two (72) hours for employees banking with alternative banks.
exclusive of Saturday, Sunday and holidays from when he advises his foreman.
16.03.1 When an employee is not in receipt of his full wages a separate pay cheque will be issued within the times specified above. This is not to be considered an advance and will show hours missed, taxes withheld and accumulated totals.
16.04	Job Titles:	
	UNDERGROUND	
GROUP	JOB TITLE	POSITION CODES
1	Labourer	LABU
	Janitor	JANU
2	Trainee II	TRN2
4	Trainee I	TRN1
6	Underground Miner II	UGM2
56
Conveyor Attendant Breaker Station Operator Mine Service Truck Driver
8 Underground Miner I
UGM1
9 LHD Driver
Shuttle Car Operator
LHDU
SCDU
10	Continuous Miner Operator CMOU Power Support Operator
Shearer Operator Gate End Operator
11	Tradesman (Alberta Journeyman or Interprovincial)
* All employees in Job Class 8 or above must have a miner's certificate.
PROCESSING
GROUP JOB TITLE
POSITION CODES
Labourer
Janitor
LABP
JANP
2 Steamcleaner
Serviceman Trainee Plant Operator Trainee
3	Plant Operator V
P05P
57
4	Plant Operator IV	P04P
Equipment Operator Trainee EQTP
5	Plant Operator III	P03P
6	Plant Operator II	P02P
Serviceman	SVP
Equipment Operator II	EQ2P
7	Plant Operator I	P01P
Equipment Operator I	EQ1P
8	Flotation Operator	FLOP
Heavy Equipment Operator EQHP Stationary Engineer
(4th Class Certificate)	UT2P
10	Senior Control Operator	SCOP
11	Tradesman (Alberta Journeyman or Interprovincial) Stationary Engineer
(3rd Class Certificate)	UT1P
SURFACE MINE
GROUP JOB TITLE
1 Labourer Janitor
POSITION CODES
LABS
JANS
2 Steamcleaner/Janitor	JASS
58
Serviceman Trainee
4	Equipment Operator Trainee Truck Driver Trainee Tireman Trainee Rockbolter Trainee Service Truck Driver Tool Crib Attendant Pit Utility Person Loader Operator Trainee Dozer Operator Trainee Grader Operator Trainee Serviceman I Crusher Operator Trainee
5	Air Trac Operator
Rotary Drill Operator Trainee Shovel Operator Trainee Blaster Helper
6	Serviceman Tireman 1 Rockbolter I Grader Operator Loader Operator I Dozer Operator I Crusher Operator
7	Shovel Operator II Rotary Drill Operator I Loader Operator
59
SVTS
EQTS
TDTS
TIRT
RBTS
STDS
TCAS
PUPS
LOTS
DOST
GOTS
ATOS
DOTS
SHVT
BLHS
SVS
TIR1
RBT1
GOS
LOIS
D01S
SHV2
LOS
Dozer Operator	DOS
Haulage Truck Driver	HTDS
Coal Truck Driver	CTD
8	Stationary Engineer
(4th Class)	UT2S
Blaster (Alberta Certified) BLS Tireman	TIRS
Rockbolter	RBTS
Backhoe Operator	BHOS
Float Truck Driver	FTDS
9	Rotary Drill Operator
(45R-60R)	RDOS
Shovel Operator I
10	Shovel Operator	SHVS
11	Crane Operator (Alberta Journeyman Crane &
Hoisting)	UT3S
Stationary Engineer (3rd Class Certificate) Tradesman (Alberta Journeyman or Interprovincial Certificate)
HUMAN RESOURCES
GROUP	JOB TITLE	POSITON CODES
2	Serviceman Trainee	SVTH
60
6
Serviceman
SVH
11 Tradesman (Alberta Journeyman or Interprovincial)
WAREHOUSE
GROUP JOB TITLE
2	Warehouseman	III
4	Warehouseman	II
6	Warehouseman	I
7	Warehouseman*
POSITION CODES WHS3
WHS2
WHS1
WHS
* To achieve Warehouseman rate the employee must be willing and able to perform all aspects of warehouseman work including yardwork, forklift operation, operation of 5 ton truck, inside work, etc, in all seasons.
PROCESSING JOBS
Equipment Operator II - Group VI
Qualifications to operate dozer up to D-9 or equivalent, 988 or equivalent loaders and one of forklift, grader, truck up to 50 tons.
Equipment Operator I - Group VII
Qualifications and experience of Operator II,
61
ability to operate larger loaders and backhoes.
Heavy Equipment Operator - Group VIII
This job requires qualifications and experience of Equipment Operator I, must be able to operate grader, small cranes up to 50 tons, tractor trailers and must possess a valid Class I Operators licence. This job will only be available when a vacancy occurs and an employee successfully bids on the job (Heavy Equipment Operator).
ARTICLE 17 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
17.01	The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interests of all concerned to maintain high standards of safety and health in the mine and plant in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
17.02	The Company accepts the responsibility to make adequate and reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during working hours in cooperation and consultation with the joint safety and health committees.
17.03	The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the best interest of all concerned to create a Joint Health and Safety Committee <JHSC). The structure of the committee shall be as follows:
62
a)	At the department level the JHSC shall include representatives of Company and the union. One representative of each party in each department shall be designated cochairman for that department. It is understood that there will be two representatives from each party in each department.
b)	A JHSC Program Committee will be formed. It will include the department co-chairmen, the Union health and safety officer, the superintendent of safety and loss prevention.
c)	A JHSC Executive Committee will be formed. It will include the Union health and safety officer, the superintendent of safety and loss prevention, members of the Union executive and the managers of the departments.
The Company recognizes that the Union has the right to select the Union members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee outlined, and that limiting the number of Union safety committee members presents practical problems to Local 7621. It is agreed that the practice of having more than two safety committee members in each department will continue.
63
17.04	In order to define the purpose of the Joint Health and Safety Committee at each level, the following will apply:
a)	At the Department level, the committee will be responsible for monthly inspections of their area as well as investigating any reportable incident, any health and safety complaints from that area, reviewing statistics and safety trends for that area, results of any tests or surveys pertaining to the health and safety of the workers, and for follow up on inspections for that area. Based on this work, the department level committee will be responsible for development of, or modifications to, departmental operating procedures. Outstanding concerns will first be discussed with the department manager. Failing resolution, the concerns will be forwarded to the JHSC program committee.
b)	At the JHSC Program level the committee will be responsible to develop or cause to be developed, the Health and Safety Program as defined under Article 17.08, and related Health and Safety policies. At
this level the committee will also be responsible to review the following:
64
1)	any outstanding complaints respecting the safety and health of the workers;
2)	the identification of risks to the health and safety of workers or other persons, arising out of or in connection with the activities in the workplace;
3)	measures to protect the safety, health
and welfare	of persons in the
workplace,	and checking	the
effectiveness of such measures;
4)	programs for education, training and information concerning health and safety in the workplace;
5)	records in connection with the receipt and disposition of complaints and concerns.
c)	Such other duties as may be specified for the JHSC in the Occupational Health and Safety Act and regulations.
d)	At the JHSC Executive level the committee will be responsible to deal with unresolved issues arising from the work at the previous levels.
65
e)	It is understood that the General Manager
has the right to final review and approval of the work of the JHSC. It is also understood that the Union has the right to pursue further remedy with the appropriate regulatory authority.
17.05
1.	No person shall be appointed to an inspection committee serving the Underground Department, other than the underground shops, unless he:
a)	has had at least five years experience in underground mining, including one year in work at the working face;
b)	holds a current miner's certificate.
2.	No	person	shall	be	appointed to	an
inspection committee serving the Surface Departments unless he has had:
a)	at least two years experience in surface mining.
3.	No	person	shall	be	appointed to	an
inspection committee serving the Processing Department unless he has had:
66
a) at least two years experience in the Processing Department.
17.06	All investigations of reportable accidents or incidents shall be conducted by the department level cochairmen or their designate as soon as a mine official becomes available. They shall examine the place of the accident or incident and, without disturbing what they may find there, seek to establish the cause of the accident or incident.
a )	Following the inspection of the accident or
incident site, a meeting will be scheduled with all witnesses to review and record the events that took place.
b)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee
members conducting the investigation will be allowed time off normal duties to complete its report, a copy of which will be sent to the Company and the Union and also the Chief Inspector of Mines, when completed.
17.07
a )	Where requested by the Union and agreed
to by the Inspector, the Department CoChairmen and/or the Union Health and Safety Officer shall be invited to accompany any government inspection by the inspectors from AOH & S, or AEUB (Alberta
67
Energy Utilities Board) in connection with accidents or routine safety inspections. Time spent on routine inspections will not be at Company expense. Time spent on accident investigations with the Inspector will be paid at straight time rates.
b)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall hold its meetings and carry out its duties and functions during normal working hours whenever possible.
c)	The Company shall cause the names of the committee members to be posted prominently throughout the mine site.
17.08
1)	The JHSC program committee will develop
or cause to be developed a Health and Safety Program which addresses the following sections:
a ) a written policy statement
b)	General Health and Safety Rules
c)	safe working procedures on a department basis
d)	a list of hazardous materials, safe
handling procedures and antidotes
68
e)	provisions for the regular monthly crew safety meetings
f)	provisions for accident	and serious
incident investigations, and
g)	procedures for health	and safety
inspections.
h)	programs for education,	training and
information concerning	health and
safety in the workplace.
2)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall review the Health and Safety Program for completeness and effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
3)	The Union agrees that prior to discussion with governmental agencies or the public, it will discuss any safety and health concerns with the Company as soon as the concern arises.
17.09	A Union Staff representative and/or a member of the Health and Safety Committee shall, provided proper arrangements are made with the General Manager, have the right to visit and inspect the mine, plants and equipment.
69
17.10	Where the JHSC departmental committee makes a safety inspection and the majority find an unsafe condition, it shall have the authority to order the condition rectified or to shut any working place or equipment down until the condition is rendered safe in the opinion of the majority of the committee.
If that committee cannot form a majority decision then the appropriate department manager will make the final decision.
17.11	The JHSC Departmental Committee shall have access to:
a )	any information, reports or statistical
information respecting any or all the
following:
{i) any reportable accident or injuries that occur at the work site;
(ii)	any reportable occupational diseases;
(iii)	injury trend analysis and summaries;
(iv)	test results relating to contaminants in the work environment including results of any gas, dust, noise, heat or chemical tests. Furthermore, any Union and/or Company member of the Safety Committee may accompany any
70
Company representative or an Official of the Department of Labour, Occupational Health and Safety Division, who is conducting tests in connection with the above contaminants. In addition, JHSC members shall be entitled to require the attendance of the Company 's qualified tester to conduct, in the presence of such members, special tests where circumstances warrant it.
The Company agrees to provide up to sixteen hours for seminars in each year of the Collective Agreement for members of the Joint Health and Safety Committees to familiarize members with the operation of testing equipment and interpretation of results. All seminar hours are to be paid at straight time rates.
b)	The results of all tests shall be posted on
bulletin boards in the department concerned and shall include, but not be limited to contaminants, movement of high walls, movement of dumps, and/or any other hazards that may arise. Where a serious hazard to the life or safety of an employee is identified the affected employees shall be notified immediately and related work shall cease until the employees have been protected from the hazard. The JHSC Departmental Committee co-chairmen will
71
be notified of the hazard and if deemed
necessary an inspection will take place.
To eliminate duplication and promote efficiency within the organization of both parties, the committees established in Article 17, will also act as the Safety Inspection Committee required under the regulations pertaining to the Alberta Occupational Health and Safety Division.
17.12	The “Dispute-Resolution Program” will be used when any dispute arises between the Company and an employee as to the safety of an area or the condition or operation of a piece of machinery. No disciplinary action shall be taken until the jointly developed “Dispute-Resolution Procedure” has been followed. Such protection against discipline will not apply where the refusal to work is not prompted by a genuine concern for safety.
17.13	The Company agrees, for the term of this Agreement, to accept any standards as existing at October 3, 1995 and set down by the Alberta Labour, Occupational Health and Safety Division, or similar relevant governmental authority with respect to maximum permissible levels of toxic materials or contaminants in its operations.
Any changes to these standards must be mutually agreed.
72
17.14	Any time lost from normal work schedules by any member of a Joint Health and safety Committee in carrying out his duties under this Article shall be paid by the Company at his regular rate plus applicable premiums. In the case of the monthly safety inspections, time spent on such inspections which is before or after the member's regular shift shall be paid at overtime rates provided the member works his immediately preceding and the next regular following scheduled shift. Overtime plus applicable premiums will be paid in any event if such inspection is conducted by the member on one of his regular days off.
Members attending Joint Safety Committee meetings on regular days off will be paid at their regular rate for time spent at the meetings.
17.15	The Union shall be informed of all reportable accidents and reportable incidents as required by the Alberta Occupational Health and Safety Division within a reasonable time period to the Union office or safety officer or Co-Chairman/designate of the department.
17.16	Minutes of all JHSC committee meetings shall be recorded by the committees and prepared by the Company for distribution to all members of the relative committees and a copy sent to the Local Union.
17.17	In the case of a fatality arising from an accident or condition at work, the Local Union shall be
73
notified and two of its representatives shall conduct a full investigation into the fatality.
17.18	The Company agrees to treat up to 700 hours per year, at Job Group 6, as time worked by Union Safety Committee members attending courses or seminars dealing with health or safety matters relevant to the Company's operations.
The Union Executive, in consultation with the Company, will decide which courses or seminars are to be taken. Travel time will be included.
17.19	When the weather is severely cold and the temperature drops to minus 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-29 degrees Celsius) or colder, employees will be allowed 10 minutes per hour “warm up” in suitable shelters or vehicles.
17.20	If an employee is required by the Company to have a medical examination during his working hours he shall suffer no loss of wages.
If an employee is scheduled for a biennial medical examination on his regular days off he shall be paid two (2) hours at his regular base rate upon completion of the medical.
17.21	Engineering control of hazards at their source or along the path shall be the preferred method of preserving the health and safety of the employees.
74
Where the JHSC Program Committee determines that this is not possible, the Company will make available to its employees safety related equipment and apparel as per attached list. These items will be issued without charge whenever required by the employee. Such items remain the property of Smoky River Coal and shall be returned upon request. Employees are expected to exercise reasonable care and attention with respect to keeping safety issues safe from loss or destruction. SAFETY SUPPLIES
*	Welding shields (air flow)
*	Prescription Safety Glasses Face Shields
*	Safety Glasses Safety Goggles Dust Masks Dust Filters Respirators Ear Plugs Safety Hat Liner
*	Hot gloves
Safety harness, belts and lines Welder's gloves
Flashlights	Painter’s mask
*	Welder’s pants	* Welder’s jackets
Knee pads
Protective Clothing; fire, chemical, etc.
*THESE ITEMS WILL BE ISSUED ON A REPLACEMENT BASIS
*	Ear Muffs Hair Nets
*	Safety Vests (Traffic)
*	Self Rescuers
*	Miners Lamp Belts
*	Hard Hats
*	Winter Liners Safety hat chin strap Balaclava
75
17.22	The Joint Health and Safety Committee will review new products if they may be harmful to employees. If a less harmful product is available, the Committee shall make a recommendation to substitute.
17.23	The Company shall ensure that all employees receive training and/or familiarization with the work environment. No employees shall be allowed to work without direct supervision until he has completed the above mentioned training/familiarization.
17.24	The Company agrees to pay for lost time hours at straight time rates of pay, for time spent on Company scheduled training courses. Where courses are scheduled out of Grande Cache, then the Company will provide transportation and subsistence allowances, to cover the time spent away from home, including travel time such that it will keep the employee whole.
17.25	The Company agrees to grant up to forty (40) hours per week (Monday to Friday) to the Union for a Union Health and Safety Officer at the employee's regular base rate and applicable premiums.
Selection of the Officer will be by the Executive Body of the Union.
Effective date of signing and sixty days thereafter, the Company and the Union are to meet and jointly define the scope and functions of this position.
76
ARTICLE 18 - WELFARE BENEFITS
18.01 Medicare:
The Company will pay the entire cost of Alberta Health Care Insurance premiums, covering its employees.
Effective October 1, 1996, the Company agrees to provide coverage for spouses and dependent children of employees who died as a result of industrial disease or on the job accident. This coverage will continue until the youngest child reaches 18 years of age or upon re-marriage of the spouse. The entire cost of the coverage for the widow shall be paid by the Company.
18.02	Short Term Disability insurance:
The Company will pay the entire cost of insurance to cover absence from work due to sickness or non occupational accident to the extent that eligible employees will receive a benefit for work time lost equivalent to the Unemployment Insurance Commission's maximum weekly disability income benefit.
Benefits will be payable for scheduled work days missed up to a maximum of 26 weeks payable from the first work day lost due to accident, the first work day lost due to hospitalization, and from the fourth
77
work day lost due to sickness. For employees on the 12 hour shift schedule, benefit will be payable for the third work day lost due to sickness. For employees on the Underground 32 hour weekend schedule, benefit will be payable from the 2nd work day lost due to sickness. Once an employee qualifies for benefits, as outlined above for sickness, the benefit will be payable from the first work day missed. In no event will retroactivity be considered for more than 3 calendar days prior to the actual date that the employee is first seen and personally treated by a physician.
No benefit will be payable for any day on which the employee is performing work of any kind for compensation or profit.
The benefit payable will provide an average of $500 per week during the life of this agreement. As it is the intent to compensate an employee for scheduled days of work lost only, the following will apply:
1.	Those employees on a 5 & 2 shift will receive $100 per work day lost.
2.	Those employees on a 4 & 4 shift will receive $142.47 per work day lost.
3.	Those employees on the Underground 32 hour weekend schedule will receive
78
$187.50 per Saturday lost, $187.50 per Sunday lost, and $125 per Monday lost.
It is to be understood that in the event of abuse, apart from disciplinary action, the payment set above will not be made. Prior to any benefits being made for absence due to sickness, the employee must produce a doctor's certificate verifying the illness, and, if required, written authorization permitting access to the doctor's medical records concerning the specific illness.
The Company shall retain full value of any Unemployment Insurance Commission premium reduction that may be granted.
18.03	Long Term Disability Insurance:
Long Term Disability Insurance will be provided commencing after twenty-six <26) weeks of disability and continuing to a maximum of age sixty-five (65) for eligible employees. The amount of such disability shall be $450 per week during the life of this agreement. The entire cost of such premiums will be paid by the Company.
18.04	Group Life Insurance:
The Company will pay the full cost of Group Life Insurance for coverage in the amount of $60,000.00.
79
18.05	Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Insurance:
The Company will pay the full cost of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance (occupational and non-occupational) for coverage in the amount of $60,000.00.
18.06	Compassionate Benefit:
In the event a Union member is fatally injured at his workplace, only the department in which the fatality occurred shall stand inoperative for twenty-four (24) hours (or such lesser period as agreed by the Union and the Company and permitted by the appropriate legal authorities, or on the other hand, such longer period than twenty-four (24) hours as may be required by the appropriate authorities). The departments shall be Underground Mines, Processing, Surface Mines, and Warehouse. Where the employees bound by this agreement honour this provision, the Company will assist in the expenses of the family through an immediate payment of ten thousand ($1 0,000.00) dollars to the spouse, or if there is no spouse, then to the Public Trustee for the children of such deceased employee, or if there are no children, then to the estate of such fatally injured employee.
80
Pension:
18.07
a)	Effective January 1, 1995, the Company Funded Pension Plan will yield to the eligible employee a benefit payable on a monthly basis equal to one twelfth (1/12) of two (2) percent of career base pensionable earnings up to December 31, 1992 and in an amount of one twelfth (1/12) of one and three quarters (1 3/4) percent of career base pensionable earnings after December 31, 1992.
For an eligible employee with pensionable earnings prior to January 1, 1985, career base pensionable earnings prior to January 1, 1985 will be defined as the career average earnings updated to the last ten (10) years prior to January 1, 1995.
Eligible employees must have completed three (3) months of service and attained age eighteen (18). Benefits are vested upon retirement or termination of employee after three (3) years of service.
b)	Effective January 1, 1998, the Company Funded Pension Plan will yield to the eligible employee a benefit payable on a monthly basis equal to one twelfth (1 /1 2) of two (2) percent of career base
81
18.08
a)
b)
pensionable earnings up to December 31, 1995, and in an amount equal to one twelfth (1/12) of one and three quarters (1 3/4) percent of career base pensionable earnings after December 31,1995.
For an eligible employee with pensionable earnings prior to January 1, 1985, career base pensionable earnings prior to January 1, 1985 will be defined as the career average earnings updated to the last ten (1 0) years prior to January 1, 1995.
Eligible employees must have completed three (3) months of service and attained age eighteen (18). Benefits are vested upon retirement or termination of employee after three (3) years of service.
Vision Care:
The Company agrees to pay for family plan prescription glasses, one pair per person per year to a maximum of $175 per person per year.
Effective October 1, 1996, the Company agrees to pay for family plan prescription glasses, one pair per person per year to a maximum of $200 per person per year.
82
Dental:
18.09
The Company agrees to pay the total cost of the dental plan premiums, covering its employees.
18.10	Supplementary Health Care:
The Company shall provide an Extended Health Care Plan. The cost of this Plan shall be shared equally between the employee and the Company.
Effective October 1, 1996, the premium costs of this plan shall be shared on the basis of 75% Company paid and 25% Employee paid.
Effective October 1, 1996, the prescription drug plan shall provide 100% towards the cost of prescriptions.
Effective October 1, 1997, the premium costs of this plan will be 100% Company paid.
The Company agrees to provide coverage for spouses and dependent children of employees who died as a result of industrial disease or on the job accident. This coverage will continue until the youngest child reaches 1 8 years of age or upon re-marriage of the spouse. The entire cost of the coverage for the widow shall be paid by the Company.
83
18.11	The Company will furnish to the employees information which will outline in more detail the provisions relating to health insurance and pension benefits.
18.12	The Company and the Union recognize alcoholism and drug addiction problems as treatable conditions. Employees suffering from any of these conditions shall seek proper medical treatment as they would for any other illness which impairs the performance of work.
While receiving treatment, the employee will be eligible for sick benefits as provided under the Collective Agreement, Following successful completion of treatment, if still qualified, the employee shall be returned to his/her former position without loss of seniority, wages and benefits.
The Company and the Union shall:
1.	set up an employee assistance program (E.A.P.) to identify and aid any employee suffering from these conditions,
2.	ensure confidentiality of employees participating in the program,
3.	prepare a letter of understanding to outline the provisions of the employee assistance program (E.A.P.)
84
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	The Company will grant leave of absence
without pay as follows;
(a)	To any employee for good cause up to fourteen (14) days or such longer period as the Company allows. (Request for such leave shall be made wherever possible at least two (2) working days in advance of the leave.)
(b)	To delegated Union members not exceeding five (5) in number at any one time to attend Union conventions and conferences up to an aggregate total of fifty-five <55) calendar days per year for the life of this Agreement, provided that the Company is notified one (1) week in advance of any such requested leave. Aggregate total in this clause is defined as the total time taken off by all delegates and not by each delegate.
(c)	To not more than one <1) employee, a leave of absence for one year if employed by the Union during such period and not otherwise. In such a case the Company cannot guarantee that it or any
85
associations, companies or individuals with which the employee and/or Company has agreements based on his employment with the Company will maintain all or any such agreements while the employee is absent on leave.
(d)	Any employee who believes his request for leave of absence has been unjustly refused may refer the matter to his department head for review.
(e)	Leave of absence without pay for Union officers, stewards or safety committee members in exercising their legitimate Union responsibilities shall not be denied providing the amount of time off requested is not unreasonable.
(f)	Military leave without pay will be granted:
(a)	(i) Where his services are required by
the department of National Defence to meet a civil emergency, for the duration of the emergency;
(ii) where during a national emergency he volunteers for service or is conscripted into the Armed Forces for the duration of the emergency; and
86
(iii) where he volunteers for military training, special training or special duty, for a period not exceeding six (6) weeks. No more than three employees per year will be granted such leave unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
(g)	Military leave to attend annual training or summer camp shall not exceed ten (10) working days.
(i) When an employee has been granted military leave to attend annual training or summer camp and that employee produces a letter from National Defence Headquarters stating the amount paid by the Department of National Defence to such employee, that employee shall receive 50% of his basic rate of pay from the Company less the amount he received from the Department of National Defence.
(h)	Leave of absence will not be used for the purpose of extending vacations.
It being understood that any leave of absence, granted under the above terms, will be without
87
benefit continuance from the first of the month following 30 continuous days of absence.
19.02	In the event of a death in the immediate family, such employee will be granted three (3) working days off with pay. The Company will require a signed declaration that such death has occurred. Immediate family is defined as: spouse, mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, brother, sister, son, daughter, foster and step-parents, grandparents and grandchildren, brother-in-law and sister-in-law, son-in-law and daughter-in-law of the employee, including common law relationship as defined by Revenue Canada.
19.03	A regular employee who loses time from a scheduled shift because of jury duty or appearance as a Crown witness or witness for the defence in a criminal case shall (upon certification of appearance by the Clerk of the Court) be paid by the Company any difference between his pay for his regular shift normally worked and the daily jury or witness fee received. In order to qualify for the above payment, the employee must notify the company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the day that he is required to report to court.
19.04	Maternity leave will be granted as per maternity benefits as defined in the Employment Standards Code and which will include up to twelve (12) weeks immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery, up to six (6) weeks immediately following the actual date of delivery, with an extended three (3)
88
weeks if medically required. An employee's company benefits will be continued during the period of Maternity Leave.
19.05	Any leave of absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted. If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence he will lose all seniority unless he has written permission from the Company to do such work.
ARTICLE 20	- PREMIUMS AND ALLOWANCES
20.01	Where an employee is required as a result of part of his normal scheduled shift to work on a Saturday or Sunday, he shall, in addition to his regular rate of pay, receive the following premium:
Saturday	$1.15 per hour
Sunday	$1.55 per hour
Saturday shall mean the period 12:01 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. Saturday. Sunday shall mean the period 12:01 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. Sunday.
20.02	Shift differential in the amount of forty-five (45$) cents per hour will be paid for scheduled hours worked from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Employees working overtime in conjunction with non-day shifts
89
shall receive their applicable overtime rate plus the shift differential.
20.03	All underground employees shall receive $1.80 per hour in addition to their classified rate for all hours worked underground. There will be no pyramiding of the underground premium in the calculation of overtime.
20.04	The Company will pay to employees with one or more year's seniority a boot and clothing allowance of $175 in each year of this agreement. Such payment will be made on a separate cheque during the last pay period in January of each year.
20.05	The Company agrees to provide, once per year, rubber boots, leather work gloves, and wet suits free of charge. These items will be provided in accordance with a schedule which will be jointly developed by Union and Company representatives. This schedule will reflect the varying needs of the different jobs on the property.
20.06	The Company will pay the following tool allowance to tradesmen for all complete hours worked:
(a)	Certified or Journeyman Tradesman -
Millwright, Heavy Duty Mechanic, Automotive Mechanic - thirty-five cents (35$) per hour.
90
(b)	Certified or Journeyman Tradesman - all remaining trades - twenty-five cents (250) per hour.
(c)	Apprentices - as per appropriate trades.
(d)	Servicemen - twenty-five cents (250) per hour.
Such tool allowance will only be paid to those of the above persons who certify to the Company that they have at least those tools set forth in the Company tool list for their classification. The present practice with respect to tool list requirements will prevail for the life of this Agreement.
20.07	An underground working place where water drops from the roof in sufficient quantities to significantly wet a man’s clothing or where standing water is over 4-'/2 inches deep, shall be considered a wet place for which $5.00 per shift extra will be paid to affected employees. In respect of the preparation plant, if an employee is assigned to perform tasks where his clothing becomes significantly wet and protective clothing (i.e. wet suits) will not prevent such from happening, then the sum of $5.00 per shift will be paid to affected employees. The above amount will only be paid when an employee works his full shift.
20.08	The Company agrees to pay the sum of $6.00 per day travel allowance to those employees required to travel, on their own time, ten (1 0) miles or
91
more return from the main Administration Offices to their place of deployment and back.
20.09	Where an employee is required to have E.R.C.B. certification to perform his job he will receive an allowance of forty (400) cents per hour for all hours worked.
20.10	The Company will pay an allowance of twenty-five ($0.25) cents per hour worked to all employees holding a current Advanced First Aid Certificate.
20.11	It is understood by the parties that there shall be no pyramiding of premiums under this agreement, such as underground premium, shift differential, tool allowance, Saturday or Sunday premiums, wet pay, travel allowance, E.R.C.B. allowance, Advanced First Aid allowance and overtime premium.
ARTICLE 21- DISCIPLINE
21.01	(a) In the event an employee receives a
first, second, or third stage warning, and said employee does not receive any further written warning, suspension or discharge within one year from the date of said warning, then the original warning shall be removed from the employee's file and
92
will not be used against him at any future time.
(b)	In the event an employee receives a suspension and said employee does not receive any further suspension or discharge within three years from the conclusion of the suspension, the record of the suspension shall be removed from the employee's file and not be used against him at any future time.
(c)	It is understood that the company will administer any discipline they are contemplating against any employee within a twenty-one (21) calendar day period after the event giving rise to the discipline. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays will not be counted in determining the time limits, and the twenty-one (21) calendar day fixed time limit may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union.
93
ARTICLE 22 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
22.01	The Company agrees to provide the Union with a bulletin board to be prepared and located as mutually agreed, provided that the use of such bulletin board shall be restricted to the posting thereon only such notices as have been signed by the president or other authorized signing officer of the Union and have received the prior approval of the Company, through the Employee Relations Department, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and which notices shall be restricted to the following types:
Notices of Union meetings, recreational and social affairs, Notices of Union elections, appointments and results of the Union Elections.
22.02	The Union recognizes the Company’s rule prohibiting the unauthorized distribution or posting of pamphlets, handbills and other publications on the premises of the Company and agrees that no pamphlets, handbills or other publications shall be distributed or posted by the Union or its representatives or members on the premises of the Company without the Company's approval.
94
22.03	Except where otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other may be given by registered mail as follows:
To the Company	To the Union
Smoky River Coal Limited United Steelworkers of
America
P.O. Box 2000	Local 7621
Grande Cache, Alberta P.O. Box 120 TOEOYO	Grande Cache, Alberta
TOE OYO
22.04	Any notice under this Agreement sent by registered mail shall be deemed given and received as of the date the letter is “back stamped” in the Grande Cache Post Office.
95
ARTICLE 23 - REVIEW, AMENDMENT, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
23.01	Either party may request the other party to meet from time to time to review and discuss the application and operation of this Agreement. If, during such review, the parties mutually agree that a provision of the Agreement should be revised or modified, then the Agreement shall be open to that extent and the amendment or revision of such provision shall be negotiated as between the parties and the Agreement shall thereafter be amended accordingly.
23.02	If during the life of the current agreement, there are changes in any legislation or government bodies having authority as referred to in the Agreement, the Agreement shall be considered to be amended to reflect any such change.
23.03	This agreement shall become effective on the date of execution and shall remain in full force and effect until the 30th day of September A.D. 1998.
WITNESSETH:
In Witness Whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement, effective Octnher 1 st. 1998 until September 30, 1998, to be signed by these respective representatives duly authorized in that behalf this 7th day of May, A.D., 1996.
96
APPROVED ON BEHALF OF:
APPROVED ON BEHALF OF:
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7621
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
. v*
I a Cu,
J.M. Petrie
V	j-c/
T.H. Bradford
P. L. Sheehan

A. Gallacher
V. G. Betts
97
R. Martin
G. J. Flaumitsch

W. N. Hampson
K. Turcotte
J. E. Hinds
E. L. Homer
R. J. Kirkpatrick
H.E. Madsen
98

R. J. Mason
H. H. Sandkuhler
'-J L

D. A. Sieben
R. M. Strembicke
99
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 762 1 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
BUS TRANSPORTATION
The Company agrees that with respect to bus transportation between the Town of Grande Cache and the various mine sites, there will be no charge to employees of the Company during the life of this Agreement. The Company further agrees that prior to any change in the scheduling of buses, the Union will be consulted with respect to such changes.
100
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - BUS TRANSPORTATION
February 23, 1996 Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
< *1 C <■
J.M. Petrie
President
101
February 23, 1 996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
COFFEE AND LUNCH BREAKS
With regard to coffee and lunch breaks, the Company agrees to continue its past practice.
102
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - COFFEE AND LUNCH BREAKS
February 23, 1996 Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED ..f
R, M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
103
February 23, 1 996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE 14
With regard to the provisions of Article 14, these provisions shall be considered as an overtime agreement according to Section 28 of the Employment Standards Code.
104
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE 14 February 23, 1996 Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED

R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
105
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
BUYBACK SYSTEM
With respect to the buyback system, the Company agrees to continue as per past practice.
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
106
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - BUYBACK SYSTEM
February 23, 1996
Page 2
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
_ ‘	*.i . /
J.M. Petrie President
107
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
PENSION
With respect to Article 18.07, it is understood and agreed that the pension plan will be reviewed jointly by the Union and Management over the life of this Collective Agreement.
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
108
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PENSION
February 23, 1996
Page 2
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
<^.a.-sX^7Q=^
J.M. Petrie
President
109
March 20, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
SEVERANCE PAY
Should the Company be forced to layoff any employees for an indefinite period due to a shortage of work, then those employees laid off will be eligible for a severance payment of two hours pay at their regular base rate per month of service to a maximum of 300 hours. Employees accept severance pay as final termination of employment with the Company and will no longer be eligible for any recall rights under the Collective Agreement.
An employee who is eligible for severance pay will be allowed a maximum of 90 calendar days from the date
110
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SEVERENCE PAY
March 20, 1996
Page 2
of his layoff to exercise his option to accept or reject severance pay.
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 20th day of March, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
111
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOEOYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
RED CIRCLED EMPLOYEES
With respect to employees who are affected by the signing of this Collective Agreement, it is agreed that they will be red circled for the life of this Agreement or until such a time as they change jobs, move from their present position or department or the negotiated rates of pay exceed the red circled rate.
The following employees will continue to receive the E.R.C.B. allowance on a red circled basis:
W. Warren
I.	Cadman
112
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RED CIRCLED EMPLOYEES
February 23, 1996 Page 2
T. Morrison K. Buchanan
R.	McIntyre
The following employees, who were previously at Job Group 8, will be red circled at this job group.
G. Swayda
The following employees will be red circled at Job Group 10:
S.	Fiest
J. Richards
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke

Superintendent, Industrial Relations
113
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RED CIRCLED EMPLOYEES
February 23, 1996 Page 3
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie President
114
March 20, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
DUAL TRADE ALLOWANCE
With respect to the dual trade allowance, it is agreed that those tradesmen who have dual trade qualification in specified related trades and are willing to apply both skills to the job will receive a dual trade allowance of fifty (50C) cents per hour for all hours worked. Recognition of the dual trade qualification shall be limited to the trade allowance herein provided. It shall also be understood that:
1, In the case of vacancy, transfer, layoff, and rehiring after layoff, no preference will be given
115
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DUAL TRADE
ALLOWANCE
March 20, 1996
Page 2
to a tradesman with dual trade qualifications over a tradesman with an equal single qualification with more seniority.
2.	There will be no job postings for dual qualified tradesmen.
3.	Incumbents in the trade where overtime work is available will have first opportunity at this work and preference will not be given to dual qualified tradesmen.
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke

Superintendent, Industrial Relations
116
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DUAL TRADE ALLOWANCE
March 20, 1996 Page 3
Acknowledged and agreed to this 20th day of March, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
117
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
COAL PREPARATION PLANT PROGRESSION SYSTEM
To provide incentives and to upgrade employee skills in the Coal Preparation Plant an Operations Progression System will be implemented.
Employees will enter the Progression System as Operator Trainee and will then advance through Operator V, IV, III,II and I levels based on successfully meeting the criteria of time worked, knowledge, ability, and examinations. All employees entering the system
118
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - COAL PREPARATION PLANT PROGRESSION SYSTEM February 23, 1996 Page 2
will be required to advance to the Operator I level within the established progression.
OPERATOR TRAINEE - GROUP 2
Employees must become competent and have general knowledge of plant operations. After completion of 600 worked hours at this level, and successfully meeting the criteria of knowledge, ability and examinations at this level, employees will advance to the Operator V level.
OPERATOR V - GROUP 3
Employees must become competent in the Pumps, and Thickner operating skills. After completion of 500 worked hours at this level, and successfully meeting the criteria of knowledge, ability and examinations at this level, employees will advance to the Operator IV level.
OPERATOR IV - GROUP 4
Employees must become competent in the Dryer and Breaker House operating skills. After completion of 600 worked hours at this level and successfully meeting the criteria of knowledge, ability and examinations at this level, employees will advance to the Operator III level.
119
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - COAL PREPARATION PLANT PROGRESSION SYSTEM
February 23, 1996 Page 3
OPERATOR III - GROUP 5
Employees must be competent in Heavy Media operating skills. After completion of 800 worked hours at this level and successfully meeting the criteria of knowledge, ability and examinations at this level, employees will advance to the Operator II level.
OPERATOR II - GROUP 6
Employees must be competent in Train Loading operating skills. After completion of 800 worked hours at this level and successfully meeting the criteria of knowledge, ability and examinations at this level, employees will advance to the Operator I level.
OPERATOR I - GROUP 7
Employees may be assigned for training and operating needs to any position within the Progression System. An employee's rate of pay will be determined by his progression level.
Further advancement will be subject to vacancies in the following positions: Floatation Operator, Senior Control Operator.
120
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - COAL PREPARATION PLANT PROGRESSION SYSTEM February 23, 1996 Page 4
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621
Per:
J.M. Petrie President
121
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
The jointly developed “Dispute Resolution Program” will be the process to resolve disputes referred to in Article 17.12 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The “Dispute Resolution Committee” will be formed consisting of the Superintendent of Safety and Loss Prevention and two (2) Company representatives and the Local Union President and two (2) Union representatives.
This Committee will assess, monitor and modify if necessary, the program on a continual basis.
122
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISPUTE RESOLUTION
PROGRAM
February 23, 1996
Page 2
The Committee will be responsible for a joint educational training system for the “Dispute Resolution Program”. Any time lost from normal work schedules by any member of the Dispute Resolution Committee in attending the Dispute Resolution Committee meetings shall be paid by the Company at his regular rate plus applicable premiums. Members attending “Dispute Resolution Committee” meetings outside their regular working hours will be paid their regular rate for time spent at such meetings.
OBJECTIVES:
1.	To provide a method of prompt, fair, joint resolution of safety disputes.
2.	To provide an employee protection while the dispute is being resolved.
3.	To provide for continuity of normal production.
4.	To promote objective evaluation of the issues which led to the dispute.
5.	To promote communication, trust, and credibility between the parties involved in the dispute.
6.	To promote dispute resolution at the appropriate supervisory level.
123
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
February 23, 1996 Page 3
PROCEDURE:
When a dispute arises between the Company and an employee as to the safety in an area or the condition or operation of a piece of machinery, the following procedure will be followed with the exception that where there is not a level of supervision which corresponds to the following steps, that step will be bypassed and resolution sought at the next step.
STEP #1
The foreman and employee jointly investigate the situation giving rise to the dispute.
If the dispute is not resolved, a short term solution is sought.
STEP #2
Foreman calls Safety Committeeman (or if not available a Union Steward) and the General Foreman or next appropriate level of supervision. The General Foreman will discuss the issue with the Foreman.
124
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
February 23, 1996 Page 4
The Safety Committeeman will discuss the issue with the worker.
Then the General Foreman and the Safety Committeeman will investigate the situation giving rise to the dispute.
The General Foreman will then discuss the results of the investigation with the Foreman. The Safety Committeeman will then discuss the results of the investigation with the Worker.
At this point, the General Foreman and Safety Committeeman can meet again privately if they so desire.
Then the Worker, Safety Committeeman, Foreman and General Foreman shall meet to do an objective evaluation and seek a possible solution.
If the dispute is not solved, a short term solution is sought.
STEP #3
Failing a solution at Step #2, the General Foreman calls the Superintendent/Assistant Manager and looks for a possible short term solution.
125
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
February 23, 1996 Page 5
The Superintendent/Assistant Manager will then call the Safety Co-Chairman.
The Superintendent/Assistant Manager and Safety Co-Chairman will discuss the situation with resource people and attempt to find a short term solution.
A separate meeting between the Superintendent/Assistant Manager and resource people and Safety Co-Chairman and resource people is recommended to assist in achieving an objective evaluation and possible solution.
If the dispute is not resolved, a short term solution is again sought.
STEP #4 - CRITICAL (HIGHSTAKE) ISSUES
Meeting between Department Manager and appropriate resource people.
Meeting between Union President and appropriate resource people.
Objective evaluation and resolution.
126
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING -PROGRAM
February 23, 1996 Page 6
STEP #5
Option 17.12 of Collective Agreement.
STEP #6
Grievance submitted.
Grievance procedure waived agreement.
STEP #7
Arbitration
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
127
Bargaining
by mutual
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
February 23, 1996 Page 7
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie President
128
February 23, 1 996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOEOYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
WORKFORCE REDUCTION PROVISIONS
This will confirm the understanding and agreement with respect to the following:
In the event of a permanent reduction in the workforce in a single department of more than forty (40%) percent, the Company agrees to retain and train as required the most senior fifteen (1 5%) percent of the employees who are laid off from the affected department (rounded up) and who are senior to the incumbents in the remaining departments.
129
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - WORK REDUCTION PROVISIONS
February 23, 1996 Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
130
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
UNDERGROUND MINE RESCUE
It is recognized that the Company has certain responsibilities under the Collective Agreement and certain responsibilities under The Mine Safety Act that may occasionally conflict. This letter reflects an understanding as to the lay-off procedure as it relates to the members of the Underground Mine Rescue team.
It is agreed that there will be a minimum of 22 Underground Mine Rescue team members retained on the property.
131
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - UNDERGROUND MINE RESCUE
February 23, 1996 Page 2
In case of lay-off, an Underground Mine Rescue team member may be passed over for lay-off, if to lay him off would reduce the Underground Mine Rescue complement below 22.
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
132
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - UNDERGROUND MINE RESCUE
February 23, 1996 Page 3
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie President
133
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOEOYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
TEMPORARY SHUTDOWNS
This will confirm the understanding and agreement between the parties with respect to the following:
It is hereby agreed by both parties that the following conditions will apply to all temporary shutdowns.
Identify necessary work and assign to senior employee in the department who is qualified and has the ability to perform the work.
134
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - TEMPORARY
SHUTDOWNS
February 23, 1996
Page 2
Employees wishing to exercise their rights under Article 9,02 may do so by informing the Personnel Department. Employees will be assessed according to seniority, qualifications and sufficient skills to perform the work. If the employee meets the criteria of seniority, qualifications and ability to perform the work, he will be assigned the job and the incumbent laid off.
Provided welfare benefit continuation:
-	Alberta Health Care - Pension
-	Short Term Disability - Vision Care
-	Long Term Disability - Dental
-	Group Life Insurance - Supplementary Health Care
-	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
Union insurance continued with premiums accrued until return to work.
Statutory Holiday pay, for those who qualify, is accrued and paid upon return to work.
Telephone contact as the opportunity for work arises. Offered within the department on the basis of seniority,
135
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - TEMPORARY
SHUTDOWNS
February 23, 1996
Page 3
qualifications and ability. If declined, no loss of seniority rights.
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVFR mil I IMITFn
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - WELFARE BENEFITS (ARTICLE 18)
February 23, 1996 Page 2
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DUAL TRADE QUALIFICATION RECOGNITION March 20, 1996 Page 2
Heavy Duty Mechanic - Automotive Welder	- "B" Pressure Welder
i-x	•	•
STATUTORY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING -HOLIDAYS
February 23, 1996 Page 2
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
143
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - REMEMBRANCE DAY
Employees who normally participate in Remembrance Day Ceremonies will be granted leave of absence to participate in Remembrance Day Ceremonies when they so request.
144
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING -STATUTORY HOLIDAYS -REMEMBRANCE DAY February 23, 1996 Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
.y < i ■ i. .
J.M. Petrie
President
145
March 20. 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOEOYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
HUMANITY FUND
It is understood and agreed that with respect to the U.S.W.A. Humanity Fund the Company will deduct on a monthly basis from all participating employees $1 .75 per month. These funds will be paid by separate cheque to “The Humanity Fund” and forwarded to United Steelworkers of America National Office, 234 Eglington Avenue East, Toronto, Ontario M4P 1 K7 on behalf of U.S.W.A., Local 7621.
146
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - HUMANITY FUND
March 20, 1996
Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
Per:
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 20th day of March, 1996.
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
147
February 23, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
With regard to Article 12 (12.01) it is understood that it is not the intent of the Company to discontinue the training of apprentices.
It is further agreed that when a trades position becomes available, the Company will consult with the Union Executive regarding the possibility of that job opening being filled by an apprentice.
148
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
February 23, 1996 Page 2
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED
Per:
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 23rd day of February, 1996
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J.M. Petrie
President
149
March 26, 1996
United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 P.O. Box 120 Grande Cache, Alberta TOE OYO
Dear Sirs:
RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the following understandings reached between Smoky River Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7621 in connection with the interpretation and application of the new Collective Agreement.
16.04 JOB TITLE APPENDIX
1. Serviceman
Group	6	Serviceman
*- 600 hours 4	Serviceman I
- 600 hours 2	Serviceman Trainee
2. Haulage Truck Driver
150
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOB TITLE APPENDIX
March 26, 1996
Page 2
	Group	7	Haulage Truck Driver
			- 600 hours
		4	Truck Driver Trainee
3.	Equipment Operators		
(I)	Group	7	Loader Operator
			- 600 hours
		6	Loader Operator I
			- 400 hours
		4	Loader Operator Trainee
(ii)	Group	6	Grader Operator
			- 600 hours
		4	Grader Operator Trainee
(iii)	Group	7	Dozer Operator
			- 900 hours
		6	Dozer Operator I
			«- 600 hours
		4 Trainee	Dozer Operator
151
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
March 26, 1996
Page 3
(iv) Group	6
4
4.	Rockbolters
Group	8
6
4
5.	Drills
Group	9
7
5
- JOB TITLE APPENDIX
Crusher Operator
<-150 hours Crusher Operator Trainee
Rockbolter
«- 600 hours Rockbolter I
- 600 hours Rockbolter Trainee
Rotary Drill Operator (45R-60R)
*- 900 hours Rotary Drill Operatorl - 900 hours Rotary Drill Operator Trainee
152
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOB TITLE APPENDIX
March 26, 1996
Page 4
6. Shovels
Group
Trainee
7.	Tireman
Group
8.	Warehouseman
Group
Shovel Operator
-1800 hours Shovel Operator I
-	600 hours Shovel Operator II
-	600 hours Shovel Operator
Tireman
-1200 hours Tireman I
-1200 hours Tireman Trainee
Warehouseman
-1200 hours Warehouseman I
-1200 hours
IO
9
7
5
8
6
4
7
6
153
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOB TITLE APPENDIX
March 26, 1996
Page 5
4	Warehouseman II
<-1200 hours
2	Warehouseman III
Yours very truly,
SMOKY RIVER COAL LIMITED Per:
R. M. Strembicke
Superintendent, Industrial Relations
Acknowledged and agreed to this 26th day of March, 1996.
154
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOB TITLE APPENDIX
March 26, 1996
Page 6
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7621 Per:
J. M. Petrie
President
155