SUNCOR INC., dL SANDS GROUP
CF THE FIRST PART - AND -
McMURRAY INDEPENDENT OIL WORKERS LOCAL707 ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION
This AGREEMENT entered into this 12th day of February, 1990 between SUNCOR INC., OIL SANDS GROUP, hereinafter referred to as “the Company’’ and the McMURRAY INDEPENDENT OIL WORKERS, LOCAL 707 ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION, hereinafter referredtoas“the Union”.
THE PARTIES hereto mutually agree as follows:
OF THE SECOND PART
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
I	Purpose
II	Recognition
III	Management Rights .
IV	Union Relations
V	Hours of Work
VI	Overtime
VII	Salaries
VIII	Vacations
IX	Holidays
X	Leave of Absence
XI	Promotions, Seniority,	Trans
Training & Progression (
Layoff and Discharge*.
Grievance Procedure Safety, HetRh, General Conditions Incorporation of Overtime Agreement Effactfvf Dalt» Duration
& Amendments.....................
Salary Groups ........................ 42
Salary Schedules Effective 90-02-01
1	Monthly—A, B, D, C, G, F .......... 47
2	Monthly - E, H .................... 48
3	Bi-Weekly — A, B, D, C, G, H, E, F.	49
Effective 91-02-01
1	Monthly - A, B, D, C, G, F ........ 50
2 Monthly - E, H ..................... 51
3	Bi-Weekly — A, B, D, C, G, H, E, F.	52
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGE
Appendix “B”
Progression Charts & Notes	  53
Master Maintenance
—	Electronics.......................... 56
—	Mine Maintenance..................... 58
—	Mobile Equipment Maintenance......... 61
—	Central Maintenance.................. 66
—	Extraction .......................... 68
—	Process ............................. 74
—	Utilities............................ 78
—	Laboratory........................... 82
—	Materials ........................... 86
—	Overburden .......................... 89
—	Mine................................. 92
Appendix “C"
Overtime Coverage
—	Process ............................. 97
—	Utilities............................ 97
—	Extraction .......................... 97
—	Mine................................ 100
—	Overburden ......................... 100
Appendix “D”
Letters of Understanding
—	No1 ................................ 101
—	No 2................................ 103
—	No 3................................ 104
—	No4................................. 105
—	No 5................................ 106
—	No 6................................ 108
Shift Schedules 1990 ................... 109
Shift Schedules1991 .................... 113
Shift Schedules1992	  117
'll
SUNCOR INC.,
OIL SANDS GROUP
OF THE FIRST PART
AND -
McMURRAY INDEPENDENT OIL WORKERS LOCAL707 ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION
OF THE SECOND PART
This AGREEMENT entered into this 12th day of February, 1990 between SUNCOR INC., OIL SANDS GROUP, hereinafter referred to as “the Company” and the McMURRAY INDEPENDENT OIL WORKERS, LOCAL 707 ENERGY AND CHEMICALWORKERS UNION, hereinafter referred to as “the Union”.
THE PARTIES hereto mutually agree as follows:
1
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	a) The purposeof this Agreement is to promote harmonious relations between the Company and the employees; encourage safely; promote the morale of all employees through procedures for the fair and peaceful resolution of grievances and disputes; to provide a means for continuing dialogue between the Company and the Union that has the mutual objective of resolving differences and matters of concernto eitherpartyand to promote asharedcommitmentto effective and efficient operation in the interest of both parties.
b)	It is understood that wherever this Agreement refersto he/she, it will also mean him/her.
ARTICLE 11 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizesthe Unionas the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for all non-supervisory employees excluding office staff, messenger-drivers, Loss Management staff, survey crew and those employed in a confidentialcapacity in mattersrelatingto labour relations;the Union having been certified by the Labour Relations Boardas Bargaining Agent on behalf of the said Employees.
2.02	If the Company implements during the life of the Agreement, a newjob notcurrentlycoveredbythis Agreement, the Company shall notify the Union of this new job and the salary which would be applicable. If the Union disagrees with the salary establishedby the Company, the Unionshall advise the Company inwriting of their desire to negotiatethe salary, if agreement-isnot reachedbetweenthe partieswithinthirty(30) days of the written notice, the matter may be referred, for determination, to arbitration in accordance with Article 13. If the salary for the job is changed as a result of negotiationsor an arbitrator's decision, the revised salary shall be paid retroactivelyto the datethe employeewas assignedto the new job. This same procedure will apply to Collective Agreement provisionspertinentto the introductionof a new operating or
Yi
maintenance department into the Suncor Inc. Oil Sands Group organization.
ARTICLE 111 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Company shall retain and exercise all management functions, duties and responsibilities except as limited, restricted or precluded by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1V - UNION RELATIONS
4.01	This Agreement shall be administered and applied in a fair and just manner to all employees. The parties further agree that there shall be no intimidation of and no P discrimination against an employee either by the Company or I by the Union, by reason of activity or lack cf activity in, or in t respect of the Union or by reason of sex, race, creed, colour, j national origin, political or marital status.
4.02	The Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, slow-down or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout either complete or partial.
4.03	a) The Company agrees to recognize twenty-two (22) duly elected or appointed Union Stewards throughout the Plant, with any increase in the number of such Stewards being subject to mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Additionally, up to four (4)temporary Stewards may be appointed for periods not to exceed six (6) months, provided that the Company is notified in advance of the name(s) and area(s) oftheappointee(s). The Company agrees to recognize only those Stewards whose names have been submitted in writing to the Company by the Union.
b)	The Company agrees to recognize certain committees to be comprised of Stewards includedin(a) above, to participate in meetings as follows:
i) Monthly Meetings: A committee normally composed of up to five (5) Union Stewards shall meet with Management monthly to discuss and settle matters falling within the scope of this Collective Agreement. Additional meetings may be called by either party giving notice to the other party.
3
ii)	Grievance Meetings: A grievance committee appointed or otherwise selected by the Unionto assist and/or represent employees in the presentations of any grievance that may arise under this CollectiveAgreement, shallconsist of no more than five (5) members of the Union
iii)	Negotiating Meetings: The Union negotiating committee shall be composed of not more than one (1) Steward from each area of the plant In the event that circumstances prevent the attendance of one Steward from eachof the areas, then any five (5) Stewards, regardless of the area they represent, and as designated by the Union, shall constitute a legally comprised quorum for a particular negotiating meeting. Up to two (2) additional Stewards shall attend the meetings while negotiating their respective area notes except during the negotiating of Master Maintenance Notes, when up to three (3) additional Stewards may attend. The Company will make arrangements to ensure that a participating Steward will not have to work a midnight shift before attending a negotiating meeting.
i,, c) Any designated Steward attending meetings as jLp-'Sre envisagedunderthis Article, andwhich are held during his 1 working hours, will suffer no loss in pay for time spent in such ( meetings ------------------
fl) A Union Steward may, with the permission of his Supervisor, leave his regular duties to investigate grievances and perform other Union duties under the Collective Agreement.
e) It is recognized that occasions may arise which require the attendance of an outside counsel at one of the meetings set out in (b) above. In such cases, the party requestingthe presence of such advisor shall inform the other party of its desire on a timely basis.
4.04	The Company will providebulletin boards insuitable locations,which may be used by the Union in postingnoticesof Union activities
4.05	a) The Company agrees to deduct once a month from the salary due and payableto each employee covered by
4	"
1 ,	i.:!- .
\
Article 2.01, an amount equal to the monthly Union dues determined from time to time by the Union pursuant to its Constitution. The total amount cf such dues deductions shall be remitted by the Company, together with a list of names of employees from whom the deductions were made, to the Treasurer of the Union forth-with after the deductions are made.
b) The deduction cf monthly dues constitutes a continuing condition of employment.
ARTICLE V- HOURS OF WORK
5.01	a) A work day is defined as the 24-hour period starting at 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. of the following calendar day.
i)	A work day for day employees is defined as the 24
hour period starting at 7:45 a.m. to 7:45 a.m. of the
following calendar day.
b)	The work week shall be from 8:00 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
c)	The Company recognizes coffee breaks and lunch breaks, which will coincide with natural production breaks.
5.02	a) "Day Employees" are defined in Article 5.03(a).
b)	"Shift Employees" are defined as those employees assigned to Shift #1, Shift #2, Shift#3 or Shift #4 schedules.
c)	"Continuous Shift employees" are defined as those employees assigned to a four shift continuous work schedule.
5.03	a) Day Employees
i)	The normalwork schedule for day employees shall be from 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. with one-half hour breakforlunch commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, with Saturday and Sunday off.
ii)	The normalwork schedule for day employees on a Compressed Work Week schedule shall be specified in Article 5C7with one 15 minute lunch break commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. rif'C'
-
5 )
Iii) inthe event an employee b unableto receivesuch break for lunch by virtue of a work assignment by supetvision on a particular day, such employee shall receive payment at the applicable overtime rate for the missed break.
b)	Shift Employees
Shift # 1, Shift #2, Shift #3 andShlft #4 employees will work shift schedules as outlined In Article 5.07
c)	Continuous Shift Employees Employees assigned to continuous shift work will work accordingto schedules as established by agreementbetween the Unionand the Company from time to time. Specific hours and days of work within these work schedules shall be designated by the assignment of an employee to a letter on a work schedule. An employee shall be reassignedto a different shift letter on the work schedule when work load, shift vacancies, and the safe and efficient operation of the plant requires it
d)	in accordance with (a), (b) and (o) above, the normalwork schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07.
e)	Should it become necessary to Introduces new schedule or permanentlyalteran existingschedule,the newor altered schedule will be established by mutual agreement betweenthe Union and the Company.
5.04	a) I) The Company will give each eight hour continuous shift employeethe opportunityto haveat leastone "long-change" in each 26-day cycle, provided the employee has not changed his shift. Saturday and Sunday shall be included In such a “longchange”.
ii)	The Companywill give each twelve hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long-change” In every two 16-day cycles or as otherwise specified in Progression Notes Appendix "B", provided the employee has not changed his shift.
b)	Beginning cf cycles are defined in Article 5.07.
6
c) i) 28-Day Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his new shift cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles inthe ratio of onequarter (1A) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime, ii) 16 Week Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his working cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one-half 0/2) of the total number of calendar days inthe period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined by Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime.
d)	When employees are required to change to or from a day, shift or continuous shift work schedule, proportionate considerationwill be given to earned days off as in (c) above.
5.05	Employees with compatible qualifications shall be allowed shift exchanges, provided no overtime or penalty payments result and further provided that their Supervisor is advised at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance. Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee working more than twelve (12) consecutive hours.
5.06	The provisions of this Agreement respecting Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute an overtime agreement pursuant to the Employment Standards
7
Act. A Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute normal hours of work and shall not involve overtime payments, with the exception of two (2) hours per week overtime averaged over the cycle inArticle 5.07 E,F, andG. Ifthe daily hours of the schedule are exceeded, the excess daily hours shall be paid at overtime rates, If the days off of the schedule are worked, such days worked will be paid at overtime rates. No additional claims for overtime related to the Compressed Work Week provisions of this Agreement, the Employment Standards Act, or Article 6, may be made by the employee.
5.07	Work Schedules A. Day Employees 40 hours per week
Monday through Friday7 45 a m to 4 15 p m Saturday and Sunday off Weekly cycles starting Monday B Shift #2 Employees 40 hours per week Monday through Friday, Saturday and Sunday off Dayshift - 8:00 a m to 4:00 p m Afternoon Shift - 4 00 p m to 12 midnight Nightshift-12 midnight to 8 00 a m
Weekly cycle starting Monday	I
C Continuous Shift Employees (28 day cycle)
- average 42 hours/week
7 night shifts, two days off, 7 afternoon shifts, one day off, j 7 day shifts, four days off	‘
Day shift - 8:00 a m - 4:00 p m Afternoon shift - 4 00 p m to 12 midnight Nightshift - 12 midnight to 8 00 a m 28 day cycle starting first shift of the night shift period Overtime Agreements - (per Employment Standards Act Section26, 1980 as amended September20, 1982)
a
D.	Day Employees
i)	10 hour shifts - 40 hours per week 4 days Tuesday to Friday 2 days off
4	days Monday to Thursday 4 days off 8:00 a.m. to 6:15 p.m.
2	week cycle starting on set of days starting Tuesday OR
ii)	8 and 12 hours shifts - 40 hours per week
Monday through Friday - 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. - two weeks Monday off
Tuesday, Thursday - 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday, Friday - 7:45 a.m. to 7:45 p.m.
Monday through Friday- 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. - two weeks Monday, Wednesday - 7:45 a.m. to 7:45 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday - 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Friday off.
Six week cycle starting Monday of the first five 8 hour day week OR
iii)	8 and 12 hour shifts - 40 hours per week
Monday through Friday - 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. - two weeks
Saturday and Sunday off
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday - 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Wednesday - 7:45 a.m. to 7:45 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday off
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday - 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Wednesday - 7:45 a.m. to 7:45 p.m.
Friday, Saturday and Sunday off
Four week cycle starting Monday following Friday off.
E.	Shift #1 Employees 12 hour shift - 42 hours per week * 2
average
i) 4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
8 week cycle beginning set of days starting Sunday.
OR
ii) 3 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Wednesday to Friday
2 days off
9
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Thursday
5	days off and
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Wednesday 5 days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 2 days off
2	week cycle beginning set of days starting Monday OR
iii)	4 days Monday to Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5	days off
5 days Wednesday to Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days cff
5	days Friday to Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off
4 week cycle beginning with the set of days starting on
Monday
OR
iv)	4 days Tuesday to Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off
5 days Thursday to Monday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Saturday to Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off
4 week cycle beginning with the set of days starting with Tuesday
F.	Shift #3 Employees 12 hour shifts - 42 hours per week average 4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 3 days off
3	nights8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Tuesday to Thursday
4	days off
H. Shift #4_________i
8 and 12 hi shifts 40 hours per week
Monday, Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
10
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m, Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday OR
Tuesday, Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Saturday, Sunday, Monday off Weekly cycle beginning Tuesday OR
Monday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday
G.	Continuous Shift Employees 12 hour shifts - 42 hours per week average
i) 4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
2	days off
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
6	days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of nights starting Sunday OR
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
1 day off
4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
7	days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of days starting Sunday OR
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
3 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
6	days off
12 week cycle beginning first set of days starting Sunday OR
ii) 4 nights8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. 4 days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
11
16 week cycle beginning first set of nights starting Sunday The Company shall have the right to temporarily alter schedules for Turnarounds or for unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances It is the Company's intent that these changes will be made following consultationwith Area Steward(s)
5.08	a) The Company will make every effort to maintain a stable schedule for every employee
b)	Temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes ARTICLE V1 - OVERTIME
6.01	a) Any work in excess of an employee’s work day or in
excessofthat includedas part of his work schedule or all hours worked on a statutory holiday or included as part of his work schedule when in excess of forty (40) hours per week, when averaged over the employees shift cycle shall be deemed overtime and paid at twa<2) times the employee's base hourly rate.	*M3
b)	The provisions-ofArticle 6.02 (a) shall not apply if shift relief is delayed lessthan fifteen (15) minutes into a twelve (12) hour break.
c)	For Compressed Work Week schedules the Company will implement voluntary standby procedures in accordance with the Progression Notes Appendix “B” The Company reserves the right to schedule employees for standby if the voluntary standby procedures do not supply sufficient personnel to safely and efficiently operate the plant
6.02	a) If an employee’s schedule is such that he does not have a minimum of a twelve (12) hour break between work periods, he will work his scheduled hours and will receivetwo (2) times his base hourly rate, until he has had a minimum of a twelve hour break. However, for reasons of safety only, his supervisor may instruct him to take a twelve (12) hour break. This paragraph does not apply to “call-outs”.
b)	For employees on twelve (12) hour overtime
12
agreements the specified breaks in 6 02 (a) shall be read as ten and one quarter (10'A) hours
6.03	a) A Day or Shift employee who has returned to his residence and is called for duty and who reports for work before or after his regular shift shall receive the greater of
., v i) The applicable overtime rate or, p i ii) A minimum of four (4) hours' pay computed at the applicable overtime rate	^	'
b)	An empLoyeerwho is called for duty under (a) above will not be required to perform non-essential work during the callout
c)	If a call-out ends less than eight (8) hours prior to a Day or Shift employee's next regular shift, he shall take an eight (8) hour break with no loss of regular pay An employee shall not be required to return to work on his regular shift for less than two (2) hours
d)	If a call-out extends up to the commencement of his regular shift, a Day or Shift employee shall normally take an eight (8) hour break However, if requested to work after the commencement of his regular shift, he will receive the applicable overtime rate for the hours of his regular shift that he works Following completion of his call-out work, he shall take an eight (8) hour break, with no loss of regular pay for the remaining hours of his regular shift
6.04	a) An employee who is requiredto work morethantwo (2)
hours beyond his regular stopping time and has not had eight (8) hours notice of this overtime prior to his shift shall be supplied with a suitable^hDt-meal which will be eaten on Companytime For overtime scheduled with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, the Company will supply hot meals These meals will be furnished thereafter at approximate four (4) hour intervals throughout the remaining period, of , continious work	1 -j ■■■ % i-> '^p' q Cf‘-j
b)	Suitable hot meals will be delivered to employees assigned to duties which require the employee to remain at his
13
place of work. Other employees will be allowed to eat their meals at the camp kitchen.
6.05	When an employee is requiredto make a special trip in order to work overtime or when he is "called-out"at other than regular shift change times, transportation will be provided at Company expense.
a)	The Company will schedule buses, provide special transportation, or reimburse an employee who is requested and who agrees to provide his own transportation in connection with an overtime assignment. Company transportationwill be providedto the normal bus stops, or to an employee's home in Fort McMurray where possible when unscheduled transportation is provided.
b)	An employee who is called out or who works a sixteen (16) hour shift upon requestshall be granted a room in camp, to allow him to obtain maximum rest during the period before his next shift. A hot meal will be providedin camp priortothe start of his next shift. A second meal will be provided at the next regular meal time as provided in Article 6.04. All of the above will be provided at no cost to the employee.
c)	A special trip with respect to overtimework is defined as a trip to or from work, either before or after an overtime assignment, where there is no regular bus transportation scheduled within a reasonable period of time after the employee is called to report for work, or after completionof the overtime shift.
6.06	If an employee is assigned to work on a schedule differentfrom his regular schedule and his starting time on the new schedule is more than one hour sooner or later than the starting time under his schedule immediately prior to the change, he shall be paid two (2) times his base hourly rate for the first shift worked of the new shift schedule, unless the change is made:
a) As an accommodation to or for the convenience of the employee.
14
b) As a result of the employee being upgraded or promoted on a permanent basis.
c)	In returning an employee to his original schedule within 28 days, which he worked prior to the change.
d)	So that the employee may attend off-the-job training,
i.e. in class, job related training, or plant protection, or safety training. " "	' '
6.07	No employee working on shift shall leave his working area until properly relieved, without the permission of Supervision.
6.08	a) Consistent with Article 7.01 and within the six month periods ending June 30 and December 31, annually, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among employees, either within the pay classificationwhere the overtime is required, if move up is not possible, or as otherwise specified in the Progression Notes, Appendix “B”. Article 6.08 (a) shall not be applicable to employees in progressionswhere a "chit" system is utilizedfor the assignment of overtime.
b)	The Company will post overtime lists on all relevant area bulletin boards bi-weekly.
c)	Refusal of overtime shall be considered as overtime worked for record purposes and will be recorded on the biweekly overtime list.
d)	For record purposes, upon permanent entry into a classification, or area as specified in the Progression Notes, an employee shall be assigned the current average overtime hours of all other employees within that classification or area.
e)	For record purposes, an employee who is absent from his regular duties on leave of absence or due to illness/injury for more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days shall be assigned the current average overtime hours for all other employees within the classification or area upon his return.
6.09	If an employee reports for an overtime assignment which
15
has been cancelledor shortened with lessthan eight (8)hours prior notice. he will be permitted to perform an alternate assignment of equivalent hours on that day
6.10	An employee’s overtime shall be calculatedto the next quarter hour, in accordance with Article 6 01
6.11	In no case shall payments be pyramidedor paid under more than one provision of this agreement unless specifically provided for
ARTICLE V11 - SALARIES
7.01	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a monthly salary basis in accordance with Appendix “ A appended to this Agreement The monthly salary of employees has been adjusted in the salary schedule to include shift differential and average shift overtime worked as part of the work schedules as defined in Article 5 07
7.02	Shift differentials in accordance with Appendix "A'are included inthe monthly salary of all Continuous Shift, Shift #2 and Shift#3 employees Shift Diffe,rfintlaLsj!iaccordancewith Appendix "A'will be paidto Shift# 1 and Shift#4 employees for all straight time hoursworked between4:00 p m and8 00 am Additionally, shift differentials will be paid to Day employees for eight (8) or more consecutive overtime hours worked between4 00 pm and8 00am to Shift# 1 and Shift #4 employees for all overtime hoursworked between 4:00 pm and 8 00 am and to Continuous Shift, Shift #2 and Shift #3 employeesfor all overtime hoursworked
7.03	While an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher classificationfor other than his own training, he shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix "A" Upon permanent promotion to a higher classification. an employee shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix "A'.
7.04	Employees who are temporarily assigned to a lower classificationwill have their regular rate of pay maintained.
16
7.05	Amendments to an employee's time sheet shall not be permitted without consultation with the employee concerned
7.06	Any pay due an employee as a result of an error in his pay deposit or statement shall be made available by special cheque within ninety-six (96) hours, upon the employee's _ request
ARTICLE V111 - VACATIONS	^
8.01	An employee after one year of continuous service shall be entitled to three (3)weeks vacation with pay A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter During the first year of employment, an employee may elect to take one (1) week of his earned vacation after six (6) months of continuous service, in which event however, hewill be eligible for only the remaining two (2) weeks of vacation with pay after the completion of that first year of continuous service No employee shall receive more than three (3) weeks vacation in one (1) calendar year unless he qualifies underArticles8 02 or,,, ij
812	\ (V ' J
8.02	a) During the calendar year in which an employee completes ten (10) years of continuous service he shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter
b)	During the calendar year in which an employee
completes twenty (20) years of continuous service, he shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation A similar vacation shall be., taken each calendar year thereafter	'"'V (p ^y^_y
c)	During the calendar year in which an employee
completes twenty-five (25) years of continuous service, he shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation A similar vacation j shall be taken each calendar year thereafter	0^
8.03	Employeeswill indicate vacation period preference in advance of December 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacation and vacation schedules for all earned
17
vacation hours shall be posted by the Company by January 1st of each year.
8.04	a) An employee who qualifies for vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or8.02will receive vacation pay based on the greater of:
i)	his regular salary, or
ii)	for each hour of vacation taken, 0.05% of his regular salary as recorded for all time worked during the 28 bi-weekly pay periods prior to the first day of the pay period in which his vacation commences.
b)	An employee may request in writing, at least thirty (30)calendar days prior to the commencement of his vacation, to receivea vacation pay advance on the pay day immediately preceding the commencement of his vacation in accordance with (a) above. The Company shall recover any vacation pay advance in the pay period(s) immediately following receipt of such advance.
c)	The Company shall make any vacation pay adjustment by the end of the first pay period immediately following the pay period during which an employee's vacation, or part thereof, is completed.
d)	The Companyshall publish on each bi-weekly pay statement the current vacation pay adjustment due to the employee and the earnings on which the calculation is based.
8.05	Should an employee become disabled as a result of sickness or accident immediately prior to commencing his vacation, or if he becomes disabled during his vacation, his vacation, or part vacation, shall be rescheduled in such a manner that he shall not lose his vacation by reason of such disability. In order to have his vacation rescheduled, such employee must notify his Supervisor of said disability as soon as possible. He must also provide proof of hospitalization, or submit a Doctor's certificate. The basic intent is to ensure that an employee receives his earnedvacationwhere, because of a bonafide medical reason this may not have been possible.
18
Under no circumstances is this section to be construed as an opportunity for premium pay in lieu of the earned vacation pay.
8.06	When a recognized holiday or holidaysfall on one of an employee's scheduled vacation days, he shall take an extra day or days vacation with pay, to be taken either at the beginning or end of the vacation if scheduled, or at another time mutually agreeable to him and the Company.
8.07	An employee who is eligible for three (3) weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into three (3) parts. An employee who is eligible for four (4) or more weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into four (4) parts.
8.08	Vacation allowance on termination shall be as follows:
a)	In the case of an employee who has not become eligible for an annual vacation, the employee shall receive an amount equal to four (4) percent of his base salary for the period from his date of hire to his termination date.
b)	In the case of an employee who has become entitled to a vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or8.02, he shall receive vacation pay based on 0.05% of his accumulated base salary for each hour of vacation for which he is eligible, and as calculated for all straight time hours worked from his anniversary date in the year in which he last took vacation, less any vacation pay already received during the calendar year in which he terminates.
8.09	a) Up to 10% of the work force in one area will be allowed off on vacation at any time. At the Company's option, this percentage may be increased. Fractional numbers of employees will be adjusted to the next whole number.
b) The Area Superintendent and/or Supervisor will define in writing the combination of job positions he will allow to be on vacation at the same time. This will be posted by October 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacations.
19
c)	Once a vacation has been agreed upon by the Company and the employee, it can be changed only by
i)	The employee with thirty (30) calendar days written noticeto his area superintendent and/or supervisor Incaseof layoff, the employee will have the option of electingto take his vacation prior to the layoff taking effect
ii)	The Company in cases of emergency The needto schedule relief coverage at overtime rates shall not be consideredjust cause for denying an employee his scheduled vacation
d)	Inthe eventthatanemployee’sworkschedule has been changed after the vacation list has been posted, the Company agrees the employee will have the option of.
i)	taking his vacation as posted.
ii)	changing his vacation to fit into the new schedule, i e, if such vacation wasto betaken in conjunction with a “long change” on the old vacation schedule, the employee may rearrange his vacation to fit in conjunctionwith a “long change” on the new schedule
e)	Where work schedule changes have occurred, no other employee will be required to change his vacation due to such change.
f)	Inthe event that anemployeewishesto change his vacation period, no other employee's vacation period will be changed as a result, except where the employees concerned and supervision mutually agree to such change
g)	An employee will not be required to work any overtime on scheduled days off which fall in conjunction with his vacation
8.10	a) i) Seniority for purposes of indicating vacation period preference shall be defined as the number of vacation points accumulated by each employee in his departmentas of October 1 st of each year Such vacation points shall continue to accumulate from year to year as outlined in (d) below
ii) Within the constraints of other sections in Article V111, employees shall be eligible to select their annual
vacation periods in order of most assigned vacation points receiving first choice, with remaining choices allowed in declining vacation point sequence. An employee electing to split his vacation into more than one (1) part must select his second part after all other employees have selected their first choice. Similarly, he must select his third part after all other employees have selected their second choice.
iii)	In the event that two (2) or more employees in a department havethe same number of vacation points, vacation period selection among such employees will be allowed in order of the longest respective Company service dates.
b)	For purposes of this Article 8.10 only, vacation “prime time” shall be defined as the annual period of July 1 to August 31 inclusive. “Vacation days” shall be defined as the actual earned days of annual vacation, excluding the travel days, holidays, banked holidays, mutual changes and scheduled days off.
c)	By October 10th of each year the Company shall post a list in each department which will indicate the total number of vacation points assigned to each employee.
d)	On October 1 st cf each year, employees in each department shall receive or lose vacation points as follows:
i)	One (1) service point shall be added to each employee’s accumulated total points.
ii)	Each employee who took twenty-four (24) vacation hours or less during “prime time” in the previous twelve (12) months shall receive one (1) vacation point bonus.
iii)	An employee shall lose vacation points, based on, the total number of vacation hours taken during prime time in the previous twelve (12) months, in accordance with the following: Twenty-five (25) to sixty (60) vacation hours loses one (1)point. Sixty-one (61) to ninety-six (96)vacation hours loses two (2) points. Ninety-seven (97) to one hundred and forty-four (144)vacation hours - loses three (3) points. One hundred and forty-five (145) to one hundred and eighty (180)
21
vacation hours loses four (4) points Over one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours- loses five (5) points
e)	i) Upon employment, each new employee shall receivethe lower of zero (0) pointsor one (1) point less that the lowestindividualpointtotal inhisdepartmentasof Octoberl St preceding his hire date Thereafter, they shall receive additional points in accordance with (d) above
ii)	If an employee transfers from one department to another within the bargaining unit, he shall carry his accumulated vacation point total to his new department
iii)	If an employee transfersto a departmentwithinthe bargainingunitfrom a positionoutside of the bargainingunit he shall, immediately upon entry into his new department, receive vacation points as per 8 10 (e)(i) above Thereafter, he shall receive or lose vacation points in accordance with (d) above
8.11	For the purpose of scheduling vacations, supervisors' vacations shall not be taken into account
8.12	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation may elect to defer one (1) week of vacation Employees
y/Jbntitledto four (4)or more\Afeeks ofvacation may elect to defer trpv^NO (2) weeks of vacation Deferredvacation will be taken in the following calendar year outside of the period July and l August inclusive
8.13	a) A week of vacation is defined as forty (40) scheduled working hours
b) A day of vacation is defined as eight (8) scheduled working hours Vacation will be scheduled in full shifts
8.14	If, at the end of an employee'svacation entitlement, a partial shift of vacation is remaining, the employee will be granteda leave of absencewithout pay for the remaininghours of said shift to complete his vacation
8.15	Upon completion of one (1) year of continuous service, twenty-four hours of travel time with pay at the employee's base hourly rate will be granted annually to each employee in conjunction with his annual vacation ^
22
ARTICLE. 1X - HOLIDAYS
9.01	a) The following holdays will be granted to all employees covered by this agreement
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
b)	Additionally, employees on schedules 5 07 (a), (d)(ii) and (d)(iii) will be granted the following holidays
August Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
c)	A floating holiday announced by the Company in October each year for the following year will be granted to all employees on schedules 5 07 (aJ, (b), (c) and (d)
9.02	a) Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 and Continuous Shift employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall
New Year's Day Good Friday-Victoria Day Dominion Day Family Day
b)	Shift #2 and Day employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall, where that day is included in their work schedule Where the holiday falls on a Shift #2 or Day employee's scheduled day off the employee shall observe the holiday on a scheduled day of work For holidays falling on a Friday or a Saturday that day shall be observed on the preceding scheduled day of work For holidays falling on a Sunday or Monday that day shall be observed on the following scheduled day of work
c)	Forpurposes of determining the date of a holiday under Article 9 01, the day proclaimed by Government legislation shall apply
/]/./9.03 If a recognized holiday falls on a day an employee is / j) scheduled to work, he will work his shift that day and receive.in '< /"ddition to his regular salary, pay at applicable overtime rates X fpr all hours worked
” 9.04 If a recognized holiday falls on a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 J or a continuous shift employees scheduled day off, the employee will receive, in addition to his regular salary, one shifts pay calculated at his base hourly rate
23
9.05	a) Notwithstanding the provisions in Articles 9 02, 9 03 and 9 04, an employee will be paid a holiday credit for each of the agreed upon statutory holidays, only provided.
i)	if his schedule is such that the employee works on the holiday, or;
ii)	if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employeeworks his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday and his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday or,
iii)	if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employeeworks either his last scheduled shift or day beforethe holiday or his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday, and has an excused absence for the other day mentioned.
b)	An employeewill, however, be entitled to holiday pay if absent on the holiday when scheduled to work, if his shift is covered by another employee, with a mutual shift change agreement The provisions of Article 9 06 will apply.
9.06	In the event that a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or continuous shift employee is required to work on a statutory holiday, or if the holiday falls on a scheduled day off, the employee may elect to receive a regularly scheduled work day off, on the following basis
a) i) Any seventy-two (72) statutory holiday hours per year may be reservedto be scheduled at otherthan the period of July and August The statutory holidays so reserved would be the Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Family Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, New Year's Day and Good Friday Additionally. employees not on a Compressed Work Week schedule may bank August Civic Holiday and Boxing Day A maximum on one hundred and twenty eight (128) statutory holiday hours so reserved may be carried from year to year at an employee's option
ii) The Company agrees to publish the current number of accumulated banked statutory holiday hours, defined in (i) above on the bi-weekly pay statement of each employee covered by Article 2.01
24
b)	If there is open time available during the period of July and August, after vacation schedules have been posted, employees may schedule some or all reserved statutory holiday credits to fit these open periods, in accordance with Article 9.06 (e).
c)	Employees must elect, in writing, thirty (30) days in advance, to reserve the specified statutory holidays.
d)	Notwithstanding Articles 6.01,9.03 and9.04, payment for these reserved holidays or portion thereof, at the time the holiday occurs, will be at one (1) times pay, plus regular salary for those reserved holidays worked, and at regular salary only with no premium for those reserved holidays falling on an employee's scheduled days off.
e)	An employee must give his Supervisor at least three (3) working days written notice of his desire to schedule a day of his reserved statutory holiday, and shall receive a written reply to his request at least two (2) working days prior to the requested time off. The request shall be granted under the following conditions:
i)	subject to 9.06 (a);
ii)	operations not being unduly restricted;
iii)	the job combinations allowed off at any one time will be the same as defined in 8.09 (b).
f)	The provisions of (a), (b), (d) and (e) above, inclusive, shall also apply to a Day or Shift #2 employee who is required to work on a holiday, subject to the employee electing in writing, in advance or on the holiday, to reserve the holiday.
g)	Subject to 9.06 (e) debanking of statutory holidays ^shall be on a first come, first served basis.
Ad,	ARTICLE X - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
-/■ 10.01 Individualemployees may, with the Company'sconsent Vi i.Jh writing, obtain a leave of absence without pay. The written Consent shall state the dates on which the leave of absence begins and ends.
10.02 In the case cf death in the immediate family of an
25
employee, such employee will be granted three (3) working
days off wh ----------- For employees not covered by an
overtime agreement an additionaltwo (2) working days will be granted with no loss of pay if travel out of town is required For employees covered by overtime agreement an additional one
(1)working day will be grantedwith no loss of pay if travel out of town is required If circumstances are such as to make this impractical, additional time off may be granted subject to Company approval The "immediate family" shall be deemed as any member of the employee's actual household and the following relatives of the employee or spouse even though not living in the employee's house.
(1)	Parents
(2)	Son or his wife
(3)	Daughter or her husband
(4)	Brother or his wife
(5)	Sister or her husband
(6)	Grandparents
(7)	Grandchildren
10.03	An employee who receives a s witness duty will be granted a leave of absence tor that purpose provided the Company is properly notified The employee will receive an amount of pay from the Company, which when addedto hisjury duty or witness pay, will equal his regular salary while on such duty
10.04	The Company agrees to grant leaves of absence without navin membersofthe Unionforthe businesspurposes ofthe Umiism and to attend Union functions Application for approval of such leave shall be made by one or more of the ExecutiveOfficers of the Union. who will endeavour to request such leaveat least48 hourspriortothe commptacfmpntofthe shift(s) for which the leave is requested W)
10.05	In the event that an employee is recruited firefighting forest fires, an amount will be paid by the Company which, when added to the fire fighting pay received from the Government equals the employee's normal salary
26
ARTICLE X1 - PROMOTION, SENIORITY, TRANSFERS, TRAINING AND PROGRESSION CHARTS
11.01 a)
i)	Permanent progression within any area shall be in
accordance with progression charts and notes, Appendix “B”. Qualification is based on the employee's knowledge of the theories, procedures and equipment related to the job in question. The Company undertakes to evaluate the qualifications of employees in a fair and just manner. The Company agrees that all employees will be give every opportunity to qualify for the next higher jobs within the minimum time periods as set out in the progression charts. Employees shall be provided with special instruction, instructional material and/or any other advice or meansfor self improvement. If an employee has not qualified for the next higher job because the Company has not given him the opportunity to train within the minimum time period, the Companyagrees that within a further ninety (90) day period the employee shall receive the opportunity to train and qualify. Providing the employee qualifies during this ninety (90) day period he shall receive his wage increment retroactive to the date of completion of the minimumtime/period as outlined in Appendix ”B”.	j-oy=- '
ii)	When a permanentvacancy occurs the most senior » man in the next lower classification or phase will be given the job, provided he is qualified for move up or phase progression.
In the event that it is found that an employee has not sufficient qualification for move up or phase progression he will be informed as to the areas in which he is expected to improve andwill begiven extra assistance in those areas. Iftime is such that it would not be practical for reevaluation of said employee before the vacant job must be filled, the next most senior employee will be given the job, subject to the same conditions.
It is agreed that the senior employee will be given the same opportunity for all subsequent vacancies in the next higher
27
classification or phase. However, if the senior employee, providing he meets the certification requirements where required as outlined in Appendix “B", has not been given the opportunity to train for the job, the position will be filled on a temporary basis for up to thirty (30)working days, duringwhich time the senior employee will be given the opportunity to train and qualify
iii)	Pay classification seniority will be the governing factor to determine move up, however if pay classification seniority is the same, the qualified employee with the most area seniority will be giventhe job Ifthe area seniority isthe same, then the qualified employee with the most Company seniority will be given the Job Pay classification or area seniority begins on the date an employee is given a permanent assignment in the pay classification, phase or area. If there is no one qualified in the given pay classification,phase or area, then persons in the next lower pay classificationor phase will become eligible An employee may, with the approval of the Area Superintendent, decline a permanent move up In such case his rate of pay will be fixed at his currently assigned position rate in accordance with Appendix “B”. This agreement will remain in effect until cancelled by either party with 30 days written notice. The date of cancellation will determine the employees pay classification seniority for subsequent progression
b)	Move-upscaused by temporary vacanciesaswell as training for the next job shall be in accordance with the Progression Charts and Notes for each area
c)	Temporary shift vacancies will be filled by the next most senior employeeon the shift concerned,or as outlined in Appendix“B”, providedtheemployeehassufficienttraining If it is determinedthat a temporaryjob openingwill last in excess of thirty (30) days, it shall be considered as a permanent job opening and shall be filled by the normal procedure as defined in 11 01 (a) except as follows
28
i)	When filling job vacancies on a temporary basis resulting from vacations, injury, sickness, leave of absence, training or emergency, the temporary procedure may apply beyond thirty (30) days.
ii)	Specific projects of limited duration, not to exceed six (6) months, provided the Union is notified of such specific project.
d)	When two or more employees begin employment on the same day, the order of Company seniority will be established at that time by a draw in the presence of all employees concerned. Badge numbers will be assigned to new hires in the order of the lowest number representing the most seniority. If required, a similar draw shall be held to determine the order cf Company seniority for any employees whose order of Company seniority has not been previously determined.
e)	It is the Company's intent that when the equipment or plant area is in operation, all shift positions will be manned. It is also the intent that when the equipment or plant area is not in operation, but is ready and available for operation, and it is evident that it may be required to operate during a shift, then in the event any employee is absent, move-up will be made to man each position.
f)	Summer student employees will receive move-up, overtime and promotional opportunities only after all employees hired into permanent positions.
11.02	Company policy regarding education assistance is included in the Suncor, Inc. Benefits Package.
11.03	a) Inthe event an employee whose pay classification is above the rank of Trainee transfers cf his own volition to another area, his salary"wi)rbe adjusted to the greater of the rate of pay for the job to which he transfers or to the “H” rate of pay. An employee who transfers at a rate of pay below “H” rate will maintainhis rate of pay. However, on such transfer, he shall be established at the Traineeor equivalentstart level in his new
|29
department or area, and his classification and area seniority will begin on the day of his transfer.
b)	An employee who transfers into a labourer’s position will have his salary reducedto “K” rate. He will receive wage increases as per Appendix "A'.	•'TjToJ’U-'?"''
11.04	Off-TheJob Training
The Company encourages participation in all forms of off-the-job training such as Company sponsored courses, cor-respondencfi_.CQurs.es, or stationery engineering studies. These are aids to increase ability butthey are not requirements for any job classification in any area, except as specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement.
11.05	Employees shall be probationary for the first four ) hundred and eighty (480) working hours. After successful
.completion of his probationary period, the employee’s Seniority shall be dated from the day his employment »began.	<
11.06	Seniority lists will be posted at least every three (3) months. Distribution will consist of the employee’s classification seniority, Area seniority- and Company seniority.
11.07	a) Non-bargaining unit employees shall not perform work normally assigned to employees within the bargaining pnit to the extent of denying an employeeinthe bargainingunit
'the opportunity for a job or promotion. It is not the Company's intent that non-bargaining unit personnel perform work normally assigned to bargainingunit personnel, on an ongoing basis. It is recognizedthat there will be occasions such as, in emergency situations, for teaching or demonstrations, in experimental and developmental work, critical start-up and shutdown, or to improve productivity and effectiveness of the plant, that it may be necessary from time to time for nonbargaining unit employees to do work in co-operation with bargaining unit employees.
b) Employmentof contractorsforworkexpectedto last
30
in excess often (10) days to supplement bargaining unit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the Area Steward(s).
11.08	Before the Company seeks candidates from outside the Bargaining Unit, preference shall be given to senior qualified employeeswho have a minimum of one (1) year Area seniority, in accordance with Article 11.06, in the area he is transferring from and have applied pursuant to the procedures below.
a)	The Company shall post notices of any permanent vacancies on designated job vacancy bulletin boards, and shall send a copy of each posting to the Union Office.
b)	The Company agrees to receive written applications for transfer from employees for seven (7) days from the date of the posting. Employees may file standing applications with Suncor Inc. EmploymentOffice for a specific job opportunity. Such applications will be valid for a period of three (3) months.
c)	A successful job applicant shall be released to his newjob as soon as possible but inany event not later than thirty (30) working days after the closing of the job posting.
d)	The Company shall notify each unsuccessful employee of the reasons why he was not selected for the posted job vacancy.
11.09	Any employee who accepts a promotion or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit in excess of one thousand and forty (1040) accumulated working hours per contract year shall be notified by the Company of his loss of bargaining unit seniority and may only re-enter the Bargaining Unit at the trainee level. Any overtime worked will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list. During this period he may be reverted to his former position.
ARTICLE X11 - LAYOFF AND DISCHARGE
12.01	a) The Company agrees to provide the Union with six (6) months notice of a plant closure, partial plant closure or other workforce reduction caused by changes inworking methods or
facilities which will involvethe lay-off of any personcovered by Article 2 01 during the life of this Agreement
b)	Employeesdisplacedasa result of such change will be given the opportunity to transfer to any department in the operation where there is an opening, if they satisfy the basic requirements for the position If retrainingis requiredto fill the open position, the Company will provide such training where possible, pr cooperate with'govgmmef>t--Fetra'nin9-<lep9f4--rttefttSTo provide such training in order that the displaced employee may qualify to continue in the employ of the Company Employees who remain in the employ of the Company will have their regular rate of pay maintained until permanently reassigned to their new job Employeeswho are permanently reassigned will have their regular salary maintained until they qualify for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular salary rates qualify the employees for an increase For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, employees who are permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirenjents in accordance with this agreement
c)	In the event it is not possfBte to reassign the employee to other usefulemploymentin the operation, then on severance resultingfrom technological change or automation, the employee will receive severance pay based on the greater
of:	ocy. w/ -by
i)	one (1) month’s pay; or /1	// y'Cu /7h
ii)	two (2) weeks pay for each year of service with the Companyto a maximum of twenty (20) weeks' pay, providedin either case he has at least one (1) year of service with the Company
12.02	a) In the event that it is necessary for the Companyto reduce the working force, the lay-off shall be made by the Company in the reverse order of Company seniority within the trade or progressionconcernedwithin each Departmentof the plant, providing employees retained are qualified to do the work remaining. However, in the event of lay-off in a trade or
progression common to more than one Department then the junior of the qualified employees effected will be laid off regardless of the department, with the remaining employees being transferred to fill the resulting vacancies.
b) If an employee who has transferred from one department to another while employed by the company is to be laid off, he mayexercise his Company seniority to [Jjspja.ee the employee who has Fes's Company seniority and who has the least Company seniority in his last previous {jgnartment
provided he is qualified to fill the position.	r l
c) The recail.qf employees will be inthereykfae^Qrtferof
layoff provided the employee has not been laid off for more than twelve (12) months and further provided the employee^ recalled are qualified to perform the work available, "2 r
d)	For the purpose of "continuous service , "an employee recalled will be deemed to have continuous service.
e)	An employee who accepts recall to other than the position that he held prior to layoff will retain his position onthe recall list until such time as he has had an opportunity to return to the position held prior to layoff, provided the employee has not been on the recall list for more than twelve (12) months.
12.03	For the purposes of layoff the date and time of notification of layoff shall be deemed the commencement of layoff and the date and time of notification of recall shall be deemed the official time of the recall regardless of which shift a recalled employee actually works in accordance with regular work schedules.
12.04	In the event that any classification or position is cancelled for any reason and the employee in that classification is lowered to a lower classification, he will maintain his regular salary.
12.05	Should an employee accept an opportunity to transfer to another position rather than be laid off, the employee will have his regular rate of pay maintained until he qualified for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustment in regular rates of
33
pay qualify the employee for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply an employee who is permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordance with this agreement.
12.06	Inpreferenceto being laid off, an employee who has at least one (1)year of continuous servicewith the Company may request i nwriting to accept the followingseverance pay and to terminate his employment with the Company. In this case, the employee shall have no recall rights under this Agreement. Severance pay will be provided based on the r
a)	one (1) month’s pay: or	®9r?a&cl/|f:
b)	two (2) weeks’ pay for each year l ywt h the Companyto a maximumoftwenty (20)weekd’$)@w,ioea)VlWedin either case he has at least one (1) year of service with the Company.
ARTICLE X111 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	Definition: For the purposeof this Agreement the term “grievance” shall mean any dispute betweenthe Company and the Union, or between the Company and any employee within the jurisdiction of the Union, concerning the interpretation, application, claim of breach or violation of this Agreement.
13.02	a) Any employee who has a dispute shall first discuss the matterwith his immediate Supervisorwith a view to prompt settlement thereof. The employee may have his Union Steward present at such discussion.
b) i) Step One: if afterforty-eight(48) hoursthe dispute is not resolved, it then becomes a formal grievance if the employee and/or his Union Steward present a written grievance form to his Supervisor, specifyingthe provision(s) of the Collective Agreement violated and specifying the remedy requested, within seven (7) working days cf the date of occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute.
ii) The grievance will be heard by the Superintendent or his appointee, the Superintendent will arrange an acceptable hearing date within five (5) working days of the
34
formal submission. At this meeting the Grievor will be accompanied by a Union Steward. The Superintendent or his appointee shall reply in writing to the Grievor within a further five (5) working days.
c)	Step Two: Failing the satisfactory resolution of the grievance within five (5) working days of the date of the written reply in Step One, the grievance may be appealed to the Area Manager or his appointee, who will arrange a meeting with a Union Grievance Committee for that purpose, within a further ten (10) working days.
d)	i) The meetings referredto in(b)(ii) and(c) aboveshall be held on the Grievor’s day shift.
ii) Where an appointee hears the grievance, such appointee shall not be the person who heard the grievance in the previous step.
e)	If the grievance is not resolved within five (5) working days of the date of the meeting, it may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the following procedures:
i)	discipline and discharge grievances will be heard by a single arbitrator;
ii)	grievances of any other nature will be heard by a three-man Arbitration Board unless otherwise agreed to by both parties.
13.03	The party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party of intention to arbitrate, and if no such notice is received within thirty (30)working days of the date of the final answer in Step Two of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
13.04	a) Agrievance of the Unionwhich cannot be made the grievance of an employee or a group of employees may be submitted by the Unionto the Company, and a grievance of the Company may be submitted in writing within ten (10) working daysaftertheoccurrenceof the fact or event whichgave rise to the matter in dispute. A meeting of the parties shall be held thereafter within a period of five (5) working days with the Director of Human Resources and Administration, Oil Sands
35
Group or his appointee in attendance Such meeting and response in writing within ten (10) working days thereof, shall constitute the first and final step of the grievance procedure in a grievance of this nature
b) If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by this procedure it may be submitted to arbitration according to Article 13 03
13.05	The time limit imposed on the initial filing of a written grievance is not intendedto be restrictivewhere the employee or party grieving could not be aware of the existance of a potential grievance within such limit, e g a delay caused by pay calculation procedures which extend beyond the allowed time limit, or by promotion, or the event of an employee's absence through illness, compensable accident, vacation or authorized leave of absence
13.06	a) In the event that the Company does not respond to a grievance within the specified time limits (subjectto 13.06 (b)) the grievance may be advanced to the next step in the grievance procedure
b)	In the event that a grievance is not submitted or advanced from one step to another within the time limits specified, (subject to Article 1305) or as extended by agreement betweenthe Company and the Union in writing, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled
13.07	a) Priortothe impositionof documented discipline, an employee, if availabe, will be notified at a meeting with Management of the reasons for such action, unless he is a danger to himself or others The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by a Union Steward at the meeting
b) Any complaint or grievance by an employee, that he has been terminatedwithout cause, may be submitted directly to Step Two of the grievance procedure providedsuch action is taken within ten (10) calendar days of the date of termination Probationary employees may not grieve their termination
c)	Termination grievances will be scheduled for arbitration at the earliest opportunity
36
a /
'/\
i id) Following completion of a consecutive twelve (12) month period without receiving further disciplinary letters, all letters of discipline will be removed from an employee's file provided that the disipline is not being processed through the grievance procedure. Once removed from the file a letter shall not be referred to in any subsequent action. Further, the Company agrees that all letters of discipline when removed are returned to the employee.
13.08	The term "working days" as used in Articles 13.01, 13.02, 13.03 and 13.04 is defined as the scheduled days worked by the individual holding the grievance.
13.09	The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon all affected employees as set out in the Alberta Labour Act.
ARTICLE X1V - SAFETY, HEALTH AND GENERAL CONDITIONS
14.01	The Company recognizes the importance of and will promote and encourage safety in the Plant for the protection and general welfare of the employees. The Union recognizes its responsibility and will cooperate fully wtih the Company.
14.02	In recognition that safety is a joint management and employee concern, the following committees will be established:
a) Central Safety Committee, consisting of the Executive Vice-president, Oils Sands Group, Loss Management Manager, Union President and Union Safety Coordinators, or their designates will meet on a regular basis to discuss overall plant safety, exchange ideas and address concerns to ensure the safety of all employees at Suncor. This meeting will be held a minimum of once a quarter.
b)	Departmental Safety Committees will be established with representation from employees and Management to promote and discuss safety at the Departmental levels. These committees will meet monthly.
c)	The Company will recognize two (2) Union Safety Coordinators and fourteen (14) Area Safety Representatives.
37
The Company will recognize a Shift Safety Representative where a sufficient number of employees per shift exists in the Area.
i) The Area Safety Representatives will receive all accident investigation and hear miss reports for his area as ( Ossued.
\£>’/j	ii) The Shift Safety Representative may attend all
■f , i accident investigation meetings for his shift /i/-y/	d) No safety committee member shall suffer toes of
regular pay by attending regularly scheduled meetings of this A] committee Committee members attending regularly scheduled meetings on their own time will be paid the travel allowanceand their nonpajjate of pay,Jor actual time spent at the meeting, at overtime rates
14^3JThe^ampaTiy'wilTprovide adequate first aid facilities in
the Plant The Company agrees to provide and maintain lockers, lunch rooms, and reasonable sanitary, washing and shower facilities Employees using these facilities are expected to refrain from littering and abusing the facilities
14.04	When requiredto work in a location remote from other employees, an employee may request of his Supervisor, and his Supervisor may authorize, another employee to accompany him to ensure his safety
14.05	a) Twice weekly clothing changes will be allowed all Suncor Inc employees covered by Article 2 01
b)	Additional coveralls will be supplied as determined by the Area Superintendent
c)	The Company will pay, on the second pay day of October, to all employees covered by Article 2 01 who have completed their probationary period, an annual clothing allowanceasoutlined in Appendix “D”, Letterof Understanding
#1
d)	The Company agrees that the present practice of supplying safety equipment will continue in full
38
ARTICLE XV - INCORPORATION OF OVERTIME AGREEMENT
15.01	The terms of the overtime agreement, Article 5.07, shall be for such period as provided for in Article XV1 of the Collective Agreement or may’be terminated by either party after30 calendar days written notice providedthat a majority of employees from an area or progression have expressed a desire to be removed from the compressed work week schedule or the Company has served proper notice of cancellation.
39
ARTICLE XV1 ■ EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION AND AMENDMENTS
16.01	a) This agreement shall become effective at 12 01 a.m. on the twelfth day of February, 1990 and shall continue in force ana errect until i2:01 a.m. on the ist'day of May, 1992 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is given by either party to the other, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the expiration date, of intention to terminate or negotiate amendments for a new Agreement
b)	Where notice to negotiate amendments for a new Agreement has beengiven, then this Agreement shall continue in force and effect until the Union and employees are in position to lawfully strike or the Company is in a position to lawfully lock-out
c)	Notwithstanding anything in this Article, any portion of this Agreement may be amended by the Company and the Union at any time provided that both Parties agree
In witness whereof, we the undersigned hereby attach our hands and seal to this agreement this 12th day of February 1990 A D. in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta
ForSuncor Inc., Oil Sands Group
Gene Bacon, Chairman
Bill Burgess
Bev Atkey
40
For McMurray Independent Oil Workers Local 707 Energy and Chemical Workers Union
Daniel Comrie, Chairman
Keith Barrington
Brian Campbell
Roland Lefort
Beavon Warren
Ian Thom, E.C.W.U. National Representative
41
APPENDIX “A” ■ SALARY GROUPS
Grouo Rates Rates
	90-02-01	91-02-01	
A-3	27.09	28.72	Unit Leader - Completed 2 years in classification
A-2	26.58	28.17	Unit Leader- Completed 1 year in classification
A-I	26.03	27.59	Unit Leader- upon promotion
Journeyman
Extraction Operator-Ph 6 Process Operator - See Progression Chart Utilities Operator- See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech - Ph 9 Senior Storeman Storeman - 64 months Overburden Senior Operator Overburden Operator - Ph 7 Mine Senior Operator Mine Operator/Dyke
-	Ph 7 (1st Class Ticket)
Mine Operator-Ph 7 Vacuum Truck Specialist
-	64 months
Track Press/Tire Repairman
__________________________/Tire Specialist- 64 months
C 23.53	24.94 Extraction Operator Ph. 5
Process Operator- See Progression Chart Utilities Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. - Ph. 8 Storeman - Ph. 5 - 12 months Overburden Operator - Ph. 6
42
B 24.55	26.02

APPENDIX “A” - SALARY GROUPS
Uroup Rates Rates
90-02-01	91-02-01
D 22.83	24.20
E 22 13	23.46
Mine Operator/Dyke - Ph. 6 (completed 2nd year apprenticeship)
Vacuum Truck Specialist
-	48 months
Track Press/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist - 48 months Lube Specialist - 12 months Extraction Operator - Ph. 4 Process Operator - See Progression Chart Utilities Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Technician - Ph. 7 Storeman - Ph. 5 Overburden Operator - Ph. 5 Mine Operator - Ph. 5 Vacuum Truck Specialist
-	12 months
Track Press/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist - 24 months Apprentice I V	c7
CubeSpecialist - start Process Operator - See ' "	,
Progression Chart	I
Laboratory Technician - Ph 6 Steam Bay - 12 months LV F Steambay - 12 months Vacuum Truck Specialist - start Track Press/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist - 12 months
43
APPENDIX “A” - SALARY GROUPS
Group Rates Rates
y0-02-01	91-02-01
F 21 41	2270 txtraction uperator- Ph. 3
Process Operator- See Progression Chart UtilitiesOperator- See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. - Ph 5 Storeman - Ph. 4 Overburden Operator- Ph. 4
___________________________Mine Operator- Ph. 4_________
G	40. n	ZTS5 Apprentice 111
Steam Bay - start L.V F. Steambay - start Process Operator- See Progression Chart UtilitiesOperator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Technician - Ph. 4 Storeman - Ph 3 Overburden Operator - Ph. 3 Mine Operator- Ph 3 Track Press/Tire Repairman
___________________________/Tire Specialist- start______
H 40.01	21.21 Labourer - 24 months
Extraction Operator- Ph 2 Process Operator - See Progression Chart UtilitiesOperator- See Progression Chart Laboratory Technician - Ph. 3 Storeman - Ph. 2 Overburden Operator- Ph. 2 Mine Operator - Ph 2
44
APPENDIX “A” - SALARY GROUPS
Group Rates Rates
90-02-01	91-02-01	
I 19.47	20.64	Apprentice 11 Labourer - 18 months Extraction Operator - Ph. 1 Process Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Technician - Ph. 2
J 18.63	19.75	Labourer - 12 months
Extraction Trainee - 3 months Process Trainee - See Progression Chart Utilities Trainee - See Progression Chart Laboratory Technician - Ph. 1
K	17.90	18.97	Apprentice 1 Labourer - 6 months	
L	15.65	16.59	Labourer - start	
Extraction Trainee - start Process Trainee - See Progression Chart Utilities Trainee - See Progression Chart Laboratory Trainee - start Storeman - Ph. 1 Overburden Operator - Ph 1 Mine Operator - Ph. 1
45
APPENDIX “A” - SALARY GROUPS
Group Rates Rates
90-02-01	91 -02-01	
10 62	11 26	Other Allowances Hot Shift Change ■ 6% of the
30 00		A-B-D Schedule biweekly at the “E” salary group Power Engineering Certificates - 4th Class Ticket
90 00		- 3rd Class Ticket
	31 22	Power Engineering Certificate -	Beginning February 1, 1991 -	4th Class Ticket - 1 5% of the
	93 67	A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the “B” salary group - 3rd Class Ticket - 4 5% of the
		A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the “B" salary group
46
SALARY SCHEDULE— MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE90-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
Base	5.07 (A,B,D)	5.07(F)	5.07 (C,G)
Salary Hourly Monthly Sal. 5.07(F)	5.07 (C,G) Average Shift Reg. Shift Reg.
Groups_____Rate____40 Hour Shift Dltf. Shin Pitt. Shift O/T Monthly Sal. Monthly Sal.
A.3 A.2 A.1 B C D
*4	E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$27.09	$4708.50
$26.58	$4619.86
$26.03	$4524.26
$24.55	$4267.02
$23.53	$4089.74
$22.83	$3968.07
$22.13	$3846.40
$21.41	$3721.26
$20.71	$3599.60
$20.01	$3477.93
$19.47	$3384.07
$18.63	$3238.07
$17.90	$3111.19
$15.65	$2720.12
$154.6Q	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163,75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$154.60	$163.75
$470.85	$5333.95
$461,99	$5236.45
$452.43	$5131.29
$426.70	$4848.33
$408.97	$4653.32
$396.81	$4519.48
$384.64	$4385,65
$372.13	$4247.99
$359.96	$4114.16
$347.79	$3980.33
$338.41	$3877.08
$323.81	$3716.48
$311.12	$3576.91
$272.01	$3146.73
U.H.......-
"'LL/Y’)
ri'dm^o
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASEDON: DAY SHIFT- 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT- 4%
NIGHT SHIFT - 7% Respectivelyol Group “G” Hourly Rate
($0.41	$0.83	$1.45)________________________
IW
mx'

$5343.10
$5245.60
$5140.44
$4857.48
$4662.47
$4528.63
$4394.80
$4257.14
$4123.31
$3989.48
$3886.23
$3725.63
$3586.06
$3155.88
SALARY SCHEDULE- MONTHLYSALARIES EFFECTIVE90-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
Base	5.07 (E)	5.07 (H>	5.07 (E)
Salary Hourly Base Salary 5.07(E) Average 5.07 H Monthly	Shift Reg.
Groups Rate 40 Hour Shift Dili. ShiftOR ShiftDfff. Salary MonthlySal.
A3 A 2 A.1 B C
^	°
09	E
F G H I
J K L
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT- 4%
NIGHT SHIFT - 7% Respectively of Group “G” Hourly Rate
(50.41	50.83	51.45)
$27.09 $26.58 $26.03 $24 55 $23.53 $22 83 $22 13 $21 41 $20.71 $20.01 $19 47 $18 63 $17.90 $15 65
$4708.50 $4619.86 $4524.26 $4267 02 $4089.74 $3968 07 $3846 40 $3721.26 $3599.60 $3477.93 $3384 07 $3238.07 $3111 19 $2720 1 2
$50.47 $50.47 $50.47 $50 47 $50.47 $50 47 $50 47 $50 47 $50.47 $50.47 $50 47 $50 47 $50.47 $50 47
$470.85 $461 99 $452.43 $426 70 $408.97 $396 81 $384.64 $37213 $359.96 $347.79 $338 41 $323 81 $311 12 $272 01
$28.87 $28.87 $28.87 $28 87 $28.87 $28.87 $28 87 $28 87 $28.87 $28.87 $28 87 $28.87 $28.87 $28 87
$4737.37 $4648.73 $4553.13 $4295 90 $4118.61 $3996 94 $3875 28 $375013 $3628.47 $3506.80 $3412 94 $3266 94 $3140.06 $2748 99
$5229.82 $5132.31 $5027.16 $4744 20 $454918 $4415 35 $4281.52 $4143.86 $4010.03 $3876.19 $3772 95 $3612 35 $3472.78 $3042 60
<0
SALARY SCHEDULE - BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE90-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
Base	5.07 (A,B,D)	5.07 (H)	5.07 (E)	5.07 (F)	5.07 (C,G)
Salary	Hourly	Bi-Weekly Shift Reg.	Shift Reg.	Shift Reg. Shift Reg.
Groups Rate_________________________(40 Hr/Wk) Bi-Weekly Sal	81-Weekly	Bi-Weekly	Si-Weekly Sal
A.3	$27.09
A,2	$26.58
A.1	$26.03
E	$24.55
C	$23.53
D	$22.83
E	$22.13
F	$21.41
G	$20.71
H	$20.01
I	$19.47
J	$18.63
K	$17.90
L	$15.65
$2167.20
$2126.40
$2082.40
.$1964.00
$1882.40
$1826.40
$1770.40
$1712.80
$1656.80
$1600.80
$1557.60
$1490.40
$1432,00
$1252.00
$2180.48
$2139.68
$2095.68
$1977.28
$1895.68
$1839.68
$1783.68
$1726.08
$1670.08
$1614.08
$1570.88
$1503.68
$1445.28
$1265.28
$2407.16
$2362.28
$2313.88
$2183.64
$2093.88
$2032.28
$1970.68
$1907.32
$1845.72
$1784.12
$1736.60
$1662.68
$1598.44
$1400.44
$2455.08
$2410.20
$2361.80
$2231.56
$2141.80
$2080.20
$2018.60
$1955.24
$1893.64
$1832.04
$1784.52
$1710.60
$1646.36
$1448.36
$2459.24
$2414.36
$2365.96
$2235.72
$2145,96
$2084.36
$2022.76
$1959.40
$1897.80
$1836.20
$1788.68
$1714.76
$1650.52
$1452.52
Ul
o
SALARY SCHEDULE— MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE91-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
Base 5.07 (A,B,D)	5.07(F)	5.07 (C,G)
Salary Hourly Monthly Sal. 5.07(F)	5.07 (C,G) Average Shift Reg. Shift Reg.
Groups_____Rate_____40 Hour Shift Dili. Shift Pitt.	Shift O/T Monthly Sal. Monthly Sal.
A.3 A.2 A.1 B C D E F G H I
J
K
L
$28.72
$28.17
$27.59
$26.02
$24.94
$24.20
$23.46
$22.70
$21.95
$21.21
$20.64
$19.75
$18.97
$16.59
$4991.81
$4896.21
$4795.40
$4522.52
$4334.81
$4206.19
$4077.57
$3945.48
$3815.12
$3686.50
$3587.43
$3432.74
$3297.17
$2883.50
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$164.42
$174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10 $17410 $174 10 $174 10 $174 10
$499.18
$489.62
$479.54
$452.25
$433.48
$420.62
$407.76
$394.55
$381.51
$368.65
$358.74
$343.27
$329.72
$288,35
$5655,41
$5550.26
$5439.37
$5139.20
$4932.71
$4791.23
$4649.75
$4504.45
$4361.05
$4219.57
$4110.60
$3940.44
$3791.31
$3336.27
$5665.09 $5559.94 $5449.05 $5148.88 $4942.39 $4800.91 $4659.43 $4514.13 $4370.73 $4229.25 $4120.27 $3950,11 $3800.99 $3345.95
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL EASED 0 N DAY SHIFT- 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT- 4%
NIGHTSHIFT- 7% Respectivelyof Group“G” HourlyRate
________________________($044	$0.88	$1.54)_______________________
SALARY SCHEDULE —MONTHLYSALARIES EFFECTIVE 91-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
Base	5.07(E)	5.07(H)	5.07 (E)
Salary	Hourly	Base Salary	5.07 (E)	Average	5.07 H	Monthly	Shill Reg.
Groups Rate 40 Hour	Shift Dili.	Shift O/T	Shift Dili.	Salary	Monthly Sal.
A.3 A.2 A.1 B C D E F G H I
J
K
$28.72	$4991.81
$28.17	$4896.21
$27.59	$4795.40
$26.02	$4522.52
$24.94	$4334.81
$24.20	$4206.19
$23.46	$4077.57
$22.70	$3945.48
$21.95	$3815.12
$21.21	$3686.50
$20.64	$3587.43
$19.75	$3432.74
$18.97	$3297.17
$16.59	$2883.50
$53.51	$499.18
$53.51	$489.62
$53.51	$479.54
$53.51	$425.25
$53.51	$433.48
$53.51	$420.62
$53.51	$407.76
$53.51	$394.55
$53.51	$381.51
$53.51	$368.65
$53.51	$358.74
$53.51	$343.27
$53.51	$329.72
$53.51	$288.35
$30.61	$5022.42
$30.61	$4926.83
$30.61	$4826.02
$30.61	$4553.14
$30.61	$4365.42
$30.61	$4236.80
$30.61	$4108.18
$30.61	$3976.09
$30.61	$3845.73
$30.61	$3717.11
$30.61	$3618.04
$30.61	$3463.35
$30.61	$3327.78
$30.61	$2914.11
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASEDCh':DAY SHIFT - 2“/,, AFTERNOON SHIFT- 4% NIGHT SHIFT - 7% Respectively of Group“G" Hourly Rate _____________________($0.44	$0.88	$1.54)____________________
$5544.50
$5439.35
$5328.46
$5028.29
$4821.80
$4680.32
$4538.84
$4393.54
$4250.14
$4108.66
$3999.68
$3829.52
$3680.40
$3225.36
Ul
IO
SALARY SCHEDULE - BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE91-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
Base	5.07 (A,B,D)	5.0? (H)	5.07 (E)	5.07 (F)	5.07 (C.G)
Salary	Hourly	81-Weekly Shift Reg.	Shift Reg.	Shift Reg.	Shift Reg.
Groups	Rate________________(40Hr/Wk) Bi-Weekly Sal	Bi-Weekly	Bi-Weekly	Bi-Weekly Sal
A.3	$28.72
A.2	$28.17
A.1	$27.59
B	$26.02
C	$24.94
D	$24.20
E	$23.46
F	$22.70
IG	$21.95
H	$21.21
I	$20.64
J	$19.75
K	$18.97
L	$16.59
$2297 60 $2253.60 $2207 20 $2081 60 $1995.20 $1936.00 $1876.80 $1816,00 $1756.00 $1696.80 $1651.20 $1580 00 $1517.60 $1327.20
$2311.68 $2267.68 $2221,28 $2095.68 $2009.28 $1950 08 $1890.88 $1830.08 $1770.08 $1710.88 $1665.28 $1594.08 $1531.68 $1341.28
$2552.00 $2503.60 $2452.56 $2314.40 $2219.36 $2154.24 $2089 12 $2022.24 $1956.24 $1891,12 $1840.96 $1762.64 $1694.00 $1484.56
$2603.04 $2554 64 $2503.60 $2365.44 $2270.40 $2205.28 $2140.16 $2073.28 $2007 28 $1942.16 $1892.00 $1813.68 $1745.04 $1535,60
$2607.44 $2559.04 $2508 00 $2369.84 $2274.80 $2209.68 $2144.56 $2077.68 $2011.68 $1946.56 $1896.40 $1818.08 $1749.44 $1540.00
APPENDIX "E"- MASTER MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION - NOTES
1.	New Hires
a)	When filling vacancies in skilled positions, the Company agrees to give first preference to Journeymen with an appropriate ticket.
b)	When a non-fully qualified employee is hired, he will be classified either as Apprentice 1V, which employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices, or in accordance with the Area Progression Notes.
2.	The following table relates the various levels of the apprenticeship program to the levels of the Suncor Inc. Maintenance Progression Charts:
JOURNEYMAN: A holder of a certificate of proficiency or certificate of qualification in his trade recognized by the Province of Alberta.
APPRENTICE 1V: Completed the third year of a four year apprenticeship program, or the second year of a three year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE 111: Completed the second year of year apprenticeship program, or the first year of a three-year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE 11 : Completed the first year of a four year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE 1 : An employee upon being indentured into an apprenticeship program shall be classified as an Apprentice 1.
3. While every effort will be made by the Company to ensure that an employee is given the opportunity to complete his annual course work and examination prior to each twelve month point on his progression being reached, it is recognized that scheduling difficulties arising from the necessity of maintaining the efficiency of the Suncor Inc.; Maintenance Departments may result in the completion of such course work andexaminationat a date after the twelve (12) month period(s). In such cases of Company occasioned delays and upon
53
successful completion of his apprenticeship for a given year, including the passing of the examination, the apprentice who as a direct consequence is reclassified accordingto Note 2 above, shall receive a retroactivepay adjustment for all hours worked from the anniversary date upon which he was eligible for reclassification, pending only the successfulcompletion of the apprenticeship examination and preceding course work.
4.	a) While the Company has every desire and intention to continue the apprenticeship program indefinitely, it reserves the right to amend, alter, suspend,or ceasethe program or any part of it, should conditions so indicate. In such event, however, the Company would still allow all apprentices then enrolled to complete their Journeyman qualifications through the apprenticeship program. This provision does not preclude layoffs under Article X11.
b) Notwithstanding (a) above, before the Company exercises its right to amend, alter, suspend or cease any part of the apprenticeship program, it shall only be done after consultationwith the Union.
5.	The Manpower Development Act of Alberta shall apply in the resolution of disputes over job assignments of apprentices, if not otherwise covered by the Agreement.
6.	Consistent with Article 7.01 and within the period specified in Article 6.08, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among qualified employees within each Maintenance Department or within areas of each Department as specified in that Department's Progression Notes.
7.	While reserving the right, subject to legal restrictions, to utilize the abilities of Maintenance personnel as requiredin jobs other than their specialty, the Company recognizes the desireability of maximizing the utilization of an employee's certified skills.
8.	In selecting employees for job-related training, selection shall be based on both seniority and departmental training needs with first consideration being given to senior
54
employees who have not previously received such training.
9.	Where qualifications and experience required for a permanent Bargaining Unit vacancy are relatively equal among two or moreday,shift orcontinuous shift employees,the senior of such employees on a different shift schedule will have the first preference to fill the vacancy.
10.	Apprentices while at school will receive their normal rate of pay and will reimburse the Company (through the payroll deduction program), with any Government Training Allowance received, excluding "Living Away" portion of allowance.
11.	All required tools will be supplied by the Company at no cost to Maintenance employee.
55
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES ELECTRONICS DEPARTMENT
1	JOURNEYMAN
__________I__________
APPRENTICE 1V
'	I	~
APPRENTICE 111 l
----	i
APPRENTICE 11
APPRENTICE 1
1.	a) In Electronics,the InstrumentMechanic, Electrician, and Radio Technician, Power Electrician, Refrigeration and if required, Electrical Mechanic, Power System Electrician Apprenticeship Programs shall be made available Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the ElectronicsProgression,every effort will be made to hire only those employees qualified at the Journeyman level
b)	While preference will be given to the hiring of journeymen, in the Instrument Mechanic trade, a noncertified tradesman may be hired at the journeyman rate of pay based on his having a minimum of five (5) years experience in the trade. Such employees must subsequently qualify for an Alberta trade certificate within six (6) months
c)	A non-fully qualified employee in the Instrument Mechanic trade may be hired at the Apprentice 1V, 111 or 11 level provided he has completed at least the first year of apprenticeship Such employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices
d)	For other trades encompassed by the Electronics Progression,an employee may be hiredatthe Apprentice 11 or 111 levelwhen an apprenticeship contract in level 11 or 111 is
56
cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the 11 or 111 level. All apprenticeship positions will be posted through the internal posting system.
2.	Overtime distribution, in accordance with Master Maintenance Progression Note 10, shall be within each individual area, namely; Mobile Equipment Maintenance, Mine, Extraction, Utilities, Process, Electrical Distribution (E.D.) and Central Facilities Shop.
3.	For training purposes, apprentices will be rotated among the working areas where their trade is practiced.
4.	There shall be a minimum of one apprenticeship opening per year in each of the Electrician and Instrument Mechanic trades. Subject to minimum staffing requirements being met, a Journeyman employee will be permitted to indenture in the other trades, with selection being based on seniority and qualifications. A Journeyman employee who is indentured in another apprenticeship program properly encompassed by this Progression, will maintain the journeyman classification and will have his rate of pay reduced by one salary group.
5.	Overtime shall be distributed to qualified employees in the trade, job classification and area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6.08.
6.	In the Process, Utilities and Extraction Maintenance Departments, in accordance with Article 5.08 (b), temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes for vacancies cf four days or less on a twelve (12) hour Compressed Work Week Continuous Shift Schedule.
7.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the Electronics department from outside the bargaining unit, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, may be reassigned to the area where the vacancy has occurred.
8.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Electronics.
57
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES MINE MAINTENANCE
JOURNEYMAN
1 APPRENTICE 1 I
1.	In the Mine Maintenance Department, the Millwright, Welder, and any other applicable apprenticeship programs may be made available.
2.	Employees classified as Carpenters, Job Co-ordinators, Riggers or Hoisting Equipment Operators will receive journeymen rate of pay.
3.	a) Any employee hired into otherthan a Journeymanor Apprentice 1V classification shall be classified as an Apprentice 1 or a labourer.
b)	An employee may be hired at the Apprentice 11 or 111 level when an apprenticeship contract in level 11 or 111 is cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the 11 or 111 level. All apprenticeship positions will be posted through the internal posting system.
c)	An apprentice may be rotated among any of the areas in the Mine Maintenance Department to allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to his level of apprenticeship, or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure.
4.	An Apprentice who withdraws from Apprenticeship will be re-classified to labourer. The employees' classification
58
seniority will commence on the date returned to the labourer classification. The rate of pay on re-classification will be set at the labourers rate applicable to the employees' area seniority.
5.	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply providedthe employee canwork his next regular shift and at regular pay. The employees on compressed work week will not chit for less than four (4Jhours.
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for assignment to overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade who have submitted chits in accordance with (a) above.
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a) above.
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees, in the trade lowest on the overtime list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	An employee upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
6.	It is the recognized and continuing responsibility of every employee in the Mine Maintenance Progression, regardless of his particular skills, to become knowledgeable and flexible with all of the work encompassed by his progression.
7.	When filling a temporary job co-ordinator, rigger or hoisting equipment operator vacancy, employees will be paid the Journeyman rate. When filling such temporary vacancies apprentices or labourers will not be utilized.
59
8.	When callouts are required the Company will make every reasonableeffort to offerovertime inconjunction with the employees work schedule
9.	A labourer will be entitled to apply for other lobs in the Mine Maintenance Department in accordance with Article 11 08
10.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to the Mine Maintenance Department
60
GRES:
MOBILE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART
APPRENTICE 1V
				
				
I				
	LABC		)URER	
MOBILE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	In Mobile Equipment Maintenance, the Heavy Duty Mechanic, Automotive Mechanic, Welder or any other applicable apprenticeship may be made available.
2.	The chit system shall apply to each of the following groups independently, namely, Mobile Equipment Shop trades, Light Vehicle Shop trades, Mobile Equipment Shop
61
PCS 3 PROGRESSIO
Support Progression, Tire/Track Press Progression and Light Vehicle Shop Support Progression.
3.	An apprentice may be rotated among any of the area defined in Note2 above, with the exceptionofTire/Track Press Progression to allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to his level of apprenticeship, or to alio' another apprentice to receive such exposure. Subject to regulationsofthe Manpower DevelopmentAct, an apprentic may be rotated to the field area in the last year of hi: apprenticeship i f he so requests. An apprentice assigned to one of the above areas on a temporary basis will continue to accumulate overtime based on actual overtime hours wor' i ' by that apprentice.
4.	a) Any employee hired into otherthan a Journeyman Apprentice IV classiciation shall be classified as Labourer, however, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice 11 or 111 levelwhen anapprenticeshipcontract in Ievel11 or111 is cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the 11 or 111 level.
b)	Employees hired as Labourers will progress in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and Mobile Equipm ‘ Maintenance Support Progression or the Tire/Track Press Progression Notes and Chart.
c)	Ifa permanentvacancy occurs in one of the Support Progressions, the senior qualified employee in the next low classification in that Progression shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
i)	If the permanent vacancy occurs in the Lub Specialistclassification,the senior employee in the next low classification will be determined by the oldest classification seniority date in either Steambay or L.V.F. Steam Bay.
ii)	It is understood and agreed that employees in the classificationof L.V.F. Steam Bay may not receive exposure to
62
train and qualify as Lube Specialist prior to a permanent vacancy arising. Such employees will be covered by the provisions of Article 11.01 (a)(ii) if they have provided written notice prior to the vacancy occurring, indicating their desire to be promoted to Lube Specialist.
d)	Employees will receive sufficient exposure and training to qualify for promotion.
e)	i) When filling a temporary vacancy, the senior trained employee on the shift and in the area concerned in the next lower classification will be moved up and paid accordingly. If such employee is not available, the Company shall utilize the senior employee otherwise considered qualified.
ii) Priorto being promoted, a labourerwill select either the Support or Tire/Track Press Progression. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the labourer on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to one of the progressions, labourers may be utilized in either progression.
f)	For training qualification and move-up purposes, the positions on the Mobile Equipment Maintenance Support and Tire/Track Press Progressions will be designated at all times except in the case of unscheduled overtime. However, employees may be temporarily assigned to other than assigned duties as operating conditions require and for cross training purposes within each progression.
g)	A labourer shall be reclassified to Steam Bay Operator, Tire/Track Press Repairman or L.V.F. Steam Bay at the rate of pay indicated in Appendix "A‘ twelve (12) months following the receipt of his Labourer 24 month increment.
h)	Employees in the support progressions who have completed twelve (12) months in any of the following pay classification shall receive a pay increment as follows: Lube Specialist - "D” rate. Steam Bay Operator, L.V.F. Steam Bay-“E’ rate.
63
5.	a) As an apprenticeship opening arises, the senior qualified employee in the Support Progressions desiring apprenticeship in the vacant trade will be indentured at the level determined by the Apprenticeship Branch Evidence of the time spent by such employee in the maintenance of mobile equipment will be forwarded to the Apprenticeship Branch for time credit evaluation Such employee will be indentured as soon as practical to his interests following the occurrence of the vacancy In no event shall his rate of pay be reduced by more than one pay classification
b) An Apprentice who withdraws from an Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer in accordance with the rate of pay for his areaserviceas indicated in Appendix “A” and may progress to Lube Specialist or Tire/Track Press Progression However, his classification seniority will commence on the date he returns to the Labourer classification
6.	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply providedthe employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay
a)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in the Mobile Equipment Shop trades and the Light Vehicle Shop trades
Employeeswhovolunteer for overtime ontheirscheduled days offwill do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off
b)	When overtime is required, the following isthe basis for selecting employees for overtime
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade who have submitted chits in accordance with (a) above
ii)	Secondly, to the qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a) above
64
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees, in the trade lowest on the overtime list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in the Mobile Equipment Support Progression, Tire/ Track Press Progression and the Light Vehicle Shop Support Progression only:
i)	If a chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position he will be assigned the overtime.
ii)	If no chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position the shift will be moved up and an employee in the area who has submitted a chit and who is permanently assigned to the next lowest classification will be assigned the overtime.
iii)	If no chits have been received from employees currently assigned to positions in the Support Progression or Tire/Track Press Progression, move-upwill be utilizedfromthe Labourer classification in accordance with 4 (e).
d)	Notwithstanding Article 6.08, overtime lists are to be zeroed every three (3) months with the exception of Light Vehicle Shop trades and Light Vehicle Shop Support Progression.
7.	For temporary shift vacancies of more than four (4) days in LightVehicle Fleetthe provisions of Article 5.08(b) will not apply for employees on a twelve hour Compressed Work Week continuous shift schedule.
8.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the M.E.M. Department from outside the bargaining unit, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring may be reassigned to the area where the vacancy has occurred.
9.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Mobile Equipment Maintenance.
65
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES
CENTRAL MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
JRNEYMl H ~|
APPRENTICE 1V I
66
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES
CENTRAL MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
1.	Inthe Central Maintenance Department, the Pipefitter, Carpenter, Refrigeration Mechanic and Painter Apprenticeship Programs may be made available. Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the Central Maintenance Department, every effort will be made to hire only those employees qualified at the Journeyman level.
2.	a) As apprenticeship openings arise, the senior qualified employee in the Central Maintenance Department desiring apprenticeship in the vacant trade will be indentured at the level determined by the Apprenticeship Branch. Such employee will be indentured as soon as practical following the occurrence of the vacancy. In no event shall his rate of pay be reduced by more than one pay classification.
b)	Prior to completing twenty-four (24) months as a Labourer an employee may elect an apprenticeship of his choice under the Note 1 above. After so electing employees shall receive exposure in the trade of their choice.
3.	Overtime shall be distributed to qualified employees in the trade, job classication and area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6.08.
4.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to the Central Maintenance Department.
67
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES
EXTRACTION MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE
EXTRACTION MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE
1.	In the Extraction Mechanical Maintenance Department, the Welder and Millwright Apprenticeship Programsmay be made available
2.	Apprentices may be hired at Level 11, 111, and 1V
3.	It is the recognized and continuing responsibility of every employee in the department, regardless of their particular skills, to become knowledgeableand flexiblewith all of the work encompassed by the department
4.	Notwithstanding Article 1107, a portion of maintenance work will be contracted out, however, in the event of a reduction in the workforce, Letterof Understandingnumber4, would apply
5.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply, in full, to the department
68
EXTRACTION OPERATOR SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Extraction Operator Salary and Job Progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledgeand ability in accordance with the following:
o>
'Designation
Senior
Technician
"Technician
Technician
	UNIT LEADER			UNIT LEADER	
		I			T		
Phase Plant 3 Functions			Min. Plant4 Functions Time		
6 Board 5 Area 4 Drums 3 F.T.P.H. 2 Pumps 1 Utility TRA All time refers to Extraction D			Board 48 Mos 38 Mos Lead Westfalia 30 Mos Pumps 21 Mos Birds 12 Mos Westfalia 6 Mos. 3 Mos. Start NEE epartment continuous service.		
Salary
Group
B
C
D
F
H
I
J
L
'The designations of Senior Technician, Technician "A" and Technician recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
EXTRACTION PROGRESSION - NOTES
1.	a) Within the Extraction Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
Plant 3: One Unit Leader
Six (6) Extraction Operators Plant 4: One Unit Leader
Five (5) Extraction Operators
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normaloperations the following positions will be designated in each plant:
Plant 3: Unit Leader, Board, Area,
Drums, Final Tailings Pump House, Pumps, Utilities.
Plant 4: Unit Leader, Board, Lead Westfalia, Pumps, Birds,
Westfalia.
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01 (e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Extraction Note3,to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	Employees requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration. Upon such transfer, he shall be established at the Trainee level and advancement inthe new progressionwill be based on qualifications and time requirementsforthat progression, but his salary group will not be reduced.
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the Senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	a) Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence ofjob progression. The Companyshf " not realign employees without regard to their service, qualifications and experience. Such realignment will be for
70
shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
b)	Prior to attaining Phase 1 .trainees will select the line of progression they wish to advance in. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the junior trainee on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to a Phase 1 function, trainees may be utilized in Phase 1 of either progression.
4.	An employee when designated to cover an Extraction Operator continuous shift position shall bedeemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for a phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	Unit Leaders qualified in both progressions may exchange positions, should the Company and the employee agree. Employees in phase 6 of the Extraction Operator salary progression chart may, if the Company agrees, rotate between Plants for training purposes only.
7.	a) The Department will post an assigned standby schedule forall Extra ctionOperators onaquarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours of 6:30 to 8:30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1-'/■») hours of notice if called.
c)	Employees assigned to stand-by on the posted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatible
71
qualifications The Shift Supervisor must be notified of the change
d)	Notwithstandingthis note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on stand-by for safety reasons only
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultation with the Area Steward(s) It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures
f)	Consistent with Article 1101 (c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs
iii)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for next group in which the resulting vacancy occurs
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualifiedemployee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit
v)	Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime. then the original standby employee must report for work
g)	Employeeswho volunteer for overtimeon any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off
h)	Employeeson standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule
8.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
9.	Plant 4 employees, upon completing 8 months at Phase 4 shall be reclassified to Phase 5
72
10.	Trainees upon completing three (3) months shall receive the “J” rate of pay.
11.	Notwithstanding Article 5.04 (a)(ii) the Company will give each 12-hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) “long-change” in every 16 week cycle provided the employee has not changed his shift.
73
-4
PROCESS OPERATOR SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Process Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
Phase
4
3
2
1
Min.
Time
48 mos. 36 mos, 24 mos. 12 mos,
6 mos. 3 nos. Start
Fixed Plant Progression			
Unit Leader	Unit Leader		
Plants & 7	Plant5&8	Salary	
Functions	Function	Group	Phase
6 & 7 Board	5 & 8 Board	B	6
Compressors	Time Only	C	5
Plant7	Plant 8	F	4
Plant6	Plant5	G	3
Time Only		H	1
Time Only		I	
Trainee		L	
Coker Progression Unit leader
Min. Coker Time	Functions
Salary
Groups
48
36
24
18
9
3
Start
Tank Farm Time Only Any 4 of 4 Any 3 of 4 Any 2 of 4 Any 1 of4 Trainee
Coker Function
Trainee may start at either phase 1 or 2 All time refers to Process Department continuous service
Coker Operator H, Coker Operator I
Designation Fixed Plant — Phase 1 and 2 - Plant Operator — Phase3 and 4 — Senior Operator Coker — Phase 1 of 6 - Operator
The designation of Senior Operator. Plant Operator and Operator recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only
PROCESS PROGRESSION - NOTES
1.	a) Within the Process Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
Three (3) Unit Leaders Twelve (1 2) Process Operators.
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations, the following positions will be designated.
Unit Leader - Plant 5 & 8 Unit Leader - Plant 6 & 7 Unit Leader - Cokers Plants 5 & 8 Board Plants 6 & 7 Board Compressors Plants 5, 6, 7 and 8 Tank Farm Coker Lead Operator Coker Operator 11 Fireman
Coker Operator 1
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01 (e) an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Process note 3 to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	Unit Leaders qualified in each progression may exchange positions, should the Company and the employees mutually agree.
e)	A third class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining phase 4 qualification in the Fixed Plant Progression of Plants 5 & 8.
f)	A fourth class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining Phase 1 qualification in the Fixed Plant Progression.
75
g)	Employees in the Fixed Plant Progression will be paid an allowance for Power Engineering Certificates as per Appendix “ A
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordancewith Article 11 01 (a) and paid accordingly Time constraintsshall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the establishedsequence of job progression The Companyshall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualification and experience Suchrealignmentwill beforshift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified
4.	An employee when designated to cover a Process Operator continuous shift positionshall be deemedqualifiedin that position However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to providesufficient opportunityfor them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods
6.	A shift staffing list which indicatescurrently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training or shift staffing
7.	Prior to attaining Phase 1 in the Fixed Plant Progression, trainees will select the line of progressionthey wish to advance in If operating conditions require the Company has the right to assign the Junior Trainee on each shift to either progression Until permanently assigned to a Phasel function, trainees maybe utilized in Phase 1 of either progression
8.	Employeesinthe Fixed Plant Progression, requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration. Uponsuchtransfer, he shallbe established
76
at Phase 1 and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualifications and time requirements for the progression, but his salary group will not be reduced. Employeesinthe Coker Progression may applyfor Fixed Plant positions in accordance with Article 11.08.
9.	Employees hired before July 2, 1980 will not be requiredto obtain Steam Tickets and will not suffer any loss of pay or any loss of opportunity for promotion or phase progression. This loss of pay protection does not include payments for Power Engineering Certificates.
10.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place to assist employees to obtain their fourth and third class stationary engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by managementat any time for the benefit of the employees. This provision does not apply to employees in the Coker Progression.
11.	Notwithstanding Article 5.04 (a)(ii), the Company will give each 12 hourcontinuous shift employeetheopportunity to have at least one (1) “long change” in every 16 week cycle provided the employee has not changed his shift.
12.	Employees in the Coker Progression who are receiving the “C” salary group in accordance with the time and qualification requirement will receive the “B” salary group after having completed sixty-four (64) months of service in the Process Department.
13.	Overtime in the Process Progression will be distributed as per Appendix “C".
77
UTILITIES OPERATOR SALARY & JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Utilities Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following
UNIT LEADER
£)	'Designation
Senior
Technician
Technician
"A"
Technician
'The designations of Senior Technician, Technician "A" and Technician recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only
_______Salary Group
Min.	Utilities	No. 4th 3rd
Phase Time	Functions	Cert. Class Class
r 5	48 mos	Main Control Room			B
^ 4	36 mos	Plant 35			C
r 3	30 mos	Water Treatment		F	D
■- 2	18 mos	Lead Main Plant		G	F
[ 1	6 Mos	Main Plant	J	H	G
	Start	Trainee	L	J	H
All time refers to Utilities Department Continuous Service
UTILITIES PROGRESSION - NOTES
1.	a) Within the Utilities Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
One Unit Leader
Seven (7) Utilities Operators
b)	Fortraining, progression, and for normal operations, the following positions will be designated on each shift:
Unit Leader
Main Control Room Operator Plant 35 Operator Water Treatment Operator Lead Main Plant Operator Main Plant Operator
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01 (e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Utilities Note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualification and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
4.	An employee when designated to cover a Utilities Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
79
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunityfor them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods
6.	a) The Department will post an assigned standby schedule for all Utilities Operators on a Quarterlybasis or as changes occur
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby The number of persons designatedto be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number cf absences from a shift for any reason Employees on standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours cf 6:30 and 8 30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1-1A) hours of notice if called.
c)	Employees assigned to stand-by on the posted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatible Qualifications The Shift Supervisor must be notified of the change
d)	Notwithstandingthis note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on stand-by for safety reasons only.
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Managementin consultation with the Area Steward(s) It is the Company’s intentthat mutual agreementwill be reached on these procedures
f)	Consistent with Article 11 01 (c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs
iii)	Realignmentwithinthe shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resulting vacancy occurs
80
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit.
v)	Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
g)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their shceduled days off.
h)	Employees on standby will havefirst opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
7.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
8.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place to assist employees to obtain their fourth and third class stationary engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by management at any time for the benefit of the employees.
9.	Notwithstanding Article 5.04 (a)(ii) the Company will give each 12 hourcontinuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) “long change” in every 16 week cycle provided the employee has not changed his shift.
81
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN SALARY* JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Laboratory Technician salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with Note5 and the following:
'Designation
QO
to
Senior
Technician
Technician
‘A
Qualification
Minimum Time
6 of 8 Time Only 5 08
Time Only 4 08 Time Only 3 08 2 of 8 1 of 8 Trainee
Functions
EnvironmentalControl (Air) EnvironmentalControl (Water) Atomic Absorption Gas Chromatography Lead Extraction Testing
48 months 42 months 36 months 30 months 24 months 18 months 12 months 6 months 3 months start
Lead Process Utilities* Wise Testing ExtractionTesting Process Testing
Phase
‘Thedesignations of SeniorTechnician andTechnician “A recognize levelof achievementin salary and job progression only
LABORATORY PROGRESSION ■ NOTES
1.	a) Within the Laboratory there shall be a minimum of three (3)Unit Leaders, seven (7) Laboratory Technicians Days, two (2) Laboratory Technicians per shift.
b)	Fortraining and qualification purposes, the following functions will be designated:
Unit Leader
Environmental Control (Air)
Environmental Control (Water)
Atomic Absorption
Gas Chromatography
Lead Extraction Testing
Lead Process/Utilities and Misc. Testing
Extraction Testing - Shift
Process Testing - Shift
c)	While the total complement of shift personnel shall be maintained, a day or shift employee may be temporarily assigned to other than his regular position for training purposes or as work priorities require. Qualified Technicians will be rotated approximately every six (6) months through functions and the qualified shift Laboratory Technicians will be rotated through the functions on days of their shift rotation, provided that the effective efficient operation of the Laboratory is maintained.
d)	Upon qualification of each phase within the Laboratory Progression, the Company will supply the employee with a certificate stating the phases and positions for which the employee is qualified.
2.	a) If a permanent Laboratory Technician day vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee on continuous shift shall be given first opportunity for assignment to days.
b) If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee will be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
83
3.	An employeewhen designatedto cover a shift position, senior technician position or Unit Leader position shall be deemed qualified in that position However, in order to qualify for asalary phase progressionan employee must completethe time requirements
4.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunityfor them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods
5.	The following guidelineswill apply for the coverage of temporary shift vacancies providedthe employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least three (3) working days prior to their scheduled days off
b)	Wien overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (a)
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordancewith (a)
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list will be assigned to overtime
c)	An employee upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit
d)	Persons who chit for overtime must be available for contact by phone between07 30 to 08 30 or 18 30 to 19 30 respective to their chit
e)	Temporary vacancies between the hours of 8 00 a m and 8;00 p m , shift or day positrons, will be filled at the discretion of the Laboratory Superintendent dependent on the priority of the work involved except for Unit Leader position
84
which will be filled at all times in accordance with Article 11.01
(c).
6.	An employee, will be paid the A-1 rate of pay for the full shift(s) when assigned to Stack Survey duties.
85
MATERIALS SALARY & JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Materials Storeman salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability inaccordance with the following:
JOB PROGRESSION NOTES - MATERIALS
1.	Within the Materials Departmentthere shall be four (4) functions for training and qualification purposes. These are:
i)	Materials Familiarization.
ii)	Equipment Operation and Knowledge.
iii)	Materials Receiving and Shipping.
iv)	Materials Storage, Orderpicking.
2.	In the Materials Department there shall be four (4) Senior Storeman positions. As permanent vacancies arise, the senior employee who possesses working knowledge of Materials Systems and Procedures pertaining to all four functions will be promoted to Senior Storeman in accordance with Article 11.01 (a). Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	a) Storernan salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the Materials Department Progression Chart.
b)	A rotation system shall be established to provide sufficient exposure and training to enable employees to qualify for progression to the next phase within the minimum time period.
4.	Temporary move-up to Senior Storeman shall be in accordance with Article 11.01 (c) within each area.
5.	a) i) The chit system shall apply in each of four areas in the Department independently, namely, Main Warehouse, Mobile Equipment Maintenance Warehouse, Main Shipping/ Receiving and Delivery/Yards.
ii) If overtime within an area as outlined in Notes5(a)(i) above cannot be fully covered by those employees currently assigned to that area, then every reasonable effort will be made to offer the balance of the overtime assignment to qualified employees in other areas of the Department in accordance with the chit system.
87
b)	For record purposes, upon hire, an employee shall be assigned the current average overtime hours of all other employees within his classification in the Materials Department
c)	An employee reassigned to another Department area will continue to accumulate overtime based on actual overtime hours worked by that employee
d)	For purposes of covering shift vacancies the following will apply
i)	Employees may volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off by doing so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
ii)	The employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit will be assigned the overtime. If insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list firstly in the area affected and secondly in any area of the Department, will be assigned the overtime
iii)	For temporary shift vacancies in Materials the provision cf Article 5 08 (b) will not apply for twelve hour Compressed Work Week Continuous Shift Schedule
6.	A storeman, uponcompletingtwelvef'f2Jmonthsatthe “D” salary group, will receivethe “C" salary group
7.	A Storeman, who is receiving the “C” salary group in accordance with Note 6 above and having completed sixty-four (64) months service in Materialswill receivethe “B" salary group
88
OVERBURDEN DEPARTMENT PROGRESSION CHARTS NOTES
SENIOR OPERATOR SENIOR
TRAINER/OPERATOR
OPERATOR
OVERBURDEN PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Overburden Progressionthereshall besix (6) functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows:
Operation of: Loaders, Crawler Tractors, Graders, Haulage Trucks, Packers, and Water Wagon.
b) Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:____________
		Min.	Salarv
Phase	Qualifications	Time	Group
7	4 of 6	64 Mos.	B
6	Time Only	52 Mos.	C
5	3 of 6	40 Mos.	D
4	Time Only	25 Mos.	F
3	2 of 6	15 Mos.	G
2	1 of 6	3 Mos.	H
1	Start	—	L
All time refers to Overburden Department continuous service.			
c)	Employees will receive	sufficient	exposure in the
various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
89
d)	In addition to the above, employees will be expected to qualify in and may be assigned to other functions performed within the Department.
2.	Within the Overburden Department there shall be a minimum of one (1) SeniorTrainer/Operator and one (1) Senior Operator position per shift. The hydraulic shovel(s) will be operated by Senior Operator(s).
3.	a)Temporaryvacancies inthe SeniorTrainer/Operator and Senior Operator positions shall be filled in accordance with Article 11.01 (c).
b)	A permanent vacancy inthe SeniorTrainer/Operator positionwill be filled by the senior qualified employeewho has demonstrated basic ability to give proper direction and instruction in operating procedures and techniques during temporary move-up assignments.
c)	A permanent vacancy in the Senior Operator position will be filled by the senior qualified operator who has attained 4 of 6 functions. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a promotion.
d)	The qualification for promotion to Senior Trainer/ Operator and Senior Operator positions shall be a minimum of 4 of 6 functions. When an employee is promoted to either position and has not attained 6 of 6 functions he will be trained in the remaining function upon promotion.
4.	Should regularduties be temporarily unavailabledue to inclement weather affecting Overburden operations, work assignments in Overburden Operations will be made on seniority and qualifications in accordance with the following:
a)	Training
b)	Similar work in the Mine department
c)	Other productive work in Overburden
d)	Productive work in other areas.
5.	a) In accordancewith Appendix “C”, the Company will distribute overtime among qualified employees on the respective shifts.
90
b)	For the purpose of overtime cancellation in Overburden, the required notice period in Article 6.09 shall read as two (2) hours.
6.	The Company agrees to supply and maintain four (4) lunch rooms. All lunch rooms will be equipped with power, heat, hand cleaner and paper towels. The cooperation of all users is essential to ensure the cleanliness of these facilities is maintained.
7.	Overtime in the Overburden Progression will be distributed as per Appendix “C”.
91
MINE PROGRESSION- NOTES
ability in accordance with the following
		Min.	Salary
Phase	Qualifications	Time	Group
7	4 of 4	64 Mos	B
6	Time Only	52 Mos	C
5	3 of 4	40 Mos	D
4	Time Only	25 Mos	F
3	2 of 4	15 Mos	G
2	1 Of4	3 Mos	H
1	Start		L
92
ii) Dyke - Pipeline Procedures, 988 Forks Operation, Coke Handling, Cell Building, Dry Dyking, Side Boom Operation.
b) Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
		Min.	Salary
Phase	Qualification	Time	Group
7	4 of 6	64 Mos.	B
6	Time Only	52 Mos.	C
5	3 Of 6	40 Mos.	D
4	Time Only	25 Mos.	F
3	2 of 6	15 Mos.	G
2	1 o f 6	3Mos.	H
1	Start	—	L
II time refers to Mine Department continuous service with, in either the Dyke or Support Progressions not combined.
4.	a) i) Employees in each progression will receivi sufficient exposure in the various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
ii)	The Hoisting Equipment Operator in the Mine Support Progression upon hire will receivethe “B” salary rate. The Company at it‘s discretion may require such employees to train and qualify in accordance with note 3 (a).
b)	Inaddition to the above, employees will beexpected to qualify in and may be assigned to other functions performed within their Progressions.
c)	If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
5.	Within each Progression there shall be a minimum number of Senior Operator positions as follows, with these positions being manned in accordance with Article 11.01:
93
a)	Bucketwheel- seven per shift.
b)	Support - one per shift, plustwo positons for blasting purposes.
c)	Dyke - two per shift, plus one day position.
6.	a) Sufficientoperatorswill be indenturedintoa welding apprenticeship program, to ensure an adequate number of qualified Welders are available in the Dyke progression.
b)	As openings arise the Senior qualified operator desiring apprenticeship in the welding trade will be indentured.
c)	For salary purposes those employees in the Dyke Progression indenturedin the weldingtrade will receivesalary increases as follows:
i)	An operator who has completed three of six functions and is recognized as having completed forty (40) months qualifying service and the second year of his welding apprenticeshipwill be paid the “C" salary rate.
ii)	An operatorwho hascompletedfourofsix functions and hasobtained his first classticket will be paidthe “B” salary rate.
iii)	Should an employee be indenturedintothe Welder Apprenticeship program with less than four of six functions, he will continue to progress to the higher salary groups in accordance with the definedtime periods even though he may not meet the qualification requirements. At such time as he completes the second year of his welding apprenticeshipand has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement he will receivethe“C” rate. At suchtime as he receiveshisFirstClass Welder's ticket and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement he will receive the “B" pay rate.
7.	a) When the Company initiates a temporary seasonal movement from dyke progressionto support progression, the employee shall suffer no loss in pay, or progressional opportunities.
b) Heavy equipment operator positionsforthe drainage crew shall be filled by qualified employees who have at least
94
twelve (12) months continuous service inthe Mine Department Support Progression. Other positions for the drainage crew shall be filled from within the Mine Department Bucketwheel Progression.
c)	An employee who is employed on the drainage crew shall suffer no loss in pay or progressional opportunity.
d)	Blasting, Dragline and Drainage equipment operator positions shall be posted and filled from within the Mine Department Support Progression.
e)	The most senior operator in possession of a blasting certificate and designated to a blasting crew shall receive the A-1 rate of pay while engaged in blasting duties.
f)	Employees selected for the Dragline will receive the “B" rate of pay while working on the Dragline unless their normal rate of pay is higher in which event such employee(s) will receive his/their regular rate.
8.	Should regular duties be temporarily unavailable due to inclement weather effecting Mine operations, work assignments in Mining Department progressions will be made on seniority and qualifications in accordance with the following:
a)	Training
b)	Similar work in Overburden
c)	Other productive work in their progression
d)	Productive work in other areas.
9.	Those employees assigned to the functions outlined below will receive other allowances as per Appendix “A” for each shift that they make a hot change at one or both ends of a shift. It is understoodthat the number of employees required to make a hot change is dependent on the circumstances prevailing in the Mine at any given time.
The positions are:
Bucketwheel Progression:	Bucketwheel Operator,
Bucketwheel Oiler, Belt Wagon Operator, Belt Wagon Oiler, Conveyor Operator for all conveyors except #’s 6, 7, 6A and 7 A.
95
Support Progression: 824 operator cleaning up around Bucketwheel and Dozer Operator at Bucketwheel (wh:~ required)
Dyke: Dozer operators when engaged in cell building The Company will make every reasonable effort in the distribution af assignments in order that qualified employees will receive equal opportunity insofar as is practical In this regard Supervisors and Union Stewards will work together
10.	Overtime inthe Mine Progression will bedistributed as per Appendix “C"
96
APPENDIX “C’:
OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR PROCESS, UTILITIES, EXTRACTION PROGRESSIONS
CHIT SYSTEM:
To the extent that these employees are committed and remain committed to making this system work, the Company will set aside the requirements of the standby system.
For the purposes of overtime coverage, the following will apply for the Fixed Plants, namely Process, Utilities, Extraction, Progressions:
Consistent with Article 11.01 (c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
a)	Realignment within the shift without overtime esulting.
b)	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay. Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
i)	Priority of chits received.
-	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (b) .‘Jove.
-	Secondly to qualified employees lowest on the ■ertime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with
b) above
ii)	If insufficient chits are received, qualified ;mployees, lowest on the overtime list, may be assigned to
■ertime.
iii)	In accordance with (b)(i) above overtime will be rstly, in the vacant function worked by an employee qualified
97
in that function; secondly, realignment within the shift with overtime in the resulting vacant function worked by an employee qualified in that function,
c)	An employee upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime whi r “• he could have worked had he submitted a chit
In the case where the chit system fails to provide minimum staffing requirements, the following will apply:
a)	The Department will post an assigned standb. schedule for all DepartmentOperatorson a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the mmumum number and minimumqualification of persons who must be on standby. The numberof personsdesignatedto be on standb’ shall be reasonable In relation to the anticipated number oi absences from a shift lor any reason. Employees on standb; must be availablefor contact by phone between the hours ol 6:30 and 8:30 and must report for work within one and one; quarter (1-'A) hours <f notice ifcalled.
c)	Employees assigned to standby on the postet schedulewill bepermittedto exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatibh qualifications. The Shift Supervisor must be notified of th< change.
d)	Notwithstandingthis note, a Supervisor may refuse t< place an employee on standby for safety reasons only.
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Are: Managementinconsultatlon with the Area Stewards). Itistl* Company’s intent that mutual agreement will be reachedo these procedures,
f)	Consistent with Article 11.01 (c) temporary shi; vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtim resulting.
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
iii)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resulting vacancy occurs.
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit.
v)	Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
g)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
h)	Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
99
APPENDIX “C”
OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR THE MINE AND OVERBURDEN PROGRESSIONS
For purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply within each progression
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with
(a)
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a)
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list may be assigned to overtime
c)	An employee upon returning to work, may request his supervisorto markhim refusedforthe hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit
d)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between 0630 and 0730 or 1830 to 1930 respective to their chit
e)	Where standby is required to efficiently operate the Plant, the Area Management will designate the coverage required and will, in consultation with the Area Steward(s), develop the necessary procedures to provide standby coverage
f)	This procedure may only be changed by the Area Management in consultation with the area Steward(s) It isthe Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures
100
APPENDIX “D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
(RE: CLOTHING ALLOWANCE - ARTICLE 14.05 (c))
Lump sum payments for clothing will be based on the need in each area. Both boots and clothing will be rated invariables of 1 -3 with a combined total indicating amount of money needed to sufficiently cover the cost of clothing.
RATE1 :	Reflectsareaswhere conditions are reasonably
constant (dry and clean) with little or no exposure to seasonal variations. Wear factors would also be very low in these areas.
RATE 2:	Where conditions are more severe than Rate 1
but less than in areas indicated by Rate 3.
RATE3:	Whereoutsideworkwouldbethe normonayear
round basis and there is an exposure to seasonal variations. Those areas have high wear factors for boots or clothing and also a high replacement and cleaning frequency.
Areas are rated as follows:
Overburden	BOOTS 2	CLOTHING TOTAL 1 3	
MEM-Field	3	3	6
MEM-Shops	2	1	3
BWE	3	3	6
Support	2	1	3
Dyke	3	3	6
Mine Maintenance	3	3	6
Extractions Operations	3	3	6
CMD	2	2	4
Utilities Operations	2	3	5
Upgrading Operations	3	3	6
LVF	2	1	3
101
Laboratory	1	1	2
Materials	1	1	2
Electronics	Clothing Allowance will be paid at
the same value as the area an employee is assigned to.
SCALE
2	$175	00
3	$200	00
4	$225	00
5	$250	00
6	$275	00
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 12th day of February 1990, AD in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta
For the Union	For the Company
Dan Comrie
President
M.I.O.W.
Local707 E.C.W.U.
Gene Bacon
Manager, Labour Relations Suncor Inc.
Oil Sands Group
102
APPENDIX “D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
This letter outlines the intentions of the parties with respect to Article 6.08 (a). It is not intended to affect the operation of existing chit systems.
It is understood and accepted that this provision is a ”best efforts” overtime opportunity and not an absolute equalization clause. It is not intended that a Supervisor endeavor to equalize overtime on a day-to-day or a week-to-week basis, nor is it intended that he always offer overtime tothe employee with the least hours in the pay classification.
Overtime lists are zero at the beginning of each calendar year. The list published mid-year is used as check point to determine where the emphasis should be to have the overtime oppourtunity distribution reasonably equalized by the end of the year.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 12th day of February 1990, A.D. in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta.
For the Union,	For the Company,
Dan Comrie
President
M.I.O.W.
Local 707 E.C.W.U.
Gene Bacon
Manager, Labour Relations Suncor Inc.
Oil Sands Group
103
APPENDIX“D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#3
Productivity and Efficiency
The purpose of this letter is to establish a meaningful framework within which regularly scheduled discussions will occur on productivity and efficiency issues affecting the success of the Company
The partiesagreeto meetevery six months duringthe lifeofthe Collective Agreement to discuss productivity issues
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 12th day of February, 1990, A D in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta
For the Union	For the Company
Dan Comrie
President
M.I.O.W
Local 707 E CW U
Gene Bacon
Manager, Labour Relations
Suncor Inc
Oil Sands Group
104
APPENDIX “D!
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
Article 11.07 (b)
Employment of contractors for work expected to last in excess of ten (10) days to supplement bargaining unit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the Area Steward(s).
Prior to layoff of journeymen and/or apprentices in a given department, the Company will reduce journeymen and/or apprentices in the same trade who are employed by Contractors in the same department. In a department where contractors are employed for other than trades work, such contractors will be reduced prior to lay off of Bargaining Unit Employees in that department employed in similar work.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 12th day of February, 1990, A.D. in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta.
For the Union,
For the Company,
Dan Comrie President  
Gene Bacon
Manager, Labour Relations Suncor Inc.
Oil Sands Group
105
APPENDIX “D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
Safety Health and IndustrialRelations Training
As part of the currentwage settlementthe Company agrees to remit three (36) per hour for each full time employee's regular hours of work to a Safety Health and Industrial Relations Training Fund of the E.C.W.U. on a quarterly basis.
The Union agrees that the sole purpose of this fund will be to provide training to its members primarily those fromSuncor Inc. O.S.G. in the areas specified above.
The Union further agrees that the content of the Safety and Health programs will be consistent with current Safety and HealthProgramsendorsedbySuncor Inc.O.S.G. (i.e. FiveStar Program).
The Union also agrees to furnish the Company on an annual basis a listing of the courses to be presented to its Suncor members at Local 707 E.C.W.U.
The Union agrees to provide a fund audit as requested.
The Unionagrees that the Companywill be invitedto have input to the type and content of the training supported by this fund.
Leave of Absence will be in accordancewith Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.
106
This memorandum will be included as part cf the Collective Agreement and unless cancelled by either party within thirty (30)days prior to April 30, 1990, all terms and conditions will continue to apply.
Signed this 12th day of February, 1990, A.D. in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta.
For the Union,	For the Company,
Dan Comrie	Gene Bacon
President	Manager, Labour Relations
M.I.O.W.	Suncor Inc.
Local 707, E.C.W.U.	Oil Sands Group
107
APPENDIX “D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6
Department, Union, Company Relationships
The purpose of this letter is to establish regular scheduled meetings between the Area Job Stewards and Area Management Those meetings to be scheduled quarterly,will be to discuss any unsolved problems in the area that are appropriate with the intent that both parties continue to improve relationships
Signedthis 12thday of February, 1990, A D in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta
For the Union	For the Company
Dan Comrie	Gene Bacon
President	Manager, Labour Relations
M.I.O.W	Suncor Inc
Local 707, E C W U	Oil Sands Group
108
1990	SHIFT SCHEDULE 12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4, Ml, N, 0, P, I, J, K, L, 1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1, NI-4, N-4, 0-4, P-4
									J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J
	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2	3
	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S	2	3	4	5
	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
	27	28	29	30	31											
D	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3
D	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2
D	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	P	P	M	M	M	M	0	0	0
N	p	M	M	M	M	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	P
D	I	K	K	K	K	J	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	I	1	I
N	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	I	I	I	I	K	K	K	K	J
D	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1
N	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	1-1
D	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	4-4	0-4
N	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4
109
110
1990 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
E-7, E-8, E-9, E-A, E-5, E-6, F-6, F-7, F-8, R-1, R-2, RA, RB, M-1, M-2
																											2	3
	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	F	7	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26
	M	?	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	1$	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	?7	28	29	30	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
	?4	?5	26	27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	77	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
	19	70	71	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	3Q	31	S	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
	11	1?	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5
	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		
D	E-8	F-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8
D	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	^-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9
D	M-2	M-?				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1		'		M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2
N	M-1					M-2	M-?	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1
D	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-fi			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5
D	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-9	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6
0 10*s	R-1					R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1			R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1					R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1			R-1	R-1	R-1
D 10'$	R-2	R-2			R-2	R-2	R-?	R-2					R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2			R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2					R-2	R-2
D F-6*	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8
D F-7*	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	6	12				12	8
D F-8*	8				8	12	12	8				8	1?	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12
D BA*	8	8			8	8	1?	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12
D RB*	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8
• NUMBERS UNDER EACH DAY INDICATES SCHEDULED WORK HOURS
1990 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
I-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
																		J	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	1?	13
	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	21	28
	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		
D	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	l -2
N	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	I-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	l-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2
112
1990	SHIFT SCHEDULER-4, R-5, R-6, R-7, R-8, R-9 8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
s	ss	ss	ss	ss	ss	s
M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F
	2	3	4	5	8	9	10	11	12	15	16	17	18	19	22	23	24	25	26	29	30	31	F	2	5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16	19	20	21	22	23	26	27	28	M	2	5	6	7	8	9	12	13	14	15	16	19	20	21	22	23
26	27	23	29	30	A	3	4	5	6	9	10	11	12	13	16	17	18	19	20	23	24	25	26	27	30	M	2	3	4
7	8	9	10	11	14	15	16	17	18	21	22	23	24	25	28	29	30	31	J	4	5	6	7	8	11	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22	25	26	27	28	29	J2	3	4	5	6	9	10	11	12	13	16	17	18	19	20	23	24	25	26	27
30	31	A	2	3	6	7	8	9	10	13	14	15	16	17	20	21	22	23	24	27	28	29	30	31	S3	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14	17	18	19	20	21	24	25	26	27	28	0	2	3	4	5	8	9	10	11	12	15	16	17	18	19
22	23	24	25	26	29	30	31	N	2	5	6	7	8	9	12	13	14	15	16	19	20	21	22	23	26	27	28	29	30
03	4	5	6	7	10	11	12	13	14	17	18	19	20	21	24	25	26	27	28	31									
R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	DFF	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	DFF	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4
										12		12															12		12
R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	OFF	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	DFF	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5
					12		12															12		12					
R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	OFF	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	DFF	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-8	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6
12		12															12		12										
R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	DFF	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	DFF
												12		I2'											12		12		
R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	DFF	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	DFF	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8
							12		12											12		12							
DFF	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	DFF	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9
		12		12											12		12												
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES TWELVE HOUR SHIFT
1991	SHIFT SCHEDULE 12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,M, N, O, P, l,J,K, L, 1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1 M-4, N-4, 0-4, P-4
									J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J
	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2	3
	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S	2	3	4	5
	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
	27	28	29	30	31											
D	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4
D	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1
D	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	P	P	M	M	M	M
N	P	P	P	P	M	M	M	M	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N
D	I	I	I	I	K	K	K	K	J	J	J	J	L	L	L	L
N	K	K	J	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	I	I	I	I	K	K
D	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	M	K-1	K-1
N	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1
D	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4
N	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4
113
114
1991 SHIFT SCHEDULEC.W.W.
E-7, E-8, E-9, E-A, E-5, E-6, F-6, F-7, F-8, R-1, R-2, RA, RB, M-1, M-2
• NUMBERS UNDER EACH DAY INDICATES SCHEDULEDWORK HOURS
115
1991 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
1-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
																		J	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		
D	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	I-2	I-2
N	I-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2
116
1991	SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4, R-5, R-6, R-7, R-8, R-9 6/12 HOURCOMPRESSEDWORKWEEK
s	ss	ss	ss	ss	s s	s
M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F
31		2	3	4	7	8	9	10	11	14	15	16	17	18	21	22	23	24	25	28	29	30	31	F	4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15	18	19	20	21	22	25	26	27	28	M	4	5	6	7	8	11	12	13	14	15	18	19	20	21	22
25	26	27	28	29	A	2	3	4	5	8	9	10	11	12	15	16	17	18	19	22	23	24	25	26	29	30	M	2	3
6	7	8	9	10	13	14	15	16	17	20	21	22	23	24	27	28	29	30	31	J3	4	5	6	7	10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21	24	25	26	27	28		2	3	4	5	8	9	10	11	12	15	16	17	18	19	22	23	24	25	26
29	30	31	A	2	5	6	7	8	9	12	13	14	15	16	19	20	21	22	23	26	27	28	29	30	S2	3	4	5	6
9	10	11	12	13	16	17	18	19	20	23	24	25	26	27	30	0	2	3	4	7	8	9	10	11	14	15	16	17	18
21	22	23	24	25	28	29	30	31	N	4	5	6	7	8	11	12	13	14	15	18	19	20	21	22	25	26	27	28	29
D2	3	4	5	6	9	10	11	12	13	16	17	18	19	20	23	24	25	26	27	30	31								
R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	OFF	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	OFF	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4
							12		12											12		12							
OFF	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	OFF	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5
		12		12											12		12												
R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	OFF	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	OFF	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6
										12		12															12		12
R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	OFF	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	OFF	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7
					12		12															12		12					
R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	OFF	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	OFF	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8
12		12															12		12										
R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	OFF	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	OFF
												12		12											12		12		
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES TWELVE HOUR SHIFT
1992 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4, M, N, O, P, l,J, K, L, 1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1, M-4, N-4, 0-4, P-4
									J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
	30	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2
	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3
	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6
	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	30	31										
D	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3
D	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1
D	M	M	M	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	P	P	M
N	N	N	N	P	P	P	P	M	M	M	M	0	0	0	0	N
D	L	L	L	I	I	I	I	K	K	K	K	J	J	J	J	L
N	I	K	K	K	K	J	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	I	I	I
D	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1
N	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1
D	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P^t	P-4
N	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4
117
1992	SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
E-7, E-8, E-9, E-A, E-5, E-6, F-6, F-7, F-8, R-1, R-2, RA, RS, M-1, M-2
																												J
	2	3	4	5	6	7	R	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
	30	31	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	1?	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
	?7	28	29	M	?	3	4	5	6	7	a	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	?9	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	?fi	27	pa	29	30	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	1fi	17	1fi	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	1?	13	14	16	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7
	fi	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4
	6	6	7	ft	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2
	3	4	5	fi	7	a	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	31																											
D	E-8	E-8	F-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-6	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8
0	F-A	F-A	F-A	F-A	E-A	E-9	e-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9
0	M-2	M-?				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2
N	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1
D	F-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5
D	F-fi	F-fi			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6
0 10’s	R-1					R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1			R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1					R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1			R-1	R-1	R-1
D 10’s	R-2	R-2			R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2					R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2			R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2					R-2	R-2
D F-6*	B				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	6				12	12	8	8				12	12	8
D F-7*	8	12				12	8	6	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8
0 F-8*	a				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12
D RA*	a	8			8	B	12	8				6		8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12
OR*	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8
T. ■* * -tcni ii ~r ■ ' >' uAi IQO
119
1992 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
I-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
																		J	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	F	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	M	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M	2	3	4	5	6
	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	31	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	8	2	3
	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
	28	29	30	0	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	
D	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2
N	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	(-2	i-2	1-2	J-2	J-2
120
1992	SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4, R-5, R-6, R-7, R-8, R-9 8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
s	ss	ss	ss	ss	ss	s
M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F	M	T	W	T	F
30	31	J	2	3	6	7	8	9	10	13	14	15	16	17	20	21	22	23	24	27	28	29	30	31	F3	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14	17	18	19	20	21	24	25	26	27	28	M2	3	4	5	8	9	10	11	12	13	16	17	18	19	20
23	24	25	26	27	30	31	A	2	3	6	7	8	9	10	13	14	15	16	17	20	21	22	23	24	27	28	29	30	M
4	5	6	7	8	11	12	13	14	15	18	19	20	21	22	25	26	27	28	29		2	3	4	5	8	9	10	11	12
15	16	17	18	19	22	23	24	25	26	29	30	J	2	3	6	7	8	9	10	13	14	15	16	17	20	21	22	23	24
27	28	29	30	31	A3	4	5	6	7	10	11	12	13	14	17	18	19	20	21	24	25	26	27	28	31	S	2	3	4
7	8	9	10	11	14	15	.16	17	18	21	22	23	24	25	28	29	30	0	2	5	6	7	8	9	12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23	26	27	28	29	30	N2	3	4		6	9	10	11	12	13	16	17	18	19	20	23	24	25	26	27
30	D	2	3	4	7	8	9	10	11	14	15	16	17	18	21	22	23	24	25	28	29	30	31						
R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	DFF	R-4	}-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	DFF	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4	R-4
12		12															12		12										
R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	DFF	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	R-5	DFF
												12		I2											12		12		
R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	DFF	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	DFF	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6	R-6
							12		12											12		12							
DFF	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	DFF	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7	R-7
		12		12											12		12												
R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-6	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	DFF	R-e	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8	DFF	R-8	R-8	R-8	R-8
										12		12															12		12
R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	DFF	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9	R-9
																						12		12					
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES TWELVE HOUR SHIFT
May
March
fetrua
January