Agreement
Between
0030^0X Expires: May 1,2010
SUNCOR ENERGY INC.,
OIL SANDS OF THE FIRST PART
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 707
OF THE SECOND PART
This AGREEMENT entered into this 5th day of July 2007 between SUNCOR ENERGY INC., OIL SANDS, hereinafter referred to as "the Company" and the COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 707, hereinafter referred to as the "the Union".
The PARTIES hereto mutually agree as follows:
1
Table of Contents
ARTICLE l-PURPOSE.......................................................3
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION...............................................3
ARTICLE III -MANAGEMENT RIGHTS..........................................3
ARTICLE IV • UNION RELATIONS............................................4
ARTICLE V • HOURS OF WORK...............................................5
ARTICLE VI-OVERTIME....................................................13
ARTICLE VII • SALARIES.................................................16
ARTICLE VIII VACATIONS.................................................IT
ARTICLE IX HOLIDAYS....................................................22
ARTICLE X - LEAVEOF ABSENCE............................................25
ARTICLE XI -PROMOTION, SENIORITY, TRANSFERS, TRAINING AND PROGRESSION CHARTS...26
ARTICLE XII - LAYOFF AND DISCHARGE.....................................30
ARTICLE XIII • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....................................33
ARTICLE XIV • SAFETY, HEALTH AND GENERAL CONDITIONS....................35
ARTICLE XV - INCORPORATION OF OVERTIME AGRE EMENT......................3<>
ARTICLE XVI - EFFECTIVE DATE. DURATION AND AMENDMENTS.................. 3*
APPENDIX "A" • SALARY GROUPS...........................................40
APPENDIX “B" • MASTER MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION NOTES....................52
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSIONCHART a NOTES-ELECTRONICS DEPARTMENT........5-1
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSIONCHART a NOTES PLANT INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE..56
MINE EQUIPMENTMAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSIONCHART.........................5H
EXTRACTION OPERATOR SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSIONCHART....................62
UPGRADINGOPERATORSALARYAND JOB PROGRESSIONCHART........................66
LABORATORY TECF-NOIAN SALARY a JOB PROGRESSIONCHART....................70
MATERIALS DSTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT SALARY a JOB PROGRESSIONCHART.........M
M\E/ TAILINGS DEPARTMENTS PROGRESSION CHART a NOTES....................75
APPENDIX"C" .OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR EXTRACTION/ UPGRADING PROGRESSION............ 78
APPENDIX "C" - OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR MINE AND TAILINGS DEPARTMENT.... 8(1
APPENDIX-D"............................................................81
APPENDIX "E"...........................................................91
SHIFT SCHEDULES........................................................92
2
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	a) The purpose of this Agreement is to promote harmonious relations between the Company and the employees, encourage safety, promote the morale of all employees through procedures for the fair and peaceful resolutionof grievances and disputes, to provide a means for continuing dialogue between the Company and the Union that has the mutual objectiveof resolvingdifferences and matters of concern to either party and to promote a shared commitment to effective and efficient operation in the interest of both parties
The provisions of this Agreement are intended to be gender neutral, and will be interpretedon that basis
ARTICLEII -RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining
agent for all non-supervisory employees excluding office staff, messenger-drivers, Loss Management staff, survey crewand thoseemployed in a confidentialcapacityin matters relating to labour relations: the Union having been certified by the Labour RelationsBoard as BargainingAgent on behalf of the said Employees.
2.02 If the Company implements,during the life of the Agreement, a new job not currently covered by this Agreement, the Company shall notify the Union of this new job and the salary which would be applicable. If the Union disagrees with the salary established by the Company, the Union shall advise the Company in writing of their desire to negotiatethe salary. If agreement is not reached betweenthe parties within thirty (30) days of the written notice, the matter may be referred, for determination,to arbitration in accordance with Article 13. If the salary for the job is changed as a result of negotiations or an arbitrator's decision, the revised salary shall be paid retroactively to the date the employee was assigned to the new job. This same procedure will apply to Collective Agreement provisions pertinentto the introduction of a new operating or maintenance department into the Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands organization.
ARTICLE III -MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Company shall retain and exercise all management functions, duties and responsibilitiesexcept as limited, restrictedor precluded by this Agreement
3
ARTICLEIV- UNION RELATIONS
4.01	This Agreement shall be administered and applied in a fair and just manner to all employees. The parties further agree that there shall be no intimidation of and no discrimination against an employee either by the Company or by the Union, by reason of activity or lack of activity in, or in respect of the Union or by reason of sex, sexual orientation, race, creed, colour, national origin, political or marital status.
4.02	The Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout either complete or partial.
4.03	a) The Company agrees to recognize2.0% of the total bargaining unit employees as duly elected or appointed Union Stewardsthroughoutthe plant. Additionally up to 4 temporary Stewards may be appointed for periods not to exceed six (6) months, provided that the Company is notified in advance of the name(s) and area(s) of the appointee(s). The Company agrees to recognizeonly those Stewardswhose names have been submitted in writing to the Company by the Union.
b)	The Company agrees to recognize certain committees to be comprised of Stewards included in (a) above, to participate in meetings as follows:
i)	Monthly Meetings: A committee normally composed of up to five (5) Union Stewards shall meet with Management monthly to discuss and settle matters falling within the scope of this Collective Agreement. Additional meetings may be called by either party giving notice to the other party.
ii)	Grievance Meetings: A grievance committee appointed or otherwise selected by the Union to assist and/or represent employees in the presentations of any grievance that may arise under this Collective Agreement, shall consist of no more than five (5) members of the Union.
iii)	Negotiating Meetings: The Union negotiating committee shall be composed of not more than one (1) Steward from each area of the plant. In the event that circumstances prevent the attendance of one Steward from each of the areas, then any five (5) Stewards, regardless of the area they represent, and as designated by the Union, shall constitute a legally comprised quorum for a particular negotiating meeting. Up to two (2) additional Stewards shall attend the meetings while negotiating their respective area notes, except during the negotiating of Master Maintenance Notes, when up to three (3) additional Stewards may attend. The Company will make arrangementsto ensure that a participatingStewardwill not have to work a midnightshift before attending a negotiating meeting.
c)	Any designated Steward attending meetings as are envisaged under this Article,
- A -
and which are held during his working hours, will suffer no loss in pay for time spent in such meetings
d)	A Union Steward may, with the permission of his Supeivisor, leave his regular duties to investigate grievances and perform other Union duties under the Collective Agreement
e)	It is recognized that occasions may anse which require the attendance of an outside counsel at one of the meetings set out in (b) above In such cases, the party requestingthe presence of such advisor shall inform the other party of its desire, on a timely basis
4.04	The Company will provide bulletin boards in suitable locations, which may be used by the Union in posting notices of Union activities
4.05	a) The Company agrees to deduct once a month from the salary due and payable to each employee covered by Article 2 01, an amount equal to the monthly Union dues and any special assessments as determined from time to time by the Union pursuant to its Constitution The total amount of such dues deductions shall be remitted by the Company, together with a list of names of employees from whom the deductions were made, totheTreasurerofthe Unionforthwith after the deductions are made
b)	The deductionof monthly dues constitutes a continuingcondition of employment
ARTICLEV - HOURSOF WORK
5.01	a) A work day is defined as the 24-hour period starting at 8 00 a m to 8 00 a m of the followingcalendar day
b)	The work week shall be from 8 00 a m on Sunday to 8 00 a m on the following Sunday
c)	The Company recognizes coffee breaks and lunch breaks, which will coincide with natural production breaks
5.02	a) "Day Employees"aredefinedinArticle5 03(a)
b)	"Shift Employees" are defined as those employees assigned to Shift #1, Shift#2, Shift#3 or Shift #4 schedules
c)	"Continuous Shift employees”are defined as those employees assigned to a four shift, continuous work schedule
5
5.03	a) Day Employees
i)	The normal work schedule for day employees shall be from 8 00 a m to 4 15 pm, with one twenty-minute break for lunch commencing between 11 30 a m and 1:30 p m Monday through Friday, with Saturday and Sunday off
ii)	The normal work schedule for day employees on a Compressed Work Week schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07 with one 15-minute lunch break commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
In the event an employee is unable to receive such break for lunch by virtue of a work assignment by supervision on a particular day, such employee shall receive payment at the applicable overtime rate for the missed break.
b)	Shift Employees
Shift #1, Shift #2, Shift #3 and Shift #4 employees will work shift schedules as outlined in Article 5 07
c)	Continuous Shift Employees
Employees assgnea to continuous snift work will wor< according to scneaules as establ shea ay agreement between tne Union and the Company from time to time Specific hours and days of work within these work schedules shall be designated by the assignment of an employee to a letter on a work schedule. An employee shall be reassigned to a different shift letter on the work schedule when work load, shift vacancies, and the safe and efficient operation of the plant requires it.
d)	In accordance with (a), (b) and (c) above, the normal work schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07.
e)	Should it become necessary to introduce a new schedule or permanently alter an existing schedule the new or altered schedule will be established by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
5.04	a) i) The Company will give each eight-hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" in each 28-day cycle, provided the employee has not changed his shift. Saturday and Sunday shall be included in such a "long change".
ii) The Company will give each twelve hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" in every two 16-day cycles of shift schedules with 16 week cycles, in every two 12-day cycles of shift schedules with 12 week cycles or as otherwise specified in Progression Notes Appendix "ET, provided the employee has not changed his shift.
b) Beginning of cycles are defined in Article 5.07
6
c)	0 28-Dav Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his new shift cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one quarter (1/4) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime.
Week Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If. at the completion of his working cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one-half (1/2) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime.
d)	When employeesare requiredto change to or from a day, shift or continuous shift work schedule, proportionate consideration will be given to earned days off as in (c) above
5.05	a) Employees with compatible qualifications shall be allowed shift exchanges, provided no overtime or penalty payments result and further provided that their Supelvisor is advised at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee working more than twelve (12) consecutive hours
b) Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee being absent for more than nine (9) consecutive shifts Mutuals are deemed io be consecutive if there is not a regularlyscheduled shift worked between them
5.06	The provisions of this Agreement respecting Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute an overtime agreement pursuant to the Employment Standards Act A Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute normal hours of work and shall not involve overtime payments, with the exception of two (2) hours per week overtime averaged over the cycle in Article 5 07 E, F and G If the daily hours of the schedule are exceeded, the excess daily hours shall be paid at overtime rates If the days off of the schedule are worked, such days worked will be paid at overtime rates No additional claims for overtime related to the Compressed Work Week provisions of this Agreement, the Employment Standards Act, or Article 6, may be made by the employee
7
5.07 Work Schedules
A	Day Employee
40 hours per week	.
Mondaythrough Friday8 00 a m to4 15 pm Saturday and Sunday off Weekly cycle starting Monday
B.	Shift#2 Employees 40 hours per week
Mondaythrough Friday, Saturday and Sunday off Day shift
-	8:00 a.m to 4:00 p.m Afternoon Shift
-	4 00 p m to 12 midnight Night shift
-12 midnight-8 00 a m Weekly cycle starting Monday
C.	Continuous Shift Employees(28 day cycle)
-average 42 hours/week
7	night shifts, two days off, 7 afternoon shifts, one day off,
7	day shifts, four days off Day shift
-8:00a.m to400 p.m Afternoon Shift
-4 00 p m to 12 midnight Night shift
-12 midnightto 8 00 a m
28 day cycle starting first shift of the night shift period
Overtime Agreements - (per Employment Standards Act Section26,1980 as amended September20,1982)
D.	Day Employees
jj 10 hour shifts-40 hours per week 4 days Tuesdayto Friday 2 days off
4	days Mondayto Thursday 4 days off
8:00 a.m to 6:15 p.m
2	week cycle starting on set of days starting Tuesday OR
ji) 8 and 12 hoursshifts-40 hours per week
8
OR
Mondaythrough Friday -8:00 a.m to 4:15 p.m weeks Monday off Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m Wednesday, Friday -8:00 a.m to 4:15 p.m Mondaythrough Friday -8:00 a.m to 4:15 p.m -two weeks Monday, Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m Tuesday Thursday -8:00 p.m to 4:15 p.m Friday off
Six week cycle starting Monday of the first five 8 hour day week
Hi)
OR
8 and 12 hourshifts-40 hours per week Mondaythrough Friday -8:00 a.m to 4:15 p.m two weeks
Saturday and Sunday off
Monday. Tuesday, Thursday Friday
-	8:00 a.m to 4:15 p.m Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m Saturday and Sunday off Monday Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 a.m to 4:15 p.m Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m
Friday Saturday and Sunday off
Four week cycle starting Monday following Friday off
lv) 8 and 12 hourshifts-40 hours per week Two weeks Mondaythrough Friday -■8:00 a m to4 15 pm except Thursday 8 00 am to 8 00 p m One week Monday to Thursday -8:00 aim to 4:15 p.m
Three week cycle starting Monday after Fridayoff
OR
8	and 12 hour shifts-40 hours per week Two weeks Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. except Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
One week Monday to Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Three week cycle starting Mondayafter Friday off.
The normal schedule will be day shift, however employees may be assigned to afternoon shift with five (5) calendar days notice without shift change penalty. Afternoon shift assignments will follow the same sequence of days on and off. 8-hour shifts will be 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. 12-hour shifts will be 4:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. Assignments to afternoon shiftwill be on a rotational basisandwill not exceed three consecutive weeks
E.	Shift #1 Employees 12 hour shift- 42 hours per week average
j) 4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m,
4	days off
8	week cycle beginningset of days starting Sunday. OR
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Wednesday to Friday
2	days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Mondayto Thursday
5	days off and
3	days8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Mondayto Wednesday 5 days off
4	days8:00 a.m. to8:00 p.m. Tuesdayto Friday 2 days off
2	week cycle beginningset of days starting Monday OR
iii)	4 days Mondayto Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5	days off
5	days Wednesday to Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Friday to Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off
4 week cycle beginningwith the set of days starting on Monday
10
OR
jv) 4 days Tuesday to Friday
8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m 5 days off
5 days Thursday to Monday 8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m
4	days off
5	days Saturdayto Wednesdays 00 a m to8 00 p m
5	days off
4	week cycle beginning with the set of days starting with T uesday
F.	Shift #3 Employees 12 hour shifts -42 hours perweek average
4 days 8 00 a m to 8 00 p m Tuesday to Friday
3	days off
3nights8 00 pm to 8 00 am Tuesday to Thursday
4	days off
G.	ContinuousShift Employees 12 hour shifts
-42 hours per week average
i)	4 nights8 00 p m to 8 00 a n
2	days off
4 days 8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m
6	days off
16 week cycle beginningfirstset of nights starting Sunday OR
4 days 8 00 a m to8 00 p m 1 day off
4 nights8 00 p m to 8 00 a m
7	days off
16 week cycle beg inning first set of days starting Sunday OR
3	days8 00 a m to 8 00 p m 3 nights8 00 p m to 8 00 a m 6 days off
12 week cycle beginningfirst set of days starting Sunday
11
OR
H) 4 nights8 00 p m to 8 00 a m 4 days off
4	days 8 00 a m to 8 00 p m 4 days off
16 week cycle beginn ingfirst set of nights starting Sunday
H.	Shift #4 Employees 8 and 12 hour shifts 40 hours per week Monday, Tuesday 8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m to 4:00 p.m Friday. Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday
OR
Tuesday, Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday, Mondayoff Weekly cycle beginningTuesday
OR
Monday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginningMonday
OR
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday, Mondayoff Weekly cycle beginningTuesday
-12
The Company shall have the right to temporarily alter schedules for Turnarounds or for unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances It is the Company's intent that these changes will be made following consultationwith Area Steward(s)
5.08	a) The Company will make every effort to maintain a stable schedule for every employee
b)	Temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes
ARTICLE VI-OVERTIME
6.01	a) Any work in excess cf an employee's work aay or in excess of that ncludea as part of hs work schedu e or all hours worded on a statutory holiday or ncludea as part of ms work scheaule when n excess of forty (40) hours per ween, wnen averaged over the employees snift cycle shall be deemed overtime and paid at two (2)times tne empoyee's base hour y rate
b)	The provtsions of Article 6 02 (a) shall not apply if sh ft relief is aelayea less than fifteen (15)minutesinto a twelve (12)nour orea*
c)	For Compressed Work Week scnedules the Company will implement voluntary stanaby procedures in accordance with me Progression Notes Appendx "B" The Company reserves the right to scneaule employees for standoy f the voluntary stanaby procedures do not supply sufficient personnel to safely and efficienty operate tne pant
6.02	a) If an empoyee's schedule s such that ne does not nave a minimum of a twelve (12)hojr break oetween worx perioas, ne will work ms schedulea hours and w.tl receve taro (2) times h s base nourly rate, unt | he has nad a mnimjm of a twelve nour oreak Plowever.for reasons of safety only his supervisor may nstruct hm to take a twe-ve (12)nour DreaK This paragraphaoes not apply to "call-outs"
b) Forempoyees on twelve (12) hour overt me agreements the specified oreaks n 6 02(a) shall be read as ten and one-quarter(10%) hojrs
6.03	a) A Day or Shift employee who nas retumea to h s residence and is ca eo for duty andwno reportsfor wor* oefore or after h s regular snift snal receive the greater of
i)	Tne applicableovertime rate. or,
ii)	A minimumof four (4) nours’ pay computed at the applicab e overtime rate
b)	An empoyeewno is cal eo for duty under (a) above will not be required to perform
13
non-essentialwork during the call-out.
c)	If a call-out ends less than eight (8) hours prior to a Day or Shift employee's next regular shift, he shall take an eight (8) hour break with no loss of regular pay. An employee shall not be required to return to work on his regular shift for less than two (2) hours.
d)	If a call-out extends up to the commencement of his regular shift, a Day or Shift employee shall normally take an eight (8) hour break. However, if requested to work after the commencement of his regular shift, he will receive the applicable overtime rate for the hours of his regular shift that he works. Following completion of his callout work, he shall take an eight (8) hour break, with no loss of regular pay for the remaining hours of his regular shift.
6.04	a) An employee who is required to work more than two (2) hours beyond his regular stopping time and has not had eight (8) hours notice of this overtime prior to his shift shall be supplied with a suitable hot meal which will be eaten on Company time. For overtime scheduled with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, the Company will supply hot meals. These meals will be furnished thereafter at approximate four (4) hour intervals throughoutthe remaining period of continuouswork.
b)	Suitable hot meals will be delivered to employees assigned to duties, which require the employee to remain at his place of work. Other employees will be allowed to eat their meals at the camp kitchen.
6.05	When an employee is required to make a special trip in order to work overtime or when he is "called our' at other than regular shift change times, transportation will be provided at Company expense.
a)	The Company will schedule buses, provide special transportation.or reimburse an employee who is requested and who agrees to provide his own transportation in connection with an overtime assignment.
Company transportation will be provided to the normal bus stops, or to an employee's home in FortMcMurray where possiblewhen unscheduledtransportation is provided.
b)	An employee who is called out or who works a sixteen (16) hour shift upon request shall be granted a room in camp, to allow him to obtain maximum rest during the period before his next shift. A hot meal will be provided in camp prior to the start of his next shift. A second meal will be provided at the next regular meal time as provided in Article 6.04. All of the above will be provided at no cost to the employee.
c)	A special trip With respect to overtime work is defined as a trip to or from work, either before or after an overtime assignment, where there is no regular bus transportation scheduled within a reasonable period of time after the employee is
14
called to report for work or alter completion of the overtime shift
6.06	If an employee is assigned to work on a schedule different from his regular schedule and his starting time on the new schedule is more than one hour sooner or later than the starting time under his schedule immediately prior to the change, he shall be paid two (2) times his base hourly rate for the first shift worked of the new shift schedule, unless the change is made
a)	As an accommodation to or for the convenience of the employee
b)	As a result of the employee being upgraded or promoted on a permanentbasis
c)	In returningan employee to hisoriginal schedule with in 28 days, which he worked poor to the change
d)	So that the employee may attend off-the-jobtraining, i e in class job related training, or plant protection or safety training
6.07	No employee working on shift shall leave his working area until properly relieved without the permission ofSupervision
6.08	a) Consistent with Article 7 01 and within the six month periods ending June 30 and December 31, annually, the Company will make every reasonable effortto distribute overtime work equally among employees, either within the pay classification where the overtime is required, if move up is not possible, or as otherwise specified in the Progression Notes, Appendix "B" Article 6 08 (a) shall not be applicable to employees in progressions where a "chit" system is utilized for the assignment of overtime
b)	The Company will post overtime lists on all relevant area bulletin boards bi weekly
c)	Refusal of overtime shall be considered as overtime worked for record purposes and will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list
d)	For record purposes, upon permanent entry into a classification. or area as specified in the Progression Notes, an employee shall be assigned the current average overtime hours cf all other employees within that classification or area
15
e)	For record purposes, an employeewho is absentfrom his regulardutieson leave of absence or due to illness/injury for more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days shall be assigned the current average overtime hours for all other employees within the classificationor area upon his return.
Any distribution of overtime, found to be in violation of the provision of the Collective Agreement, will be resolved through mutual agreement between the wronged employee and their supeivisor. Such agreement is limited to an overtime assignment of equal duration, at a time acceptable to both the employee and the supervisor, not more than forty-five (45) calendar days after the original overtime assignment giving rise to the claim or the date such original assignment was determined to be in violation, whichever is later. In the event the employee and the supervisor are unable to reach agreement to satisfy this forty-five (45) day limitation, the matter will be deemed to be settled and the employee will be recorded refused overtime for the number of hours in question. This forty-five (45) day period will be extended by the number of shifts an employee is absent from regular duties on an approved leave of four (4) or more consecutive days.
Such overtime assignment will not result in another employee being denied overtime as per the Chit Systems in Appendix "B" and "C".
g) In accordance with the chit systems in Appendix B and C where two (2) or more employee's overtime hours are equal, the employee with the greatest area seniority will be offered the overtime first.
6.09	If an employee reports for an overtime assignment which has been cancelled or shortened with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, he will be permitted to perform an alternate assignment of equivalent hours on that day.
6.10	An employee's overtime shall be calculated to the next quarter hour, in accordance with Article 6.01.
6.11	In no case shall payments be pyramided or paid under more than one provision of this agreement unless specifically provided for.
ARTICLEVII -SALARIES
7.01	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a monthly salary basis in accordance with Appendix "A" appended to this Agreement The monthly salary of employees has been adjusted in the salary schedule to include shift differential and average shift overtime worked as part of the work schedules as defined in Article 5 07
16
7.02	Shift differentials in accordance with Appendix "A are included in the monthlysalary of all Continuous Shift. Shift #2, and Shift #3 employees Shift Differentials in accordance with Appendix “ A will be paid to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees for all straight time hours worked between 400 pm and 8 00 am Additionally, shift differentials will be paid to Day employeesfor eight (8) or more consecutive overtime hours worked between 4 00 p m and 8 00 a m, to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees for all overtime hours worked between 4 00 p m and 8 00 a m and to Continuous Shift, Shift#2 and Shift #3 employeesfor all overtime hours worked
7.03	While an employee istemporarily assigned to a higher classificationfor otherthan his own training, he shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix ‘A“ Upon permanent promotion to a higher classification, an
employee shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix "A"
7.04	Employees who are temporarily assigned to a lower classification will have their regular rate of pay maintained
7.05	Amendments to an employee’s time sheet shall not be permitted without consultation with the employee concerned
7.06	Any pay due an employee as a result of an error in his pay deposit or statement shall be made available through direct deposit to the employees normal account within ninety-six (96) hours, upon the employee’s request
7.07	The Company will provide qualification pay when the qualification should have occurred if training is delayed by training backlogs
ARTICLE VIII -VACATIONS
8.01	An employee after one year of continuous service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter During the first year of employment, an employee may elect to take one (1) week of his earned vacation after six (6) months of continuous service, in which event however, he will be eligible for only the remaining two (2) weeks of vacation with pay afterthe completion of thatfirst year of continuous service No employee shall receive more than three (3) weeks vacation in one(1) calendaryear unless he qualifies under Articles 8 02 or 8 12
8.02	a) During the calendar year in which an employee completes ten (10) years of continuous service the employee shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation A similar vacation shall be taken each calendaryear thereafter
b)	i) During the calendar year in which an employee completes eighteen (18) years of continuousservice,the employee shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation
17
A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
c)	Duringthe calendaryear in which an employee completes twenty-five (25) years of continuous service, he shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
8.03	Employees will indicate vacation period preference in advance of December 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacation and vacation schedules for all earned vacation hours shall be posted by the Company by January 1st of each year.
8.04	a) An employee who qualifiesfor vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or 8.02 will receive their regular salary while on vacation. In addition an employee may qualify for a vacation pay adjustment based on the following. Total vacation pay will be
based on a percentage of an employee's regular salary as recorded for all time worked during 26 bi-weekly pay periods preceding the last pay period of the calendar year in which the vacation is taken. This percentagewill equal 0.05% for each hour of vacation taken between the 25th payday of the previous year and the 25,h payday of the current year. If the result of this calculation is a sum greater than the regular salary paid as vacation taken during the same period the difference will be paid on the 26m pay day of the year as vacation pay adjustment.
b)	The company will include with the 26th pay statement the calculation of vacation pay adjustment.
c)	An employee may request in writing, at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the commencement of his vacation, to receive a vacation pay advance on the pay day
immediately preceding the commencement of his vacation. The Company will recover any vacation advance in the pay period(s) immediatelyfollowing the receipt of such advance.
8.05	Should an employee become disabled as a result of sickness or accident immediately prior to commencing his vacation, or if he becomes disabled during his vacation, his vacation, or part vacation, shall be rescheduled in such a manner that he shall not lose his vacation by reason of such disability. In order to have his vacation rescheduled, such employee must notify his Supervisor of said disability as soon as possible. He must also provide proof of hospitalization,or submit a Doctor's certificate. The basic intent is to ensure that an employee receives his earned vacation where, because of a bonafide medical reason this may not have been possible. Under no circumstances is this section to be construed as an opportunity for premium pay in lieu of the earned vacation pay.
8.06	When a recognized holiday or holidays fall on one of an employee's scheduled vacation days, he shall take an extra day or days vacation with pay, to be taken either at the beginning or end of the vacation if scheduled, or at another time mutually agreeable to him and the Company.
18
8.07	An employee who is eligible for three (3) weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into three (3) parts An employee who is eligible for four (4) or more weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into four (4) parts
8.08	Vacation allowance on termination shall be as follows
a)	In the case of an employee who has not become eligible for an annual vacation.
the employee shall receive an amount equal to four (4) percent of his base salaryfor the period from his date of hire to his termination date
b)	I n the case cf an employee who has become entitled to a vacation i n accordance with Articles 8 01 or 8 02, he shall receive vacation pay based on 0 05% of his accumulated base salaryfor each hour of vacation for which he is eligible, and as calculated for all straight time hours worked from his anniversary date in the year in which he last took vacation, less any vacation pay already received during the calendar year in which he terminates
8.09	a) Up to fourteen percent (14%) of the work force in one area will be allowed off on
vacation at any time At the Company's option, this fourteen percent may be increased in consultation with Area Steward(s) Managementand Area Steward(s) may also agree on variations which result in a distribution of employees allowed off that varies month to month or for defined periods of the year Fractional numbers of employeeswill be adjusted to the next whole number
i)	Notwithstanding(a) above, up to seven percent (7%) of the workforce in any one area will be allowed off on vacation at one time during a scheduled turnaround Other arrangements may be made with mutual agreement between Area Managementand Area Steward(s) Full turnaround period will consist of the ten (10) days pnor to turnaround, the scheduled turnaround and the ten (10) days after the scheduled start-update
b)	The manager and/or supervisor will define in writing the combination of job positions he will allow to be on vacation at the same time Prior to finalizing the combination, the manager and/or supervisor will review the document with the area job steward. This will be posted by October 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacations
Once a vacation has been agreed upon by the Company and the employee, it can be changed only by
i)	The employee with thirty (30) calendar days written notice to his area manager and/or supervisor In case of layoff, the employee will have the option of electingto take his vacation prior to the layoff taking effect
19
ii)	The Company in cases of emergency. The need fo schedule relief coverage at overtime rates shall not be considered just cause for denying an employee his scheduled vacation.
iii)	If within 30 days of a scheduled vacation, a serious injury or illness occurs that requires the employee to change his vacation schedule, the employee may change his vacation.
d)	In the event that an employee's work schedule has been changed after the vacation list has been posted, the Company agrees the employee will havethe option of:
i)	taking his vacation as posted;
ii)	changing his vacation to fit into the new schedule, i.e., if such vacation was to be taken in conjunction with a "long change" on the old vacation schedule, the employee may rearrange his vacation to fit in conjunction with a "long change" on the new schedule.
e)	Where work schedule changes have occurred, no other employee will be required to change his vacation due to such change.
f)	In the event that an employee wishes to change his vacation period, no other employee's vacation period will be changed as a result, except where the employees concerned and supervision mutually agree to such change.
An employee will not be required to work any overtime on scheduled days off which fall in conjunction with his vacation.
8.10	a) i) Seniority for purposes of indicating vacation period preference shall be defined as the number of vacation points accumulated by each employee in his department as of October 1st of each year. Such vacation points shall continue to accumulate from year to year as outlined in (d) below.
ii)	Within the constraints of other sections in Article VIII, employees shall be eligible to select their annual vacation periods in order of most assigned vacation points receiving first choice, with remaining choices allowed in declining vacation point sequence. An employee electing to split his vacation into more than one (1) part must select his second part after all other employees have selected their first choice. Similarly, he must select his third part after all other employees have selected their second choice.
iii)	In	2) or more employees in a department have the
same number of vacation points, vacation period selection among such employees will be allowed in order of the longest respective Company service dates.
20
b)	For purposes of this Article 8 10 only, vacation "primetime" shall be defined as the annual period of July 1 to August 31 inclusive "Vacation days" shall be defined as the actual earned days of annual vacation, excluding the travel days, holidays, banked holidays. mutual changes and scheduleddays off
c)	By October 10th of each year the Company shall post a list in each department which will indicatethe total number of vacation points assigned to each employee
d)	On October 1st of each year, employees in each department shall receive or lose vacation points as follows
t) One (1) service point shall be added to each employee's accumulated total
points,
ii)	Each employee who took twenty-four (24) vacation hours or less during "prime time" in the previous twelve (12) months shall receive one (1) vacation point bonus
Hi) An employee shall lose vacation points, based on the total number of vacation hours taken during prime lime in the previous twelve (12) months, in accordance with the following Twenty-five (2 5) to sixty (60) vacation hours loses one
(1)	point Sixty-one (61) to ninety-six (96) vacation hours loses two (2) points Ninety seven (97)to one hundred and forty-four (144) vacation hours- loses three (3) points One hundred and forty-five (145) to one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours loses four (4) points Over one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours loses five (5) points
e)	i) Upon employment, each new employee shall receivethe lower of zero (0) points or one (1) point less than the lowest individual pointtotal of all employees as of October 1st preceding his hire date Thereafter, they shall receive additional points in accordancewith (d) above
ii) If an employee transfers from one department to another within the bargaining unit, he shall carry his accumulated vacation point total to his new department
If an employee transfers to a department within the bargaining unit from a position outside of the bargaining unit he shall immediately upon entry into his new department, receive vacation points as per 8 10 (e)(i) above Thereafter, he shall receive or lose vacation points in accordancewith (d) above
8.11	For the purpose of scheduling vacations, supervisors' vacations shall not be taken into account
21
8.12	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation may elect to defer one (1) week of vacation Employeesentitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may elect to defer two (2) weeks of vacation Deferred vacation will be taken in the following calendar year outside of the period July and August inclusive
8.13	a) A week of vacation is defined as forty (40) scheduled working hours
b) A day of vacation is defined as eight (8) scheduled working hours Vacation will be scheduled in full shifts
8.14	If, at the end of an employee's vacation entitlement, a partial shift of vacation is remaining, the employee will be granted a leave of absence without pay for the remaining hours of said shift to complete his vacation
8.15	Upon completion of one (1) year of continuous service, twenty-four hours of travel time with pay at the employees base hourly rate will be granted annually to each employee in conjunctionwith his annual vacation
ARTICLE1X -HOLIDAYS
9.01	a) The following holidays will be granted to all employees covered by this agreement
New Yeah Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Family Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
b) Additionally, employees on schedules 5 07 (a), (b), (c), (d)(ii), (d)(iii) and <d)(iv) will be granted the following holidays
August Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
c)	A floating holiday announced by the Company in October each year for the following year will be granted to all employees on schedules 5 07 (a), (b), (c) and (d) For religious observances, an employee may request that his floating holiday be scheduled on a different date than the annual designated date Such requests shall not be unreasonablybe denied
9	02 a) Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 and Continuous Shift employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall
b) Shift #2 and Day employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall, where that day is included in their work schedule Where the holiday falls on a Shift
22
or Day employee's scheduled day off the employee shall observe the holiday on a scheduled day of work For holidays falling on a Friday or a Saturday that day shall be observed on the proceeding scheduled day of work For holidays falling on a Sunday or Monday that day shall be observed on the following scheduled day of work
c)	For purposes of determining the date of a holiday under Article 901, the day proclaimed by Governmentlegislation shall apply
9.03	If a recognized holiday falls on a day an employee is scheduled to work, he will work his shift that day and receive, in addition to his regular salary, pay at applicable overtime rates for all hours worked
9.04	If a recognized holiday falls on a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or a continuous shift employee's scheduled day off, the employee will receive, in addition to his regular salary, one shift's pay calculated at his base hourly rate
9.05	a) Notwithstandingthe provisions in Articles9 02, 9 03 and 9 04, an employee will be paid a holiday credit for each of the agreed upon statutory holidays, only provided
i)	if his schedule is such that the employee works on the holiday, or,
ii)	if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday and his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday or,
Hi) If his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works either his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday or his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday, and has an excused absence for the other day mentioned
b)	An employee wifi, however, be entitled to holiday pay if absent on the holiday when scheduled to work, if his shift is covered by another employee with a mutual shift change agreement The provisions of Article 9 06 will apply
9.06	In the event that a Shift#1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or continuous shift employee is required to work on a statutory holiday, or if the holiday falls on a scheduled day off, the employee may elect to receive a regularly scheduled work day off, on the following basis
a)	I) Any seventy-two (72) statutory holiday hours per year may be resewed to be scheduled at other than the period of July and August The statutory holidays so reserved would be the Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Family Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, New Yeah Day and Good Friday
23
Additionally, employees not on a Compressed Work Week schedule may bank August Civic Holiday and Boxing Day. A maximum of one hundred and eight (108) statutory holiday hours so reserved may be carried from year to year at an employee's option.
ii) The Company agrees to publish the current number of accumulated banked statutory holiday hours, defined in (i) above on the bi-weekly pay statement of each employee covered by Article 2.01.
b)	If there is open time available during the period of July and August, after vacation schedules have been posted, employees may schedule some or all reserved statutory holiday credits to fit these open periods, in accordance with Article 9.06 (e).
c)	Employees must elect, in writing, thirty (30) days in advance, to reserve the specified statutory holidays.
d)	Notwithstanding Articles 6.01, 9.03 and 9.04, paymentfor these reserved holidays or portion thereof, at the time the holiday occurs, will be at one (1) times pay, plus regular salary for those reserved holidays worked, and at regular salary only with no premiumfor those reserved holidaysfalling on an employee'sscheduled days off.
e)	Employees must give their Supervisor at least three (3) working days written notice or five (5) calendar days notice of their desire to schedule a day of their reserved statutory holiday.
If the request is done in writing, the employee will receive a written reply as soon as possible: but no later that 6 working days, or 9 calendar days from date request was submitted.
If the request is done verbally, the employee will receive a verbal reply as soon as possible, but no later that 6 working days, or 9 calendar days from date request was submitted.
The request shall be granted under the following conditions'
i)	subjectto9 06(a);
ii)	operations not being unduly restricted,
Hi) the job combinations allowed off at any one time will be the same as defined in8 09(b)
f)	The provisions of (a), (b), (d) and (e) above, inclusive, shall also apply to a Day or Shift #2 employee who is required to work on a holiday, subject to the employee
24
electing in writing in advance or on the holiday to reserve the holiday
g)	Subject to 9 06(e) debanking of statutory holidays shall be on a first come, first served basis
ARTICLE X ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Individual employees may, with the Company's consent in writing, obtain a leave of absence without pay The written consent shall state the dates on which the leave of absence beginsand ends
10.02	In the case of death in the immediate family of an employee, such employee will be granted three (3) working days off with no loss of pay For employees not covered by an overtime agreement an additional two (2) working days will be granted with no
loss of pay if travel out of town is required For employees covered by overtime agreements an additional one (1) working day will be granted with no loss of pay If travel out of town is required If circumstances are such as to make this impractical. additional time off may be granted subject to Company approval Immediate family includes
(1)	Spouse (includingcommon law or same-sex)
(2)	Parent (including step-parent or foster parent)of the employeeor the employees spouse
(3)	Child (including step or foster child) of the employee or the employees spouse
(4)	Grandparents (including step grandparents) of the employee or the employee's spouse
(5)	Grandchildren (including step grandchildren) of the employee or the
employees spouse
(6)	Sister/Brother (includingin-laws)
(7)	Daughter/Son (including in-laws)
10	03 An employee who receives a subpoena for jury or witness duty will be granted a leave of absence for that purpose provided the Company is properly notified The employee will receive an amount of pay from the Company, which when added to his jury duty or witness pay, will equal his regularsalary while on such duty
10.04 The Company agrees to grant leaves of absence without pay to members of the Union for the business purposes of the Union and to attend Union functions
Application for approval of such leave shall be made by one or more of the Executive Officers of the Union, who will endeavour to request such leave at least 48 hours pnor to the commencement of the shift(s) for wh ich the leave is requested
10.05	In the event that an employee is recruited for fighting forest fires, an amount will be
25-
paid by the Company which. when added to the fire fighting pay received from the Government equals the employee's normal salary.
ARTICLE XI -PROMOTION. SENIORITY, TRANSFERS. TRAINING AND PROGRESSION CHARTS
11.01	a) i) Permanent progression within any area shall be in accordance with progression charts and notes, Appendix "B". Qualification is based on the employee's knowledge of the theories. procedures and equipment related to the job in question. The Company undertakes to evaluate the qualifications of employees in a fair and just manner. The Company agrees that all employees will be given every opportunity to qualify for the next higher jobs within the minimum time periods. as set out in the progression charts. Employees shall be provided with special instruction. instructional material and/or any other advice or means for self-improvement. If an employee has not qualified for the next higher job because the Company has not given him the opportunity to train within the minimum time period. the Company agrees that within a further ninety (90) day period the employee shall receive the opportunity to train and qualify. Providing the employee qualifies during this ninety (90) day period he shall receive his wage increment retroactive to the date of completion of the minimum time period as outlined in Appendix "B".
ii) When a permanent vacancy occurs the most senior man in the next lower classification or phase will be given the job provided he is qualified for move up or phase progression. In the event that it is found that an employee has not sufficient qualificationfor move up or phase progression he will be informed as to the areas in which he is expected to improve and will be given extra assistance in those areas. If time is such that it would not be practical for re-evaluation of said employee before the vacant job must be filled. the next most senior employee will be given the job. subject to the same conditions. It is agreed that the senior employee will be given the same opportunity for all subsequent vacancies in the next higher classification or phase. However, if the senior employee, providing he meets the certification requirements where required as outlined in Appendix "B", has not been given the opportunityto train for the job. the position will be filled on a temporary basis for up to thirty (30) working days. during which time the senior employee will be given the opportunityto train and qualify.
Hi) Pay classification seniority will be the governing factor to determine move up. however if pay classification seniority is the same. the qualified employee with the most area seniority will be given the job. If the area seniority is the same. then the qualified employee with the most Company seniority will be given the job. Pay classification or area seniority begins on the date an employee is given a permanent assignment in the pay classification. phase or area. If there is no one qualified inthe given pay classification. phase or area. then persons in the next lower pay
26
classification or phase will become eligible An employee may, with the approval of the Area Superintendent,decline a permanent move up In such case his rate of pay will be fixed at his currently assigned position rate in accordance with Appendix 'B" This agreement will remain in effect until cancelled by either party with 30 days written notice The date of cancellation will determine the employees pay classificationseniorityfor subsequent progression
b)	Move-ups caused by temporary vacancies as well as training for the next job shall be in accordancewith the Progression Charts and Notes for each area
c)	Temporary shift vacancies will be filled by the next most senior employee on the shift concerned, or as outlined in Appendix "B", provided the employee has sufficient training If it is determined that a temporary job opening will last in excess of thirty (30) days it shall be considered as a permanentjob opening and shall be filled by the normal procedureas defined in 11 01(a) except as follows
i) When filling job vacancies on a temporary basis, resulting from vacations injury sickness, leave of absence, training or emergency, the temporary procedure may apply beyond thirty (30) days
Specific projects of limited duration not to exceed six (6) months provided the Union is notified of such specific project
When two or more employees begin employment on the same day, the order of Company seniority will be established at that time by a draw in the oresence of all employees concerned or in the presenceof a union representative
e)	It is the Company's intentthat, when the equipment or plant area is in operation all shift positionswill be manned It is also the intent that when the equipment or plant area is not in operation, but is ready and available for operation and it is evident that it may be requiredto operate during a shift, then in the event any employee is absent move-up will be made to man each position
f)	Summer student employees will receive move up overtime and promotional opportunitiesonly after all employees hired into permanent positions
11	02 Company policy regarding educational assistance is included in the Suncor Inc Benefits Package
11.03	This provision does not apply to successful applicantfor apprenticeship positions
a)	In the event an employee whose pay classification is above the rank of Trainee transfers of his own volition to another area, his salary will be adjusted to the greater of the rate of pay for the Job to which he transfers or to the "H" rate of pay An employee who transfers at a rate of pay below "H" rate will maintain his rate of pay
27
However, on such transfer, he shall be established at the Trainee or equivalent start level in his new department or area, and his classification and area seniority will begin on the day of his transfer.
b)	An employee who transfers into a labourer’s position will have his salary reduced to"K" rate. He will receivewage increasesas perAppendix"A.
11.04	Off-The-JobTraininq
The Company encourages participation in all forms of off-the-job training such as Company sponsored courses, correspondence courses, or stationary engineering studies. These are aids to increase ability but they are not requirementsfor any job classification in any area, except as specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement.
11.05	Employees shall be probationary for the first four hundred and eighty (480) working hours. After successful completion of his probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be dated from the day his employment began.
11.06	Seniority lists will be posted at least every three (3) months. Distribution will consist of the employee'sclassification seniority, Area seniority and Company Seniority.
11.07	a) Non-bargaining unit employees shall not perform work normally assigned to employees within the bargaining unit to the extent of denying an employee in the bargaining unit the opportunity for a job or promotion. It is not the Company's intent that non-bargaining unit personnel perform work normally assigned to bargaining unit personnel, on an ongoing basis. It is recognizedthat there will be occasions such as, in emergency situations, for teaching or demonstrations, in experimental and developmental work, critical start-up and shutdown, or to improve productivity and effectiveness of the plant, that it may be necessary from time to time for nonbargaining unit employees to do work in co-operation with bargaining unit employees.
b)	The use of contractor's employees to supplement bargaining unit work will not cause the layoff of any employee in the bargaining unit.
c)	The company will inform the Local President or designate of any use of contractor's employees that will be of at least 10 days in duration and provide the following information:
i)	The nature of and reasons forthe work being contracted out.
ii)	The expectedduration of the contract.
iii)	The anticipated numberof contractor'semployeesto be involved.
d)	When the Company retains contractor's employees to supplement the work of bargaining unit employees and where work is not continuous with a regular shift, the Company will offer overtime to employees who have submitted chits before the overtime work is assigned to a contractor's employee.
28
e)	Where there is any issue ansing out of the use of contractors employees or contracting out activity the company will meet directly with the Local President to resolve If the matter cannot be resolved it will be referred to a Senior VP quarterly meeting or as required
f)	The Company will provide listings of all contracting out activity in an area upon requestof the Local President
11.08	Before the Company seeks candidates from outside the BargainingUnit preference
shall be given to senior qualified employees who have a minimum of one (1) year Area seniority, in accordance with Article 11 06, in the area he is transferring from and have applied pursuantto the procedures below
a)	The Company shall post notices of any permanent vacancies on designated job
vacancy bulletin boards, and shall send a copy of each posting to the Union Office Such posting shall contain qualification requirements rate of pay for the job date of posting actual posting expiry date and date for contact of applicants
The Company agrees to receive written applications for transfer from employees for a minimum of eight (8) days from the date of the posting Applications must include a phone number where they may be reached on the second business day following the posting expiry date Employees contacted will have twenty four (24)
hoursto respondto the job offer An applicant who is not available for contact or who declinesthe offer will not be permitted to apply for the same job for the balance of the
calendar year Employees may file standing applications with Suncor Energy Inc Employment Office for a specific Job opportunity Such applications will be valid for the calendar year in which they are submitted
c)	A successful Jobapplicant shall be released to his new job as soon as possible but in any event not laterthan thirty (30) working days after the closing of the job posting In the event the successful applicants home area decidesto fill the resulting vacancy within fourteen (14) calendar days of being notified then the standing applications on file that date will be the applicants for this resultingvacancy
d)	The Company shall notify each unsuccessful employee of the reasonswhy he was not selected for the posted job vacancy
e)	Employees may apply for internal apprenticeship postings with a minimum of 6 monthsArea seniority
f)	The 'request for re-assignment' process that exists in some progressions is integrated with this process The re-assignment process is activated when a job
posting occurs Request for re-assignments are valid for that calendar year and the interested employee's rights to re-assign are equally affected if they decline a re-
assignment.
(A processflow chart is set out in Appendix "E" I n addition the parties may referto the original memorandum signed July 11, 2001 to support a claim under Article 11.08)
11.09	Any employee who accepts a promotion or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit in
excess of one thousand and forty (1040) accumulated working hours per contract year shall be notified by the Company of his loss of bargaining unit seniority and may only re-enter the Bargaining Unit at the trainee level. Any overtime worked will be
recordedon the bi-weekly overtime list. During this period he may be reverted to his former position.
ARTICLEXH -LAYOFF AND DISCHARGE
12.01	a) The Company agrees to provide the Union with six (6,)months notice of a plant closure, partial plant closure or other workforce reduction caused by changes in
working methods, technological change or automation and/or facilities which will involve the lay-off of any person covered by Article 2.01 during the life of this Agreement.
b)	Senior employees displaced as a result of such change will be given the opportunityto transfer to any department in the operation where there is an opening, if they satisfy the basic requirementsfor the position. If retrainingis requiredto fill the open position. the Company will provide such training where possible, or co-operate with government retraining departments to provide such training in order that the displaced employee may qualify to continue in the employ of the Company. Employeeswho remain in the employ of the Company will have their regular rate of pay maintained until permanently reassigned to their new job. Employees who are permanently reassigned will have their regular salary maintained until they qualify for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular salary rates qualify the employees for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, employees who are permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirementsin accordancewith this agreement.
c)	In the event it is not possible to reassign the employee to other useful employment in the operation,then on severance, the employee will receive severance pay based on the greater of:
i)	four weeks pay multiplied by 1.15; or
ii)	two weeks' pay plus two weeks pay for each year of Continuous Service multiplied by 1.15, provided in either case the employee has at least one (1) year of Continuous Service with the Company. Severance pay for a partial year of service will be calculated on a prorated basis. A weeks' pay shall equal 40 hours at the
30
employees base hourly rate
12.02	a) In the event that it is necessary for the Company to reduce the working force, the lay-off shall be made by the Company in the reverse order of Company seniority within the trade or progression concerned within each Department of the plant
providing employees retained are qualified to do the work remaining However in the event of lay-off in a trade or progression common to more than one Department, then the junior of the qualified employees affected will be laid off regardless of the department, with the remaining employees being transferred to fill the resulting vacancies
If an employee who has transferred from one department to another while employed by the company is to be laid off, he may exercise his Company seniority to displace the junior employee in the trade or progression where he worked in his last
previous department provided the junior employee has less company seniority and has the least company seniority in the trade or progression in his last previous departmentand provided he is qualified to fill the position
ii) Employeeswho are not able to retain employmentthrough (b)(i) above may use their qualificationsand seniority to displace the employeewho has less Company Seniority and who has the least Company Seniority in any entry level position provided that no more than twenty-five (25%) percent of such employees in an area are displaced For the purpose of this provision, entry-level positions are Labourer, Trainee, WarehouseTechnician, and Mine Operator In the case of Mine Operators, the Company reserves the right to phase in the displacement of a large number of operators if to do otherwise would not be in the best interest of the business In the case of Labourers,there are no restrictions on displacement
c) i) The recall of employees will be in the reverse order of layoff, provided the employee has not been laid off for more than twelve (12) months and further provided theemployee(s) recalled are qualified to perform the work available
ii) Employee who decline a Recall for work expected to last less than one hundred and twenty (120) Calendar Days will not lose their position on the Recall List becauseof declining
Employees on the Recall List are responsible to inform the Company of their wherea bouts so that they may be contacted for Recall The Company will notify the employee by telephone Failing that, the Company will notify the employee by Registered Mail or other form of delivery which demonstrates the attempt to contact
was made at the last known address of the employee and a copy of the notices to be sent to the Union
iv)	The employee has forty-eight (48) hours to respond to contact by telephone and must report for work within an additional seven (7) days or some
31
longer period if longer notice can be given by the Company. The employee has fourteen (14) days from the date a Registered or similar Letter of Notice is dispatched from the Company in which to respond and must report for work within an additional seven (7) days or some longer period iflonger notice can be given by the Company.
For the purpose of "continuous service", an employee recalled will be deemed to
have continuous service.
e) An employee who accepts recall to other than the position that he held prior to layoff will retain his position on the recall list until such time as he has had an opportunity to return to the position held prior to layoff, provided the employeehas not been on the recall list for more than twelve (12) months.
For the purposes of layoff the date and time of notificationof layoff shall be deemed
the commencement of layoff and the date and time of notificationof recall shall be deemed the official time cf the recall regardlessof which shift a recalled employee actually works in accordancewith regular work schedules.
12.04	In the event that any classificationor position is cancelled for any reason and the employee in that classificationis lowered to a lower classification, he will maintain his regular salary.
12.05	Should an employee accept an opportunity to transfer to another position rather than be laid off, the employee will have his regular rate of pay maintained until he qualified for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular rates of pay qualify the employee for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, an employeewho is permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordancewith this agreement.
12.06	In preference to being laid off, an employee who has at least one (1) year of continuous service with the Company may request in writing to accept the following severance pay and to terminate his employment with the Company. In this case. the employee shall have no recall rights under this Agreement. Severance pay will be providedbased on the greater of:
a)	four weeks' pay multipliedby 1.15; or
b)	two weeks' pay plus two weeks' pay for each year of Continuous Seivice multiplied
by 1.15, provided in either case the employee has at least one (1) year of Continuous Service with the Company. Severance pay for a partial year of service will be calculated on a prorated basis. A weeks' pay shall equal 40 hours at the employee's base hourly rate.
32
ARTICLE XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	Definition For the purpose of this Agreement the term "grievance" shall mean any dispute between the Company and the Union, or between the Company and any employee within the jurisdiction of the Union, concerning the interpretation application, claim of breach or violationof this Agreement
13 02 a) Any employee who has a dispute shall first discuss the matterwith his immediate Supervisor with a view to prompt settlement thereof The employee may have his Union Steward present at such discussion
b)	i) Step One If after forty-eight (48) hours the dispute is not resolved it then becomes a formal grievance if the employee and/or his Union Steward present a written gnevance form to his Supervisor, specifying the provision(s) of the Collective Agreement violated and specifying the remedy requested within seven (7) working days of the date of occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute
The grievance will be heard by the Manager or his appointee, the Manager
will arrange an acceptable hearing date within five (5) working days of the formal submission At this meeting the Grievor will be accompanied by a Union Steward The Manager or his appointee shall reply in writing to the Grievor within a further five (5) working days
Step Two Failingthe satisfactory resolutionof the grievance within five (5) working days of the date of the written reply in Step One, the grievance may be appealed to the Vice President or his appointee. who will arrange a meeting with a Union
GrievanceCommitteefor that purpose within a further ten (10) working days
d)	i) The meetings referred to in (b) '{it) and (c) above shall be held on the Grievor's day shift
Where an appointee hears the grievance, such appointee shall not be the person who heard the grievance in the previous step
e)	If the grievance is not resolved within five (5) working days of the date of the meeting, it may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the following procedures
I) disciplineand discharge grievanceswill be heard by a single arbitrator
ii) gnevances of any other nature will be heard by a three-man Arbitration Board unless otherwise agreed to by both parties
33
13.03	The party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party of intention to arbitrate, and if no such notice is received within thirty (30) working days of the date of the final answer in Step Two of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
13.04	a) A grievance of the Unionwhich cannot be made the grievance of an employeeor a group of employees may be submitted by the Union to the Company, and a grievance of the Company may be submitted in writing within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute. A meeting of the parties shall be held thereafter within a period of five (5) working days with the Director of Human Resources, Oil Sands or his appointee in attendance. Such meeting and response in writing within ten (10) working days thereof, shall constitute the first and final step of the grievance procedure in a grievance of this nature.
b) If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by this procedure it may be submitted to arbitration according to Article 13.03.
13.05	The time limit imposed on the initial filing of a written grievance is not intendedto be restrictivewhere the employee or party grieving could not be aware of the existence of a potential grievance within such limit, e.g., a delay caused by pay calculation procedures which extend beyondthe allowed time limit, or by promotion, or the event of an employee's absence through illness, compensable accident, vacation or authorizedleave of absence.
13.06	a) In the event that the Company does not respondto a grievance within the specified time limits (subject to 13.06 (b)) the grievance may be advanced to the next step in the grievance procedure.
b) In the event that a grievance is not submitted or advanced from one step to another within the time limits specified, (subject to Article 13.05) or as extended by agreement between the Company and the Union in writing, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
13.07	a) Prior to the imposition of documented discipline, an employee, if available, will be notified at a meeting with Management of the reasonsfor such action, unless he is a danger to himself or others. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by a Union Steward at the meeting.
b)	Any complaint or grievance by an employee, that he has been terminated without cause, may be submitted directly to Step Two of the grievance procedure, provided such action is taken within ten (10) calendar days of the date of termination. Probationary employees may not grieve their termination.
c)	Termination grievances will be scheduled for arbitration at the earliestopportunity.
34
d)	Following completion of a consecutive twelve (12) month period without receiving further disciplinary letters, all letters of discipline will be removed from an employee's file provided that the discipline is not being processed through the grievance procedure Once removed from the file a letter shall not be referred to in any subsequent action Further, the Company agrees that all letters of discipline when removedare returnedto the employee
13.08	The term "working days" as used in Articles 13 01,13 02,13 03 and 13 04 is defined as the scheduled days worked by the individual holding the grievance
13.09	The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon all affected employees as set out in the Alberta Labour Act
ARTICLE XIV -SAFETY. HEALTH AND GENERAL CONDITIONS
14.01	The Company recognizes the importance of and will promote and encourage safety in the Plant for the protection and general welfare of the employees The Union recognizesits responsibilityand will co-operatefully with the Company
14.02	In recognition that safety is a joint managementand employee concern, the following committeeswill be established
a)	Central Safety Commitlee, consisting of the Executive Vice-President, Oil Sands, Loss Management Manager, Union President and the Safety Board Chairperson or their designates will meet on a regular basis to discuss overall plant safety exchange ideas and address concerns to ensure the safety of all employees at Suncor This meeting will be held a minimumof once a quarter
b)	Departmental Safety Committees will be established with representation from employees and Management to promote and discuss safety at the departmental levels These committeeswill meet monthly
c)	The Company will recognize the Safety Board Chairperson and twenty (20) Area Safety Representatives The Company will recognize a Shift Safety Representative where a sufficient number of employees per shift exist in the Area
i) The Area Safety Representatives will receive all accident investigation and near miss reportsfor his area as issued
The Shift Safety Representative may attend all accident investigation meetings for his shift
35
No safety committee member shall suffer loss of regular pay by attending regularly scheduled meetings of this committee. Committee members attending regularly scheduled meetings on their own time will be paid the travel allowance and their normal rate of pay, for actual time spent at the meeting, at overtime rates.
e)	Area Safety Representativeswill be given the opportunity for worksite observation and other safety related work as the Company requests. Area Safety Representatives will be given the appropriate time to prepare for meetings where requested by the Company.
14.03	The Company will provide adequate first aid facilities in the Plant. The Company agrees to provide and maintain lockers, lunch rooms. and reasonable sanitary. washing and shower facilities. Employees using these facilities are expected to refrain from littering and abusing the facilities.
14.04	When required to work in a location remote from other employees, an employee may request of his Supervisor, and his Supervisor may authorize, another employee to accompany him to ensure his safety.
14.05	a) Twice weekly clothing changes will be allowed all Suncor Energy Inc. employees covered by Article2.0l.
b)	Additional coveralls will be supplied as determined by the Area Superintendent.
c)	The Company will pay, on the second pay day of October, to all employees covered by Article 2.01 who have completed their probationary period, an annual clothing allowance as outlined in Appendix "D”, Letter of Understanding#!.
d)	The Company agrees that the present practice of supplying safety equipment will continue in full.
ARTICLE XV- INCORPORATIONS OVERTIME AGREEMENT
15.01 The terms of the overtime agreement, Article 5.07, shall be for such period as provided for in Article XVI of the Collective Agreement or may be terminated by either party after 30 calendar days written notice providedthat a majority of employeesfrom an area or progression have expressed a desire to be removed from the compressed work week schedule or the Company has served proper notice of cancellation
36
ARTICLE XVI -EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION AND AMENDMENTS
16.01 a) This Agreement shall become effective at 12 01 am on the 5th day of July, 2007 and shall continue in force and effect until 12 01 am on the 1st day of May, 2010 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is given by either party to the other, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the expirationdate, of intentionto terminate or negotiate amendmentsfor a new Agreement
b)	Where notice to negotiate amendments for a new Agreement has been given. then this Agreement shall continue in force and effect until the Union and employees
are in a position to lawfully strike or the Company is in a position to lawfully lock-out
c)	Notwithstanding anything in this Article. any portion of this Agreement may be amended by the Company and the Union at any time provided that both Parties agree
37
In witness whereof, we the undersigned hereby attach our hands and seal to this agreementthis 25m day of October, 2007 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta.
ForSuncor Energy Inc.. Oil Sands
Kevin Smith, Chairperson
Mario DeCrescentis
38
For Comm unications,Energy and Paperworkers Union Local 707
Dave Drummond, Chairperson
___laA.____Onr)foif\s\
Tod Jackson /
Brad Higdon
Michael Larocque
39
APPENDIX "A" -SALARY GROUPS
				
GROU	RATES 07-02-01	08-02-0-	RATES 09-02-01	
A-3	47.02	49.84	52.83	Unit Leader- Completed2 years in classifies
A-2	46.15	48.92	51.86	Unit Leader- udoh oromotion
A-1	45.19	47.90	50.77	Dual Ticket Journeyman St Operator Upgrading Main Control Room Operator Extraction Main Control Room Operator
E-1	44.23	46.88	49.69	Journeyman completed Multi-skilling progran Mine Senior Operator WarehouseTechnician- Phase8 Tailings
E	42.67	45.23	47.94	Journeyman Entraction Operator- See Progression Char Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chai Laboratory Tech - Phase 9 WarehouseTechnician- Phase7 Mine Operator- Phase 7 Maintenance Services Operator -64 month. Tire Specialist- 64 months I Specialist- 64 months
C	40.91	43.36	45.96	Extraction Operator Phase4 Upgrading Operator - See ProgressionCha Laboratory Tech Phase 8 WarehouseTechnician- Phase6 Mine Operator- Phase6 Maintenance Services Operator- 52 months Tire Specialist- 48 months Lube Specialist- 48 months
D	39.71	42.09	44.62	Extraction Operator- Phase 3 Upgrading Operator - See Progression Cha Laboratory Tech Phase 7 WarehouseTechnician- Phase5 Mine Operator- Phase5 Maintenance Services Operator- 40 months Tire Specialist- 24 months Lube Specialist-24 months
E	38.47	40.78	43.23	Apprentice IV
40
Lube Specialist- start
Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chai Warehouse Technician- Phase4 Laboratory Tech - Phase6 Tire Specialist- Start
F	37.25	39.49	41.86	Extraction Operator- Phase 2 Upgrading Operator - See ProgressionCha Laboratory Tech - Phases Warehouse Technician - Phase 3 MaintenanceServices Operator- 25 months Mine Operator- Phase4
G	36.03	38.19	40.48	Steam Bay -12 months Upgrading Operator - See Progression Char Laboratory Tech - Phase 4 Warehouse Technician-Phase 2 MaintenanceServices Operator-15 months Mine Operator- Phase 3
H	34.84	36.93	39.15	Apprentice III
Labourer- 24 months Extraction Operator- Phase 1 Upgrading Operator - See Progression Char Laboratory Tech - Phase 3 Warehouse Technician- Phase 1 Maintenance Services Operator- 3 months Mine Operator- Phase2 Steam Bay- Start
I	33.92	35.96	38.12	Labourer-18 months Upgrading Operator - See Progression Char LaboratoryTech. - Phase2
J	32.45	34.40	56.46	Apprentice II (internal) Labourer-12 months ExtractionTrainee-3 months Upgrading Trainee -See Progression Chart LaboratoryTech - Phase 1
K	31.20	33.07	35.05	months
41
	27.32	28.96	30 70	Apprentice I (external) Labourer- start Extraction Trainee- start UpgradingTrainee -See Progression Chart LaboratoryTechnician - start WarehouseTechnician- start Maintenance Services Operator- start Mine Operator- start
	33.85	35.89	38 04	Other Allowances Hot Shift Change - 1 1 % of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at th " E Salary group
	51.20	54.28	57 53	Power Engineering Certificate - 4th Class Ticket-1 5% of the A-B-D Schec bi-weekly at the "B" salary group
	153.61	162.83	172 58	- 3rd Class Ticket - 4 5% of the A-B-D Schec bi-weekly at the "B" salary group
	187.75	199.01	210 94	- 2nd Class Ticket - 5 5% of the A-B-D Sche bi-weekly at the "B" salary group
42
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE- MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE07-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
BASE 5 07 (A,B D) HOURLY MONTHLY SAL RATE	40 HOUR
5 07 (F) SHIFT DIFF.
5 07(F) SHIFT 5 07 (C.G) 507 (C.G)	AVERAGE	REG	SHIFT REG
SHI FT DIFF SHIFTO/T	MONTHLY MONTHLY
SALARY	SALARY
A-3
A-2
A-1
B-1
E
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$47.02	$8,178.12
$46.15	$8,026.80
$45.19	$7,859.83
$44.23	$7,692.86
$42.67	$7,421.53
$40.91	$7,115.42
$39.71	$6,906.70
$38.47	$6,691 03
$37.25	$6,478.84
$36.03	$6,266.65
$34.84	$6,059.67
$33.92	$5,899.66
$32.45	$5,643.98
$31.20	$5,426.57
$27.32	$4,751.73
$269.24 $269.24 $269.24 $269.24 $269 24 $269.24 $269.24 $269.24 $269.24 $269.24 $269.24 $26924 $269 24 $269.24 $269.24
$284.90	$817.81
$284.90	$802.68
$284.90	$785.98
$284.90	$769.29
$284.90	$742.15
$284.90	$711.54
$284.90	$690 67
$284.90	$669.10
$284.90	$647.88
$284.90	$626.66
$284.90	$605.97
$284.90	$589.97
$284.90	$564.40
$284.90	$542.66
$284.90	$475.17
$9,265.18	$9,280.83
$9,098 73	$9,114.38
$8,915.06	$8,930.71
$8,731.39	$8,747.04
$8,432.93	$8,448.58
$8,096.20	$8,111.85
$7,866.62	$7,882.27
$7,629.38	$7,645.03
$7,395.96	$7,41162
$7,162 55	$7,178.21
$6,934.88	$6,950.53
$6,758.86	$6,774.52
$6,477.62	$6,493.28
$6,238.47	$6,254.12
$5,496.14	$5,511.80
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHI FT-2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7% RESPECTIVELYOFGROUP”G" HOURLY RATE $0.72 $1.44 $2.52	
	
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE-MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE07-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
I
"I
SALARY
GROUP
BASE	5.07 (A,B,D)
HOURLY MONTHLY SAL RATE	40 HOUR
5 07 (E) SHIFT 5 07 (H) SHIFT DIFF	DIFF
AVERAGE
SHIFT O/T
5 07(E) SHIFT 5 07(H) SHIFT REG MONTHLY REG MONTHLY SALARY	SALARY
A-3	$47.02	$8,17812
A-2	$46.15	$8,026 80
A-1	$45.19	$7,859 83
B-1	$44.23	$7,692 86
B	$42.67	$7,421 53
C	$40.91	$7,115.42
D	$39.71	$6,906 70
E	$38.47	$6,691 03
F	$37.25	$6,478 84
G	$36.03	$6,266 65
H	$34.84	$6,059 67
I	$33.92	$5,899 66
J	$32.45	$5,643 98
K	$31 20	$5,426 57
L	$27.32	$4,751 73
$87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66 $87 66
$50 09	$817 81
$50 09	$802 68
$50 09	$785 98
$50 09	$769 29
$50 09	$742 15
$50 09	$711 54
$50 09	$690 67
$50 09	$66910
$50 09	$647 88
$50 09	$626 66
$50 09	$605 97
$50 09	$589 97
$50 09	$564 40
$50 09	$542 66
$50 09	$475 17
$9,083 59	$8,228.21
$8,91714	$8,076.90
$8,73348	$7,909.92
$8,549 81	$7,742.95
$8,251 35	$7,471.62
$7,914 62	$7,165.51
$7,685 03	$6,956.80
$7,447 80	$6,741.12
$7,214 38	$6,528.93
$6,980 97	$6,316.74
$6,753 30	$6,109.76
$6,577 28	$5,949.75
$6,296 04	$5,694.07
$6,056 89	$6,476.66
$5,314 56	$4,801.82
SHIFT DIFFERENTIALBASED ON DAY SHIFT-2%. AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4% NIGHT SHIFT - 7%
RESPECTIVELYOF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE	$0 72	$144	$2 52
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE- BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE07-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
5 07 (A.B.D) Bl-
507 (H) SHIFT REGULAR Bl WEEKLY
5 07 (E) SHIFT REG Bl-WEEKLY
5 07 (F) SHIFT REGULAR Bl-WEEKLY
5 07 (C,G) SHIFT REGULAR BIWEEKLY
A-3
A-2
A-I
B-1
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$47 02 $46 15 $4519 $44 23 $42 67 $40 91 $39 71 $38 47 $37 25 $36 03 $34 84 $33 92 $3245 $31 20 $27 32
$3,761 60 $3,692 00 $3,615 20 $3,63840 $3,413 60 $3,272 80 $3,176 80 $3,077 60 $2,980 00 $2,882 40 $2,787 20 $2,713 60 $2,596 00 $2,496 00 $2,185 60
$3,784.64 $3,715.04 $3,638.24 $3,561.44 $3,436.64 $3,295.84 $3,199.84 $3,100.64 $3,003.04 $2,905.44 $2,810.24 $2,736 64 $2,619.04 $2,519.04 $2,208.64
$4,178.08
$4,101.52
$4,017.04
$3,932.56
$3,795.28
$3,640.40
$3,534.80
$3,425.68
$3,318.32
$3,210.96
$3,106.24
$3,025.28
$2,895.92
$2,785.92
$2,444.48
$4,261 60 $4,185 04 $4,100 56 $4,016 08 $3,878 80 $3,723 92 $3,618 32 $3,509 20 $3,401 84 $3,294 48 $3,189 76 $3,108 80
$2,97944 $2,869 44 $2,528 00
$4,268 80 $4,192 24 $4,107.76 $4,02328 $3,88600 $3,731 12 $3,625 52 $3,516 40 $3,409 04 $3,301 68 $3,196.96 $3,116.00 $2,986 64 $2 876 64 $2 535 20
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BAS ED ON DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7% RESPECTIVELYOF GROUP *G* HOURLY RATE $0 72	$1 44	$2 52
		
BASE
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE- MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE08-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
BASE
HOURLY
RATE
5 07 (A.B.D) MONTHLY SAL 40 HOUR
5.07 (F) SHIFT DIFF
5 07 (CG) SHIFT DIFF
AVERAGE SHIFT
orr
5.07 (F) SHIFT 5 07 (C.G) SHIFT REG MONTHLY SALARY	SALARY
A-3
A-2
A-I
B-1
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$49 84 $48 92 $47 90 $46 88 $45 23 $43 36 $42 09 $40 78 $39 49 $38 19 $36 93 $35 96 $34 40 $33 07 $28 96
$8,668 60 $8,508 59 $8,331 18 $8,153 77 $7,866 79 $7,541 54 $7,320 65 $7,092 81 $6,868 44 $6,642 33 $6,423 18 $6 254 47 $5,983 14 $5,751 82 $5,036 97
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$285.33
$301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94 $301 94
$866 86 $850 86 $83312 $815 38 $786 68 $754 15 $732 07 $709 28 $686 84 $664 23 $642 32 $625 45 $598 31 $57518 $503 70
$9,820.79 $9,644 77 $9,449.63 $9,254.48 $8,938.80 $8,581 03 $8,338.05 $8,087.42 $7,840.61 $7,591.90 $7,350.83 $7,165.25 $6,866.79 $6,612.33 $5,826.00
$9,837.40
$9,661.38
$9,46624
$9,271.09
$8,955.41
$8,597.64
$8,354.66
$8,104.03
$7,857.22
$7,608.51
$7,367.44
$7,181.86
$6,883.40
$6,628.94
$5,842.61
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT	4%, NIGHTSHIFT-7%		
RESPECTIVELYOF GROUP"G" HOURLY RATE	$0 76	$1 53	$2 67
SALARY SCHEDULE- MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE08-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
RATE
5.07 (A,B,D) MONTHLY SAL 40 HOUR
5 07 (E) SHIFT DIFF
5 07 (H) SHIFT DIFF
AVERAGE SHIFT OfT
5.07 (E) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY
5 07(H) SHIFT REG MONTHLY SALARY
A-3
A-2
A-1
B-1
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$49 84 $48 92 $47 90 $46 88 $45 23 $43 36 $42 09 $40 78 $39 49 $3819 $36 93 $35 96 $34 40 $33 07 $28 96
$8,668 60 $8,508 59 $8 331 18 $8,153 77 $7,866 79 $7,541 54 $7,320 65 $7,092 81 $6,868 44 $6,642 33 $6,423 18 $6,254 47 $5,983 14 $5,751 82 $5,036 97
$93 14 $93.14 $93.14 $93.14 $93.14 $93 14 $93.14 $93.14 $93.14 $93.14 $93 14 $93.14 $93:14 $93.14 $93.14
$53 22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22 $53.22
$866 86 $850 86 $833 12 $815 38 $786 68 $754 15 $732 07 $709 28 $686 84 $664 23 $642 32 $625 45 $598 31 $57518 $503 70
$9,628 60 $9,452 58 $9,257 44 $9,062 29 $8,746 61 $8,388 84 $8,145 86 $7,895 23 $7,648 42 $7,399 70 $7,158 64 $6,973 06 $6 674 60 $6,420 14 $5,633.81
SALARY
GROUP
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE- BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE08-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
BASE	5 07 (A.B.D) Bl-	507 (H) SHI FT
HOURLY WEEKLY SAL 40 REGULAR BIRATE	HOUR	WEEKLY
5 07(E) SHIFT	5 07(F) SHIFT	5 07 (C,G) SHIFT
REG Bl-	REGULAR Bl-	REGULAR BIWEEKLY	WEEKLY	WEEKLY
A-3
A-2
A-1
B-1
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$49.84	$3,987 20
$48.92	$3,913.60
$47.90	$3,832.00
$46 88	$3,750.40
$45.23	$3,618 40
$43.36	$3,468 80
$42.09	$3,367.20
$40.78	$3,262.40
$39.49	$3,159.20
$38.19	$3,055 20
$36.93	$2,954.40
$35.96	$2,876.80
$34.40	$2,752.00
$33.07	$2,645.60
$28 96	$2,316.80
$4,011.68 $3,938.08 $3,856 48 $3,774.88 $3,642.88 $3,493.28 $3,391 68 $3,286.88 $3,183.68 $3,079.68 $2,978.88 $2,901 28 $2,776.48 $2,670.08 $2,341.28
$4,428 76 $4,347 80 $4 258 04 $4,168 28 $4,023 08 $3,858 52 $3,746 76 $3,631 48 $3,517 96 $3,403 56 $3,292 68 $3,207 32 $3,070 04 $2,953 00 $2,591 32
$4,517.16 $4,436.20 $4,346.44 $4,256 68 $4,111.48 $3,946.92 $3,835.16 $3,719.88 $3,606.36 $3,491.96 $3,381.08 $3,295.72 $3,158.44 $3,041.40 $2,679 72
$4,524.80 $4,443 84 $4,354.08 $4,264.32 $4,119.12 $3,954.56 $3,842 80 $3,727.52 $3,614.00 $3,499.60 $3,388.72 $3,303.36 $3,166 08 $3,049.04 $2,687.36
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON DAY SHIFT-2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT-7%
RESPECTIVELYOFGROUP"GM HOURLY RATE	$0 76	$153	$2 67
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE- MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 09-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
BASE	5 07 (A,B D)
HOURLY MONTHLY SAL RATE	40 HOUR
5.07 (F)
WT
5 07 (C,G) SHIFT AVERAGE SHIFT DIFF	O/T
5.07(F) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY
5 07 (C,G) SHIFT REG MONTHLY SALARY
A-3
A-2
A-I
B-1
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$52 83	$9,188.65
$51 86	$9,019.94
$50 77	$8,830.35
$49 69	$8,642.51
$47 94	$8,338.14
$45 96	$7,993.76
$44 62	$7,760.69
$43 23	$7,518.93
$4186	$7,280 65
$40 48	$7,040.63
$39 15	$6,809.30
$3812	$6,630.16
$36 46	$6,341.44
$35 05	$6,096 20
$30 70	$5,339.61
$302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64 $302 64
$320 20	$918	86
$320 20	$901	99
$320 20	$883	04
$320 20	$864	25
$320 20	$833	81
$320 20	$799	38
$320 20	$776	07
$320 20	$751	89
$320 20	$728	07
$320 20	$704	06
$320 20	$680	93
$320 20	$663	02
$320 20	$634	14
$320 20	$609	62
$320 20	$533	96
$10,410.15	$10,427.71
$10,224.57	$10,242:13
$10,016.02	$10,033.59
$9,809.40	$9,826.96
$9,474.59	$91492.15
$9,095.77	$9,113.34
$8,839 40	$8,856.96
$8,573.46	$8,591.03
$8,311.35	$8,328.92
$8,047.33	$8,064.89
$7,792.87	$7,810 44
$7,595.81	$7,613 38
$7,278.22	$7,295.78
$7,008.45	$7,026.02
$6,176.20	$6,193.77
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON DAY SHIFT- 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7%
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE-MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE09-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
BASE	5 0? (A.B.D)
HOURLY MONTHLY SAL RATE	40 HOUR
507 (E) SHIFT DIFF.
5 07 (H) SHIFT DIFF
AVERAGE SHIFT
orr
5 07 (E) SHIFT REG MONTHLY SALARY
5.07 (H) SHIFT REG MONTHLY SALARY
A-3
A-2
A-1
e-i
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$52.83	$9,188.65
$51.86	$9,019.94
$50.77	$8,830.35
$49.69	$8,642.51
$47.94	$8,338.14
$45.96	$7,993.76
$44.62	$7,760.69
$43.23	$7,518.93
$41.86	$7,280.65
$40.48	$7,040.63
$39.15	$6,809.30
$38.12	$6,630.16
$36.46	$6,341.44
$35.05	$6,096.20
$30.70	$5,339.61
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$98.62
$56.35	$918.86
$56.35	$901.99
$56.35	$883 04
$56 35	$864.25
$56.35	$833.81
$56.35	$799.38
$56.35	$776.07
$56 35	$751.89
$56.35	$728 07
$56.35	$704.06
$56.35	$680.93
$56.35	$663.02
$56.35	$634.14
$56.35	$60962
$56.35	$533.96
$10,206 13	$9,245.00
$10,020 55	$9,076 29
$9,812.01	$8,886.71
$9,605.38	$8,698.86
$9,270.57	$8,394.49
$8,891.75	$8,050.11
$8,635.38	$7,817 05
$8,369.44	$7,575 29
$8,107.33	$7,337.00
$7,843.31	$7,096.98
$7,583.85	$6,865.66
$7,391.79	$6,686.51
$7,074.20	$6,397 79
$6,804.43	$6,152.55
$5,972.19	$5,395.96
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BAS ED ON: DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7% RESPECTIVELYOF GROUP"G'HOURLY RATE $0 81 $1.62 $2.83	
	
Salary schedule
SALARY SCHEDULE- BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE09-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY
GROUP
BASE 5 07 (A,B,D) Bl- 507 (H) SHIFT HOURLY WEEKLY SAL 40 REGULAR BL RATE	HOUR	WEEKLY
A-3
A-2
A-I
E-1
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
$52 83	$4,226.40
$5186	$4,148.80
$50 77	$4,061.60
$49 69	$3,975.20
$47 94	$3,835.20
$45 96	$3,676.80
$44 62	$3,669.60
$43 23	$3,458 40
$41 86	$3,348.80
$40 48	$3,238.40
$39 15	$3,132.00
$3812	$3,049.60
$36 46	$2,916.80
$35 05	$2,604.00
$30 70	$2,456.00
$4,252.32 $4,174.72 $4,087.52 $4,001.12 $3,861 12 $3,702.72 $3,595.52 $3,484.32 $3,374 72 $3,264.32 $3,157.92 $3,075.52 $2,942.72 $2,829 92 $2,481 92
5 07 (E) SHIFT REG BIWEEKLY
$4,694.40 $4,609.04 $4,513.12 $4,418.08 $4,264.08 $4,089.84 $3,971.92 $3,849 60 $3,729.04 $3,607.60 $3,490.56 $3,399.92 $3,253 84 $3,129.76 $2,746.96
5 07 (F) SHIFT REGULAR BIWEEKLY
$4,788.24 $4,702.88 $4,606.96 $4,511.92 $4,357 92 $4,183.68 $4,065.76 $3,943.44 $3,822.88 $3,701 44 $3,584.40 $3,493.76 $3,347.68 $3,223.60 $2,840.80
5 07 (C.G) SHIFT REGULAR BIWEEKLY
$4,796.32 $4,710 96 $4,615.04 $4,520.00 $4,366.00 $4,191.76 $4,073.84 $3,951 52 $3,830.96 $3,709.52 $3,592.48 $3,501 84 $3,355.76 $3,231:68 $2,848.88
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON DAY SHI FT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT-4%. NIGHT SHIFT. 7%
RESPECTIVELYOF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE	$0 81	$162	$2 83
APPENDIX "B" - MASTER MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	New Hires
a)	When filling vacancies in skilled positions, the Company agrees to give first preference to Journeymen with an appropriate ticket.
b)	When a non-fully qualified employee is hired, he will be classified either as Apprentice IV, which employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices, or in accordance with the Area Progression Notes.
2.	The following table relates the various levels of the apprenticeship program to the levels of the Suncor Energylnc. Maintenance Progression Charts:
JOURNEYMAN: A holder of a certificate of proficiency or certificate of qualification in his trade recognized by the Province of Alberta. Journeyman with twelve (12) months seivice is a certified Journeyman who has been employed in a maintenance capacity at Suncor Energy I nc. for 12 months or longer.
APPRENTICE IV: Completed the third year of a four-year apprenticeship program, or the second year of a three-year apprenticeshipprogram.
APPRENTICE 111: Completed the second year of a four-year apprenticeship program, or the first year of a three-year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE II: Completed the first year of a four-year apprenticeship program. APPRENTICE l:An employee upon being indentured into an apprenticeshipprogram shall be classified as an Apprentice I.
3.	While every effort will be made by the Companyto ensure that an employee is given the opportunity to complete his annual course work and examination prior to each twelve month point on his progression being reached, it is recognizedthat scheduling difficulties arising from the necessity of maintaining the efficiency of the Suncor Energy Inc.; Maintenance Departments may result in the completion of such course work and examination at a date after the twelve (12) month period(s). In such cases of Company occasioned delays and upon successful completion of his apprenticeship for a given year, including the passing of the examination, the apprentice who, as a direct consequence is reclassified according to Note 2 above, shall receive a retroactive pay adjustment for all hours worked from the anniversary date upon which he was eligible for reclassification. pending only the successful completion of the apprenticeship examinationand precedingcourse work.
4.	a) While the Company has every desire and intention to continue the apprenticeship program indefinitely, it reserves the right to amend, alter, suspend, or cease the program or any part of it, should conditions so indicate. In such event, however, the Company would still allow all apprentices then enrolled to complete their Journeyman qualificationsthrough the apprenticeshipprogram. This provision does not preclude layoffs under Article XII.
b) Notwithstanding(a) above, before the Company exercises its rightto amend, alter, suspend or cease any part of the apprenticeshipprogram, it shall only be done after consultation with the Union.
52
c)	When an apprentice successfully completes the apprenticeship program and becomes a newly classified journeyman, his placement will be pursuant to the respective area re-assignment process Where there is no area in which to be reassigned, then this provision shall not apply
5.	The Apprenticeship and Industry Training Act of Alberta shall apply in the resolution of disputes over job assignments of apprentices, if not otherwise covered by the Agreement
6.	Consistent with Article 7 01 and within the period specified in Article 6 08, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among qualified employees within each Maintenance Department, or within areas of each Department as specified in that Department's Progression Notes
7.	While reserving the right subject to legal restrictions, to utilize the abilities of Maintenance personnel as required in jobs other than their specialty, the Company recognizes the desirability of maximizing the utilization of an employee's certified skills
8.	If the Company regularly and routinely assigns a Journeyman who, in accordance with note 2 above, is certified in more than one trade to tasks requiring one of their other certificates then such employee will be paid the rate of pay indicated in Appendix ’"A" For this purpose regular and routinely will mean approximately 25% or more of the time or duties
9.	In selecting employees for job-related training, selection shall be based on both seniority and departmental training needs with first consideration being given to senior employeeswho have not previously received such training
10.	Where qualifications and experience required for a permanent Bargaining Unit vacancy are relatively equal among two or more day, shift or continuous shift employees, the senior of such employees on a differentshift schedule will have the first preference to fill the vacancy
11.	Apprentices while at school will receive their normal rate of pay and will reimburse the Company (through the payroll deduction program), with any Government Training Allowance received excluding "Living Away" portion of allowance When required to attend school out of town, apprentices will be reimbursed to a maximum of $200 per week upon proof of passing and upon providing receipts
12.	AH required tools will be supplied by the Company at no cost to Maintenance employee
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES- ELECTRONICS DEPARTMENT
I	JOURNEYMAN I
]
APPRENTICE III
APPRENTICE II
APPRENTICE I
1. a) In Electronics, the Instrument Mechanic, Electrician, and Electronic Technician, Power Lineman, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic, and, if required, Electrical Mechanic, Power System Electrician Apprenticeship Programs shall be made available. Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the Electronics Progression, every effort will be made to hire only those employees qualified at the Journeyman level.
While preference will be given to the hiring of journeymen, in the Instrument Mechanic trade, a non-certified tradesman may be hired at the journeyman rate of pay based on his having a minimum of five (5) years experience in the trade. Such employees must subsequently qualify for an Alberta trade certificate within six (6) months.
c) A non-fully qualified employee may be hired at the Apprentice IV, III, II or I level. Such employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices.
54
d)	For other trades encompassed by the Electronics Progression, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or ill is cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level. All apprenticeshippositions will be posted through the internal posting system.
2	Overtime distribution, in accordance with Master Maintenance Progression Note 6, shall be within each individual area, namely, Mine Equipment Maintenance, Extraction, Upgrading,C M S Electrical, C M S Electronicsand Millennium
3	For training purposes, apprentices will be rotated among the working areas where their trade is practiced
4.	Overtime shall be distributed to qualified employees in the trade, job classification and area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6 08
5.	In the Upgrading. Millennium and Extraction Maintenance Departments, in accordance with Article 508(b), temporary shift vacancies will not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes for vacancies of four days or less on a twelve (12) hour CompressedWork Week Continuous Shift Schedule
6.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the Electronics department, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different shift schedule and who has the greatest classification seniority may be reassigned to the area cr transferred to the shift where the vacancy has occurred
7.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Electronics
55
MAINTENANCEJOB PROGRESSION CHART a NOTES-PLANT INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE
	MAINTENANCE SERVICE OPERATORS	
TIME	QUALIFICATIONS	SALARY
months	4 Skills	B
months	Time Only	C
months	3 Skills	D
months	2 Skills	F
months	Time Only	G
months	1 Skill	H
Start		L
JOURNEYMAN
LABOURER
56
1	In the Plant Industrial Maintenance Department the Plumber, Gasfitter, Machinist, Millwright Carpenter, Welder, Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operator, Steamfitter-Pipefitter Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic, Painter and Decorator and any other applicableapprenticeship programs may be made available
2	It is the recognized and continuing responsibility of every employee in the department, regardless of their particular skills, to become knowledgeable and flexible with all of the work encompassed by the Department
3	a) Apprentices may be hired at Level I, fl, III or IV
b)	All Apprenticeship positionswill be postedthrough the Internal Posting System
c)	An Apprentice shall be rotated among any of the areas of the department to allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to the level of Apprenticeship. or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure
d)	An Apprentice who withdraws from Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer The employee's Classification Seniority will commence on the date returned to the Labourer classification The rate of pay on reclassification will be set at the Labourers' rate applicableto the employees'Area Seniority
4.	a Labourer will be entitled to apply for other jobs in the department in accordance with Article 11 OS In no event, should a successful applicant's pay be reduced by more than one pay classification
5.	Notwithstanding Article 11 07, a portion of maintenance work will be contracted out however, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Letter of Understanding Number4 would apply
6- Overtime Distribution, in accordance with Master Maintenance Progression Note 6, shall be within each area namely Refurbishment& Manufacturing, Extraction and Infrastructure Maintenance In the Extraction Maintenance area the procedures covering overtime on days off agreed to and posted February7, 2002 may only be changed by the Area Management in consultation with the area Steward(s) It is the Company's intentthat mutual agreement be reached on these procedures
7.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to the department
57
MINE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE -JOB PROGRESSION CHART
SUPPORT AND TIRE PROGRESSION
1 In Mine Equipment Maintenance. the Heavy Equipment Technician, Automotive
-58-
Service Technician, Welder, ’Millwright, Machinist, Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operatoror any other applicable apprenticeship may be made available.
2	The chit system shall apply to each of the following groups independently, namely, Mine Equipment Shop Trades, Maintenance Services Shop Trades, Shovel MaintenanceTrades,and Support & Tire Progression.
3	Apprentices may be rotated among any of the areas defined in Note 2 above, with the exception of Support and Tire Progressionto allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to their level <± apprenticeship, or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure. Apprentices assigned to one of the above areas on a temporary basis will continue to accumulate overtime based on actual overtime hours worked by that apprentice.
4	a) Any employee hired into other than a Journeyman or Apprentice IV classification shall be classified as Labourer, however, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or III is cancelled or for balancingthe Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level.
b)	Employees hired as Labourers will progress in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and Mine EquipmentMaintenanceSupportand Tire Progression Notes and Chart.
c)	If a permanent vacancy occurs in the Support and Tire Progression, the senior
employee in the next lower classification shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
d)	Employeeswill receive sufficient exposure and training to qualify for promotion
e)	i) When filling a temporary vacancy, the senior trained employee on the shift and in the area concerned in the next lower classification will be moved up and paid accordingly. Ifsuch employee is not available, the Company shall utilize the senior employeeotherwise considered qualified.
Prior to being promoted, a Steam Bay Operator will select either Lube or Tire. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the Steam Bay Operator on each shift to either job. Until permanently assigned to one of the jobs Steam Bay Operator may be utilized in eitherjob.
f)	For training, qualification and move-up purposes, the positions on the Mine EquipmentMaintenanceSupportand Tire Progression swill be designated at all times except in the case of unscheduled overtime. However, employees may be temporarily assigned to other than assigned duties as operating conditions require and for cross training purposes.
59
Employees in the Support and Tire Progression shall receive pay increments as outlinedin Appendix "A.
5	An Apprentice who withdraws from an Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer in accordance with the rate of pay for his area service as indicated in Appendix "A. However, his classification seniority will commence on the date he returns to the Labourer classification.
6	Forthe purposesof overtime coverage the followingwill apply providedthe employee can work his next regularshift and at regular pay.
a)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in trades groups as specified in note #2: Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days offwill do so on a chit form at leasttwo (2) working days prior to their scheduled days
Off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade, who have submittedchits i n accordance with (a) above.
Secondly, to the qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade, who have submittedchits not in accordance with (a) above.
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees, in the trade, lowest on the overtime listmay be assigned to overtime.
c)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in Support and Tire Progression as specified in note#2:
If overtime is required and a chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the original vacant position he will be assigned the overtime.
ii) If no chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position the shift will be moved up, and an employee in the area who has submitted a chit and who is permanently assigned to the next lowest classification will be assignedthe overtime.
d)	Notwithstanding Article 6.08, overtime lists are to be zeroed ever/ three (3) months.
e)	TheSupervisorwill exhaust all the chits, including late chits, inthe group where
60
overtime is being scheduled before going to other groups
f)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between 07 00 - 09 30 or 17 00 -19 00 hours respective of their chits
7	Before filling any permanent vacancy within M E M Department, employees who have Submitted a request for reassignment. prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different shift schedule and who has the greatest area seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the shift where the vacancy has occurred
8	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Mine Equipment Maintenance
9	MEM will staff all operational lube islands with a qualified employee who is in the progression where such position is requiredfor lubing and fueling of haul trucks This role only needs to be staffed when haul trucks are being routed to lube islands for lubing and fueling This does not remove the requirementthat drivers are responsible for checking their own fluid levels and topping up fluid levels as necessary
61
Technician Technician
Extraction Operator Salary and Job Progression Chart
Extraction Operator Salary and Job Progressionfrom Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstratedknowledge and ability in accordance with the following
Primary Extraction	Secondary Extraction
Unit Leader		Unit Leader		Unit Leader
Board Operator	Board Operator		Board Operator
Salary Group	Time	Phase	Plant 3	Plant 86	Time	Phase	Plant 4/87
B	48 mos.	7	FTPH	FTPH	48 mos.	7	Pumps
C	38 mos.	6	Area	Time only	38 mos.	6	Lead West
D	29 mos.	5	Pumps	Area	29 mos.	5	Time Only
E	22 mbs.	4	Time only	Time Only	22 mos.	4	IPS
F	16 mos.	3	Utilities	Utilities			
G					12 mos.	3	Birds
H	9 mos.	2	Plant 82 Wet	OPP			
1					6 mos.	2	West
J	3 mos.	1	Plant 82 Dry	Time only	3 mos,	1	Time Only
K							
L			Trainee	Trainee	Trainee		
All times refers to Extraction Operations continuous service
Extraction Progression Notes
1	a) Within the ExtractionDepartmentthe total complement per shift shall be as follows Primary Extraction 3 Unit Leaders, 12 Extraction Operators Secondary Extraction 1 Unit Leader 6 Extraction Operators (*7 during the period specified in note 2 a) iii) in the Memorandum of Understanding dated July 28, 2003 For easy reference Note 2 a) iii) is reproduced herein "For staffing purposesthe elimination of the Westaflia function will be effective the later of April 30, 2004 or the date on which the projectto automate the flushing process on Cuno Filters is complete During this time the currently assigned employee will be assigned other duties as operating conditio ns require ’)
For training and qualification purposes and for normal operations the positions outlined will be designated in each plant
Primary Extraction
Plant 3; Unit Leader(2), Board, FTPH, Area, Pumps, Plant 82 Dry, plant 82 Wet, Utilities
Plant86 Unit Leader, Board, FTPH, Area, Plant85(2)
Secondary Extraction
Unit Leader Board (2), Pumps, Lead West, IPS. Birds, West
c)	while the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11 01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Extraction note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require
d)	employees requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration Upon such transfer he shall be established at the trainee level and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualification and time requirementsfor that progressionbut his salary group will not be reduced
e)	to attain a trainee position, one must have successfully completed, the Extraction CBT Training Modules or Part"A of the Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate Consideration will also be given to previous processing experience and/or an equivalent diploma/certificate issued by an accredited college related to processing operations Labourers in Plant Support will have first opportunity for trainee positions. providedthey have requesteda transfer
2	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the Senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with article 11 01{a) and paid accordingly Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employeea permanent promotion
3	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression The company shall not realign employeeswithout regard to their service, qualifications and experience Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the progressionfor which he is qualified
63
4.	An employee when designated to cover an extraction operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However in order to qualify for a phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	Unit leaders qualified in both Primary Extraction progressions may exchange positions should the company and the employee agree. Control room operators in extraction may if the company agrees rotate between the plants for training purposes only.
7.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees
on their normal shiftfor training or shift staffing.
8.	For Operators and Trainees within a phased progression, to remain current in a position for which they are qualified, they must work each position for 3 consecutive shifts (or 6 random shifts) once every two rolling years. Maintenance of this currency will be done on a voluntary basis until the time limit is exceeded, after which it will be scheduled.
9.	Notwithstanding Article 6.08(d), overtime hours in the Extraction Department will be averaged only upon permanent entry into the area, or as covered by Article 6.08(e).
10.	As employees qualify at each phase within the progression, they will receive the appropriate corresponding rate of pay taking into consideration their skills and qualifications
11.	Plant Support Progression
Plant Support Equipment Operator Salary and lob Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
Plant Support Equipment Operator			
Phase	Qualification	Minimum Time	Salary Group
7	Time only	64 months	B
6	Time only	52 months	C
5	Time Only	40 months	D
4	3 of 3	25 months	F
3	2 of 3	15 months	G
2	1 of 3	3 months	H
1 ■	Start			L
Alt time refers to Plant Support progression continuous service			
12	Plant Support progression will consist of Equipment Operator and Labourer (It is noted that for the life of the Collective Agreement expiring May 01 2010 that the Plant Support Progression will have four full-time employees per shift )
-64-
a)	As openings arise employees will be hired into the Plant Support Progression
b)	The EquipmentOperator progressionto the "B" rate will be 64 months in duration There will be three functions for salary progression qualifications purposes as follows RakeCat, Loaderand BobCat In addition to the above, employeeswill be expected to qualify in and may be assigned to other functions performedwithin the progression
c)	Labourer in Plant Support will have first opportunity for Equipment Operator vacancies. provided they have requested such transfer A Labourer in Plant Support
who obtains an EquipmentOperator position, will be credited with time spent as a labourerin Plant Support towards the 64 month progressionto EquipmentOperator up to a maximum of 15 months A Labourer in Plant Support who obtains an EquipmentOperator position and has completed 25 months and the qualificationsfor phase 4 will begin at the "F" rate of pay
c)	temporary upgrade to EquipmentOperator will be paid G rate of pay
d)	) overtime in the plant support progression will be distributed as per Extraction progression note 7
65
UPGRADING OPERATOR SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Upcp-ading Operator Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following
Coker Progressions •						
		PLT. 5 COKERS		PLT. 52 COKERS		
		Unit Leader		Unit Leader		
Phase	Min. Time	Coker & Tank Farm Functions		Coker & Off Plot Functions		Salary Group ■
6	48 mos.	Tank Farm	4 of 5	Waste Water	4 of 4	B •
5	36 mos.	Coker Tech A	3 of 5	Plt.56	3 of 4	C
4	24 mos.	Time only		Time Only		F j
3	12 mos.	Coker II	2 of 5	Coker B	2 of 4	G
2	6 mos.	Time Only		Time Only		H j
1	3 mos.	Coker I	1 of 5	Coker T	1 of 4	I
	Start	Trainee		Trainee		L |
'All Timer refers to Upgrading Department continuous service.
11_____________________________________________________
Fixed PlantProgressions
		PLT. 5, 8 & 25		PLT. 6&7		PLT.52, S3 & 57		PLT.54 & 55		
		Unit leader		Unit Leader		Leader		Leader		
		Board Operalor		Board Operator		Board Operator		Operalor		
		Board Operalor				Board Operator				
Phase	Min. Time	Plant 5,8 & 25 Functions		Plant 6&7 Functions		Plant 52, 53 &57 Functions		Plant 54855 Functions		Sal ary Group
4	48 mos.	Pit. 8	3 of 3	C.H.	3 of 3	Pit. 53	3 of 3	Pit. 55	2 of 2	B '
3	36 mos.	Time Only		Time Onty		Time Onty		Time Onty		c
2	24 mos.	Plant 25	2 of 3	Pit. 7	2 of 3	Plant 57	2 of 3	Time Onty		F •
1	12 mos.	Pjt. 5	1 of 3	Plt.6	1 of 3	Pit. 52	1 of 3	Pit. 54	1 of 2	G
	6 mos.	Time Only		Time Only		Time Onty		Time Only		H
	3 mos.	Time Only		Time Onty		Time Onty		Time Onty		I
	Start	Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		L
‘All times refers to Upgrading Department continuous service.
Designation Fixed Plant Phase 1 and 2 Plant Operator Phase 3 and 4	Senior Operalor
Cokers	Phase 1 of 6 Operator
The designation of Senior Operator, Plant Operator and Operator recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
66
UPGRADING PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Upgrading Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows
Six (6) Unit Leaders Thirty Three (34) Operators
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations. the following positionswill be designated
Unit Leaders - Plant5&8&25, Plant6&7, Plant5 Cokers
-	Plant 52 & 53, Plant54 & 55, Plant52 Cokers Operators ■ Plants5&8&25 Board(2), Plants52&,53 &57 Board(2).
-	Plants6 & 7 Board, Plants54 & 55 Board
■ Plants5 (2), 6, 7, 8, 25,52 (2), 53, 54, 55, 56 (2), 57 &Compressors -Tank Farm (2), WasteWater
-	Plants Coker Tech A Coker II (4), Coker I (2)
-	Plant 52 Coker B (2), Coker T
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11 01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordancewith Upgrading Note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require
d)	A third class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining qualificationinthe Fixed Plant Progressionof Plants 5 &8 &25 Board, and the Plants 52 & 53 Board
e)	A fourth class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining a training position in the Fixed Plant Progressions
f)	Employees in the Fixed Plant Progressions will be paid an allowance for Power Engineering Certificatesas per Appendix '"A"
2	If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualifiedemployee within the progression shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11 01(a) and paid accordingly Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion Progressionseniority will be the determining factor to determine move up
3.	Shift staffing shall recognizeseniorityand the establishedsequence of job progression The Company shall not realign employees without regardto their seivice, qualificationand experience Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally movingtothe next higherjob in the Progressionfor which he is qualified A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be updated and posted when changes occur
4.	An employee when designated to cover an Upgrading Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements
-67-
5,	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	For Operators and Trainees within a phased progression, to remain current in a position for which they are qualified, they must work each position for 3 consecutiveshifts (or6 random shifts) once every one rollingyear. Maintenance of this currencywill be done on a voluntary basis until the time limit is exceeded, after which it will be scheduled.
7.	Employees in Upgrading Operations who have provided written notice in advance of a vacancy occurring in one of the other Upgrading progressions will be given first consideration to fill the vacancy. If more then one applicant, the employee with the most area seniority will be considered first. Upon such transfer, the employee will be established at the Trainee Level however their salary will not be reduced. Advancement in the new progression will be based on qualifications and time requirements for that progression except as follows. Employees who transfer progressions under this provision will be entitled to salary increases based on their previous progression for the first twelve (12) months following their transfer. Employee's will be expected to maintain qualifications in their previous progression for this twelve (12) months period and may be assigned to those functions for shift coverage or as operating conditions require.
a)	In order to protect the seniority rights of those employeeswho provide written notice in advance of a vacancy occurring yet are held back by the company due to manpower constraints,the employeeshall retainfull area progressionseniority rights over any employee(s) who;
(i)	was newly hired and assigneda trainee position;
(ii)	has transferred in from another department on or after the day, or date in which the written notice to move from one progressionto another was approved.
8.	Employees hired before July 2,1980 will not be required to obtain Steam Tickets and will not suffer any loss of pay or any loss of opportunity for promotion or phase progression. This loss of pay protection does not include payment for Power Engineering Certificates.
9.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place to assist employees to obtain their fourth and third class stationary engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by management at any time for the benefit of the employees This provision does not apply to employees in the Coker Progressions
10.	Overtime in the Upgrading Progressionswill be distributedas per Appendix “C”
11.	NotwithstandingArticle 6 08 (d), overtime hours in the Upgrading Departmentwill be averaged only upon permanententry into the area, or as covered in 6 08 (e)
-68-
12,	To attain a coker trainee position in Plants 5 and 52, one must have completed at least one of the following, i) Upgrading's CBT Training modules, ii) Part 'A of the Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate, iii) relevant previous process operator experience
13.	As employees qualify at each phase within the progression, they will receive the appropriate corresponding rate of pay taking into consideration their skills and qualifications
69
LABORATORY TECHNICI AN SALARY & JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Laboratory Technician salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with Note 4 and the following
UNIT LEADER
* DESIGNATION			PHASE	QUALIFICATION	MIN TIME	SALARY GROUP
			9	2 of 4	48 mos	B
			8	Time Only	42 mos	C
Senior			7	Time Only	36 mos	D
Technician			6	Time Only	30 mos	E
			5 .	Of4	24 mos	F
			4	Time Only	18 mos	G
			3	3 of 3	12 mos	H
Technician			2	Time Only	8 mos.	I
"A"			1	1 of 3	4 mos	J
				Technician	Start	L
Functions:
3 of 3	2 of 4
Environ mentalWater	ICP/AA
Extraction	QA
Upgrading	GC/ESM
Projects (Diesel)
• The designations of Senior Technician and Technician "A'Yecognize level of achievement in salary andjob progression only
70
LABORATORY PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Laboratory there shall be a minimum of three (3) Unit Leaders, seven (7) LaboratoryTechnicians Days, two (2) LaboratoryTechnicians per shift
b)	For training and qualification purposes,the following functions will be designated Unit Leader
EnvironmentalWater Extraction Upgrading Projects (Diesel)
GC/ESM
ICP/AA
QA
c)	While the total complement of shift personnel shall be maintained. a day or shift employee may be temporarily assigned to other than his regular position for training purposes or as work priorities require Qualified Technicians will be rotated through functions for which they are qualified to ensure that their qualifications remain current, provided that the effective efficient operation of the Laboratory is maintained
d)	Upon qualification of each phase within the Laboratory Progression, the Company will supply the employee with a certificate stating the phases and positions for which the employee is qualified
2.	a) If a permanent Laboratory Technician day vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee on continuousshift shall be given first opportunity for assignmentto days
b)	If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee will be promoted in accordance with Article 11 01(a) and paid accordingly Time constraintsshallnot be cause for denyingan employeea permanent promotion
3	An employee when designated to covera shift position, senior technician position or Unit Leader positionshall be deemed qualified in that position
However, in order to qualify for a salary phase progression an employee must complete the time requirements
4.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunityforthem to train and qualify within the minimumtime periods
5.	The following guidelines will apply for the coverage of temporary shift vacancies providedthe employee can work his next regularshift and at regular pay
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chitform on theirfirst day shift pnor to the employee's scheduled days off
b)	When overtime is required. the following is the basis for selecting employees for
-71 -
overtime:
Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submittedchits in accordancewith (a).
Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordancewith (a).
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualifiedemployees lowest on the overtime distributionlist will be assigned to overtime.
An employee, upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
d)	Persons who chit for overtime must be available for contact by phone between 07:30 to 08:30 or 18:30 to 19:30 respective to their chit.
e)	Temporary vacancies between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., shift or day positions, will be filled at the discretion of the Laboratory Supervisor dependent on the priority of the work involved except for Unit Leader position which will be filled at all times in accordance with Article 11.01 (c).
6.	An employee will be paid the A-1 rate of pay for the full shift(s) when assigned to Stack Survey duties.
72
MATERIALSDISTRIBUTIONDEPARTMENTSALARY & JOB PROGRESSIONCHART Unit Leader
I			
PHASE	QUALIFICATIONS	MINIMUMTIME	SALARY GROUP
8	Any 3 of 3	Level 3	"B r
7	Any 2 of 3	E4 months	“B"
6	Any 1 of 3	52 months	“C”
5	Any 4 of 6	40 months	“D"
4	Time Only	33 months	"E
3	Ay 3 of6	25 months	“P
2	Any 2 of 6	15 months	"G"
1	Any 1 of 6	3 months	“H”
	Start		“L"
Anytime refers to Materials Distribution department continuous service Phase 1 through 5 are Level One Functions Phase 6 and 7 are Level Two Functions
MATERIALSDISTRIBUTIONDEPARTMENTPROGRESSIONNOTES
1. Within the Materialsdistributiondepartmentthere shall be nine (9) functions for training and qualificationpurposes These are
Level One
i)	MaterialsFamiliarization
ii)	Equipment (Ope ration and Knowledge) and Deliveries
iii)	Mate rials receiving (in eludes Quality Assurance level 1)and Shipping (General)
iv)	Material Storage and Order picking
v)	Stock Control
vi)	Advanced shipping
Level Two
i)	Quality Assurance Level 2
ii)	TractorTrailer/ Tandem Operation
iii)	ProvincialWarehouse Level 3 Certification-Requirementto reach Level 7
-73 -
"B1" rate of pay
2.	A rotation system shall be established to provide sufficient exposure and training to enable employees to quality for progression to the next phase within the minimum time period.
3.	Any temporary move-upwill be given to the most senior qualified person performing the work in the warehouse where the vacancy occurred.
4.	For purposesof covering shiftvacanciesthe following will apply:
i)	Employees may volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off by doing so on a chit form at least two f2jworking days prior to their scheduled days off.
The employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit will be assigned the overtime. If insufficientchits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distributionlist will be assigned the overtime.
iii) For temporary shift vacancies in the Warehouse, the provision of Article 5.08(b) will not apply for twelve hour CompressedWork Week ContinuousShift Schedule.
5.	Two Year Shift Rotation :The shift rotation starts at the top of
the Warehouse Seniority list every two years and works down the list until all shifts are filled.
6.	Interim Shift Openings: When a shift becomes vacant or a new shift is created in the interim, the open shift will first be offered to the most senior Warehouse Technician (based on the Warehouse Seniority List) in that specific Warehouse. If, after going down that Warehouse's list of Warehouse Techs, the shift is still open, it will be offered to all Warehouse Technicians Site-wide (based on the Warehouse Seniority List). If an existing Warehouse Tech chooses the open shift, the New Hire will fill the vacant shift of that Warehouse Technician. If it so happens that no existing Warehouse Technician chooses the open shift, the New Hire will fill that open shift.
74
MINE/TAILINGS DEPARTMENTS PROGRESSION CHART A NOTES
Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority. experience, demonstrated knowledgeand ability in accordancewith the following
SENIOR OPERATOR MAINTAIN ER/OPERATOR
I PHASE	MINE	TAILING
[group	QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS
4 OF 9 Time Only 3 of 9 2 of 9 Time Only 1 of 9 Start
4 OF 6
E4mos
Time Only 3 of 6 2 of 6 Time Only 1 of6 Start
B
52 mos 40 mos 25 mos 15 mos 3 mos.
All time refersto Continuous Service in either Mine Department or Tailings Department but not combined
C
D
F
G
H
L
MIN. TIME
SALARY
1	a) All training opportunities will be done by seniority
I	Within the Mine Departmentthere shall be 9 functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows Operation of Loader, Dozer, Grader, Mechanical Truck, Support Truck, Electrical Truck, Backhoe, Utility Operator, and Rubber Tire Dozer
II	Non-progressionfunctions. lube truck, transporter Motivator/tow truck
III	The mine department is committed to training approximately 15% of the work force per shift on the 6 non truck progression functions
b)	Within the Tailings Departmentthere shall be six (6) functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows Cell Placement, Line Patrol, Boom Crew, Sideboom Operation, Forks Operation, Backhoe or Transporter
c)	When employees in the Mine Departmentfirst get hired on, they will have the opportunity to put their name under one of the 6 functions (Loader, Dozer.
75
Grader, Backhoe, Utility Operator, Rubber Tire Dozer. Initial training opportunitieswill be based on seniority.
d)	After an employee in the Mine Departmentis qualified on all three truck functions, they will be eligible to get trained under one of the above 6 functions.
e)	Only after an employee in the Mine Departmenthas completedtraining on one of the 6 non-truckfu notions will they be eligible to train on anotherfu notion. An employee choosing not to select a function will have to wait until the next calendar year before getting an opportunityto choose again.
f)	Prioritytrainingwill be given to employee'swho have not completedtheir ProgressionTraining.
g)	If a vacancy occurs in one of the senior operator positions in the Mine Department. they will be given opportunityto transfer from one Senior Operator position to the other providedthey are qualified. (For example - could transfer from shovel to trainerloperator back to shovel). This language does not preclude senior qualified B-rated employeesfrom applying for either Trainer/Operator or Shovel Operator positions.
2)	In addition to the above, employees may be expected to qualify in and can be assigned to other functions performedwithin their respective Progression.
3)	Employeeswill receive sufficient exposure in the various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimumtime periods.
4) Operators requestinga transfer from one line of progressionto another will be given first consideration. If more than one applicant, the employeewith the most area seniority will be given considerationfirst. Upon such transfer he shall be established at his/her current operator level and will be frozen at their minimum progressiontime fora period of 12 months priortotheirtime advancing again.
5)	Mine Department Progression
a)	Within the Mine there will be a ratio of SeniorOperatorsto Trainer Operators similar to the current ratio of 13 Shovel Operatorsto 3 Trainer/Operators (1313). Temporary vacancies in the senior operator positions shall be filled in accordance with Article 11.01(c). Upon completion of phase 6, operators will select the senior operator position in which they wish to advance. If an insufficient number of employees have selected to progress in any of the senior operator positions, the Company may assign the junior employee on each shift who has completed phase 6 to progress in that senior operator position.
b)	The B-1 rate shall be paidto employees classified as senioroperatoror performinga function in the Senior Operator classification other than for their own training. The AI rate shall be paid to employees classified as Senior Shovel Operator or performing a function in the Shovel Operator classification other than for their own training.
c)	The most senior operator in possession of a blasting certificate and designated to a blasting crew shall receive the "A-1" rate of pay while engaged in blasting duties.
6. Tailings Department Progression
a)	Sufficient operators will be indentured into a welding apprenticeship program to
-76-
ensure an adequate number of qualified Welders are available in the Tailings Department As openings arise the senior qualified operator desiring apprenticeship in the welding trade will be indentured For salary purposes those employees in the Tailings Department indentured in the welding trade will receive salary increases as follows
i)	An operator who has completed three (3) of six (6) functions and is recognized as having completed forty (40) months qualifying service and the second year of the welding apprenticeship will be paid the "C" salary rate
Should an employee be indentured into the welder Apprenticeship program with less than four (4) of six (6) functions. the employeewill continue to progress to the higher salary groups in accordancewith the defined time periods even though the employee may not meet the qualification requirements At such time as the employee completes the second year of his welding apprenticeship and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement the employee will receive the "C" rate At such time as the employee receives a Journeyman Certification and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement the employee will receive the "B" pay rate
b)	Maintainer Operator A qualified 8-pressure welder who has a minimum of 24 months area seniority and who has qualified in the functions of Boom Crew, Forks and Sideboom will be paid the B-1 rate of pay The Tailings Department will give the Maintainer/Operator appropriate training required for them to become qualified on the above functions within the 24 month period Failure to provide the training will result in the employee receiving the B1 rate at the 24 month cutoff This does not waive the employee's responsibilities to future training requirements
7.	Permanent day, shift, or continuous shift positions shall be posted and filled from within the respective Department Progression by senior qualified employees in that Department on a differentshift schedule
8.	Those employees who are required to make a hot change will receive other allowances as per Appendix "A" for each shift that they make a hot change at one or both ends of a shift
It is understood that the number of employees required to make a hot change is dependent on the circumstancesprevailingin the department at any given time
The Company will make every reasonable effort in the distribution of assignments in order that qualifiedemployees will receive equal opportunity insofar as is practical In this regard Supervisors and Union Stewards will work together
9.	Overtime in each the Mine Department and the Tailings Department will be distributed as per Appendix "C"
77
APPENDIX "C" -OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR EXTRACTION/ UPGRADING PROGRESSION
CHIT SYSTEM:
To the extent that these employees are committed and remain committed to making this system work, the Company will set aside the requirements of the standby system
For the purposes of overtime coverage. the following will apply for the Fixed Plants, namely Upgrading, Progressions
Consistent with Article 11 01(c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence
a)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting
b)	For the purposesof overtime coverage the followingwill apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off
I) Priority of chits received
-	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordancewith (b) above
-	Secondly to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (b) above
ii)	If insufficient chits are received qualified employees, lowest on the overtime list, may be assigned to overtime If two or more employees have equal amount of hours then the junior employee will be assigned
iii)	In accordancewith (b)(i) above overtime will be firstly in the vacant function worked by an employee qualified in that function, secondly realignment within the shift with overtime in the resulting vacant function worked by an employee qualified in that function
An employee, upon returningto work, may request his supeivisor to mark him refusedfor the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit
In the case where the chit system fails to provide minimum staffing requirements, the followingwill apply
a)	The Departmentwill post an assigned standby schedule for all Department Operatorson a quarterly basis. or as changes occur
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and mini mum qua lificationof persons who must be on standby The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any
78
reason Employeeson standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours of 6 30 to 8 30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1-1/4) hours of notice if called
c)	Employees assigned to standby on the posted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignmentswith employees on their shift who have compatible qualifications The Shift Supervisor must be notifiedof the change
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on standby for safety reasonsonly
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultationwith the Area Stewards) It is the Company's intentthat mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures
f)	Consistent with Article 11 01 (c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs
iii)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resultingvacancy occurs
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit
v)	Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work
g)	Employeeswho volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a
chit form at least two (2) working days pnorto their scheduled days off
Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule
79
APPENDIX "C" -OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR MINE AND TAILINGS DEPARTMENT
Forthe purposesof overtime coverage in each of the Departments separatefroi'n the other, the followingwill apply
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days priorto their scheduled days off
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basisfor selecting employees for overtime
i) Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (a)
Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordancewith (a)
iii) Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received qualified employees lowest on the overtime distributionlist may be assignedto overtime
c)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between 0630 and 0730 or 1830 to 1930 respectiveto their chit
An employee upon returningto work may request his supeivisor to mark him refused for the hoursof Overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit
e)	Where standby is required to efficiently operate the Plant, the Area Managementwill designate the coverage required and will in consultation with the Area Steward(s) develop the necessary procedures to provide stand by coverage
f)	This procedure may only be changed by the Area Management in consultationwith the area Steward(s) It is the Company's intentthat mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures
80
APPENDIX’'D"
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDINGS
RE: CLOTHING ALLOWANCE-ARTICLE 14.05 (C)
Lump sum paymentsfor clothing will be based on the need in each area Both boots and clothing will be rated in variables of 0 - 3 with a combined total indicating amount of money needed to sufficientlycover the cost of clothing
RATEO: Fire Resistant Outer clothing provided
RATE 1: Reflects areas where conditionsare reasonably constant, (dry and clean) with little cr no exposure to seasonal vanations Wear factors would also be very low in these areas
RATE 2: Where conditions are more severe than Ratel but lessthan in areas indicated by Rate 3
RATE 3: Where outside work would be the norm on a year round basis and there is an exposure to seasonal vanations Those areas have high wear factors for boots or clothing and also a high replacement and cleaningfrequency
Areas are rated as follows
BOOTS CLOTHING TOTAL
Mining /Tailings Operations	3	3
M.E.M	3	3
6
6
Plant IndustrialMaintenance
Exfr Mech Mtoe	3	3
Energy Services Mtce	2	3
Facilities Mtce Seivices	2	2
ExtractionOps, Plant3	3	3
Extraction Ops, Plant4	3	0
Upgrading Operations	3	0
Laboratory	2	1
Materials	2	2
6
5 4
6 3 3
3
4
Electronics ClothingAllowance will be paid at the same value as the area an employee is assignedto.
81
SCALE
2	$220.00
3	$245.00
4	$270.00
5	$295.00
6	$320.00
A winter clothing allowance will be provided in the amount of $125 annually for any employee who works the majority of their time in the outdoors and is not being supplied Nomex winter clothing
Signed this 25th day of October, 2007, A D in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta For the Union,	For the Company,
David Drummond	Kevin Smith
President	Director, Human Resources
CEP Local707	Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
82
APPENDIX "D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2
This letter outlines the intentions of the parties with respect to Article 6 08 (a) It is not intended to affect the operation of existing chit systems
It is understood and accepted that this provision is a "best efforts” overtime opportunityand not an absolute equalization clause It is not intended that a Supervisor endeavour to
equalize overtime on a day-to-day or a week-to-week basis, nor is it intendedthat he always offer overtime to the employee with the least hours in the pay classification
Overtime lists are zero at the beginningof each calendar year The list published mid-year
is used as check point to determine where the emphasis should be to have the overtime opportunity distribution reasonably equalized by the end of the year
This letter shall form part of the CollectiveAgreement signed this 25th day of October, 2007 AD in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta
For the Union,	For the Company,
David Drummond	Kevin Smith
President	Director, Human Resources
CEP Local707	Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
APPENDIX"D"
Letter qf UNDERSTANDING
The purpose of this letter is to establish a meaningful framework within which regularly scheduled discussions will occur on productivity and efficiency issues affecting the success of the company and alignment of employees with the goals of Oil Sands
The parties agree to meet at mutually agreed times during the life of the Collective Agreementto discuss productivity issues with Oil Sands leaders
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 25th day of October, 2007, AD inthe Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta
For the Union,	For the Company,
David Drummond	Kevin Smith
President	Director, Human Resources
CEP Local 707	Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
84
APPENDIX MD"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#4
RE: ARTICLE 11.07 (B)
Employment of contractors for work expected to last in excess of ten (10) days to supplement bargainingunit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the
Area Steward(s)
Prior to layoff of journeymen andlor apprentices in a given department. the Company will
reducejourneymen andlor apprentices in the same trade who are employed by Contractors in the same department In a department where contractors are employed for other than trades work, such contractors will be reduced pnor to lay off of Bargaining Unit Employees in that department employed in Similar work
This letter shall form part of the Co llective Agreement signedthis 25th day of October, 2007, AD in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta
For the Union.	For the Company,
David Drummond President CEP Local 707
Kevin Smith
Director, Human Resources Suncor Energy Inc.. Oil Sands
85
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
As part of the current wage settlementthe Company agrees to remitthree (3£) per hourfor each full time employee's regular hours of work to a Safety Health and Industrial Relations Training Fund of the C E P on a quarterly basis
The Union agrees that the sole purpose of this fund will be to provide training to its members primarily those from Sun cor Inc. O.S.G. in the areas specified above
The Union further agrees that the content of the Safety and Health programs will be consistent with current Safety and Health Programs endorsed by Suncor Jnc.t O S G {i e Five Star Program)
The Union also agrees to furnish the Company on an annual basis, a listing of the courses to be presentedto its Suncor members at Local 707, CEP
The Unionagrees to provide a fund audit as requested
The Union agrees that the Company will be invited to have input to the type and content of the training supported by this fund
Leave of Absence will be in accordance with Article 10 of the CollectiveAgreement
Signed this 25th day of October, 2007, A D in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta For the Union,	For the Company,
David Drummond President CEP Local 707
Kevin Smith
Director, human Resources Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
86
APPENDIX "D”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS RE: DEPARTMENT, UNION, COMPANY RELATIONSHIPS
The purpose of this letter is to establish regular scheduled meetings betweenthe Area Job Stewards and Area Management Those meetings to be scheduled quarterly. will be to
discuss any unsolved problems in the area that are appropriate with the intent that both parties continueto improve relationships
Signed this 25th day ofOctober, 2007, A D in the Municipalitycf Wood Buffalo, Alberta For the Union	For the Company
David Drummond President CEP Local707
Kevin Smith
Director, Human Resources Suncor Energy Inc , Oil Sands
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#?
HARASSMENT
The Company and the Union recognize the right <f employees to work in an environment
free from sexual or workplace harassment, and to be treated fairly and with respect in the workplace. The purpose of this fettens to outline activities for both the Company and the Union to provide a workplace environment that is productive and promotes both the dignity and self-esteem of all employees.
For the purpose of this joint initiative. Sexual Harassment means any unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature that causes offence or humiliation to any employee or that might be perceived by the employee as placing a condition of a sexual nature on any employment relationship.
Workplace harassment means any unwelcome behaviour, which creates an intimidating. threatening or hostile work environment such that an employee's performance is impaired, the employment relationship is adversely affected or the employee's dignity or respect is denied.
For the purpose of administering this joint initiative, two (2) harassment Co-ordinators shall be jointly responsible to:
-Assist in communicating/educating all employeeson the parties' policies and procedures. -Act ascontact/resource peoplefor harassmentcomplaints.
These co-ordinators (preferably one of each gender with one selected by the Company and one selected by the Union) will be trained to carry out their duties.
Knowledge and awareness is a critical part of combating harassment. The co-ordinatorswill recommend programs lo inform and encourage fellow workers to recognize the problem and take control of their own situation through exercising their rights.
It is both a right and a responsibility of all employees who believe that they have been subjected to unacceptable behaviour to first ask the instigator to stop the unwelcome behaviour.
Signedthis 25th day of October. 2007 A.D. in the Municipality cf Wood Buffalo, Alberta.
For the Union	For the Company
David Drummond President CEP Local 707
Kevin Smith
Director, Human Resources Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
88
APPENDIX"D"
LETTEROF UN PERSIAN PI NG#8
RE:	ELECTRONICS NOTE 6. MEM NOTE 8 AND PLANT INDUSTRIAL
MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION
The following components are considered when employees in the Electronics, MEM and PIM departments request reassignment to other areas of their respective departments
At least twelve (12) months since the last reassignment request granted This time limit will not apply to requests for shift reassignments
Requestfor reassignment must be submitted in advance of vacancy occumng
As an opening occurs and based on the above, preference for reassignment shall be given to the Senior Qualified employee For employees in the Plant Industrial Maintenance department, classificationsenioritywill apply
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 25th day of October, 2007, AD in the MunicipalityofWood Buffalo. Alberta
For the Union,	For the Company.
David Drummond President CEP Local 707
Kevin Smith
Director, Human Resources Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
89
APPENDIX “D”
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING#9
BANKED OVERTIME
This will confirm our discussions with respect to personal time off needs of employees assigned to "R" type shifts These employees normally would not work on Statutory Holidaysand therefore have limited opportunity to accumulate banked time
The Company will undertake to modify the Payroll system to accommodate banking of overtime for Bargaining Unit personnel ass ignedto "R" shifts
"R" Shift employees will be permitted to accumulate up to fifty six (56) hours cf banked time, inclusive of Banked Statutory Holiday time This means that for each Statutory Holiday hour banked, one less overtime hour bankable (If all of the Banked Time is due to Statutory Holidays, then the Collective Agreement provisions apply in full) Banking of overtime hours will be either two (2) for each hour worked or one (1) banked one (1) paid for each hour worked The most cost effective cf these will be used in the programming of the payroll system
Debanking of banked overtime will normally only be permitted provided overtime does not result on that day and provided the supervisor can reschedulethe work the persor would otherwise do that day it is intended that best efforts will be made to accommodatethe employees request with due regard to the cost effectivenessof the operation
Signed this 25th day of October, 2007 AD in the Municipalityof Wood Buffalo
For the Union
For the Company
David Drummond	Kevin Smith
President	Director, Human Resources
CEPU Local 707	Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
90
Appendix “E’
REVISEDJOB POSTING PROCESS- ARTICLE 11.08 This is intended for explanation purposes and does notsupercede the processtext
Oh 2S0 DAY FOLLOWING POSTING CLOSE DATE RECR J TING W_L CONTACT THE 2 OR 3 SENIOR QLALIF ED CANDIDATES - THE CANDIDATES MUST RESPOND TO THE OFFER WITH h 24 HOURS OR FORFEIT
IF THE SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATES HOME AREA DECIDES TO FILL
THE RESULTINGVACANCY WITHIN 14 CALENDAR DAYS OF BEING ADVISED THEN THE VACANCY WILL BE FILLED FROM STANDING APPLICATIONS
! A DECISION AFTER 14 DAYS REQUIRES A NEW POSTING
NO STANDING	RESULTING VACANCY FILLED	
APPLICATIONS	EXTERNALLY	
OTHER CHANGES:
•	STANDING APPLICATIONS ARE NOW VALID FOR THE CALENDAR YEAR IN WHICH THEY ARE SUBMITTED
•	IF AN EMPLOYEE DECLiNESAN OFFER, IS NOT AVAILABLE FOR CONTACT, OR DOES NOT RESPOND TO AN OFFER HE/SHE WILL NOT BE ELIGIBLE TO APPLY FOR THE SAME JOB FOR THE BALANCE OF THAT CALENDAR YEAR
•	THE RE-ASSiGNMENTPROCESS HAS BEEN ALIGNED WITH THIS PROCESS
•	REQUESTS FOR RE-ASSIGNMENT WILL NOW BE VALID FOR THE CALENDAR YEAR IN WHICH THEY ARE SUBMITTED
•	IF AN EMPLOYEE DECLiNESAN OFFER THEY WILL NOT BE PERMITTED TO REASSIGN TO THE SAME AREA FOR THE BALANCE OF THAT CALENDAR YEAR
1-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
92
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
2008 SHIFT SCHEDULE C W W
1-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	1.1	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31						
I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2
L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2
93
DAYS
NIGHTS
2009 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
1-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
94
2010 SHIFT SCHEDULE C W W
1-2 J-2 K-2 L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	' 19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31							
I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2
L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2
95
DAYS
NIGHTS
2007 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C W W SCHEDULES
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,I-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9,1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, L-4
96
2008 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1, E-2, E'3, E-4, J-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,J-9, J-9, K-9, L-9, M, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, LA
DAYS
DAYS
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
NOV
97
2009 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,1-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9, M, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, L-4
98
2010 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1. E-2,E-3, Ed. 1-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9,1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4. L-4
DAYS
DAYS
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
DAYS
NIGHTS
99
2007 SHIFT SCHEDULE C W W
E-7. E-8. E-9. E-A, E-5, E-6.P-6, P-7, P-8, P-9, T-1, T-2, S-A, S-B, M-1. M-2, AA, BB, CC, DD
DAY OF WEEK M T W T F S M , T _ w _ T F	M T W T F S ' M T W T F ;"S" S
DAYS DAYS DAYS NIGHTS DAYS AFTERNOONS - NIGHTS DAYS DAYS DAYS - 10’s DAYS - 10‘S DAYS P‘6 * DAYS P-7 * DAYS P-8 * DAYS P-9 ‘ DAYS S-A * DAYS S-B ' DAY OF WEEK
2008 SHIFT SCHEDULEC.W W
E-7, E-8. E-9, E-A. E-5. E-6. P-6, P-7, P-8, P-9, T-1, T-2. S-A, S-B, M-1, M-2, AA, BB, CC, DD
DAYS DAYS DAYS NIGHTS DAYS AFTERNOONS NIGHTS DAYS DAYS DAYS - 10'S DAYS - 10's DAYS P-6 * DAYS P-7 * DAYS P-8 * DAYS P-9 * DAYS S-A*	JAN 29 26	' 30 27	31 28	4 FEB 29	MAR	V -T3 T':2	4	8 5 4		10	11	£1.2 .8	13 .10 •9	14 11 10	15 12 11	16 13 1?	17 14 13	18 15 14	7:19 ■ 16 15	20 T17 16	21 18	22 19	23 20	24 21	25 22	■s 26 23	s 27 24	M 28 25
	22 20 17	23 21 18	24 22 19	25 23 20	5 26 24 --'21	. 30 27 25 7?	31 28 26 23	APR 29 27 24	30 28	MAY 29	30	ms ms •31	6 T'4 JON	2	3	9 7 4	10 5	11 9 6	12 10 7	T13 11 8	14 12 9	15 13 10	16 14 11	17 15 12	■ 18 16 13	19 ■■17 r14	20 18 ms	21 19 16
	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	.26	27	28	29	30	31	AIJO	VC. ?	m	4					> 12		14
	9	10	11	15 1?	13	"14		19	21	21	22	23	-24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	7	8	9	10		r;12	13	14	15	16	17	ms	ms	20	21	22	23	24	?5	26	27	30	OCI	2	3	.4	5	6
							10	11	12	13	14	:15	mb	17	18	19	70	71	77	73								
	“301	31		5	-6	*fV	8	y	10	11	12	ms	m	15	16	17	18	19	20	: 21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-75:	E-7^	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	£-7	E-7	F-R	F-R	F-R								
				b-A	b-y--,.	t-9	t-9	b-y	b-9	b-A	t-A	ErA	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	F-9	F-A	E-A	F-A	F-A						
								M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M~?						
		IW-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1		A&C			M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1						
						BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	ce;	ec	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	nn	DD						
					GCv	CC	CC	CC	CC	UU	UD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA						
					UUC	DD;	uu	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA:	AA*	AA	BB	BB	BB	RR	RB	RR	RR	CC						
		E-5	E-5	E-5			t-5	t-5	t-6	b-b						E-5	E-5	E-5			F-5	F-5						
	E-6							t-6	b-6	t-6	b-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						F-fi						
							J-1	1-1	1-1	J-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1						
					m-s-T.			1-2	I-2	I-2	I-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2-	T-?			
							12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				1?	1?	8					
								12	8	8	12				12	8	8	1?				1?						
							8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				R	1?						
								8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	R			
									12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	a	8	8	8			
			«l		-g-		8	8| 81 81 SI I -I 81 8								8	8	8		I 81 8			12 8				—i	
uay Ut- WfcfcK 1 W T F glSSfij£j: M T W T F M T W T F																			s	S M T			W T		F ;	S	s	M
* NUMBERS INDICATER SCHEDULED HOURS
2010 SHIFT SCHEDULEC.W..W
	E-7	E-8	E-9	LU	. E-5	E-6	P-6	P-7	P-8	P-9	T-1	T-2	S-A	S-B	M-	, M-2, AA, BE			.CC	DD								
DAY OF WEEK	F			M	T	W	T	F	f§!	^s5	M	T	W	T	F	S	§f$.	M	T	W	T	F		■: S	M			
	JAN				6	b	/	8	Si 9	M0	11	12	13	14	15	16	M7	18	19	20	21	2?	23	24	25	26	27	
				l-tu		3	4	b	me		8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21				
				MAK	2	3	4	b	b	/	a	9	10	11	12	,13	14	15	16	17	18	19	2f	21				
			28	29	3U	31	APR	2	■ 3	4	5	6	7	8	9	CIO	itVlil	12	13	14	15	16	17	18				
		m	•■:2b	2b	2/	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	me	we	10	11	1?	13	14	MS	MR				
					2b	2b	2/	28	*29	3?;30	31	JUN	2	3	4	•H?5	3*6	7	8	9	10	11	12					
				21	22	23	24	2b	-26	y:2 7	28	29	30	JUL	2	:'3	WA	5	6	7	8	9	10					
	•lb		■M8	19	20	21	22	23	5-24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	e	9	10	11	1?
						18	19	20	m	S22	23	24	2b	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3			6	7	ft	9
			M2	13		1b	16	17	Mb	•M9	20	21	22	23	24	= 25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	C-3				
	8	m	MO	11	12	13	14	1b	16	Y-1-7	18	19	20	21	22	»28	■m	25	26	27	2ft	29	30	■31		2		
	5	* b		8	9	10	11	12	13	14	16	16	17	18	19	:?20	■m	22	23	24	25	26	27	'28	29	30		
		4	? b	6	/	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	•>*5	*26	27	28	29	
DAYS	81																											
	b-7	t-7	b-7	h-/	b-/	b-8	b-8	b-8	b-8	b-8	b -/	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	F-7	F-7	F-7	F-7	F-7	F-8	F-R	F-8	F-8
	b-A	t-y	b-9	b-9	b-y	h-y	b-A	b-A	b-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	F-A	E-9	F-9	F-9	F-9	F-9	F-A	F-A	F-A
DAYS	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1
NIGHTS			Ml *.		M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2
DAYS	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC.	CC:	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	on	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA
AFTERNOONS	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD'	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	RR	BB	BB	RR	RR	RR	CC
NIGHTS	DD	DD	DU	DU	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA:	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CG	CC	CC	DD	nn	on
DAYS	b-b			b-b	b-b	b-b	b-b						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-5						F-5	F-5
DAYS			■		b-6	b-8	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	F-6			F-6	F-6	F-6	
DAYS- 10*s	1-1			1-1	1-1	r-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1
DAYS - 10’s					I-2	I-2	I -2	1-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2
DAYS P-6 *				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8
DAYS P-7 *	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8
DAYS P-8 *				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	1?	8
DAYS P-9 *	8		•f*jS		8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12
DAYSS-A*	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8
DAYS S-B *		MJ		8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8
DAY OF WEEK	F		jsg	M	T	W	T	F	h8j;r	YS:.;	M	T	W	T	F	Si	k&ti.	M	T	W	T	F	.S	S,	M	T	W	T
' NUMBERS 1NDICATER SCHEDULED HOURS
2007 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5,S^t S-7, S-8, S-9, SC, SB
8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
	jTI		~3j	”4]	~5]	7r]	m	“fll	“si	10	11	12	(FI	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F1	2	3
	1?	13	14	15	16	17		19	20	21	22	23	sfl	25	26	27	28	M1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	26	?7	?R	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	H	8	9	10	11	12	J3	14	15	16	11	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	7	fl	9	10	Ti	12	E0	14	15	16	17	18	[FI	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	t30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	: 8	
	18	19	20	21	22	23	m	25	26	27	28	29	(l*l	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	U	1b	16	1/	1I8	19	20	
	30	lH	A1	2	3	4	E	6	7	8	9	10	HI	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	.24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S
	10	11	12	13	14	15	E	17	18	19	20	21	m	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	
	22	23	24	25	26	27	m	29	30	31	N1	2;	El	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	11	22	23	24
	_3	4	5	6	7	_8	m	10	11	12	13	Tf	[Fl	J6	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	__				
S4		12	8	12	8		m	8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	_8			12	8	12	8				8		~8	~8	~8	
S5	~~8	8	8	8	8		a	8	8	8	8	_8			12	8	12	8				8	6	8	8	~8			A	8	8	8	8	
S6	8	8	8	8	_8	w	a	12	8	12	8			7£	8	8	8	8	“8	1$		JS	8	8	8	8		is		12	8	12	8	
S7	12	8	12	8			11	8	8	8	8	~8			_8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			~8	8	8	8	8	
S8	8	8	8	8	“8		m	~8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	_8	
S9	8	8	8	8	8	W.	a		12	8	12	_8			~8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8:	8		Hi	12	8	12	8			A
SC	8	12	8	8	8				8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8		A
SO	8	8	8	12	8		£1®		8	8	12	~8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8	'	£_	8	8	8	12	Ji	l_
	M	T	W	T	F	S-^SviM T W T F 5: . S;: M T W T F l W .1 h S /-S.ssM 1 W 1																											F	
M T W T F
12
8 ”
12 J M T
W T F S;;:iS:|

2008 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5, S-6, S-7. S-8, S-9, SC, SB
8 7 12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
[T |W|T |F	,T ,W,T ,F	,T ,W.T ,F	T W T F S -S M T w T F S^M T W T F SvS^M
	J1	2	3	4	*5	%6	7	8	9	10	11	12		13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	2ft	29	30	31	F1	2	■3	4	5	6					
				18	46	M	18	19	20	21	22	23		24	2b	26	27	28	29	M1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18						
					29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	s-b			7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	2?	23	24	25		77	28	29	30					
	6	7	8	9	m	■M	12	13	14	1b	1b	17		18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	m	ft	9	10	11	12		14		
		18	19	20	•21	22	23	24	2b	2b	27	28		29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	26	26		
	yy	30	31	A1	&2	(■r3	4	b	.6	/	8	9		■10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	- 7	
			11	12	13	14	1b	1b	1/	18	19	20		21	22	23	24	2b	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	1?	13	14	15	16	17			
	21	22	23	24	2b	26	21	28	29	30	31	N1		■a	3	4	5	6	7	8	.9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	2ft	29	30	
	2	3	4	b	2.6	7	8	y	10	11	12		3	14	1b	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31			W;									
S4	8	8	8	8	&us	■S'	8	8	8	8	8					12	8	12	8	m		8	8	8	8	8			.8	8	8	8	8			12	ft	1?	8				ft
Sb	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8	M		8	8	8	8	8	■&?>.		12	8	12	a				ft	8	8	ft	ft			ft
SO	12	8	12	8		m	8	8	8	8	8				8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	a	a			ft	8	ft	a	8			
s/	8	8	8	8		r!£	8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	fl				12	ft	12	ft			ft
SB	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8		■33*			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	a	ft	8			8
sy	8	12	8				8	8	a	8	8				8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			B	8	ft	ft	ft			12
sc	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	ft	ft	ft			ft
su	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8					8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8
T W T f'"SVS/m T WT F	T WT F s's^M T WT F Sr.S^M T WT F ,S,.:Is JM T WT F S ;S M
2009 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S 5, S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9. SC, SB
8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
	T	F		:s	M	T	W	T	F	’S"	'S'‘	M	T	W	T	'F	S	S	M	T	w	T	F	S	s	M	T	W T		F	S''	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W
	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	M1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M1	2	3	4	5	6
	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	* :7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	e	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	21	28	29
	30	31	A1	'2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	1/	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	21	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	/	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	■ 3	■ 4	5	6	7	8	9	10	14	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
	??	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D1	2
	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	2?	28	29	30	31													
S4	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8
S5	8			\'£>	8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	•8	8	8			8	B	8	8	8			12	8	12
Sfi	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	a	8	8	8			8	e	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8
S7	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8
S8	1?	8		$£	8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	6	8	8	8				12	8
S9	8	8	m		8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8
SC	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	B	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8
SD	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8
	T	F	2S.	&	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	:;S;	s	M	r	W	T	F		■A	M	I	W T		h	S.r	S:	M	1	W	1	F	s,-	s...	M	i	W
2010 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5. S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9, SC, SB
8 / 12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
	F	S?	S.$	M	T	W	T	F	S'*'-	■s?	M	T	W	T	F	Ss	si	M	T	W	T	F	S'	s	M	T	W	T	F		vs;	M	T	W	T	F	s	s	M	T		
		'•=2	3		s	6	/	8	49	10	11	12	13	14	1b	1b	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F1	2	3	4	5	fi	7	8	9		
		518	14	1b	1b	1/	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	2b	2b	27	28	M1	2	3	4	5	6	m	8	9	10	11	1?	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21				
	2b	2/	28	29	30	31	A1	2	■ 3	4	b	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	76	27	28	79	30	M1	2				
	/	hti	$9	10	11	12	13	14	1b	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	" 5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	
	1b	19	20	21	22	23	24	2b	:2b	2/	28	29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	71	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	
	30	3.1	A1	2	3	4	b	6		8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	77	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	7		
	10	11	12	13	14	1b	1b	1/	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	
	22	23	24	2b	2b	2/	2b	29	30	31	N1	2	3	4	b	m		8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	74	25	76	27	28	29	30	m	2
	3	*4	lb	6	/	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	1b	16	1/	1.8	19	20	21	22	23	24	25.	26	27	28	29	30	31													
S4	8	■jag	'M	8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	■8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				1?	8	1?
Sb	8		m	8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	■ 8
Sb	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8	■yjs			12	8	12	8	&S		8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8
S/			m	8	8	8	8	8	&&		8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	1?	8
S8	8			8	8	8	8	8		Sg#		12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	1?	8				8	8	8	- 8
S9	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	a	■ 8
SC	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	1?	8	8	8			8	12	8	8
SD	8		ijjlf	8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12
	F	at;:	S:	M	I	W	I	F		S3	M	i	W	1	F	s	S	M	T	W	T	F	s;::		M	T	W	T	F	S„	S;,.	M	T	W	T	F	S	S-;	M	T	W	T
Guidelines for Supernumerary overtime work
The types of work that can be done on a Supernumerary overtime assignment are as follow:
•	Task Analysis
•	Reviewand rewrite procedures
•	Housekeeping to-do list re: safety
•	Reorganizing and restocking areas
•	Journey to Zero tasks
•	Any other task upon the consent of the union that does not cause a lost overtime opportunity to another employee. Such consent shall not be reasonably withheld.