SUNCOR
ENERGY	.
OIL SANDS
LOCAL 707
Expires May 1,1999
ooaov Loti)
SUNCOR ENERGY INC.
OIL SANDS
OF THE FIRST PART
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 707
OF THE SECOND PART
This AGREEMENT entered into this 4th day cf September, 1997 between SUNCOR ENERGY INC., OIL SANDS, hereinafter referred to as "the Company" and the COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 707, hereinafter referred to as the "the Union".
The PARTIES hereto mutually agree as follows:
-1-
X
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article______________________.________________________________________________Page
I	Purpose..............................................................4
II	Recognition...........................................................4
III	Management Rights.....................................................5
IV	Union Relations.......................................................5
V	Hours of Work.........................................................7
VI	Overtime.............................................................18
VII	Salaries.............................................................20
VIII	Vacations............................................................21
IX	Holidays.............................................................27
X	Leave ol Absence.....................................................30
XI	Promotion. Seniority. Transfers, Training and Progression Charts.....31
XII	Layoff and Discharge.................................................35
XIII	Grievance Procedure..................................................38
XIV	Safely, Health and General Conditions..............................41
XV	Incorporation of Overtime Agreement...................................
XVI	Effective Date, Duration and Amendments............................\4dj
Appendix"A" ..............................................................45
Salary Groups
Salary Schedules, Effective 97-02-01 Monthly- A, B, D, C, G, F Monthly-E,H
&Weekly-A, B, D, C, G, H, E, F Salary Schedules
Monthly-A, B, D, C, G, F Monthly- E, H
Bi-weekly - A, B, D, C, G, H, E, F
-2
55
Appendix“B" .....................................
MasterMaintenanceProgression Notes ElectronicsDepartmentCharti Notes Plant Industrial^ Intenance Charts Notes Mine Equipment Maintenance Charts Notes ExtractionOperationsCharts Notes Upgrading Operations Charts Notes Energy Services Operations Chart a Nates Laboratory DepartmentChartS Notes Warehouse DepartmentCharl & Nates Mine Department Chart & Notes
Appendix “C”	.............................................................88
Overtime Coverage for Upgrading, Energy Services and Extraction Progressions OvertimeCoverageforthe Mine Progression
Appendix "D"	.............................................................92
Letter of Understanding^
Clothing Allowance Letter of Understanding#2 Article 6.08 (a)
Letterof Understanding^
Productivityand Efficiency Letter of Understanding#4 Article 11.07 (b)
Letterof Understandings^
Safety. Healths Industrial RelationsTrainlng Letterof Understandings^
Department, Union, Company Relationships Letter of Understanding#?
Harassment
Letterof Understanding#8
ElectronicsNote#6, MEM Note #8 and PIM Progression Maternity Leave
Shift Schedules 1997. Shift Schedules 1998. Shift Schedules1999,
104
108
112
ARTICLE I ■ PURPOSE
1.0t a) The purpose of this Agreement is to promote harmonious relations between the Company and the employees; encourage safety: promote the morale of all employees through procedures for the fair and peaceful resolution of grievances and disputes; to provide a means lor continuingdiatogue between the Company and the Union that has the mutual objective of resolving differences and matters of concern to either party and to promote a shared commitment to effective and efficient operation in the interest of both parties.
b)	It is understoodthat wherever this Agreement refersto he/she, itwill also mean him/her.
Article II. REcaowmon
2.01	The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole ana exclusive colective bargaining agent for al non-supervisory employees excluding office staff, messenger-drivers, Loss Management staff, survey crew and tho68 employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations; the Union having been certified by the Labour Relations Board as Bargaining Agent on behalf of mesald Employees.
2.08 If the Company implements, during the life of the Agreement a new job not currently covered by this Agreement, the Company shall notify the Union of this new job and the salary which would be applicable. It the Union disagreeswith the salary established by the Company, the Union shall advise the Company in writing of their desire to negotiate the salary. If agreement is not reached betweenthe partieswihln thirty (30) days of the written notice, the matter may be referred, for determination, to arbitration in accordance with Article 13, If the salary for the job is changed as a result of negotiations or an arbitrator's decision, the revised salary shall be paid retroactively to the date the employee was assigned to the new job. This same procedurewill apply to Collective Agreement provisions pertinent to fhe introduction of a new operating or maintenance departmentlnto the Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands organization.
-4-
ARTICLE II
Management rights
3.01	The Company shall retain and exercise all management functions, duties and responsibilities except as limited, restrictedor precluded by this Agreement
ARTICLE IV UNION RELATIONS
4.01	This Agreement shall be administered and applied in a fair and just manner to all employees. The parties further agree that there shal be no intimidation of and no discrimination against an employee either by the Company or by the Union, by reason of activity or lack of activity in, or in respect of the Union or by reason of sex. race, creed, colour, national origin, political ormarttal status.
4.02	m e Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, there wM be no strike, slow-down or stoppageof work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there wM be no lockout either oomplete or partial.
4.03	a) The Company agrees to recognize twenty-two (22) duly elected or appointed Union Stewards throughout the Plant, with any increase In the number of such Stewards being subject to mutual agreement between the Company and me Union. Additionally, up to four
(4)	temporary Stewards may be appointed for periods not to exceed six (6) months, provided that the Company is notified in advance of the name(s) and area(a) of me appolntee(s). The Company agrees to recognize only those Stewards whose names have been submitted in writing to the Company by the Union.
b)	The Company agrees to recognize certain committees to be comprised of Stewards included in (a) above, to participate in meetings as follows:
i)	Monthly Meetings: A committee normally composed of up to five (5) Union Stewardsshall meet with Management monthly to discuss and settle matters falling within the scope of this Collective Agreement Additional meetingsmay be called by either party giving notice to the olher party.
II) GrievanceMeetlnga: Agnevanoe committee appointed or otherwise selected by the Union to m i st and/or represent employees in the presentationsof any grievance that may arise under this CollectiveAgreement, shal consist of no more than five (5) members of the Union.
•5-
Ill) Negotiating Meetings: The Union negotiating committee shall be composed of not more than one (1) Steward from each area ol the plant, in the event that circumstances preventthe attendanceof one Stewardfrom each of the areas, then any five (5) Stewards, regardlessof the area they represent, and as designated by the Union, shall constitute a legally comprised quorum for a particular negotiating meeting. Up to two (2) additional Stewards shall attend the meetings whie negotiating their respective area notes, except during the negotiating of Master Maintenance Notes, when up to three (3) additional Stewards may attend. The Company will make arrangementsto ensure that a pBriicrpaling Steward will not have to wok a midnightshlft before attending a negotiatingmeeting.
c)	Any designated Steward attending meetings as am envisaged under this Article, and which are held during his working hours, will suffer no loss in pay for time spent in such meetings.
d)	A Union Steward may, with the permission of his Supervisor, leave his regular duties to investigategrievancesandperlorm Other Unionduties underthe ColectiveAgreement
e)	It is recognized that occasions may arise which require the attendance of an outside counsel at one of the meetingsset out in (bj above. In such cases, the party requestingthe presenceof suchadvisorshall informthe other party of its desire, on a timely basis.
4X4 The Company wit provide bulletin boards in suitable locations, which may be used by the Union in posting noticesof Union activities.
405 a) The Company agrees to deduct once a month from the salary due and payableto each employee covered by Article 2,01, an amount equal to the monthly Union dues determined from time to time by the Union pursuant to I s Constitution. The total amount of such dues deductions shall be remitted by the Company, together with a list of names of employees Irom whom the deductions were made, to the Treasurer of the Union forthwith after the deductions are made.
b)The deduction of monthly dues constitutes a continuing condition of employment.
-6-
HOURS OF WORK
B.01 a) A work day is defined as the 24-hour period starting at 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. of the following caiendarday.
b) The work week shall befrom 8:00 am on Sunday to 8:00 am on the following Sunday.
e) The Company recognizes coffee breaks and lunch breaks, which will coincide with natural productionbreaks.
6.02	a) 'Day Employees"are defined in Artide 5.03(a).
b)	"Shift Employees" are defined as those employees assigned to Shift #1, Shift H2, Shift *3orShift#4 schedules.
c)	"ContinuousShift employees"are defined as those employeesassigned to a four shift, continuous work schedule.
5.03	at Dav Employ—
I) me normal work schedule for day employees shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., with one twenty-minute break for lunch commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, with Saturday and Sunday off.
li) The normal work schedule for day employees on a Compressed Work Week schedule shall be specified in Artide 5.07 with one 15-minute lunch break commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
iii) In the eventan employees unable to receive such break for lunch by virtue of a work assignment by supervision on a particular day, such employee shall receive payment at the applicableovertimeiale for the missed break.
b) Shift Employee*
Shift 41, Shift 42, Shit 43 and Shift #4 employees will work shift schedules as outlined in Article 5.07.
7-
cl Continuous Shift Employees
Employees assigned to continuous shift work >11 work according to schedules as established by agreement between the Union and the Company from time to time. Specific hours and days of work within these work schedules shall be designated by the assignment of an employee to a letter on a work schedule. An employee shall be reassigned to a different shin letteron the work schedule when work load, shin vacancies, and the safeand efficient operation of the plant requiresit.
d)	In accordance with (a), (b) and (c) above, the normal work schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07,
e)	Should R become necessaryto introduce a newscheduleor permanentlyalteran existing schedule the neworalteredschedulewill be established by mutualagreement between the Union and the Company.
5.04	a) 0 The Company will give each eight-hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" n each 26-day cycle, provided the employee has not changed his shin. Saturday and Sunday shall be included in such a "long change".
II] The Company will give each twelve hour continuous shift employee me opportunityto haveat least one "long change" in every two 16-day cycles of shin schedules with 16 week cycles, in every two 12-day cycles of shin schedules with 12 week cycles or as otherwise specified in Progression Notes Appendix "B", provided the employee has not changed hisshlft.
b)	Beginning of cycles are defined In Artide5.07.
e)	i)iS;Oiv£yfili
if an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his new shin cycle, he has not received days off considering both pancydes in the ratio of one quarter(l/4) of the total number of calendar days in the peiiod from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cyde on his new shin, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime.
-8-
li) 16 Week Cvola
If an employee is assignedto a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off his cycle will continue on the shiftto which he «transferred, if, at the completionof his working cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one-half (1/2) ol the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subjectto the provisionsof Article 6.11 re pyramidingof Overtime.
d) \Mien employees are required lo change to or from a day, shift or continuousshift work schedule, proportionate consideration wll be given to earned days off as in(c) above.
6.06	a) Employeeswith compatible qualificationsshall be allowed shift exchanges, providedno overtime or penalty payments result and further providedthat their Supervisor is advised at least forty-eight(48) hours in advance. Shift exchanges may not be anrangedif they would result in an employee working more than twelve (12) consecutive hours.
h) Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee being absent for more than six (6) consecutive shills. Mutuals are deemed to be consecutive if there is not a regularly scheduled shift worked betweenthem.
6.06	The provisions of this Agreement respecting Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute an overtime agreement pursuant to the Employment Standards Act. A Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute normal hours of work and shall not involve Overtime payments, with the exception of two (2) hours per week overtimeaveraged over the cycle in Article5.07 E F and G. If the daily hours of the schedule are exceeded, the excess dally hours shall be paid at overtime rates. If the days oft of the schedule are worked, such days worked will be paid at overtime rates. No additional claims for overtime related to the Compressed Work Week provisions of this Agreement, the Employment Standards Ad, or Article 6, may be made by the employee.
-9-
6.07 Work Schedules
A.	Day Employes
40 hours per week
Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m Saturdayand Sunday off Weekly cycle suiting Monday.
8.	Shift #2 Employees
40 hours per week
Monday through Friday, Saturdayand Sunday off Day shift
-fl:0C a.m.to4:00 p.m.
Afternoon Shift
-4:QC p.m. to 12 midnight Nightshift
-12 midnight. 9:00 a.m.
Weekly cycle starting Monday.
C.	ContinuousShift Employees (28day cycle)
-average 42 houns/week
7 night shifts, two days off, 7 afternoon shifts, one day off, 7 day shifts, lour days off Day shift
-0:00 a.m. to4:00 p.m,
Afternoon Shift
- 4:00 p.m. to 12 midnight Nightshift
• 12 midnightto 8:00 a.m.
28 day cycle Starting firstshlft of the night shift period
-10-
Ovartima Agreement* • (per Employment Standards Act Section 26, 1980 as amended September20, 1982)
D.	Day Employees
i)	10hour shifts-40 houre per week 4 daysTuesday to Friday 2 days off
4	days Monday to Thursday 4 days off
8:00 a.m. to 6:15 p.m.
2	week cycle starting on set of days starting Tuesday
il) 8 and 12 hoursshrfts • 40 hours per week Monday through Friday -8:00a.m, to 4:15 p.m.
- two weeks Monday Off Tuesday,Thursday • 8.00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Friday •8.00 a.m. lo 4:15 p.m.
Monday through Friday -8:00 a.m. to 4:18 p.m.
-two weeks Monday, Wednesday -8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday -8:00 p.m. to 4:15 p.m,
Friday off.
Six week oyde starting Monday of the first five 8 hour day week OR
-11-
lii) 8 and 12 hourshifts. 40 hoursperweek Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
■	two weeks
Saturday and Sunday ofl Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday off Monday, T uesday, Thursday •8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday
•8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m,
Friday, Saturday and Sunday off
Four week cycle starting Monday following Friday off.
OR
iv) 8 and 12 hourehHts-40 hours per week T wo weeks Monday through Friday
■	8:00 a.m. to4:1Sp.m. except Thursday 8:00 a m. to 8.00 p.m.
One week Mondaylo Thursday
•8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Three week cycle starting Mondayafler Friday off.
OR
8 and 12 hourshifts. 40 hoursperweek Two weeks Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. exceptTuesday8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
One week Monday to Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to4:i5 p.m.
Three week cycle starting Monday after Friday off.
The normal schedule will be day shift, however employees may be assigned to afternoon shin with five (5) calendar days notioe without shift change penalty. Afternoon shift assignments will lollow the same sequence of days on and off. 8-hour shifts will be 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. 12-hour shifts will be 4.00 pm. to 4:00 a.m. Assignments to afternoon shift will be on a rotational basisand will not exceed three consecutive weeks.
-12-
E. Shift #1 Employeesl 2 hour shift * 42 hours per week average
i) 4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
8 Wteek cycle beginningset of days starting Sunday.
OR
i) 3 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Wednesday to Friday
2	days off
4	days0;OO a.m. to8:00p.m. Monday to Thursday
5	days off and
3	daysS OO a.m. to8:00 p.m. Mondaylo Wednesday 5 days off
4	days8:0Q a.m.to 8:00 p.m. Tue9dBy to Friday 2 daysoff
2	week cycle beginningset of days stalling Monday OR
iii) 4 days Monday to Thursday 8:00 a.m. a 8:00 p.m.
5	daysoff
5 days Wednesday to Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Fridayto Tuesday 8:00 a.m. I o 8:00 p.m.
S days off
4 week cycle beginningwith the set of days starting on Monday
-13-
OR
lv) 4 days Tuesday to Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p,m.
5 days off
5 days Thursday to Monday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Saturday to Wednesday 8:00 a.m, to 8:00 p, m
5	days off
4 week cycle beginning with the set of days starting with Tuesday
F,	Shift #3 Employees'! 2 hourshifts •42 hours perweek average
4 days8:00 a.m. to 8 .00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 3 daysoff
3	nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. T uesdayto Thursday
4	daysoff
G.	Continuous Shift Employees 12 hourshifts
- 42 hours perweek average
I)	4 nights0:OO p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
2 days off
4 days8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
6	days off
16 week cycle beginningfirst set of nights starlingSunday OR
4 daysfltOO a.m. lo0:OQ p.m.
1	day off
4 nightsS.OO p.m. to8.00a,m.
7	daysoff
16 week cycle beginning first set of days sta rt/ng Sunday
-14-
OR
3	days 8:00 a m. to 8:00 p.m
3	nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
6	days off
12 week cycle beginningfirst set of days staring Sunday OR
jl) 4 nights0:OOp.m.to8;OOa.m.
4	days oft
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
18 week cycle befltnntrgfiist set of nights starting Sunday
H.	Shift #4 Employees
8	and 12 hour shifts 40 hours perweek Monday. Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p-m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weeklycycle beginning Monday
OR
Tuesday, Friday 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m,
Saturday, Sunday, Monday off Weeklycycle beginningTuesday
OR
Monday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 pm Tuesday, Wednesday 8:00 am. to 8:00 p.m,
Friday. Saturday, Sunday off Weeklycycle beginning Monday
-15-
OR
Wednesday, Thunday 8:00 a.m.to8:00 p.m,
Tuesday, Friday
8.00	a.m. to4:00 p.m Saturday, Sunday, Monday off Weekly cycle beginningTuesday
me Company shall have the right to temporarily alter SchecUes for Turnarounds or for unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances. It is the Company's intent that these changes will be made following consultationwith Area Sleward(s).
6.08	a) The Company will make every effort to maintain a stable schedule for every employee.
b)	Temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary Shift changes.
ARTICLE VI OVERTIME
6.01	a) Any work in excess of an employee'swork day or in excess of that included as pall of his work schedule or all hours worked on a statutory holiday or included os pari of his work schedulewhen in excess of forty (40) hours perweek, whai averaged overthe employees shift cycle shal be deemed overtime and paid at two (2) times the employee's base hourly rate.
b)	The provisions of Article 6.02 (a) shall not apply if shift refef is delayed less than fifteen (15) minutes intoa twelve (12) hour break.
c)	FarCompressedWork Week schedules the Company will implement voluntary standby procedures in accordance with the Progression Notes Appendix "E. The Company reserves the right to schedule employees for slandby if the voluntary standby procedures do not supply sufficient personnel to safely and efficiently operatethe plant
6X12 a) ^an employee'sschedule is such that he does not have a minimum of a twelve (12) hour break betwem wok periods, he will work his scheduled hours and wi receive two (2) times his base hourly rate, until he has had a minimum of a twelve hour break. However, for reasons of safety only, his supervisor may Instruct him to take a twelve (12) hour break.
-16-
This paragraphdoes not apply to "call-outs'.
b)	For employees on twelve (12) hour overtime agreements the specified breaks in 6.02(a) shall be read as ten and one-quarter(lOW) hours
8.03	a) A Day or Shift employee who has relumed to his residence and is called for duly and who reports lor work before or after his regularshiftshaN receive the greater of
i) m e applicableovertime rate, or,
II]	Aminlmum of four (4) hours pay computed at the appticableoverlime rate
b)	An employee who is called for duly under (a) above wl not be required to perform nonessential work during the call-out.
o) If a cal-out ends less than eight (8) hours prior to a Day or Shift employee's next regular shift, he shall take an eight (8) hour break with no loss of regular pay. An employee shall notberequiredto retumto work on his regularshlft for less than two (2) hours.
d)	if a call-out extends up to the commencement of his regular shift, e Day or Shift employee shall normallytake an eight (0) hour break. However,if requested to work after the commencement of his regularshlft, he wiR receive the applicable overtime rate for the hours of his regular shift that he works. Following completion of his call-out work, he shall take an eight (8) hour break, with no loss of regularpay for the remaining hours of his regular shift
6.04	a) An employee who is required to work mom than two (2) hours beyond his regular stoppingtime and has not had eight (8) hours noticeaf this overtime prior to his Shift shall be supplied with a suitable hot meal which will be eaten on Company time. For overtime scheduled with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, the Company will supply hot meals. These meals will be furnished thereafter at approximate four (4) hour intervals throughout the remainingperiodof continuouswork.
b) Suitable hot meals will be delivered tu employees assigned to duties, which require the employee to remain at his place of work. Otheremployeeswlll be allowedto eat their meals at the camp kitchen.
6.08	When an employee is requiredto make a special trip in orderto work overtime or when he is "called out" at other than regular shift change times, transportation will be provided at Company expense.
-17-
a)	The Company will schedule buses, provide special transportation, or reimburse an employeewho is requested and wno agrees to provide his awn transportation m connection with an overtime assignment
Company transportationwill beprovidedto the normal bus stops, or to an employee's home in Fort McMurray where possiblewhen unscheduledtransportationis provided.
b)	An employee who Is called out or who works a sixteen (16) hourshift upon request shall be granted a room in camp, to allow him to obtain maximum rest during the period before his next shift. A hot meal will be provided in camp prior to the start of his next shift. A second meal will be provided at the next regular meal time as provided in Article 6.04. Ail of the above will be provided at no cost to the employee.
c)	A special trip with respect to overtimework is defined as a trip lo or from wok, either before or alter an overtime assignment where there is no regular bus transportation scheduled within a reasonable period of time after the employeeis called to report for wok, or after completfon of the overtime shift.
6.06	^an employee IS assigned to work on a schedule different I ram his regular schedule and
his starting time on the new schedule is more than one hoursooner or laterthan the starting time under his schedule Immediately priorto the change, he Shall be paid two (2) times his base hourly rate for the first shift worked of the new shift schedule, unless the change is made:
a)	As an accommodation to or for the convenience of the employee.
b)	As a result of the employee being upgraded or promoted on a permanent basis.
c)	In returning an employee to his originalschedule within 28 days, which he worked prior to the change.
d)	So that the employee may attend off-thejob training, i.e. in class, job related training, or plant protection, or safetytraining.
0,07 No employee working on shift shall leave his working area until property relieved, without the permission of Supervision.
-18-
8.08	a) Consistent with Article 7,01 and Whin the six month periods ending June 30 and December 31, annually, the Company will make every reasonable efiort to distribute overtime work equally among employees, either within the pay classification where the overtime is required, rf move up is not possible, or as otherwise specified in the Progression Notes. Appendixes ". Article 6,0fi (a) shall not be applicable lo employees in progressions where a "chit" system is utilized lor the assignmentof overtime.
b)	The Companywill post overtime lists on al relevantareabulletinboardsbi-weekly.
c)	Refusal of overtime shall be considered as overtime worked for record purposes and will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list.
d)	For record purposes, upon permanent entry into a classification, or area as specified in the Progression Notes, an employee shall be assigned the current average Overtime hours of all other employeeswtthm that classification or area
e)	For record purposes, an employee who is absent from his regular duties on leave of absence or due to iHness/injury for more than sixty (60) consecutive, calendar days shall be assigned the current average overtime hoursfor all other employeeswithin the classification or area upon his return.
f)	Any distribution of overtime, found lo be in violation of the provision of the Collective Agreement, will be resolved through mutual agreement between the wronged employee and their supervisor. Such agreement Is limited to an Overtime assignment of equal duration, at a time acceptableto both the employee and the supervisor, not more than forty-five (45)calendardays after the original overtime assignment giving rise to the claim a the date such original assignment was determined to be in violation, whicheverls later. In the event the employee and the supervisor are unable to reach agreementto satisfy this forty-five (45) day limitation, the matter will be deemed to be settled and the employee wV be recorded refused overtime for the number of hours in question. This forty-five (45) day periodwill be extended by the number of shifts an employee is absent from regular duties od an approved leaveof lour (4) or mare consecutive days.
Such overtime assignmentwill not result in anotheremployee being denied overtime as per the Chit Systems In Appendix''B" and “C".
g)	In accordance with the chit systems in Appendix B and C where two (2) or mare employee's overtime hours are equal, the employee with the greatest area seniority will be offeredths overtimelint.
*19-
6.09	•• an employee repats tor an overtime assignment which has been cancelled a shortened with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, he will be permitted to perform an alternate assignment of equivalent hours on that day.
6.10	An employee'sovertlme shall be calculated to the next quarter hour, in accordance with Article 0 01
6.11	in no case shall payments be pyramided or paid under more than one provision of this agreement unless specificallyprovided lor.
AWBCLEVH
SALARIES
7.01	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a monthly salary basis in accordance with Appendix "A' appended to this Agreement. The monthly salary of employees has been adjusted in the salary scheduled include shift differentia land average shin overtime worked as pan of the work schedules as defined in Article 5.07.
jj02 Shift differentials in accordance with Appendix " A are included in the monthly salary of aU Continuous Shift. Shifted, and Shin 13 employees. Shift Differentialsin accordance with Appendix "A wi be paid to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees lor all straight time hours worked between4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Additionally, shift differentials will be paid to Day employees lor eight (8) a more consecutive overtime hours worked between4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m„ lo Shin #1 and Shift#4 employees fa aU overtime hours waked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 am andtoContinuousShift, Shift #2 and Shift #3 employeesfor ail overtime hcurs waked.
74)3 While an employee is tempaariy assigned to a higher classificationfa other than his own training, he shall receive the salarylorthis higher classifications accordance with Appendix "A. Upon permanent promotion to a higherclassllication, an employee shall receive the salarylorthis higher classificationln accordance with Appendix "A".
7.04	Employees who are temporarily assignedto a lower classification will havetheir regularrate of pay maintained. .
7,06	Amendments to an employee's time sheet shall not be permitted wthout consultation with the employeeconcemed.
-20-
7M Any pay due an employee as a result of an error in his pay deposit or statementshall be made available by special cheque within ninety-six (96) hours, upon the employee's request
ARTICLE VIII VACATIONS
8.01	An employee after one year of continuous sewice shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendaryeartheisaflsr. During the first year of employment, an employee may elect to take one (1) week d his earned vacation after six (0) months of continuous service; in which event however, he wM be eligfcle for only the remainingtwo (2) weeks of vacation with pay after the completion of that first year of continuous sewice. No employee shall receive more than three (3) weeks vacationm one (1) calendaryear unless he qualities under Articles 8.02 orB,12.
8.02	a) During me calendaryear In which an employee completes ten (t 0) years d continuous sewicethe employee shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. A similarvacation shall be taken each calendaryear thereafter.
b) i) During the calendaryear In which an employee completes nineteen (10) years of continuous sewice, the employee shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendaryearthereafter.
ii)	During the calendar year In which an employee completes eighteen (18) years (effective January 1,1900) of continuous sewice. the employee shal be entitled to five (5J weeks vacation. A similarvacation shall be taken each calendaryearthereafter.
e)	During the calendar year in which an employes completes twenty-five (25) years of continuous sewice, he shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. A similarvacation shal be taken each calendaryearthereafter.
8.03	Employees wil indicate vacation period preference h advance of December 1st of each year lor the following calendar year's vacation and vacation schedules for ai earned vacation hours shal be posted by the Company by January 1 st of each year.
-21-
8.04	a) An employee who qualifies for vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or 8.02 will reoe/ve vacation pay based on the greater of:
i) his regularsalary, or
(I)	for each hour of vacation taken, 0.05% of his regularsalary as recorded for ail time worked during the 26 di-weekly pay periods prior to the first day of the pay period in which his vacation commences.
b)	An employee may request in writing, at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the commencement of his vacation, to receive a vacation pay advance on the pay day immediately preceding the commencement of his vacation in accordance with (a) above, me Company shal recover any vacation pay advance in the pay periotf(6) immediately following receipt of such advance.
c)	The Company shall make any vacation pay adjustment by the end of the first pay period immediatelyfbllowingthe pay periodduring which an employee's vacation or partthereof, is completed.
d)	The Company shall publish on each bl-weekly pay statement the current vacation pay adjustment due to the employee and the earnings on which the calculation Is based.
84)6 Should an employee become disabled as a result of sickness or accident Immediately prior to commencing his vacation, or if he becomes disabled during his vacation, his vacation, or pan vacation, shall be rescheduled In such a mannerthat he shall not lose his vacation by reason of such disability, in order to have his vacation rescheduled, such employee must notify his Supervisor of said disability as soon as possible. He must also provide prool of hospitalization, or submit a Doctor's certificate. The basic intent is to ensure that an employee receives his earned vacation where becauseof a bonaflde medical reason this may not have been possible. Underno circumstances is this section to be construed as an opportunityfor premiumpay in lieu of the earned vacation pay.
8X8 When a recognized holiday or holidays fall on one of an employee's scheduled vacation days, he shall take an extra day or days vacation with pay, to be taken either at the beginning or end of the vacation if scheduled, or at anothertime mutually agreeableto him and the Company.
-22-
8.07	An employee who is eligible for three (3| weeks vacation in a calendar year may spill his vacation into three (3) parts. An employee who is eligible for four (4) or more weeks vacation in a calendaryear may split his vacation intofour (4) pads.
8.09	Vacation allowanceon termination shal be as follows:
a)	Ii the m e of an employee who has not become eligible for an annual vacation, the employeeshall receive an amount equal to four (4) percent of his basesalaryfor the period from his date of hire to his termination date.
b)	in the m e of an employee who has become entitledto a vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or 8.02, he shal receive vacation pay based on 0.05% of his aocumulated base salary for each hour of vacation for which he is eligible, and as calculated for all straight time hours worked from his anniversary date in the year in which he last took vacation, less any vacation pay already received during the calendar year in which he terminates.
8.09	a) Up to fourteen percent (14%) of the work force in one area will be allowedoff on vacation at any time At the Company's option, this fourteen percent may be increased in consultation with Area Sloward(s). Management and Area Steward(s) may also agree on variations which result in a distribution of employees allowed oH that vanes monthlo month or fa defined periodsof the year. Fractionalnumbers of employees will be adjusted to the nextwhole number.
I)	Notwithstanding (a) above, up to seven percent (7%) of the workface in any one area will be allowed off on vacation at one time during a schedu ed turnaround. Other arrangements may be made with mutual agreement between Area Management and Area Steward(s). Full turnaround period will consist of the ten (10) days pria to turnaround, the scheduled turnaround and the ten (10) daysafter the scheduled slart-up date.
b) The Managerand/or Supervisor will define in writing ttw combination of job positionshe will allow to be on vacation at the same time. This will be posted by October 1st of each yearfor the following calendaryears vacations.
e)	Once a vacation has been agreed upon by the Company and the employee, it can be changed only by:
i) The employee with thirty (30) calendar days written notice to his area manager and/or supervisor In case of layott, the employeewiH have the option of electingto take his vacation prfortolhe layoff taking effect
li) The Company in cases of emergency. The need to schedule relief coverage at overtime rates shal not be considered lust cause lor denying an employee his scheduled vacation
d)	In the event that an employee's wok schedule has been changed after the vacation list has been posted, the Company agrees the employee will havethe option of
i)	taking his vacation as posted;
ii)	changing his vacation to lit intothe new schedule, i.e., if such vacationwas to be taken in conjunction with a "long change" on the old vacation schedule, the employee may rearrange his vacation to fit in conjunction with a "long change" on the new schedule.
e)	Where work schedule changes have occurred, no other employee will be required to change his vacation due to such change.
f)	In the event that an employee wishes to change his vacation period, no other employee's vacation period wi be changed as a result, except where the employees concerned and supervision mutualy agree to such change.
g)	An employee wil not be requiredto work any overtime on scheduleddays off which fail in conjunction with his vacation.
8.1*3	3) I) Seniority lor purposesof indicatingvacation period preferenceshall be defined as
the number of vacation points accumulated by each employee in his department as of October 1st of each year. Such vacation points shall continue to accumulate from year to year as outlined in (dj below.
II)	Within the constraints of other sections in Article VIII, employees shall be eligible to select their annual vacation periods In order of most assigned vacation points receiving first choice, with remaining choices allowed in declining vacation point sequence. An employee electing to split his vacation Into more than one (1) pari must select his second part after all otheremployeeshaveselectedtheirfirat choice. Simiarly. he must select his third part after all other employeeshave selected their second choice.
III)	In the event that two (2) or more employees in a department have the same number of vacation points, vacation pertod selection among such employees will he allowed in orderof the longest respective Company service dates.
-24-
b) For purposes of (his Article 8.10 Only, vacation 'prime time" shall be defined as the annual period of July 1 to August 31 inclusive. "Vacation days" shall be defined as the actual earned days of annua' vacation, excluding the travel days, holidays, banted holidays, mutual changes and scheduled days off.
e)	By Octoberl 0th of each yearthe Companyshall post a list in each department which will indicatethe total numberof vacation points assigned to each employee.
d)	On October 1st of each year, employees in each department shall receive or lose vacation points as fellows:
i)	One(1) service point shell be added to each employ ee’saccumulated total points,
ii)	Each employee who tooktwenty-lour (24) vacation hours or less during "prime time" in the previoustwelve (12) months shall receive one (1) vacation point bonus.
iii)	An employee shall lose vacation points, based on the total numberof vacation hours taken during primetime in the previoustwelve (12) months, in accordance with the (blowing: Twenty-live (25) to sixty (60)vacation hours loses one (1) point. Sixty-one (61) to ninety-six(96) vacation hours loses two (2) points. Ninety-seven (97) to one hundred and forty-four (144) vacation hours- loses three (3) points. One hundred and forty-live (145) to one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours loses four(4) points. Over one hundredand eighty (1 BO) vacation hours - loses five (5) points.
e)	I) Upon employment, each new employee shall receive h e lower of zero (0) points or one (1) point less than the lowest Individual pointtotal In his department as of October 1 st preceding his hire date, mereafter, they shall receive additional points in accordance with (d) above.
K) If an employee transfers from one departments another within h e bargaining unit, he shallcany his accumulatedvacation pointtotal to his new department.
Ill)	If an employee transfers to a department within the bargaining unit from a position outside of the bargaining unit he shal, immediately upon entry into his new department, receivevacation points as per 8.10 (e)(i) above. Thereafter, he shall receive or lose vacation points in accordance with (d) above.
8.11	For the purpose of scheduling vacations, supervisors'vacations shall not be taken into account
-25-
8.12	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation may elect to defer one (1) week of vacation Employees entitled lo four (4) or more weeks of vacation may elect to defer two
(2)	weeks of vacation. Deferredvacation will betaken in the fblowing calendar year outside of the period July and August inclusive.
8.13	a) A week of vacation is defined as forty (40) scheduled working hours
b) A day of vacation is defined as eight (8) scheduled working hours. Vacation will be scheduled in full shifts.
8.14	If, at the end of an employee's vacation entitlement a partialshlft of vacation Is remaining, the employee will be granted a leave of absence without pay for the remaining hours of said shiftto complete his vacation.
8.15	Uponcompletlon of one (1) year of continuous service, twenty-four hours of travel time with pay at the employee's base hourly rate wil be granted annually to each employee in conjunction with hisannual vacation.
-26-
Article ix Holidays
9.01	a) The following holidayswill be granted to all employeescovered by this agreement:
NewVears Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Family Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day RemembranceDay Christmas Day
b) Additionally, employees on schedules 5.07 (a), (b), (c), <d)(ii) and (d)(iii) will be granted the following holidays:
August civic Holiday	Boxing Day
c)	A floating holiday announced by the Company it October each year for the following yearwill be granted to all employees on schedules 5.07 (a), (b), (c) and (d).
9.02	a) Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 and Continuous Shift employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall.
b)	Shin #2 and Day employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall, where mat day is Included in their work schedule. Where the holiday fais on a Shift #2 or Day employee's scheduled day off the employee shall observe the holiday on a scheduled day of work. For holidays falling on a Friday or a Saturday that day shall be observed on the proceeding scheduled day Cf work. For holidays falling on a Sunday or Monday that day shall be observed on the following Scheduled day of work.
c)	For purposes of determining the date of a holiday under Article 9.01, me day proclaimed by Government legislation shall apply.
9.03	If a recognized holiday falls on a day an employee is scheduled to work, he will work his shiftthat day and receive, in addition to his regularsalary, pay at applicable overtime rates for all hoursworked.
9.04	If a recognized holidayfalls on a Shill #1, Shill #3, Snift #4 or a continuous shift employee's
scheduled day off, the employee will receive, in addition lo his regularsalary, one shift'6 pay calculated at his basehoudy rate.
27-
9.05	a) Notwithstandinghe provisions in Articles 9.02,9.03 and 8.04, an employee will be paid a holiday creditfor each of the agreed uponstalutory holidays, only provided: i) if his schedule i6 suchthattne employeeworksonthe holiday, or
S) if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday and his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday or
iii)	If his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works either his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday or his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday, and has an excused absenceforihe other day mentioned.
b)	An employee will, however, be entitled to holiday pay If absent on the holiday when scheduled to work, if hi5 shift is covered by another employee with a mutual shift change agreement. Theprovl6lons of Article 9.06 will appfy.
9.05	in the event that a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or continuous shift employee is required to work on a statutory holiday, or if the holiday falls on a scheduled day off, the employee may elect to receive a regularly scheduledwork day off, on the following basis:
a)	i) Any seventy-two (72) statutory holiday hours per year may be reserved lo be scheduled at otherthan the period of July and August The Statutory holidays so reserved would be the Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Family Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, NB/V Year's Day and Good Friday. Additionally, employeesnotona CompressedWoik Week schedule may bank August Civic Holiday and Boxing Day. A maximum of one hundred and eight (108) stalutoiy holiday hours so reserved may be carried from year to year at an employee'soption.
II) The Company agrees to publish the current number of accumulated banked statutory holiday hours, defined in (I) above on the bl-weekly pay statement of each employee covered by Artide2.01.
b)	If there is open time available during the period of July and August, after vacation schedules have been posted, employees may schedule some or al reserved statutory holiday credts to fit these open periods, in accordance with Article9.0S (e).
c)	Employees must elect, in writing, thirty (30) days in advance, to reserve the specified statutoy holidays.
-28“
d| NotwithstandingArtides 6.01, 9.03 and 9.04, payment for these reserved holidays or portion thereof, at Me time the holiday occurs, wl be at one (1) times pay, plus regular salary for those reserved holidays worked, and at regularsalary only with no premium fa those reserved holidaysfalling on an employee's scheduled days off.
e)	Employees must give their Supervisa at leastthree (3)working days written notice ar five
(5)	calendar days notice of their desire to schedule a day of their resewed statutory holiday.
If the request is dorm in writing, the employee wl receive a written reply at least two (2) working days priorto their requestedtime off.
If the request is done verbally, the employee will receive a verbal reply at least two (2) calendar days priorto the requested time off.
The request shall be granted underthefbttowing conditions:
i) subjeci to 9.06(a);
II) operations not being unduly restricted;
HI) the lob combinations allowed off at any one time will be the same as defined in 8.09(b).
f)	The provisions of (a), (b), (d) and (e) above, inclusive, shall also apply to a Day orShifl #2 employee who Is required to work on a holiday, subjectto the employee electing in Wing, i n advance or on the holiday, to reserve the holiday.
g)	Subjectto 9.06(e) debanking of statutory holidays shall be on a first come, first served basis.
-29-
AHT1CI-EX
LEAVEOF ABSENCE
10.01	Individual employees may, withthe Company'sconsent in writing, obtain a leave of absence without pay. The written consent shall state the dates on which the leave of absence begins and ends.
10.02	In the case of death in the immediatetemily of an employee, such employee will be granted three (3) working days off with no loss of pay. For employees not covered by an overtime agreementan additional two (2)worf<ing days will be grantedwith no loss of pay if travelout of town is required. Foremployeescovered by overtime agreements an additional one (1) working day will be granted with no loss of pay if travel out of town is required. If circumstances are such as to make this impractical, additional time off may be granted subject to Company approval. The "immediatefamily" shall be deemed as any member of the employee's actual household and the folowing relatives of the employee or spouse even though not living in the employee's house:
(1)	Parents
(2)	Son or his wife
(3)	Daughteror her husband
(4)	Brotheror his wife
(5)	Sister or her husband
(6)	Grandparents
(7)	Grandchildren
10.03	An employeewho receives a subpoenafor jury or witness duty will be granted a leave of absence for that purpose provided the Company is property notified. The employee will receivean amount of payffom the Company, which when added to his jury duty or witness pay, will equal his regularsalary while on such duty.
10.04	The Company agrees to grant leaves of absence without pay to members of the Union for the business purposes of the Union and to attend Union functions. Application for approval of such leave shall be made by one or more of the ExecutiveOfficers of the Union, who WB endeavour to request such leave at least 48 hours pnor to the commencement of the 8hift(8} lor which the leave is requested.
10.06 In the went that an employees recruited for lighting forest fires, an amount will be paid by the Company which, when added to the fire fighting pay received from the Government equalslhe employee's normal salary.
-30-
ARTICLE XI
PROMOTION. SEWOHTTY. TRANSFERS. TRAINMQ AND PROQRE8HON CHARTS
11.01	a) i) Permanent progression within any area shall be in accordance with progression charts and notes, Appendix "8\ Qualification is based on the employee’s knowledgeof the theories, procedures and equipment related to the job in question The Company undertakes to evaluate the qualifications tf employees in a fair and just manner, m e Company agrees that all employees will be given every opportunity to qualify for the next higher jobs within the minimum time periods, as set out in the progression charts. Employeesshall be provided with special instruction, instructionaimaterialand/or any other advice or meansfor sell-improvement. If an employee has not qualified for the next higher job because the Company has not given him the opportunity to train within the minimum time period, the Company agrees that within a further ninety (SO)day periodthe employee shall receive the opportunityto train and qualify. Providing the employee qualifies during this ninety (SO)day period he shall receive his wage increment retroactive to the date of completion of the minimumtime period as outlined in Appendix"Bu,
II) When a permanent vacancy occurs the most senior man in the next lower classification or phase will be given the job provided he is qualified for move up or phase progression, in the event that It isfoundthat an employeehas not sufficient qualification for move up or phase progressionhe Mil be informed as to the areas in which he Is expected to improve and will be given extra assistance in those areas. If time is such that it would not be practical for re-evaluation of said employee before the vacant job must be filled, the next most senior employee will be giventhejob.subjectto the same conditions. It is agreed that the senior employee will be given the same opportunity for ell subsequentvacencles in the next higher Classification or phase. However, if the senior employee, providing he meets the certification requirements where required as outlined in Appendix "S', has not been given the opportunity to train for the job, the position wl be filled on a temporary basis for up to thirty (30) working days, during which time the senior employee will be given the opportunityto train and qualify,
lii) Pay dassillcetian seniority will be the governing factor to determine move up, however if pay classification seniority is the same, the qualified employee with me most area seniority will be given the job. If the area seniority is the same, then the qualified employee with Me most Company seniority will be given the job. Pay classification or area seniority begins on the date an employee is given a permanent assignment in the pay classification, phase or area It there Is no one qualified in the given pay classification, phase or area, then persons in the next lower pay classification or phase will become
-31-
eligible. An employee may, with the approval of the Area Superintendent, decline a permanent move up. In such case his rate of pay will be fixed at his currently assigned position rate in accordance with Appendix "B". This agreement will remain in eftect until cancelled by either party with 30 days written notice. The date (f cancellationwill determine the employees pay classification seniority for subsequent progression.
b)	Move-ups caused by temporary vacancies as wel as trainingfor the next job shall be In accordance with the ProgressionCharts and Notesfor each area.
c)	Temporary shift vacancies will be filled by the next most senior employee on the shift concerned, or as outlined in Appendix "S'1, provided the employee ha8 sufficient training. If it is determined that a temporary job opening will last in excess of thirty (30) days, it shall be considered as a permanent job opening and shall be filled by the normal procedure as defined in 11.01 (a) excepl as follow:
i) When filling job vacancies on a temporary basis, resulting from vacations, injury, sickness, leave of absence, training or emergency, the temporary procedure may apply beyond thirty (30) days.
K) Specific projects of limited duration, not to exceed six (6) months, provided the Union isnotlffed of such specificproject
d)	VMien two or more employees begin employment on the same day, the order of Company seniority will be established at that time by a draw in the presence of all employees concerned. Badge numbers will be assigned to new hires In the order of the lowest number representing the most seniority. If required, a similar draw shall be held to determine the order of Company seniority for any employees whose order of Company seniority has not been previously determined.
e)	It is the Company's intent that, whenthe equipment or plant area is in operation, ail shift positions will be manned. Itis also the intenttha t when the equipment or plant area is not in operation, but is ready and availablefor operation, and it is evident that it may be required to operate during a shift, then in the eventany employee is absent, move-upwill be made to man each position.
f)	Summerstudent employees will recerve move-up,overtime and promotionalopportunlties only after al employees hired into permanentpositlons.
11.02	Company policy regarding educational assistance Is included in the Suncar, Inc. Benefits Package.
-32-
11.03	This provision does not apply to successful applicants apprenticeshippositions.
a)	in the event an employeewhose pay classification is above the rank of Trainee transfers of his own volition to another area, his salary will be adjusted to the greater of the rate of pay far the job to which he transfers or to the "H" rate d pay. An employee who transfers at a rate of pay below ''Hu rate will maintain his rate of pay. However, on such transfer, he shall be established at the Trainee or equivalent Start level it his new department or area, and his classification and areaseniority will begin on the day of his transfer.
b)	An employee who transfers into a labourer's position will have his salary reduced to "K" rate Hewill receive wage increasesas per Appendix "A.
11.04	Off-The-Job Training
The Company encourages participation In all forms of ofl-the-job training such as Company sponsored courses, correspondencecourses, or stationary engineering studies. These are aids to Increaseablllty but they are not requirements for any job classification in any area, except as specificity provided elsewhere in this Agreement
11.05	Employees8hall be probationary lor the first four hundred and eighty (480) working hours. Afler successful completion of his probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be dated from the day his employmentbegan.
11.06 Seniority lists will be posted at least every three (3) months. Distribution will consist of the employes'sdasslllcatlon seniority, Area seniority and Company seniority.
11.07	a) Non-bargaining unit employees shall not perform work normaly assigned to employees within the bargaining unit to the extent of denying an employee in the bargaining unit the opportunity for a job or promotion. It is not the Company's intent that non-bargatnlng unit personnel perform work normally assigned to bargaining unit personnel, on an ongoing basis. It is recognized that there will be occasions such as, In emergency situations, for teaching or demonstrations, in experimental and developmentalwork, critical start-up and shutdown, ortolmprove productivity and effectiveness of the plant, that It may be necessary from time to time for non-bargaining unit employees to do work in cooperation with bargaining unit employees.
b)	Employment of contractors fa wak expected to fast in excess ol ten (10) days to supplement bargaining unitwoik wfl only take place after discussionwith and inputfrom the Area Stewards).
-33-
11.08	Before the Company seeks candidates from outside the Bargaining Unit, preference shal be given to Senior qualifiedemployeesMio have a minimum of one (1) year Area seniority, in accordance with Article 11.06, in the area he is transferring from, and have applied pursuant to the procedures below.
a)	The Company shall post notices of any permanentvacancies on designated job vacancy bulletin boards, andshall send a copy of each posting to the Union Office.
b)	The Company agrees to receive written applicationsfortransferfrom employees tor eight
(8)	days from the date of the posting. Employees may fie standing applicationswith Suncor Energy Inc. EmploymentOfficelor a specific job opportunity. Such applicationswill be valid fora periodol three (3) months.
c)	A successful job applicant shall be released to his new job as soon as possible but in any event not later than thirty (30) working days afterthe closing of the job posting.
d)	The Company shall notify each unsuccessful employee of the reasons why he was not selectedfor the posted job vacancy.
11.09	Any employee who accepts a promotion or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit in excess of one thousand and forty (1040) accumulated working hours per contract year shall be notified by the Company of his loss of bargaining unit seniority and may only re-enterthe Bargaining Unit at metrainee level. Any overtime worked wil be recorded on the bl-weeldy overtime list. During this period he may be revertedto his former position.
-34-
ARTICLE Ml
Layoff and DtscHABoe
12.01	a) The Company agrees to provide the Union with six (6) months noticeof a plant closure, partial plant closure or other workforce reduction caused by changes in working methods or facilities which will involvethe lay-off of any person covered by Article 2.01 during the lifeof this Agreement.
b) Senior employees displaced as a result of such change will be given the opportunityto transfer to any department in the operation where there is an opening, If they satisfy the basic requirementsfor the position. If retraining is required to fill the open position, the Company will provide such training where possible, or oo-opemte with government retraining departments to provide such training in order that Ihe displaced employee may qualify to continue in the employ of the Company. Employees who remain in the employ of the Company will havelhelr regular rate of pay maintained until permanently reassignedto their new job. Employees who am permanently reassigned will have their regular salary maintained until they qualify for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular salary rates qualifythe employeesfor an increase. Forthis maintenanceof rate provisions apply, employees who are permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordance with this agreement.
e)	In the event It is notpossibleto reassign the employee to other useful employment in me operation, then on severance resulting Irom technological change or automation, me employee will receive severance pay based on the greaterof;
i)	four weeks pay; or
ii)	two weeks' pay plus two weeks pay for each year of Continuous Service, provided in either case the employee has at least one (1) year of Continuous Service with the Company. Severance pay for a partial year of servicewill be calculated on a prorated basis.
12.02	a) In the event that it is necessary for the Company to reduce the working force, the lay-off shall be made by the Company in the reverse order of Company senioritywithin the trade or progression concerned within each Department of the plant, providing employees retained are qualified to do the work remaining. However, in the went of lay-off in a trade or progression common to more than one Department then the junior of the qualified employees affected will be taio off regardess of the department, with the remaining employees being transferredio fill the resulting vacancies.
-35"
b) i) If an employee who has transferred from one department to another while employed by the company is to be laid off, he may exercise his Company seniority to displace the junior employee in the trade or progression where ne worked in his last previousdepadment provided the junior employee has less company seniority and has the least company seniority in the trade or progression in his last previous department and provided he is qualified to fill the positioa
H) Employees who are not able to retain employment through (b)(i) above may use their qualificationsand seniority to displace the employee who has less Company Seniority and who has the least Company Senionty in any entry level position provided that no more than twenty-five (25%) percent of such employees ii an area are displaced. For the purpose of this provision, entry-level positions are Labourer, Trainee, Warehouse Technician, and Mine Operator. In the case of Mine Operators, the Company reserves the right to phase in the displacement of a large number of operators if to do otherwise would not be in the best interest of the business. In the case ol Labourers, there are no restrictions on displacement
e) i) The recall of employees will be in the reverse order of layoff, provided the employee has not been laid off for more than twelve (12) months and further provided the employee^) recalled are qualified to perfbrmthe work available.
II) Employeeswho decline a Recall for work expected to last less than one hundred and twenty (120) Calendar Days will not lose their position on the Recall List because of declining.
lil) Employees on the Recall List are responsble to inform the Company of their whereabouts so that they may be contacted for Recall. The Company will notify the employee by telephone. Failing that, the Company wil notify the employee by Registered Mail or other form of delivery which demonstrates the attempt to contact was made at the last known addressof the employee and a copy of the notices to besentto the Union.
iv)	The employee has forty-eight (48) hours to respond to contact by telephone and must report for work within an additional seven (7) days or some longer period if longer noticecan be given by the Company. The employee hasfourteen (14) days from the date a Registered or similarLetter of Notice is dispatched from the Company in which to respond and must reportfor work within an additional seven (7) days or some longerperiod if longer notice can be given by the Company.
d)	Forme purpose of "continuous service*, an employee recalled wil be deemed to have continuous service.
-36-
e)	An employee who accepts recalto other than the position that he held prior to layoff will retain his position on the recall list until such time as he has had an opportunity to return to the position held pnor to layoff, provided the employee has not been on the recall list lor more than twelve (12) months
12.03	Forthe purposes of layoff the date and time of notification of layoff shall be deemed the commencementof layoff and the date and time of notification of recal shall be deemed the official time of the recall regardless ol which shift a recalled employee actualy works in accordance with regularwork schedules
12.04	In the event that any classification or position is cancelledforany reason and the employee in that classification is loweredto a lower classification, he wl maintain his regularsalaiy.
12.06	Should an employee accept an opportunity^) transfer to another position rather than belaid off, the employee will have his regular rate of pay maintained until he quafifred lor a higher rate or until subsequent adjustment in regular rates of pay quality the employee for an increase. Forthis maintenanceof rate provisions apply, an employee who s permanently reassigned must meet the progressionrequlrements in aoooroanca with this agreement.
12.06	In preference to being laid off, an employee who has at least one (1) year of continuous service with the Company may request in witting to accept the following severancepay and to terminate his employment with the Company. In this case, the employee shall have no recall rights under this Agreement Severance pay wtl be provided based on the greater of:
a)	four weeks' pay; or
b)	two weeks' pay plus two weeks' pay for each year of Continuous Service, provided In ether case the employee has at least one (1) year of Continuous Service with the Company. Severance pay lor a partial year ol service will be calculated on a prorated basis.
-37-
ABncuexill
Grievance procedure
13.01	Definition. Forthe purposeof this Agreementthe term "grievance" shall mean any dispute between the Company and the Union, or between the Company and any employee within the jurisdiction of the Union, concerning the interpretation, application, claim of breach or violation of this Agreement
13.02	a) Any employee who has a dispute shall frst discuss Me matter with his immediate Supervisor with a view to prompi settlement thereof. The employee may have his Union Stewardpresentat such discussion.
to) I) Step one: It after forty-eight (48) hours Die dispute is not resolved, it then becomes a formal grievance if the employee and/or his Union Steward present a written grievance form to his Supervisor, specifying the provision^) of the Collective Agreement violated and specifying the remedy requested, within seven (7) working days of the date of occurrence of the fact or event which gave riee to the matter In dispute.
ii) The grievancewill be heard by the Manager or his appointee, the Manager will arrangean acceptable hearing date within five (5) working days of the formal submission. At this meetingthe Grlevor will be accompanied by a Union Steward. The Manager or his appointeestnall reply in writingto the Grlevor within a further five (5) working days.
c)	Step Two: Failingthe satisfactory resolution of the grievance within five (5) working days of the date of the written reply in Step One, the grievance may be appealed to the Vice President or his appointee, who will arrange a meetingwith a Union Grievance Committee for that purpose, within a further ten (t 0) working days
0} j) The meetings referredto in(b) (fl) and (c) above shall be held on the Gitevohs day shift
II) Where an appointee hears the grievance, such appointee shall not bethe person who heard the grievance In the previous step.
-38-
e) It the grievance is not resolvedwithin live (5) working days of the date of the meeting, it may besubmiited to arbitration in accordance with the following procedures.
I) discipline and discharge grievances will be heard by a single arbitrator:
ii) grievances of any other nature wfl be heard by a three-man Arbitration Board unless otherwiseagreed to by both partls6.
13.03	The party desiring arbitration Shall notify the other party of intention to arbitrate, and if no such notice is receivedwilhin thirty (30) working days of the date of the final answer in Step Two of the grievance procedure, the grievanceshall be deemed to be settled.
13.04	a) A grievance of the Union which cannot be made the grievance of an employee or a group of employees may be submitted by the Union to the Company, and a grievance of me Company may be submitted in writing within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the tact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute. A meeting of the parties shall be held thereafter within a period of five (5) working days with the Director of Human Resources. Oil Sands or Ns appointee in attendance. Such meeting and response in willing within ten (10) working days thereof, shall constitute the first and final step of the grievanceprocedurein a grievanceof this nature.
b) If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by tNs procedure tl may be submined to arbitration according to Article 13.03.
134)6 m e time limit imposed on the initial filing of a written grievance Is not intended to be restrictive where the employee or party grieving could not be aware of the existence of a potential grievance within such limit, e.g., a delay caused by pay calculation procedures which extend beyond the allowed time limit, or by promotion, or the event of an employee's absence through illness, compensable accident, vacation or authorized leave ofabsenoe.
134)6 a) In the event that the Company does not respond to a grievance within the specifiedtime limits (subjectto 13.06 (b)) the grievance may be advanced to the next step in the grievance procedure.
b) in the event that a grievance is not submitted or advanced from one step to another within the time limits specified, (subjectto Article 13.05) or as extended by agreement between the Company and the Union In writing, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
-39-
13.07	a) Prior to the imposition of documented discipline, an employee, if availab'e, will be notified at a meeting with Management of the reasons lor such action, unless he is a danger to himself or others. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by a Union Steward at the meeting.
b)	Any complaint or grievance by an employee, that he has been terminated without muse, may be submitted directly to StepTwo of the grievance procedure, provided such action i$ taken within ten (10) calendardaysof the date of termination. Probationary employees may not grieve their termination.
c)	Terminationgnevances will bescheduledforarbitration at the earliest opportunity
d)	Following completion of a consecutive twelve (12) month period without receiving further disciplinary letters, all letters of disdplinewill be removed from an employee'sfile provided that the disciplines not being processedthrough the grievance procedure. Once removed from the tile a letter shall not be referred to in any subsequent action. Further, the Company agreesthatall letters of disciplinewhen removed are returned to the employee.
13.08	The term "working days" as used in Articles 13.01,13.02,1303 and 13.04 is defined as the scheduled days worked by the individual holding the grievance.
13.09	The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon all affected employees as set out in the Alberta Labour Act
-40-
ARTICLE XIV
SAFETY. hfcALTW AND GENERAL COHPfTIOHS
14.01	The Company recognizes the importance of and will promote and encourage safely in the Rant lor the prolection and general welfare of the employees. The Union recognizes its responsfcity and will co-operate fully with the Company.
14.02	In recognition that safety is a joint management and employee concern, the folowing committees will be established:
a)	Central Safety Committee, consisting of the Executive Vice-President, Oil Sands, Loss Management Manager, Union President and the Safely Board Chairperson or their designates m 1 meet on a regular basis to discuss overall plant safety, exchange ideas and address concerns to ensure the safety of all employees at Suncor. This meeting will be held a minimum ol once a quarter.
b)	Departmental Safety Committees will be established with representationfrom employees and Management to promote and discuss safety at the departmental levels. These committees will meetmonlhty.
e)	me Company will recognize the safety Board Chairperson and fourteen (14) Area Safely Representatives. The Company will recognize a Shift Safety Representative where a sufficient number of employees pershlft exist Inthe Area.
I) me Area Safely Representatives will receive all accident Investigation and near miss reports for his area as issued.
ii) The Shift Safely Representative may attend all accident investigation meetings for his shift.
d)	No safety committee member shall suffer loss cf regular pay by attending regularly scheduled meetingsof this committee. Committee members attending regularly scheduled meetings on their own time will be paid the travel alowanceand their normal rate of pay, for actual time spent at the meeting, at overtime rates.
-41-
144)3 The Company wi provide adequate first aid facilities in the Rant. The Company agrees to provide and maintain lockers, lunch moms, and reasonable sanitary, washing and shower facilities. Employees using these facilitiesare expected to refiainfirom littering and abusing the facilities
14.04	When required to work in a location remote from other employees, an employee may request of his Supervisor, and his Supervisor may authorize, another employee to accompany himto ensure hissafsty.
14.06 a) Twice weekly clothing changes will be allowed all Suncor Energy foe. employees covered by Article 2.01,
bj Additional ooveralls wi be supplied as determined by the Area Superintendent
o) The Company will pay, on the second pay day of October, to all employees covered by Article 2,01 who havecompletedtheir probationary period, an annual clothing allowance as outlined inAppendix'D", Letter of Understandings
d) The Company agrees that the present practice of supplying safety equipment will continue in full.
ARTICLE XV
INCOHPO HATTON OF OVERTIME AGREEMENT
15.01	The terms of the overtime agreement, Article 5.07, shall be for such period as providedfor in Article XVI of Ihe Collective Ayeement or may be terminated by either parly after 30 calendar days written notice provided that a majority of employees from an area or progression have expressed a desire to be removed from the compressed work week schedule or the Company has served proper noticeof cancellation.
-42-
ARTICLE XVI
Effective date Duration ahp Amendiiemts
18.01	■) This Agreement shal become effective at 12:01 a.m, on the 1- day ol May, 1997 and snail continue m force ana effect until 12:01 a.m. on the 1st day of May, 1999 and thereafter 1 ram year to year unless written notice is given by either pally to the Other, within one hundred and tfi^ &of the expiration date, of intention to te/btMe or negotiate amendments for a new Agreement
b)	Where noticeto negotiate amendments for a new Agreement has been given, then this Agreement shall continue in form and effect until Me Union and employees are in a position to lawfully strike or the Company is in a positionto lawfuly lock-out.
c)	Notwithstandinganything in this Article, any portion ol this Agreement may be amended bylhe Company andthe Union at any time provided that both Partiesagree.
In witness whereof, we the undesigned herebyattach our hands and seal to this agreementthls 4* day of September 997 A.O. intha Municipality^ Wood Buffalo,Alberta.
ForSuncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
-43-
ForCommuni^tioriB, Energy and Paperworkers Union Local 707
Waiter Manning

Bill Koiba, National RepresentativejCEPU
-44-
HOUP	IATCS 7-02-01	BATES 98-02-01		
3	2.41	33.38		Unit Leader. ComDleted2 vears In classification
3	1.81 1.15 0.09	32.76 32.08 3099		Unit Leader. Completed 1 vaar in classification
1			1 Unit Leader, uuon oromoticn	
1				Energy Services Main Control Room Operator upgradingMam Control Room Operator Extraction Main Control Roam Operator Mine Senior Operator Senior Warehouse Technician
	9.40	3028		Journeyman Extraction Operator- Phase5 Upgrading Operator - See ProgressionChait Energy Services Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. Phase9 Warehouse Technician- Phase7 Mine Operator- Phase 7 MaintenanceServfoea Operator - 64 months Track Presafli re Reoalrman/TIre Soedalist. 64 months
	8.18	29.03		Extraction Operator Phase 4 UpgradingOperator • See Progression Chart Energy Services Operator - See Progression Chart LaboratoryTech. Phases Warehouse Technician- PhaseG Mine Operator- Phase6 MaintenanceServices Operator- 52 months Track Prass/Tfre ReoalrmarVTire Specialist. 48 months
-45-
D	27.36	28.16		Lube Specialist. 12 months ExtractionOperator. Phase3 Upgrading Operator -See Progression Chart Energy Services Operator ■ See Progression Chart LaboratoryTech Phase7 WarehouseTechnician- Phase5 Mine Operator. Phase5 Maintenance Services Operator- 40 months Track Press/Tire Reoainnawlire Specialist- 24 months
E	26.61	27.31		ApprenticelV Lube Specialist - start Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart LaboratoryTech - Phase6 Steam Bay -12 months Track Press/Tire ReoairmanyTlre Specialist-12 months
f	25.68	26.45		Extraction Operator- Phase2 Upgrading Operator - See ProgressionChart Energy Services Operator. See ProgressionChart LaboratoryTech.. Phase5 WarehouseTechnician- Phase4 Maintenance Services Operator- 25 months MineOparator- Phase4
3	24.63	25.57		Steam Bay - start Upgrading Operator - See ProgressionChart Energy Services Operator • See ProgressionChart LaboratoryTech - Phase4 WarehouseTechnician- Phase 3 Maintenance Services Operator-15 months Mine Operator- Phases Track Press/Tire Repairmanffire Specialist- start
-46-
H	24.01	24.73		Apprenticed! Labourer* 24 months Extraction Operator- Phase 1 UpgradingOperator - See Progression Chart Energy Services Operator - See ProgressionChart LaboratoryTech- Phase 3 WarehouseTechnician ■ Phase2 MaintenanceServices Operator. 3 months Mine ODerator- Phase2
1	23.36	24.06		Labourer. 18 months Upgrading Operator • See Progression Chart LaboratorvTech. - Phase2
J	22.37	23.04		Apprentice II Labourer-12 months Extraction Trainee. 3 months UpgradingTraineo • See ProgressionChart Energy Services Trainee. See ProgressionChart LaboratorvTach- Phasel .
K	21 .SO	22.16		Labourer *6 months
L	1883	19.39		Apprentice i Labourer-start Extraction Trainee- start UpgracfngTrainee ■ See Progression Chart Energy Services Trainee. See Progression Chart Laboratory Technician - start Warehouse Technician - Phase 1 MaintenanceServices Operator. Slart Mine ODerator-Phasel
47-
23.33	24.03		Other Alowancm Hot Shift Change - 1.1% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the " E Salary group
35.28	36.34		Power Engineering Certificate - 4th Class Ticket -1.5% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the "B’ salary group
105.84	109.01		- 3rd Class Ticket - 4.5% of the A-B-0 Schedulebi-weekly at the “B" salary group
54.10	5572		Multi-Skilling and Dual Ticketed - 2.3% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekty at the "8” salary QfOUO
-40-
-49-
SALARY SCHEDULE - MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 97-02-01 (YY-MM-OD)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	6.07 (A.0.D) MONTHLY SAL. 40 HOUR	207(F) SHIFT OIFF.	207 (C.G) SHIFT OIFF.	AVERAGE shift on	207(F) SHOT REG. MONTHLYSAL.	587 (C.G) SHIFT REG. MOWTVA.YSAL
A-3	$32.41	$5037.03	$185.84	$198.63	$58270	$838257	$830785
A-2	$31.81	$553287	$18584	$19683	$55387	$8271.78	$828258
A-1	$31.15	$5417.88	$185.84	$19683	$541.79	$8145.51	$815229
B-1	$30.09	$5233.51	$185.84	$196.63	$52235	$594270	$5953.49
B	$29.40	$511250	$165.84	$19263	$511.35	$5810.69	$5921.49
C	$28.1$	$4901.31	$18284	$19263	$49213	$557728	$558208
D	$27.36	$4758.89	$185.84	$198.83	$47287	$5420.40	$5431.18
E	$26.51	$4810.85	$18284	$196.63	$461.08	$5257.77	$528258
F	$25.68	$4466.49	$18584	$196.83	$446.86	$509298	$5109.76
G	$24.83	$431285	$18284	$19283	$43188	$4938.36	$4947.14
H	$24.01	$4178.03	$18284	$19263	$417.80	$4779.47	$478025
|	$23.36	$4006.45	$18584	$19883	$40285	$485885	$4668.73
J	$2237	$3890.78	$186.84	$198.83	$389.08	$4465.70	$447249
K	$21.50	$3739.48	$18284	$198.63	$37385	$429925	$4310.04
L	$18.83	$327588	$18584	$186.83	$327.51	$378243	$379921
SHIFT DEFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY S16FT-2%, AFTERNOON SHOT-RESPECTIVELY OF OROUP'O'HOURLY RATE	$0.50
4%, NIGHT SHIFT-7% $0.99	$1.74
SALARY SCHEDULE- MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 97-02-01 (VY-MM-OO)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (A3.D) MONTHLY SAL 40 HOUR	307(E) SHIFT DIFF.	307(H) SHIFT DIFF.	307 (E) AVERAGE SHIFT CYT	5.07 (E) SHIFT REG MONTHLY SAL	507(H) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAL.
A-3	*32.41	*5637.03	*0097	*34.44	*503.70	*6200.99	*5071.40
A-2	*31.01	*5532.07	*0327	*34.44	*553.27	*014090	*5567.11
A-1	*31.15	*641730	*0097	*34.44	*541.79	*8019.03	*5452.31
01	*30.00	*5233.61	*0097	*34.44	SS23.35	$5017.13	*5267.05
B	*29.40	*511350	*0097	*3444	*511.35	*5605.12	*5147.94
C	*20.19	*4901.31	*00.27	*34.44	*490.13	*5451.70	*493374
0	*27.38	*475309	*0097	*34.44	*47307	*529492	*4783.12
E	*2031	*4810.85	*0097	*3444	*401.08	•5132.20	*404590
F	*25.00	*440349	*0097	*34.44	*448.05	*4973.40	*4500.92
G	*24.03	*431305	*0097	*34.44	*43190	*4810.78	*4353.08
H	*24.01	*417092	*8097	*34.44	*417.00	*4653.09	*4210.46
1	*23.30	*406045	*0097	*34.44	*406.05	*453397	*4100.69
J	*22.37	*306370	*0097	$34.44	*309.00	*4340.13	*392592
K	*2130	*373340	*6097	*34.44	*373.95	*4173.68	*3773.90
L	*10.03	*327308	*80.27	*3444	*327.51	*360295	*3309.51
	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT - 2 %. AFTERNOON SHIFT 4 %, NIGHT SHIFT - 7 % RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP'Q* HOURLY RATE *090 *0.99 *1.74	
		
SALARY SCHEDULE - BI-WEEKLY SALARES EFFECTIVE 97-02-01 (YY-MM-OD)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (A.BJO) BE WEEKLY 40 HOUR	5.07(H) 8HFTREG. BI-WEEKLY	507(E) SHIFT REG. BE WEEKLY	507(F) SHIFT REa BI-WEEKLY	6.07 (C.G) 8HFTRE& BIWEEKLY
A-3	♦3241	$259200	$280804	♦2879.80	$293706	$2942.52
A-2	$31.81	♦254400	$258084	$2827.00	$2884.76	$2889.72
A-1	♦31.16	♦2492.00	$2607.84	$278092	$2626.88	$2831.64
B-1	♦30.09	♦240700	$242304	$287564	$2733.40	$273038
B	♦29.40	♦2352.00	$2387.84	♦2814.92	$2872.08	$2677.64
C	♦29.18	$2254.40	$227024	$2507.58	$2565.32	$257028
0	♦27.38	♦218800	$2204.84	$243540	$2493.16	$2498.12
E	♦28.61	♦2120.80	$2136.84	$238000	$241036	$242032
F	♦26.88	♦2054.40	$297024	$2267.56	$234502	♦2350.26
G	♦24.83	$1988.40	$200224	$2212.76	$227002	$227546
H	♦24.01	$1020.80	$193804	$2140.60	$2196.36	♦220302
1	$23.38	$1870.40	$188824	$2085.16	$214202	$2147.88
J	♦2207	$178900	$1806.44	$199626	$2054.04	$205000
K	♦21 SO	$172000	$1735.84	$1919.72	$1977.48	$1962.44
L	♦18.83	$1608.40	$152224	$1884.78	$1742.62	$1747.46
	SH8FT DEFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT• 2 %. AFTERNOON SH6T - 4 X, NIGHT SHIFt - 7 % RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "O'HOURLY RATE $0.50 $0.99 $1.74	
		
SALARY SCHEDULE - MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 96-02-01 (YY-MM-DO)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (AJ3,D) MONTHLY SAL 40 HOUR	557(F) SHIFT D*=F.	6.07 (GG) SHIFTDIFF.	AVERAGE shift on*	5.07(F) 557 (C.G) SHIFT REG SHIFT REG. MONTHLYSAL MONTHLY SAL.	
A-3	133 .38	$5805.74	$180.07	$202.11	$580.57	$657758	$6588.4!
A-2	$32.76	$568750	$100.87	3202.11	$569.79	$8458.66	$646950
A-1	$32.06	$5578.83	$10087	$202.11	$55756	$5328.57	$8339.70
B-1	$30.99	$539055	$190.87	$202.11	$539.00	$8120.02	$8131.16
B	$3028	$529856	$100.97	$202.11	$52858	$5984.19	$5995.32
C	$29.03	$5049.15	$10097	$202.11	$50451	$5745.03	$5756.17
□	$28.16	$4901.31	$190.97	$202.11	$490.13	SS582.41	$559354
E	$27.31	$4749.99	$18057	$202.11	$476.00	$5415.98	$5427.09
F	$28.45	$4800.41	$19057	$202.11	$480.04	$5251.43	$528258
G	$2557	$4447.35	$180.97	$202.11	$444.74	$5083.06	$5094.19
H	$24.73	$4301.25	$19097	$202.11	$430.13	84922.3S	$4633.48
1	$24.08	$4188.20	$18057	$202.11	3418.82	$4797.99	$4609.13
J	$2304	$4007.31	$19057	$202.11	$400.73	$4599.02	$4610.15
K	$22.15	$385252	$180.97	$202.11	$38555	$4428.74	$4439.87
L	$10.38	$3372.48	$19057	$202.11	$33755	$3900.71	$3911.83
	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT • 2 %, AFTERNOON SHIFT -4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7 % RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP'G* HOURLY RATE $051 $1.02 $1.79
	
ai uv enucruHF. MffldTMl Y RALAME8 EFFECTIVE 08-02-01 (YY-MM-Om
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	6.07 (A3.0) MONTHLY SAL 40 HOUR	5.07(E) SHFTHFF.	5.07(H) StOFTOtFF.	8.07 (E) AVERAGE SHIFT OfT	5.07(E) 607(H) SHIFT REG SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAL MONTHLY SAL	
A-3	03.38	<5806.74	<02.00	<35.48	358067	<044640	<5841.22
A-2	<32.70	$0807.00	<3240	<35.48	3588.78	36320.70	<673638
A-1	<32.08	<8670.0	<82.09	<35.40	558768	<810680	<581611
B-1	00.08	<5380.05	<020$	<35.40	<830.00	<6881.14	5542863
e	0020	<0080	<0200	05.48	$62860	<8858.31	<530204
c	00.03	<8048.16	<02.00	05.48	<50461	<5818.15	rffloioa
D	328.18	<4001.31	96200	<35.48	0400.13	<5453.83	<403679
E	<27.31	<4748.00	<0200	$3648	5475.00	<5287.08	<478647
F	328.45	<4000-41	<82.08	05.48	548064	<512254	<483668
G	$2847	<444748	88208	$95.48	3444.74	54054.18	<448284
H	<24.73	<430125	<82.00	0548	8430.13	<478347	<433674
	0400	<410820	18208	<3548	5418.32	<4868.11	<422668
J	03.04	<4007.31	<8200	<35.48	<400.73	<4470.14	<404230
K	02.15	<385252	<0200	<36.48	<38628	<420688	<388600
L	<18.0	<337247	<0200	<38.48	<33728	<3771.81	<3407.06
SHIFT 0KTERENT1AL BASED ON: DAY 8WFT • 2 %, AFTERNOON 8HIFT - 4 %. NIOHT SHFT • 7 % IE8PECT1VELY OF GROUP t)* HOURLY RATE	<04*	<1.02	<*.78
SALARY SCHEDULE - BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 98-02-01 (YY-MM-DO)
SAURY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	6.07 (AAD) BI-WEEKLY 40 HOUR	6.07(H) SHFTREG. BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (E) SHFTREG. BI-WEEKLY	6.07(F) SHFT REG. BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (C.G) SHETREG. BI-WEEKLY
A-3	$33.30	$2870.40	$2886.72	$2968.00	$302598	$3030.40
A-2	$32.78	$2820.80	$2837.12	$2911.44	$2970.72	$297594
A-1	$32.08	$2688.40	$2582.72	$2851.80	$291099	$2916.00
B-1	0099	$2479.20	$2495.62	$2765.68	$2814.98	$2820.08
B	$3098	$2422.40	$2438.72	$2883.20	$2752.48	$2767.80
C	$29.03	$2322.40	$2338.72	$2583.20	$2842.48	$264790
0	$28.10	$2264.40	$2270.72	$2608.40	$2567.68	$2572.80
E	$27.31	$218430	$2201.12	$2431.84	$2491.12	$249894
F	$28.45	$2118.00	$2132.32	$2358.16	$2415.44	$2420.56
0	$2597	$2045.00	$2081.92	$2278.72	$2338.00	$2343.12
H	$24.73	$1978.40	$1994.72	$2204.90	$2264.06	$228990
1	' $24.08	$1928.40	$1942.72	$2147.60	$2206.88	$2212.00
J	$23.04	$1843.20	$185992	$2058.08	$2115.38	$2120.48
K	$22.15	$1772.00	$1788.32	$1977.76	$2037.04	$2042.18
L	$19.38	$155190	$1667.62	81734.88	$1704.16	$1799.28
[SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASEO ON: DAY SHIFT - 2 %. AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4 %. NIGHT SHIFT - 7 % [RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP *G‘HOURLY RATE $0.51 $1.02 $1.79	
	
APPENDIX "B"
MASTER MAWTENANCE PW00HE810N NOTES
1.	New Hires
a)	When tilling vacancies in skilled positions, the Company agrees to give first preferenceto Journeymen with an appropriate ticket
b)	When a non-fully qualified employee is hired, he wifi be dassifiedeitheras Apprentice IV, which employee will be additional to the existing complement <f apprentices, or in accordance with the Area Progression Notes.
2.	The following table relates the various levelsof the apprenticeshipprogramto the levels of theSuncor Energy Inc. MaintenanceProgressionCharts:
JOURNEYMAN: A holder of a certificate of proficiencyor certificate of qualification in his trade recognized by the Province of Alberta.
APPRENTICE w: Completed the third year <f a four-year apprenticeship program, or the second yearof a three-year apprenticeshipprogram.
APPRENTICE Ml: Completed the Seoond year of a lour-vear apprenticeship program, or the firstyearof a threeyeat apprenticeshipprogram.
apprentice it: Completed the first year of a four-year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE l: An employee upon being indentured into an apprenticeship program shall be classified as an Apprentice I.
3.	While every effort will be made by the Company to ensure that an employee Is given the opportunity lo complete his annual course work and examination prior to each twelve month point on his progression being reached, it s recognized that scheduling difficulties arising from the necessityof maintainingthe efficiency of the Suncor Energy Inc.; MaintenanceDepartmentsmay result In the completions such course work and examination at a date after the twelve (12) month pertod(s). In such cases ot Company occasioned delays and upon successful completion of his apprenticeship for a given year, including the passing of the examination, the apprenticewho, as a direct consequence is redassifiedaccordlng to Note2 above, shall receive a retroactive pay adjustment for al hours worked from the anniversary date upon which he was eligible for reclassification, pending only the successful
55-
completion oftheapprenticeshipexamination and preceding course work.
4.	■) While the Company has every desire and intention to continue the apprenticeship program indefinitely, it reserves the right to emend, alter, suspend, or ceasethe program or any part of it, should conditions so indicate, in such event however, the Company would still allow ail apprenticesthen enrolled to complete their Journeyman qualificationslhrough the apprenticeshipprogram. This provision does not preclude layoffsunderArticle Xll,
b) Notwithstanding (a) above, before the Company exercises its right to amend, alter, suspend or cease any part of the apprenticeship program, it shall only be done after consultation with the Union.
5.	The Manpower DevetopmentAct of Alberta shall apply in the resolution of disputes over job assignmentsof apprentices, if not otherwise covered by the Agreement
6.	Consistentwrth Article 7.01 and within the period specified in Article 0.06, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equaty among qualified employees within each Maintenance Department, or within areas of each Oepartmenf as specified in that Department's Progression Notes.
7.	While reserving the tight, subject to legal restrictions, io utilize the abilitiesof Maintenance personnel as required in jobs other than their specially, the Company recognizes the desirability of maximizing the utilization of an employee'scellfied skills.
6. in selecting employees for job-related training, Selection shall be based on bath seniority and departmental training needs with first consideration being given to senior employees who have not previouslyreceived such training.
9.	Where quafificationsand experience required for a permanent Bargaining Unit vacancy are
relativelyequal among two or more day, shift or continuous shift employees, the senior of such employeeson a different shift schedule will have the first preferences f ( the vacancy.
-56-
10.	Apprentices write at school will receive their normal rate of pay and wiH reimburse the Company (through the payroll deduction program), with any Government Training ARowance received, excludingtivlng Away* portion of allowance
11.	Al required tools will be suppliedby the Company at no cost to Maintenance employees
-57
MAINTENANCE JOB PHnQREBMftil
Chart* notes
Electronic* department
e)	In Electronics, the Instrument Mechanic, Electrician, and Elactronic Technician, Power Lineman, Refrigerationand Air Conditioning Mechanic, and, ifrequired, Electrical Mechanic, Power System Electrician Apprenticeship Programs shal be made available. Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the Electronics Progression, every effort wfl be made I o hire only those employees qualified ai the Joumeymanlevel,
b)	While preference will be given to the hiring of journeymen, in the instrument Mechanic trade, a non-certified tradesman may be hired at the journeyman rate of pay based on his having a minimum of five (5) years experience in the trade. Such employees must subsequently quality lor an Aberta trade certificate within six (0) months.
c)	A non-fuly qualified employee in the Instrument Mechanic trade may be hired at the Apprentice IV, III or H level, provided he has completed at least the first year of apprenticeship. Such employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices.
-58*
d)	For other trades encompassed by the Electronics Progression, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or III is cancelled a far balancingthe Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level. All apprenticeship positions will be posted through the internal posting system.
2.	Overtime distribution, in accordance with Master MaintenanceProgresskm NoteE shall be within each individual area namely; Mine Equipment Maintenance, Extraction, Energy Seivroes, Upgrading. Electrical Distribution (E.D.), C.M.S. Electrical and C.Ml.S Electronics
3.	For training purposes, apprentices will be rotated among the working areas where their trade is practiced.
4.	Overtime shall be distributed to quaittied employees In the trade, job classificationand area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6.08.
5.	In the Upgrading, Energy Services and Extraction MaintenanceDepartments. in accordance with Article 5.08(b), temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes for vacancies of four days or less on a twelve (12) hour Compressed Work Week ContinuousShift Schedule.
8.	Before filling any permanentvacancy within the Electronics department, employees Wx> have submitted a request for reassignment priorto the vacancy occurring, or who havesubmltted a written request for a transferto a dtfferentshlft schedule and who has the greatest classification seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the shift whfrethe vacancy has occurred.
7. The Master MaintenanceProgresslon and Notesotherwlse apply in full to Electronics
-59-
Mawtenance job progression CHARTA NOTES PLANTINDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE
	MAWTENANCE SERVICE OPERATORS	
TIME	QUALIFICATIONS	SALARY
64 months	4 Skills	B
52 months	Time Only	C
40 months	3 Skills	0
25 months	2 Skills	F
15 months	Time Only	G
3 months	1 Skill	H
Start		L
-60-
1.	In the Plant Industrial Maintenance Department, the Milwright, Carpenter, Welder, Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operator, Steamfitter-Pipefiner Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic, Painterand Decorator and any otherappficableapprenticeshipprogramsmay be made available.
2.	It is the recognized and continuing responsibly of every employee in the department. n^ntrdW; of their particular skills, to become knowledgeable and flexible with ail of the work encompassed by the Department
3.	a) Apprentices may be hired at Level I,II, III or IV
b)	All ApprenticeshippositionswiH be pasted through the Internal PostingSystem.
c)	An Apprentice may be rotated among any of the areas of the department lo allow maximum exposureto the types ol equipment relevantto the level of Apprenticeship, or to allow another apprenticed receive such exposure.
d)	An Apprenticewho withdraws from Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer. The employee's Classification Seniority wilf commence on the date returned io the Labourer classification. The rateof pay on reclassification will besetatthe Labourers'rate applicable to the empioyees'Area Seniority.
4.	A Labourer wiN be entitled to apply for Other jobs In the department in accordance with Article 11.08. In no event should a successful applicant's pay be reduced by more than one pay classification.
5.	Notwithstanding Article 11.07, a portion of maintenance work will be contracted out; however, in the event of a reduction in the work lorce, Letter of Undemanding Number4 would apply.
E.	Overtime Distribution, in accordance with Master MaintenanceProgresslon Note6, shall be
within each area namely: Energy Services, Extraction and Fadties Maintenance.
7. The Master MaintenanceProgressionand Notes otherwise apply h full to the department
-61-
Mine Equipment Maintenance
JOB PROGRESSION CHART
-62-
1.	In Mine Equipment Maintenance, the Heavy Equipment Technician, Automotive Service Technician. Welder, Mftvright and Machinist or any other applicable apprenticeship may be made available.
2.	The chit system shall apply to each of the following groups independently, namely, Mine EquipmentShopTrades,MaintenanceServioes Shop Trades. Shovel MaintenanceTrades. Support Progression. Shops, Support Progression * Shovels, and Tire Progression.
3.	An apprentice may be rotated among any cf the areas defined in Note 2 above, with the exception of Tire Progression to allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to his level of apprenticeship, or to alow another apprentice to receive such exposure. Subject to regulations of the Manpower Development Act, an apprentice may only be rotated to the Shovel area n the last year of his apprenticeship if he so requests. An apprentice assigned to one <f ihe above areas on a temporary basis will continue to accumulate overtimebassd on actual overtime hours worked by that apprentice.
4.	a) Any employee hired Into otherthan a Journeyman or Apprentice IV classification shall be classified as Labourer, however, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or III is cancelled or for balancing the ApprenticeshipProgram upon failure in the II or III level.
b)	Employeeshired as Labourers will progress in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and Mine Equipment Maintenance SupportProgresston crthe Progression Notesand Chart.
c)	If a permanentvacancy occurs in the Support Progressions or the Tire Progression, the senior employee in the next lowerdassification shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be Cause for denying an employee a permanentpromotion.
d)	Employees will receive sufficient exposure and training to qualify lor promotion.
e)	/) When filling a temporary vacancy, the senior trained employeeon the shin and in the area concemedln the next lower classification will be moved up and paid accordingly. If such employee is not avaiable. the Company shall utilize the senior employee otherwise considered qualified.
II) Prior to being promoted, a labourer will select either the Support or Tire Progression. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the labourer on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to one cf the progressions, labourersmay be utilized in either progression.
-63-
f)	For training, qualification and move-up purposes, the positions on the Mine Equipment MaintenanceSupport and Tire Progressionswill be designated at all times except in the case of unscheduled overtime. However, employees may be temporarily assigned to other than assigned duties as operating conditions require and for cross training purposes within each progression.
g)	A labourer shall be reclassifiedto Steam Bay OperatororTre Progressionat the rate of pay indicated in Appendix"A" twelve (12) months following the receipt Q his Laboured-month increment.
h)	Employeesin the Support Progressionswho have completed twelve (12) months in any of the following pay dassificationsshall receive a pay Increment as follows; Lube Specialist ■“D" rate; Steam Bay Operator-"E" rate
G. An Apprentice who withdraws from an Apprenticeship^ be reclassified io Labourer in accordance with the rate of pay for his area service as Indicated in Appendix" A and may progress to Support or Tire Progression. However, his classification seniority will commence on the date he returns to the Labourerclasslf ication,
S'	For me purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply provided the employee can
work his next regularshift and at regularpay.
a)	The followingsequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in trades groups as specified in note #2: Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days oft will doso on a chit form at least two (2) working days priorio their scheduleddays off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following 6 the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
I) Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade, who have submitted chits in accordancewith (a) above
iij Secondly, to the qualifiedemployees lowest on the overtime 1st in the trade, who have submitted chits not in accordancewith (a) above
III) Thirdly, if insufficienthits are received,qualified employees, in the trade lowest on the overtime list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in Support and Tim
-64-
Progressiongroups as specified in note #2:
jj if a chfc ha6 been reoeived from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position hewi beassignedthe overtime.
ii)	if no chit has been received from an employee currently assigned lo the vacant position the Shift wil be moved up, and an employee in the area who has submitted a chit and who is permanently assigned to the next lowest classification wM be assigned ihe overtime.
iii)	If no chits have been received from employeescurrenlly assigned to positions in the Support Progression or Tre Progression, move-up will be utlzed from the Labourer classification in accordance with 4(e).
e)	Notwithstanding Article 6.08, overtime lists are to be zeroed every three (3) months
e)	The Supervisorwill exhaust ail the chit6, including late chits, in the group where overtime is being scheduled before going to other groups.
f)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between O7:G0 • 0900 or 17:00 • 19:00 hours respective of their chits.
7.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the M.E.M. Department, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different shift schedule and who ha6 the greatest area seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the dn where the vacancy has occurred.
8.	The Master Maintenance Progressionand Notes otherwise apply in full to Mine Equipment Maintenance.
-65-
Extraction CFB^ATCRSauryandjob progression chart
ExtractionOperalor Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority experience, demonstrated kncwdedge and abity in accordance with the following:
TRAINEE
All time refersto Extraction Department Continuous Service.
The designations of SeniorTechnlclan, Technician "A" and Technlcian recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
-66-
EXTRACTION PROQRE88ION
NOTES
1.	a] Within the Extraction Department the total complement per shift shall be as follows." Plants: One Unit Leader
Six (6) Extraction Operators Plant 4: One Unit Leader
Five (5) Extraction Operators
b)	For training and qualification purposes and for normal operations the following positions wi5 be designated in each plant
Plant3: Unit Leader, Board, Area	Drums, FinalTailings Pump House,
Pumps, Utility
Plant 4: Unit Leader, Board, Pumps, Birds, LeadWesiaflia, Westfalia
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporally assigned, in accordancewith Extraction Note 3, to other than his regularposKfon fbrtrainingpurposes or as operatingconditions require.
d)	Employees requestingairansfer from one line of progressionto anotherwill be given frst consideration Upon such transfer, he shad be established at the Trainee level and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualificationsand time requirements for mat progression, but his salary group will not be reduced. Employees wishing to transfer lo the Slzer/Conveyor Progression may do so through the application of Articles
11.08	and 11.03.
2.	if a permanent vacancy occurs, the Senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordancewith Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not because for denying an employeea permanent promotion.
3.	a) Shin staffing shal recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regardto their service, qualifications and experience. Such realignmentwil be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
-67-
b| Prior to attaining Phase 1, trainees will select the line ot progression they wish to advance in. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the junior trainee on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to a Phase 1 function, trainees may be utized in Phase 1 of either progression.
4.	An employee when designated to cover an Extraction Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for a phase prog ression an employeemust completethe experiencerequirements.
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficientopportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
8. Unit Leaders quaffied in both progressions may exchange positions, should the Company and the employee agree Control Room Operators in Extraction may, if the Company agrees, rotate between Plants fortraining purposesonly.
7. a) The Department will post an assigned standby schedule tor all Extraction Operators on a quarterly basis, ar as changes occur.
b) The Superintendent wi post quarterly the minimum numberand minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contract by phone between the hours of 6:30 to 8:30 and must reportforwoik within one and onequarter (1-1/4) hours of notice if called.
e)	Employees with compatible qualifications will be permitted to exchange standby assignments provided employeescan work their next regular scheduled shinat tegular pay. The Shift Supervisor must be notifiedof the change.
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on stand-by tar safety reasons only.
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultation with the Area Stewaid(a). It is the Campany's Intentthat mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
f| Consistentwith Article 11.01(c) temporary shift vacancies wil be filled in the following sequence:
-68-
I)	Realignmentwithin the shift without overtime resulting.
il) Overtime worked by an employee assignedto standby (or the group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
Ill) Realignmentwithin the shin with overtime worked by an employee assignedto standby forme nexi group h which the resulting vacancyoocurs.
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime dstributionlist who has submitted a chit
v]	Shodd employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
g)	Employeeswho volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days priorto theirscheduleddays off.
h)	Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
8. A shift staffing list which Indicates currently assigned positionswill be posted and updated whenever changesoccur. This does not prevent realignment of employeeson their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
g. Ram 4 employees, upon completing8 monthSat Phase2, shall be reclassified to Phase 3.
10. Nolwffhstanding Article 5.04(a) (If) the Company Mil give each 12-hour continuous shin employee the opportunity to have at leas! one (1) "long change" in every 16 week cycle or in every 12 week cycle as is applicableto the Shift schedule in use provided the employee has notchangedhisahitt.
-69-
11. Sizer/Conveyor Prooraaalan
a)	As openings arise employeeswill be hired into the Sizer/Conveyor Progression.
b)	I) Within the Sizer/Conveyor Progression, there will be four functions for salary progression qualifications purposes as follows: Conveyor Operation, Sizer Operation, EquipmentOperation including Rake Cat and Loader and Rollers, in addition to the above, employees will be expected to qualify in and may be assignedto other functions performed within the progression.
II)	Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
UNIT LEADER
Phase	Qualification	MinimumTime	Salary Group
7	4 of 4	84 months	B
6	Time Only	52 months	C
5	3 of 4	40 months	D
4	limeOnly	25 months	F
3	2 of 4	15 months	G
2	1 ol4	3 months	H
1	Stan		L
All time refersto Sizer/Conveyor Progressioncontlnuous service.			
-70-
b)	iii) Employees will receive sufficient exposure in the various lunctions to provide opportunityfor them to train and qualify within the minimumtime periods.
fv) if a permanentvacancy occurs, the senior quaMed errpktyeea shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
c)	Overtime in the Sizer/Conveyor Progression will be distributed as per Extraction Progressionnote 7.
d)	Employees wishing to transfer to the Extraction Progression may do so through the application of Article t i .08 and 11.03.
-71-
-72-
UPfflMDewOPBWTOHBatARy AM) JOB PB00HE88IMI CHART
Upgrading Operator Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shal be through seniority, eigierienoe. demonstrated knowledge and ataflit< in accordwioB vwtti the fotloniiirm'.___________________________________________________
UNTT LEADER |		UNIT LEADER		f UNIT LEADER	
1			1				
BOARO OPERATOR		BOARD OPERATOR			
	Mia	Plant 6& 7	Plants&B	Salary		Min.	Coker	Salary
Phase	Time	Functions	Functions	GrauD	Phase	Time	Functions	Groun
4	48mos.	Compressors	Plants	B	6	48 mos.	Tank Farm	B
3	36 mas.	Time Only	Time Only	C	5	36 mos.	Tank Farm	C
2	24 mas.	Plan! 7	Time Only	F	4	24 mos.	Any 4 of 4	F
1	12 mos.	Plante	Plants	G	3	18 mos.	Any 3of4	G
					2	9 mos.	Any 2 of 4	1
	6 mos.	Time Only	Time Only	H		Start	Trainee	L
	3 mos.	Time Only	Time Only	1				
	Start	Trainee	Trainee	L				
						Cok^r Functions		
						Fireman, Coker Lead Operator, Coker		
						Operator It, Coker Operator 1		
All times refer to Upgrading Department continuous service.						Tank Farm Pans a & b in any order.		
Designation: Faced Plant -			Phase 1 and 2	—		Plant Operator		
		-	Phase3and4	-		Senior Operator		
	Cokers	-	Phase 1 of 6			Operator		
The designation of Senior Operator, Plant Operator and Operator recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
UPQmOINO PflOOHEBMOH
NOTES
1.	a) Within the UpgradingDepartment, the total complement pershiftshall iDe as follows
Three (3) Unit Leaders Twelve (12) UpgradingOperators.
b) For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations, the following positions will be designated.
Unit Leader. Plants & 8 Unit Leader. Plant 6 & 7 Unit Leader. Colters PlantsS & 8 Board Plants 6 & 7 Board Compressors RantsS, 6,7 and 8 Tank Farm Coker Lead Operator Coker OperatorII Freman
Coker Operator i
e)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporally assigned, in accordance with Upgrading Note 3, to other than his regularposltlon lor training purposes or as operatingccndltlons require.
d)	A third class Power EngineeringCertHicate is mandatory priorto attaining qualification in theFixedPlantProgressionofPlants5&B Board.
e)	A fourth class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory pnor to attaining e training position in the Fixed Plant Progressions,
f)	Employees in the Fixed Rant Progressions will be paid an allowance for Power EngineeringCerlificates as per Appendix "A.
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraintsshBlI not be cause for denying an employee a permanentpromotion.
-73-
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualification and experience. Such nealignmentwill be for shift coverage and training purposesonly, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he s qualified.
4.	An employee when designated to cover an Upgrading Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for phase progressionan employee must completethe experience requirements.
5.	Employeeswill receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
& A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training orshift staffing.
7.	Employees in Upgrading Operations who have provided written notice in advance of a vacancy occurring in one of the other Upgrading progressions will be given first consideration to fill the vacancy. If mom then one applicant, the employee with the most area seniority will be considered first. Upon such transfer, the employee will be established at the Trainee Level however their salary will not be reduced. Advancement in the new progression wfl be based on qualifications and time requirements for that progression except as follows. Employees who transfer progressions underthis provision will beentitled to salary Increases based on their previous progression for the first twelve (12) months foliowing their transfer. Employee's will be expected to maintain qualifications in their previous progression for this twelve (12) month period and may be assigned to those functions for shift coverageor as operating conditions require.
8.	Employees hired before July 2,1980 will not be required to obtain Steam Tickets and will not suffer any loss of pay or any loss of opportunity for promotion or phase progression. This loss of pay protection does not include paymentfor Power EngineeringCertificates.
9.	The Power Engineering Program currently in placeto assist employeesto obtainthelr fourth and third class statfonay engineers certificateswlll be continued in full and can be altered by management at any time tor the benefit of the employees. This provisiondoes not apply to employees in the Coker Progression.
74-
10.	Notwithstanding Article S.04(a)(i), the Company will give each 12 hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) "long change" h every 16 week cycle or in every 12 week cycle as is applicablelothe shift schedule in use provided the employee has notchangedhisshlft.
11.	Overtimeinthe Upgrading Progression wN be distributed as per Appendix ’C*
75
EMeWOV fiEBMCES OPWATOW &M-MW AND JOBPEOQRES&tON CHART
nergy Services Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through Briority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following
UNIT LEADER
			MAIN CONTROL ROOM	(Salary Group B-1)
				Energy Services Salary
Designation		Phase Min. Time		Functions Group
Senior Technician		4	48mos.	Water Systems B
Technician*#’		3	36mos.	Lead Main Plant C
			32mos.	Time Only E
		2	24mos.	Main Plant F
Technician		1	12 mos.	Time Only G
-76-
1.	a) Within the Energy Services Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
One Unit Leader
Seven (7) Energy Services Operators
b)	Fir training, progression, and for normal operations the following positions wilt be designatedoneachshift:
Unit Leader
Main Control Room Operator Water Systems Operator Lead Main Plant Operator Main Plant Operator FGD/Matenals HandlingOporaior
e) While the total shin complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Energy Services Note 3, to other than his regularposition fortrainingpurposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	A Third Class PowerEngineeringCertificateis mandatory prior to attaining MCR.
e)	A Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining Phase 2 qualification.
f)	Part "A" of the Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate, or equivalent issued by an accredited college, is mandatory priorto attaining a traineepositioa
g)	Employeaswill be paid an alawance for Power Engineering Certificates as per Appendix
"A".
2,	if a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted In accordance with Article 11.01(a) end paid accordingly, lime constraintsshaN not because lor denying an employee a permanent promotion.
-77-
3.	Shift staffing shall recognizesentority and the established sequence of |ob progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service quaification and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposesonly, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
4.	An employee when designated to cover a Energy Services Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify lor phase progressionan employee mustcomplete the experience requirements.
6.	Employees win receive exposure in the phasef unctions to provide sufficient opportunity lor them io train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	a) The Department will post an assigned standby schedule for ail Energy Services Operatorson a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Manager will post quarterty the minimum number and minimum qualSlcallon of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonableln relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be availablefor contact by phone between the hours of €:30 to 8:30 and must reportfor work within one and onequarter(1-l/4) hours of notice it called.
c)	Emptoyeesassignedto stand-by on the pasted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatible qualifications. The Shift Supervisormust be notified1 of the change.
d)	Notwithstandinghis note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on stand-byfor salety reasonsonly.
e)	The standbyprocedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultationwith the Area Steward(s). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
f)	Consistent with Article 11.01 (c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the foilowing sequence:
-78-
I)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
ii) Overtimeworked by an employeeassignedto standby lr the groupih which the vatincy originally occurs.
Ill)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standbyfir the next group in Wich the resulting vacancy occurs.
Iv) Ovettime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit.
v)	Should employees in (IK) and (iv) dedine the overtime, then (he original standby employee must mpol for work.
g)	Employees who voluntee r lor Overtime on any of their scheduled days off V\i do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days priorto their scheduled days off.
h)	Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standbyschedule.
7.	A shift stalling list which indicates currently assigned positions \M be posted and updated \Mienever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment! employeeson their normal shifts lor training or shin staffing.
g.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place io assist employees to obtain theirfourth
ana third class stationary engineerscartificatfia will be continued in full and can be altered ty management at any timeforthe benefit ofthe employees.
g. Notwithstanding Article 5.04(a)(li) the Company will give each 12-hour continuous Shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) "long change"in every 1%-weetcyde or in every 12 week cycle as is applicable to the shift schedule in use provided the employee has not changed his shin.
-79-
Laboratory Technician Salary A job Progression Chart
Lat30f£jory Technician salary and job progressionfrom phase to phase shall be through seniority, axpenenoe, demonstrated knowledgeand ability in accordance with Note4 and the following
UNIT LEADER
					SALARY
Designation		Phase	Qualification	MIN. Time	GROUP
		9		48 mos.	B
		8		42 mos.	C
Senior		7		36moa	D
Technician		6		30 mos.	E
		S		24 moa.	F
		4		18 mos.	G
			3 of 3	12 mos.	H
Technician .		3	Time Only	8 mos.	1
“A"		2	1 Of 3	4 mos.	J
		1	Technician	Start	L
Rjnctions:
3 Of 3	2 Of 4
EnvironmentaWVater ICP/AA Extraction	QA
Upgrading	GC/ESW
Projects (Diesel)
* The designationsof Senior Technician and Technician "A" recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression oily.
-80-
LABORATORY PWOOREgBlON NOTES
1.	a) Within the Laboratory there shall be a minimum of three (3) Unit Leaden, seven (7) LaboratoryTechnicians Days, two (2) LaboratoryTechnicians per shift.
b)	Fortraining and qualification purposes, the followingfunctionswS be designated:
Unit Leader EnvironmentalWater Extraction Upgrading Pro|ects (Diesel)
QC/ESM
ICP/AA
QA
e) While the total complement of shift personnel shall be maintained, a day or shift employee may be temporarily assigned to other than his regular poeHlon for training purposes or as work priorities require Qualified Technicians will be rotated through functions for which they are qualified to ensure that their qualifications remain current, provided that the effective efficient operationof the Laboratoryis maintained.
d) Upon qualification of each phase within the Laboratory Progression, the Company will supply the employeewith a certificatestating the phases and positions lor which the employee is quaffied.
2.	a) if a permanentLaboratoryTechnicianday vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee on continuous shift shal be given first opportunity for assignment to days.
b)	If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee will be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanentpromotion.
3.	An employeewhen designatedto cover a shift position, senior technician position or Unit Leaderpositionshallbedeemed qualified in that position.
However, in order b qualify for a salary phase progression an employee must complete the time requirements.
4.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity lor them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
-81
S.	The following guidelines will apply for the coverage of lemporary shift vacancies provided the employee can work his next regularehift and at regular pay;
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form on theirfirst day shift priorto the employee'sscheduleddays oft
b)	When overtime is required, the fblowing is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualifiedemployees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (a).
II)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the Overtime 1st who have submitted chits not In accordance with (a)i
lil) Thirdly, if Insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtimedistribution list will be assignedto overtime.
c) An employee, upon returning to work may request his supervisorto mark him refusedfor the hours of overtime which he could haveworked had he submitted a chit.
a)	Persons who chit forovertimemustbe available lor contact by phone between 07:30 to 08:30 or 18:30 to 19:30 respective to their chll.
e) Temporary vacancies between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 0:00 p.m., shift or day positrons, will be filled at the discretion of the Laboratory Supervisor dependent on the priority of the work involved except for Unit Leader position which will be filled at all times in accordance with Article 11.01 (c).
&	An employee will be paid the A-l rate of pay for the full shlft(s) when assigned to Stack Survey duties.
-82*
warehouseTechnician Salary a job Progression Chart
SENIOR WAREHOUSE TECHNICIAN
■B-1“
PHASE	QUALIFICATIONS	MINIMUMTIME	SALARY GROUP
7	Any 2 of 2	84 months	“B"
6	Any 1 of2	52 months	“C"
5	Any 5 of 6	42 months	“D"
4	Any 4 of 6	34 months	"E"
3	Any 3 of 6	26 months	"F
2	Any2of6	16 months	“G"
1	Any 1 of6	3 months	"H”
	Start		V
Any time refers lo Warehouse continuous service. Phase 1 through 5 are Level One Functions. Phase 6 and 7 are LevelTwo Functions.
WAREHOUSE PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	Within the Warehouse Department there shall be eight (8) functions for training and qualification purposes. These are:
l*v»l 0™>
i)	MaterialsFamiliarization.
ii)	Equipment Operation and Knowledge
III)	MaterialsReceivingand Shipping. (General)
Iv) Materials Storage and Orderpicking.
v)	Advanced Shipping
vi)	Dispatch Coordination Laval Two
i)	Quality Assurance Certification II) Tfactor Trailer / Tandem Operation
2.	In the Warehouse Department there shall bo four (4) Senior Warehouse Technicians. As permanentvacancies arise, the senioremployeewill be promoted to Senior WarehouseTechnician in accordance with Article 11.01 (a). Time constraintsshall not be cause lor denying an employee a permanentpromotion.
3.	A rotation system shall be established to provide sufficient exposure and training to enable employeesto qualify for progressionto the next phase within the minimum time peiiod
4.	Temporary move-up to Senior Warehouse Technician shall be in accordance with Article 11.01(c).
6.	For purposes of covering shift vacancies the following will apply:
-84-
I) Employees may volunteer for overt ime on their scheduled days off by doing so on a chit form at leasttwo (2)wofiring days priorto their scheduled days off.
ii] Tne employee lowest on the overtime distribution fist who has submitted a chit will be assignedthe overtime. If insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution fist will be assignedthe overiime.
ill) Fortemporary shift vacancies in the Warehouse, the provision of Article 5.06(b) will not apply for twelve hourCompressed WorkWeek ContinuousShiftSchedule.

■WTT
Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
SENIOR OPERATOR 1	B-1
i
PHASE	QUALIFICATIONS	MIN.TIME	SALARY GROUP
7	4 OF 6	64mos.	B
6	Time Only	52 mos.	C
5	3 of 6	40mos.	D
4	2 of 6	25 mos.	F
3	Time Only	15 mos.	G
2	1 of 6	3 mos.	H
1	Start		L
All time refers to Mine DepartmentContinuousService.			
-85*
MINE DEPARTMENT NOTES
1.	a) Within the Mine Department there shall be six (6) functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows: Operation of. Loaders, Crawler Tractors, Graders, Haulage Trucks and Rubber Tired Dozers or Water Wagons or Packers.
b)	Employees wi receive sufficient exposure in the various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualifywilhin the minimum time periods.
c)	Inadditionto the above, employeeswfl be expected to qualify in and may beassignedto other functionsperformedwithin the Department
2.	a) Within the Mine Department there shall be a minimumof one (1) SeniorT rainer/Operator, one(1) SeniorWelder/Operator, five (5)ShovelOperatorpositionspershin.
b)	Upon completion of phase6 operator classification in the MineDepariment, operators will select the senior operator position in which they wish to advance, if an insufficient number of employees have selected to progress In any of the senior operator positions, the Company may assign the junior employee on each shift who has completed phase 6 to progress in that senior operator position.
c)	The B-1 rate shall be paid to employees classified as senior operator or performing a function in the Senior Operator dassificationotherthan for their own training.
3.	Temporary vacancies in the senior operator positions shall be filled in accordance with Article 11.01(c).
4.	a) Sufficient operators will be indentured into a welding apprenticeship program I o ensure an adequate number cf qualified Weldersare available in the Mine Department.
b) As openings arise the Senior qualified operator desiring apprenticeship in the welding tradewilt be indentured.
e) For salary purposes those employees in the MineOepartmenl indentured in the welding trade wi receive salary increases as follows:
“86**
i) An operatorwho has completedthree (3)of six (6) functions and is recognized as having completed forty (40) months qualifying service and the second year of the welding apprenticeship will be paid the "C” salary rate.
H) An operatorwho has completed four (4) of six (6) functions and has obtained a Journeyman Certificationwill be paidthe 'B" salary rate.
ill) Should an employee be indentured into the welder Apprenticeship program with leas than four (4) of six (6) functions, the employee will continue I o progress to the higher salary groups in accordance with the defined time periods even though the employee may not meet the qualification requirements. At such time as the employee completes the second of the welding apprenticeshipand has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirementthe employee will receive the 'C rate. At such time as the employee receives a Journeyman Certification and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirementthe employeewill receivethe "E" pay rate.
d)	Fully qualifiedweldertoperator employees will receivethe “EM* rate when assigned lo welding duties.
5.	a) Permanent day, shift, or continuous shift positions shall be posted and filled from within the Mine Department by seniorqualHied employees on a different shift schedule.
b) The most senior operator in possession of a blasting certificate and designated to a blasting craw shall receive the "A-l" rate of pay while engaged In blasting duties.
6.	Those employeeswho are required to make a hot changewill receive other allowances as per Appendix" A for each Shift that they make a hot change at one or bath ends of a shift.
It is understoodthat the number of employees required I o make a hot change is dependent on me circumstances prevailing in the Mine at any given time.
The Company will make every reasonableeffort in the distribution of assignments in order that qualified employees will receive equal opportunity insofar as is practical. In this regard Supervisors and Union Stewardswill work together.
7.	Overtime in the Mine Department wi be distributed as per Appendix “C".
-07-
Appendix "c Overtime Coverabe
FORUPORADINB. ENERQV SERVICES EXTRACTPH PROOHEKMONg
CHIT SYSTEM
To the extent that these employees are committed and remain committed to making this system work the Company will set aside the requirementsof the standby system.
For the purposes of overtime coverage, the following will apply fa the Fixed Plants, namely Upgrading, Energy Services, Extraction, Progressions;
Consistentwith Article 11.01(c) temporary shiftvacancieswill be tilled in the following sequence:
■) Realignment within the shift withoutovertimeresulting.
b)	For the purposesof overtime coverage the following will apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay. Employeeswho volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days oft will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days priorto their scheduled days off.
I)	Priority of chits received.
• Flrally, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordancewith(b) above
- Secondly to qualified employees lowest on the overtime ist who have submitted chits not in accordance with (b) above
II)	If Insufficientchits are received, qualified employees, lowest on the overtime list, may be assignedto overtime.
iil) In accadance with (b)(i) above overtime will be firstly, in the vacant function worked by an employee qualified h that function; secondly, realignmentwithin the shift with overtime in the resultingvacant function worked by an employeequalifiedin that function.
c)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request his supervisorto mark him refused for the hours of overtimewhlch he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
in the case where the chit system fails to provide minimum staffing requirements, the following will apply
a)	The Department will post an assigned standby schedule for afl Department Operators on a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours of 6:30 to 8:30 and must reportfo r work within one and oneq uarter (1 -1 At) noun of notice if call ec.
c)	Employees assigned to standby on the postedachedule wi be permitted to exchange standby assignmentsVWh employees on their shin who have compatible qualifications. The Shin Supervisor must be notified of the change.
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on standbyfor safely reasons only
a) The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Managements consultation with the Area Steward^). it isthe Company'slntentthat mutual agreementwff be reached on these procedures.
f)	Consistent wMh Article 11.01 Co) temporary shin vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
I)	Realignmentwithin the shift without overtime resulting.
II)	Overtimeworked by an employee assignedtostandbyforthe group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
iil) Realignmentwithin the shiftwith overtimeworked by an employeeassignedto standby tor the next group In which the resulting vacancy occurs.
Iv) Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualifiedemployee lowest on the overtime distributionlist who has Submitted a chit
v) Should employees in (ili) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must reportfor work.
g]	Employees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2)working days priorto their scheduled days off.
-89*
h)	Employees on standby will have tint opportunity lor Overtime consistent with their standby schedule
-90-
Appendix "C"
OVEWTME COVERAGE FOR MINE DEPARTMENT
For the purposesof overtime coverage the fblowingwill apply:
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at leasttwo (2) workingdays prior to their scheduleddays off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime Bst who have submitted chits in accordance with (a).
II)	Secondy, to qualifiedemployeeslowest on the overtimelisl who havesubmitted chits not in accordance with (a).
III)	Thirdly, If insufficientchits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distributioniist may be assignedto overtime.
o) The Company will make every reasonableetfort to contact employees for overtime between 0630 and 0730 or 1630 to 1930 respective to their chit.
d)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request his supervisorto mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submined a chit
e)	Where standby is required to efficiently operate the Plant, the Area Management will designate the coverage required and wfl, in consultation with the Area Steward(s), develop the necessary procedures to provide standby coverage.
f)	This procedure may only be changed by the Area Management in consultationwith the area Slawaid(s). H is the Company's intentthat mutualagreemenl will be reachedon these procedures.
-91-
APPENPrO"
Letter OF UNDERSTANDING *1
RE: CLOTHING ALLOWANCE - ARTICLE 14-CSftt
Lump sum payments for clothingwill be based on the need in each area Both boots and clothing will be rated in variables of 0 • 3 with a combinedtotal indicating amount of money neededto sufficientlycoverthe cost of clothing.
RATE 0: Fire Resistant Outer clothing provided
RATE 1: Reflectsareas Wiere conditions are reasonably constant, (dry and clean) with little or no exposure to seasonal variations. Wear factors would also be very low in these areas.
RATE 2: Where conditions are more severe than Rate 1 but less than in areas indicated by Rate 3.
RATE 3; Where outside work would be the norm on a year round basis and there is an exposure to seasonal variations. Those areas have high wear factors for boots or clothing and also a high replacementand cleaning frequency.
Areas am rated as follows:
	BOOTS	CLOTHING	TOTAL
Mining Operations	3	3	6
M.E.M.	3	3	6
Plan! Industrial Maintenance.			
Extr. Mech. Mtce.	3	3	6
Energy ServicesMtce	2	3	S
FacilitiesMtce. Services	2	2	4
ExtractionOpa., Plant3	3	3	6
-92-
Extraction Ops., Plant 4	3
EnergyServIces Operations	2
Upgrading Operations	3
Laboratory	2
Materials	2
0
3
0
1
2
3
6
3
3
4
Electronics Clothing Allowancewill be paid atthe same value a8 the area an employee is assignedto.
2	S 175.00
3	$200.00
4	$225.00
5	$250.00
6	$275.00
This letter shall form part of the Colective Agreement signed this 4th day of September, 1997, A D in the Municipalityol Wood Buffalo, Aberta
For the Union,	Forthe Company,
CEP Local 707	Suncor Energy Inc, Oil Sands
-93
Appendix "D1*
LETTER OP UHDER8TWDHQ #2
This letter outlines the intentionsof the parties with respectto Article 6.08 (a). It is not intendedto affectthe operationol existing chit systems.
It is understoodand accepted that this provision is a tiest efforts' overtime opportunity and not an absolute equalization clause. It is not intended that a Supervisor endeavour to equalize overtime on a day-lo-day or e weekto-wsak basis, nor is it intended that he always offerovertime to the employee with the leasthoursin the pay classification.
Overtime lists are zero at the beginnings! each calendar year. The list published mid-year b used as check point to determine where the emphasis should be to have the overtime opportunitydietributlon reasonablyequallzed by the end of the year.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 4th day of September. 1997, A.D. in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta.
Forthe U nion,	Forthe Company,
President CEP Local 707
Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
-94-
APPENDIX "0"
Letter of uhoemtamdinq #8
The purpose of this letter is to establish a meaningful framework within which regularly scheduleddiscussionswill occur on productivityand efficiency issues affecting the success of the Company.
The parties agree to meet every six months during the life of the Collective Agreement to discuss productivity issues
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 4th day of September, 1997, AD. in the Municipalityaf Wood Buffalo, Alberta.
Forthe Union,	For the Company,
President CEP Local 707
Suncor Energy Inc, Oil Sands
-95-
Appendix "D11
letter of Undehstondinq #4
BILARDPLE 1117(B)
Employment of contractors for work expected to last in excess of ten (10) days to supplement bargaining unit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the Area Steward(s)
Prior to layoff of journeymen and/or apprentices in a given department the Company will reduce journeymen and/or apprentices in the same trade who are employed by Contractors in the same department In a department where contractors are employed for other than trades Work, such contractors will be reduced prior to lay off of Bargaining Unit Employees in that department employed in similar Wrk
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement Signed this 4th day of September, 1997, A D inthe MunicipaftyofWood Buffalo,Alberta
President CEP Local 707
Suncor Energy Inc.. Oil Sands
-96-
Appewok "D"
Letter of Uwoewtondinq #s
As part of the current wage settlement the Company agrees to remit three (36) per hour for each full time employee's regular hours of work to a Safety Health and Industrial Relations Training FundoftheE.C.W.U. on a quarterly basis.
The Union agrees that the sole purpose of this fund will be to provide training to its members primarily those from Suncor Inc. O.S.G. in the areas specifiedabove.
The Union further agrees that the content of the Safety and Health programs will be consistent with current Safety and Health Programs endorsed by Suncor Inc. O.S.G. (i.e. FiveStarProgram).
The Union also agrees to furnish the Company on an annual basis, a listing of the courses to bepresentedto its Suncor members at Local707, E.C.W.U.
The Union agreesto provideafund auditas requested.
The Union agrees that the Company wil be invited to have input to the type and content of the training supportedby this fund.
Leave of Absence will be in accordance with Article 10 of the ColectiveAgreement
This memorandum wl be included as part of the Collective Agreement and unless cancelled by either party within thirty (30) days prior to April 30, 1990, alt terms and conditionswill continueto apply.
Signed this 4th day of September, 1997, A.D. in the Municipalityof Woad Buffalo, Alberta. Forthe LJnfon,
Keith Barrington President CEP Local 707
{Gene Bacon
Manager, Labour Relations Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
-97-
Appends "D"
Letter of unpebstandinq *6
BE; DEPARTMENT. UNION, CQMPflMY RELAX
L*Ja Mai
KS
The purpose of this letter is to establish regularscheduled meetings between the Area Job Stewards and Area Management Those meetings to be scheduled quarterly, will be to discuss any unsolved problems in the area that are appropriate with the intent that bath partiescontinueto improve relationships
Signed this 4<h day of September, 1997, A 0 in the Municipality oi Wood Buffalo, Alberta
For the Union		For the Company
.. jy	. /	/X 1/
		
Keith Barrington		fl Gene Bacon
President		v Manager, Labour Relations
CEP Local 707		Suncor Energy Inc Oil Sands
-98-
Appendix *D
Letter q f unoerstandho #7 HARASSMENT
The Company and the Union recognize the right of all employees to wak in an environment free from sexual or workplace harassment, and to be treated fairly and with respect in the workplace. The purpose of this letter is to outline activities for both the Company and the Union to provide a workplace environment that is productive and promotes both the dignity and seif-esteemof all employees.
Forthe purpose of this joint initiative, Sexual Harassment means any unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature that causes offence or humiliation to any employee or that might be perceived by the employee as placing a condition cf a sexual nature on any employment relationship.
Workplace harassment means any unwelcome behaviour, which creates an intimidating, threateningor hostile work environmentsuch that an employee's performance is impaired, the employment relationship is adversely affected or the employee's dignity or respect is denied.
Forthe purpose of administeringthisjoint initiative, two (2) harassmentCo-ordinators shall be jointly responsible but not limited to:
- Review existing Company/Un ion Harassment Policies and Procedures for effectiveness and recommend improvements
• Assist in communicating/educating al employeeson these proceduresand policies
■ Actascontact/resource peoplef or harassmentcomplaintsand investigation
These co-ordinators (preferablyone of each gender with one selected from the Company and one by the Union) will be trained to carry out their duties. Every attempt will be made throughout any investigationprocedureto maintain completeconfidentiality.
Knowledge and awareness is a critical part of combating harassment The co-ordinators will recommend programs to informand encouragefellow workers to recognize the problem and take control of their own situation through exercisingtheir rights.
-99-
It is both the right and the responsibility of all employees who believe that they have been subjected to unacceptable behaviour to first ask the instigator to stop the unwelcome behaviour, if the harassment continues, the individual should then go to a Co-ordinatorto diacu?s the concern. The Co-ordinators wil investigatethe employee's concern, and if substantiated, will take any necessary steps within their mandate to reach a decision, which attemptsto bring an informal resolution.
If the matter is not resolved, any person may proceed to the next step within ten (10) working days of the Co-ordinators' decision. The individual advancing the matter to the next step shall send a formal written submission to the senior management person on site and to the local union president. The senior management person and the local union president or their designate^) should meet with all affected persons within five (5) working days. They will investigate the matter and will take any necessary steps to reach a decision. Management will be responsible for any corrective action resulting from the decision.
Any person not satisfiedwith the decision, will have the option of either filing a grievance and/or a human rightscomplaint; or utilizing Suncor's Complaint Resolution Procedurefor a final and binding decision.
SignedthisA*1 day of September, 1997 AD in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta
Keith Earrington President CEP Local 707
V Manager, Labour Relations Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
-100-
Appendix "D"
Letter of Understanding MB
RE ELECTRONICS NOTE E. MEM NOTE E AND PLANT INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION
The following components are considered when employees in the Electronics, MEM and PIM departments request reassignmentto other areas of their respectivedepartments.
At leasttwelve (12) months since the last reassignment request granted.
Requestfor reassignment must be submitted in advance of vacancyoccurring.
As an opening occurs and based on the above, preferencefor reassignmentshall be given to the Senior Qualified employee. For employees in the Plant Industrial Maintenance department, classification seniority will apply.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 4* day of September, 1997, AD in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo. Alberta
For the Union,
» S
Keith Barrington President CEP Local 707
Suncor Energylnc, Oil Sands
-101-
Maternity leave
"REPRINTED FOR INFORMATION ONLY - NOT SUBJECT TO GRIEVANCE OR ARBITRATION"
Suncor‘6 policy will grant permanent employees maternity leave, without pay, equal to or exceeding the provincial legislation for the province of employment (Alberta • 27 weeks) provided the employee has completed the required period of employment (Aberta - 12 months).
A "Request for Leave"form must be completed with the appropriate signatures at least four (4) weeks prior to your leaving work. This completed form should then be brought to the Benefits Departmentwho will discuss your options, as to which benefit coveragesyou wish to continue during your leave, and which you wish to decline.
Your maternity leave begins on the date you elect to leave work, if not far medical reasons, or on the date of delivery if you leave work for medical reasons, and runs to a maximum of 27 weeks. The 27 weeks referred to is a total amount of leave and is to be combined with your spouse's paternityleava, if applicable.
Although the overall condition of pregnancy in itself is not a ground for entitlementto sick leave, it is acknowledged mat duringthe time before date of delivery, you may be physically incapacitated far work and are therefore eligible for short term disability (STD) benefits, sayable by Suncor under it's normal sick leave plan schedule. You musl submit a medical sertiflcate for this period to the HEALTH CENTRE who will advise your Supervisorto start eying inyourtime as sick.
STD benefitswill continue foryou untilthe date of delivery. You must IMMEDIATELY notify rour Supervisor and the Benefits Department of the birth of your Child. In turn your Supervisor will prepare the "Temporary Removal from Payroll" slip and forward it to the Compensation & BenefitsDepartment
ton wil be removed from the payrol system and the Payroll [Department will thus be idvieeo to issue you the necessary "Record of Employment'1 papers required to claim imployment insurance. "PLEASE NOTE- WITHOUT THESE NECESSARY PAPERS, 'OU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO APPLY FOR U.I.C., SO ENSURE THAT YOU FOLLOW ’HESE INSTRUCTIONS * You will file for Employment insurance during the week that ou are no longer being paid by Suncor on STD • or the week of the date of delivery.
-102-
You are also eligible for a Supplementary Unemployment Benefit (SUB) for the six (6) weeks immediately following the birth of your child. This benefit payment provided you with coverage during the time you are considered medically disabled due to childbirth. Benefits will be provided beyond the six (6) week period only when you continue to be disabled and it is supported by a medical certificate. The needfor an extension beyond the six (6) week period is a rare occurrence.
The SUB plan is administered consistent with the rules for short-term disability. These rules include such things as the benefitsto be calculated on base earnings, benefitsto be based on the salary in effect on the date the disability commenced, etc. You will receive benefits under the SUB plan based on either 95% or 66 2/3% of your basic earnings in accordancewith the STD schedule of payments,offset bythe amount of the El benefit you receive.
During the period that you are paid by the SUB plan, you may elect to continue to contributeto the Savings Ran. Contributions to the Savings Ran will be based on either 100% or 66 2/3% of your basic earnings in accordance with the STD schedule of payments. If it is your intention to contributeto the Savings Ran during this period, you must sign the necessary authorization on the SUB application, so the payroll department can reduceyour SUBpaymentaccordingly.
You must apply for Employment Insurance and be in receipt of the El benefit before SUB becomes payable. You must provide proof of thB El payment by providing copies of the El cheque stubs and the application form to the Payrol Department.
If you wish to return to work prior to the end of the six-week post-natal period, as per provincial legislation, you must provide the company with a medical certificate of good health. Forretum to work, you will providethe companywith two (2) weeks advance notice of your intent to return. The company will make arrangements to reinstate you to your former position orone of comparable responsibility at the same salary rangeand benefits.
-103-
1M7 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W. l-2,J.2,K-2,L-2
DAYS
NIGHTS
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	18	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24
26	28	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	28	27	28	MAR
2	3	4	5	8	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	16	18	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	16	16	17	16
fa	20	21	22	23	24	25	26I 27		28	29	30
HAY	2	3	4	S	6	7	sl 9		10	11	12
\	131	141	1S1	161	171
I	2B|	261	271	281	Ml
181	191	201	211	221	231	241
301	311 JUKI	21	31	41	SI
I 81	71	81	91	101	111	121	131	141 1SI 161	171
I	1>l	191	201	211	221	231	24
I	30IJIIL I	21	31	41 St
251	281	271	281	291
81	91	10
111
121____13
241	25
141	151	161	17	18
281
201
81
13
191	201	211____22
301
3HAUG
11
121	13l	141	15
23
16
171	181	191	201	211	221	231	241	281	261	271	28
291	301 31ISSP
21	31	41
81_____7f
81
101	111	121	131	141	181	181	171	181	191	201	21
221	23f	241 251 261 271	281	291 301OCT I 21
131	14	_1S
27
281	291	301 31IN0VI
3I 41 SI 61
91	101	111	12|	131
211	221	23	24 ~~M
al	41	si	M 7T
15|
161 1
27|	291
101
i
181	191____20]
30
111 12
DEC
13
14
16
161	171	181	191	201	21
221	231	24
25	26
27
28
________________291	301	311 I
J-2 IJ-2 IK-2 Ik-2 Ik-2 11-2 I
IL-2
L-2
1-2 11*2
1-2
J-2
>•2 11*2 IJ-2 IJ-2 IJ-2 IK-2 IK-2
K-2
L-2 IL-2 IL-2 11*2 I
104-
nn|																			£				■nnnn							•	[ft	A	«	•			i]	ifl	"fl	OH
Gin|	*																		ft				nnnrcin								A	•	A	A			jj	•	y 1	.a
nn|																			A				nnnrin							A	A	A	ft				■	T|	• 1	M
□n|																			A				[jfinfri				■			A	A	f	•	•			□	n	□	cn
u □ ■																			ft				nnnnn							l	□	•	•	•			■nmin			
mil																			A				n	M	[]	n	n				iimiM						a	11	□	
nn|																			A							I				nnnnn										
																			A							i				A	n	n	n							
■ ■■																			s							M		u.		ft										
niHE																			u							1.		A		1C										
raran																			s							R		ii		ft										
nnn																			ft							3ft		ft		A										
tii LiJ ft.:																			7							ftr		■		ft										
mmrn												x							a							£		ft	E	ft										
nnn												K							*								nr	A	E	A										
E3C3E							BE												S							st	rtf	g	a	ft										
man		E	lx!		E	E	E	Us	BE		Us	«	W	fcg			w	t»	U£	fcg		E	uf	E		H	[fi	E	E	m	E	E	E	E	E	E	E	E		
in*	•	4	i	m	i	H	■	9	4	X	M	X	n	t	•	4	X	m	i	H	•	•	4	X	*	X	H	•	•	t	X	A	X	m	•	•	4	X	A	
mmmom ojuanawa wok an OH 'OH ’Hl't’H'i’H't’H't’HVH nflOOfOl 14JH0 itll
105-
-106-
mr shift acHcoutc &*.*
E-7.E»i.t-a.E'4,E-S,E-a,F*M-7.F-«,F-S,A-1.R-t.A-A.R*a.ll*1,tt*.A.a.e.O
									pa	wi ttj		na	w	t4		ta	19	u	r«	r~s	rji	3	Pi				tl	ta
	al J mIkbI 4 4 4 J								I j	n a		□	u	n		n	14	N	a	; »	* it	“m	ls				84	as
MVS MVS MVS MMHffl MIS AFVCSMPONI fStttffS MVS MVS MVS W mvs trs MVS M1 BATS F-T* MVS F-r MVS M* MVS M4' OATS A-#*	"I WIMMT «l * 1							L3	j	if a		•	w	Pi		ia	14	ia	H	p	ii	iH	: q				M	ta
	eeeeeecs							■ ■		s s		p	9	a		tt	11	U	a	p	u		uJ2				tt	n
	EECEEICi-'t:									"as		P	t	t		t	1	a	ii	l3	ui		Pjj				M	i aa
	EEHEECEECEES												E	G3		i	4	i	P		p						H	rn
	EEEEtEEEEECE														IE	E	,YTT	j i									14	
	EEEEEEEEEEEE												EEE														n	
		□3	E	■r	; III		E	r:	E	r	e	EI	E	E	E	E	E	q									P	
		Li!	P |fl	_ Ml	| it		L m			a								SI									i	
		□		^ ft]	1 qj		f-'S4l			ii								q									3	
		□		[ a	r ■		ft]			14								q									DM	
										J								q								as	q	
																												
										17								67								IT	17	
										6S								C+								6A	E-A	
										SI																		
						n	ffy																					
	5;	EZj				§□	5j			JP			Si					S								C	5""	
	p					Eh	aH			s			»_					5								D	0	
	B1	r			r~	ri	5-*1			jP			o!	PI				D								A	A.	
	H					is1	iil	IT						□														
	E-t					—1	gr	H	ST;	M		“P	6S	6S	E4												N	
	55	5T		1		BT	B-j	55	E2		1	"P		ST	RT	ST												
		st		HI			M	M	*■*	rT '	"p		«7	B-3	M	ST							Sal	551	~P		R7	
	i	i				jj	It	■	1				ta	q	a	s							j	p	P		it	
	i	i	Pi				n	t	■	it				u	t	a	It			'	la	A	1		—J			
	it	i				i	jj	ia	a					M	q	_J				J	pi	Ps	r jj	1	P		i	
	it	it	US				i	it	it	i				■	it	P3	P				p	Pi	If	' Hj		Hi		
	It	«				i	i	t	a		a			"P	. a	a	a	a			J	a	tt	"i	•		*p	i	
	1 W	p T	P •F	S’	s’	• M	-J T	it «v	a T	a p	s	»	a •r	Pi T	it w	a T	r	•	•	a m	a r	Z3 ir	r	F	s	•	a! M	T
1M7 SHIFT SCHEDULE 12 HOUR G.W.W. SCHEDULES
E.t,E*I.E*S,E-4,M.N.0.F,l,J,K.L.I*1lJ*1.K«1,L-1lM*4,N.4,0.4.F«4
JAM			4	1	(	7	1	4	is	11	12	13	14	ii	10
i*	ii			21	21	23	24	4	24		.fl	ii	31	3	AS1
a	a	4	1	(	7	1	1	id	11	11	11	14	id	3	r
14	do	SI	1'	Z	Id	ii	21	41	49	21	lUH	4	a		i
i		3	A	11	11	12	ii	14	11	14	1;	14	U	3	ii
22	23	A	41	M	~~b	21	21	4o	ii	AM	!	3	, 4	1	<
7	fl	»	ii	11	12	13	14	ii	ii	17	ii	14	in	ii	la
Z	24	2ft	44	27	is	24	'it	axr	4	a		a	4	7	a
k	10	11	ia	13	V	ii	ii	d9	14	ii	20	fi	22	23	24
21		Hr	21	ts	31	31	3fflT	i	3		4	4	7	1	4
11	11	ii	ii	1*	ii	11	17	ii	H	21	21	aa	fl	f4	as
21	27	fl	as	30	jui.	1		*	1	4	7	a	4	n	11
1J	13	ii	ii	IS	17	11	it	«	ii	44	IA	24	is	as	"47
M	Si	30	St	kit	2	a	4	1	4	4	1	4	ii	ii	fa
id	14	IS	ii	17	1S	ii	20	«!	a	ia	24	28	fl	29	28
21	N		ua	2	4	i	1	4		i	4	10	ii	12	13
14	IS	IS	17	10	13	20	ii	22	b	24	28	24	b	stt	2S
21	OCT1	2	4	4	S	4	7	4	4	10	11	ii	Vi	14	IS
11	1?	ii	is	30	it	2a	fl	24	24	28	29	fl	is	30	31
nSv	2	a	4	B	s	7	S	“i	10	1t	12	13	14	ll	18
17	IS	is	20	31	42	aa	24	as	24	2*	30	if	44	pec	2
a	4	1	4	7	0	4	ii	ii	12	ii	14	141 IS		17	10
ii	2C	an	22	33	34	24	ai	si	24	»	30	*1 -			
Mflj
OATS
am!
ia i zm if i tn	rm i zm i zm r«i .g ■ i ira i zm i zxm i zmi
UMijJBL -mijwi 5Wi sm :mi zmi ‘.milul:miumi ZMi swismism
om
DAYS
4MK1S
om
Moms
EaEnraoaininiEawiniBiiaicsicsiLaLSiEiai
iT'm ITS !--■ ry rj'm \~m try rms rg« rg» r.y r-*a i-rm r-y rrm nrm
107
1881 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
<-a,4-2,K-a,i.*a
JAN
13
14
IS
2S|	261	271	281 2B
IS
17
18
30
18
10 11
J8
31
20
21
JO
22
181	20	211	221	231	241 2Sl 261	271	281 WAR
11
23
12
24
121	13	14	151	16	17
12_____131
DAYS
NIGHTS
-108-
nil IWfT UHEOULl (M,R-»,R-I.ll-T,H-I,f*-I1
o
ID
■ni hour eoHMEua wonwcm
	F	■	■	il	T	m	T	e	•	1	H	r	w	T	f		ft	M	T	m	t	F'	ft	ft	m	T	w	T	F		•	■	T	w	T	F	•	■	N	T	W	T
	TT		T1	T		Tl	T]	T		ft	TT]	T?		3	3						1T\		1SI		15|	a	IT	ZB	2ft1	i&i	IT	Ti1	7]	Tl	T	T	•					
								lit,		IT				S	3											•	3	11									ia					
										4				T	t											It	3	88									in					
														ft	IV											it	T	t									3					
														ii	T											3	3	3									14					
														It	3											3	88	3									4					
														n	3											s	T	i									3					
														4	T											3	3	3									tr					
														18	If											3	3	3														
IN											£]	u	a	u	u											3	T	3														
w											uuuuu															T	T	T														
w	T			T		T		T				E	u		I											T	T	T	T				£									
sr	T			□		•		•			r	•	■		T											T	3	T					ft			T						
M	•			s		T		T			•	•	T		T											T	I	•	T				T			T						
El	T			T		T		T			21	T	*													T	T	T	T				n			T					til	til
I5B~				T	m	Tl	\T	T			T	T	T						ft!							3	Tl	|	£			ft	■						noun			
1ST					T	ft	T	H	T				•	T		T			tr	ft	LE	Ii	lZj			til	T	T	3				ft	T			t;			□Don			
-110-
IMi BWFT BOHtOULI CW.W.
	355]	i	a	4	3?	*1	*1		i	H	H	s.	-a	_»4	kk:		17	“li	Ti	Ti	lE	a	rg	a	i a	pgSI	27	
	- 23	a	01	reo	—S	-■n	4|	i	■	7	1		H		ERE		M	is	SI	17		ta	pgl	21	a	lljjj	a	
	■ 9	»	a	HU	—1	.j)	4|	i	•{	i	1		fo|				rii	ssl	ia	IF		ii	hg	21	a	(3	a	
	m	Is	a	a	a	31	AM	2	*		71						11					11		11	j		21	
		3H	j	Ti				a ~									4							11	17		ia	
		L®	_«	.24													4							13	_U		ia	
		*»	Ti	a				a									4							11	14		M	
		17 ~	w	14				a									auo							a	1		it	
			ti	M				a																«	4		•	
		“Ti	ia	M				i_!2																4	4		•	
		1	M	«				fi																91	MOV		a	
		1	7	4				14												al			Ti	M	a		DBC	
BAtB Mlt DAT! moMTi OAtB ancMMONi NNBVTB BAVB Mil DAYS «*• DAYB WV bavb r-r qavb r-r oayb r-r OAts r-r OAtf A-A*		4	1	4				a	ii														a	a	a		21	
																												
			U						E7														ST	ST	ST		ST	
			E-A						64						E-A								E-A	BA	EA		6-9	
									U-2														IW				M-1	
																											M2	
			0						A														r	5”	C~		C	
			A	id					0														D	0	P		D	
			9						0														A	A	A		B	
						5"		eT				L_			HE-B													
						ST!		g£	M						1 1								ST			23EJ3S1		
	ST	ST			m |	A-1		ST				t			[ST												A-t	n-t
	M					ST		£*J	s?			LUUUUiJuU											ST			B-2	n*	H-2
	•				T?		I»	J				12	■E	K	•				1								ta	12	1
	t	jj				12	3	J	12				-3	•	a			Zj					"la				12	a
	•		,		i	ti	ia	a				i	Ti	j3	13				Us			3			;	a	12	14
	ta	~a				i	12	12	i				_s	la	-32							3	a		,	3	B	14
	i				""1	a	A	a	a			l		j	a			"T	T	tj	ti	Tl	a			3	B	"n
BAVB N-r	a	5			a	i	If	«	a			a	•	it	a				•	LJ	ti	•	B			•	T	a
T > B T 44 T WTO #
* NUBBEftB MDfCATC BBHEOUIED MOOR HOVftfl
IMt SHIFT SCHEDULE 12 HOUR CLW.W. SCHEDULES
E>1,E.2.E-2.E*4<M,N.0,FiI,4iI(,L,I*1,J*1,K«1,L-1.II>4iN.4,0-4,P-«
JAN	2	3	4	“	(	““5	i	“1	“ii	_ 11	HE	12	14	ii	Qel
17	"ii	ii	'■'lo	" 17	22	22	“S3	ji	” *0	87	■CL	7"	“8	“ii	
2	2	4	" 1	•	7		•	10	“ii	. ,1i	K	14	-JI	12	' 17
11	^2!	~Ti	21		"TS	“7	2)	"tj	id	n	LIU	■L	G	4	i
	2	7	S	1	to	11	12	11	rS	is	"""ii	17	18	il	20	21
“78	23	ZE	“B	*s	*™27	"*T5	“8	~ ao	81	3[	-?	a	“~4		«	0
“7	S		“78		i5	~75	14	ii	Jjl	17		18	“So	G	ia
ZM	24	“8	a	' 87	^3		13	SSF	1	a	""' 4		2	—4	H3	a
«	10	it	i?	11	“w	' 15		17	18		“»		T3	23l	24
	25	N	27	21	J if	3	31	3SgjT	1	' 3		“*"S		¥		2
	11	12	□|	14	1*	“Ti			"' ii		ZSj	Jjg			26
		~a	HH	3	jDT	“			2						11
		14		rj	3	“ii			Ti	aa	-4	" g4|			27
		30	57		2				i	ZZZ3	G				12
		12		12		-J!	J!			22	^jgj	“24				22
		31		□	G	G			Z2		2	icl			12
	ii	ii	“77	Hi		ns		“a	G	r i4|	“8	ad		[""8	32
	38T	i—i	a		4	i t	“i	G	—1	ii	101	L”	r id		14	1S
	_12	I 10	IS	US	[IS	~~5		"""ii	"m	aal	T7	ad	i 88	20	“Si
NOV	□	d	4	~ 1	□	i i	i	i i	n	Mm	ria	i id	j ?4	G	[—2!
17	_ ii	LJS	20	■ ii		23	“S3	81	20	^71	11	ad	G	M	
2	4	1—j	1	“7	“j	“1	ii	11	12	131	14	id	G	iS	“71
IS	“5	“S7	21	~ 23	-34	“5	«		“5	W	“5	n oil			
om
DAYS
DAYS
NIGHTS
QAVS
nmhis;
DAYS
NUM1S
BAYS
MOOTS
miEaitaiLaiB3eKBi$*tait£EiEaiua[t^EtiaiLEaL53i^H
ui^»Lair?«i^iL^M[?«iiaiLaii«t^!WB3iL«g»[3niHa
imm	N	JH		icaiai	□BE	urn	vjm	[»	m		[30	cm	m
IM M2 1	M	5^	El	imm	N		N		N		N			P		p—	p—	u
imm	K	3--"1	e!I	ram	U	L	L	L	r“	1	i	r	K
l-i -H 1	l	k		Il— ji,.. >. J		1	1	F	•L.	SH	*	j		J
Eases*	(SB		El	■rasiniNS	\T“		7TT	tr	KA	Ml	j>i	T7“	It"
C5* OSHEaEOi E3i HM 15B BBB BMUai ISM BMCSB DOB OOl L5B
111
1889 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W l-2tJ-2,K-2,L-2
DAY8
IIGHTS
18
20I	21J
281	241	25
27
28
291	30
MAT
10
11 12
13
181	161	171	181	18
20 21
22
231	24
261	271	281	281	301	31
JUW
71	81	81	101	111	12
131	14
15
161	171
18
181	201	211	221	231	24
251	261	271	281	28
30
JUL I 21	31	41	51
71	81	91	101	11
18I	141	151	161	171	18
19!	201	211	221	23
17
22|	23
24|	25]	26]
27|	28
10
151	16
111	19
201 21
22
27!	28
30 OCT
10
121	13
14	15
16
171	161	191	201	211	22
231	241	25
261	27
27
28	29
1-2
L-2
j-2 TT
1*2 W
30	31
J-2
1*2
K-2
J-2
K-2 j-2
K-2
J-2
L-2
K-2
L-2
K-2
L-2
K-2
1-2
L-2
131	14
2S|	26
Tz
L-2
-112-
awn acHEOutc	t d
ana hour comwiiimp aoMaccK
								T																																		m
								•																																		
								W																																		
								T																																		
								1?											i																							
								S											•																							
								T											IT																							
								17											5																							
	[g]							i											•																							
								n											F														□									
ST								7											T														1UULJU							ITl		
15“								if											•								|						LJ	LI	LJ	U						
mT								7											F								I															
c								T											7								1															
al								7											T								«															
E								T																			7															
nr								a											U	U	U						a															
51								7											LJ LJ L J LJ U								7															
•moon WON aainawM uvomm nmna .
i m i »	»	« J i m i w «	•	ll. •	**•**_'*. **. *,
ft	V	»	r			i	i-	•	1	i				•	11	1	1			•	■	El	■	I			! 1 .a-u (Avo	
■	11	B	•			■	•	11	1	B			V	p	p	p	■			p	1	t	B					tV'M MR •9tf 9490 9j MVO •11 MVO •94 MVO Ml flAVO Ml 9AVO 9AV0 mvq •ItflM iwmiauv MVS B1HINN MM curs MM
El	u	B				I	|U	u	•				1	Bl	El	1				1	El	#	fl					
•	ll	n	It				B	El	ll	1				•	ft	ll	•				1	•1	ft	*				
1	l	»				11	B	p	«					p	•	El				El	B	fl	El				ll	
I	t	ii	n				B	p	n	Bl			r	B	p	El	pi				B	p	El	IV				
i*m	Mi	lit				«*M	Ml	W	*m					9M	Mi	1-M	Mf			9M	1-M	I*M	1-M					
l*M	i*U	til					*•«	h«	I'M	l*p			1*M	l*M	I'M	‘■q					IM	I'M	f*M	M|			•H	
	Ml	W	►3			►3		BE	93						93	93	93			93	99	93	93					
H	1*3						9*3	93	93	93			n	93	93						93	93	93	93			93	
B	B	a	V	V	V	V	¥	V	V	II	Q	0	Cl	fl	fl	a	a	a	a	Q	a	a	Q	fl	a	fl	fl	
V	Q	0	0	c	0	Q	fl	9	9	a	a	9	a	9	e	«	m	fl	c	fl	fl	V	V	V	V	V	V	
a	3	a	9	a	a	O	fl	fl	fl	«	i	fl	c	V	«	V	V	V	V	V	a	d	fl	fl	fl	a	fl	
c-n	Ml	Mi					i*n	IR	IR					Ml	1R	«R					IR	IR	IR					
IR	HI	Iff				en	Ml	Ml	Ml				IR	IR	IR	IR				IR	Ml	IR	Ml				IR	
H	H	H	V3	v*a	V*3	V3	V*3	H	93	H	93	•3	w	*3	93	H	93	93	93	93	93	¥3	93	93	V-3	V3	93	
/•3	4*3	1*3	43	t*3	t*a	H	•■3	M	4*3	4*3	4*3	43	43	«-3	H	93	M		4*3	C*3	n	99	H	93	H	93	93	
																											tt	
B	B	R	Cl	B	R	*	EX	Bl	11	R	ll	It	Cl	N	n	H	El	n	El	ft	I	1	E	1	1	t	E	
t	SQ	It	B	R	Cl	11	R	*	R	El	11	R	II	II	El	Ik	n	n	n	n	II	M	ft	ft	C	ft	1	
i	B	ft	Man	It	R	R		Cl	R	K	R	tz	Bl	K	B	n	h	a	ft	ii	n	II	Bl	II	ll	ft	1	
£	1	1	►	t	1	190	Bt	K	R	Cl	R	R	R	«	R	n	R	n	Bl	Cl	ft	It	N	ft	El	U	ft	
1	K	C	i	I	►	E	B	iK	It	R	R	R	a	R	R	R	EC	B	IE	B	Bl	M	Cl	ftl	U	H	Bl	
El	U	II	i .	1	C	1	»		E	E	0fR	1C	R	R	R	a	H	2	R	B	B	i*	R	K	n	(i	H	
»	II	n	Cl	•1	u	1	i	t	1	1	1	B	1	i*	R	B	R	B	B	V	w	a	*	IC	B	ft	H	
a	II	VI	H	M	51	II	H	1	1	(	■	1	►	1	1	m	IC	R	R	B	It	B	B	H	B	B	ll	
R	B	l»	Cl	M	Bl	M	El	El	II	W	1	1	t	B	1		E	1	urn	R	B	R	Cl	R	B	W	B	
El	11	B	ll	II	(1	R	Bl	H	II	Bl	*»	•»	B	1	e	i	1	►	B	B	Hflr	11	B	B	K	11	R	
»	H	B	u	11	K	Bl	IK	U	Bl	II	M	II	H	ll	ll	i	1	4	1	1	i	C	1	Ml	B	a	K	
El	R	a	il	11	R	II	11	El	II	Bl	II	Cl	El	II	Bl	B	V	l	B	V	v	1	1	n	IC	B	B	
R	Cl	u	IS	K	El	a	>*	fet	Bl	II	<1	It	Bl	►l	El	E|	II	m	I	1	«	1	I	b	t	ft	iwr	
M'MO rtIMSHM MM MB
-115-

mmm
^SSiiiliu
..
UL£illll^
L^WI«lfe^
mmnm
OOISiliiiEf
8SiiSiii|i|iiilliiilIiI
fiMIfllltBPPPPPSRP
liiiiisiieiiiiiiiBipii
SMJSi llllllfilllllllll
SSaiiSSSSSS^illllMBi
IISIPIIPIIIIIBI118IBI
PPIJIIIHIIIIISIBIIBI;
BSilBSPPPBIBM!!!
SKSSMSM^Mrat
iPipilBliiiiiisiiiiii;
iii



i*
r
r
•*
i
t
'•m