ARTICLE 3 - UNION 1\.1EMBERSHIP
I
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION	2
ARTICLE 5 - HANDLING OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES .	.... 2
ARTICLE 6 - SENIORITY	G
ARTICLE 7 - ASSIG^^OTS ..	7
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS ...	7
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVER^TI1\.1E	....	9
ARTICLE 10 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE AND FUNERAL LEAVE .	.	1.2
ARTICLE 11 - REPORT TIME.......
ARTICLE 12 - CALL-OUT TIME.....
ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BO^ .....
ARTICLE 14 -WAGES .............
ARTICLE 15 - DENTAL PLAN .
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY ALLOWANCE _
ARTICLE I7 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
14
14
14
15
15
16
SCHEDULE A Effective: July 22, 1996 ................................................ 17
SCHEDULE B Effective: June 9,	1997 .............................................. 19
SCHEDULE C Effective: June 8, 1998
....................................................................................21
SCHEDULE D - SKILL AREAS.............................................................23
00224 (06)
AGREEMENT
This is an Agreement
BETWEEN
The FUNDY GYPSUM COMPANY foi its Hants County, Nova Scotia, operations hereinafter referred to as the "Company" or the "Management".
AND	The UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 9209 of Windsor, Nova Scotia, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE 1. PURPOSE
LOI The purpose of this Agreement is to signify that the parties have completed their negotiations arid have agreed upon terms and conditions of employment for the duration of the Agreement, and to set out those terms and conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent on terms and conditions of employment for the employees in the bargaining unit, on the basis of the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board's determination of the bargaining unit and certification on January 7, 1954, and as amended by the N.S. Labour Relations Board decision of February 22, 1991 order #3689(Sec.32), that the Union had been chosen as their representative by a majority of the employees in the bargaining unit, and upon the basis that the Union has advised the Company that it has evidence that currently the Union is the chosen representative of the majority of the employees now in the bargaining unit.
2.02	The Union agrees that it will represent all employees in the bargaining unit equally and without discrimination because of Union membership or non-membership or dues payment or standing in the Union.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
3.0! The Company recognizes that membership or non-membership in the Union is an individual employee's prerogative and that neither it nor its Management nor representatives shall discriminate against or coerce employees because of membership or non-menibership in the Union or because of service or activity in the Union or on the Committee, and will not interfere with the employees' rights of organization under the act. The Union agrees not to intimidate or coerce or allow its members to intimidate, coerce, or threaten employees in any manner or to conduct any Union service or activity on Company time or operating property, not including posting of notices as set out in Article 13 - Bulletin Board.
2
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
4.01	Authorization cards for the deduction of Union dues shall be in the following form, and when duly signed, dated, and deposited with the Company, shall be honoured by the Company in accordance with the tens of such authorizations:
To:	Fundy Gypsum Company
Windsor, Nova Scotia
I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from my pay each week, the .amount of Union dues and (if applicable) an initiation fee, as provided in the constitution of the United Steelworkers of America.
Name
Signature
4.02	This authorization is made voluntarily and is revocable at any time. This authorization revokes and cancels all previous authorizations.
4.03	Such dues will be deducted weekly from the wages of employees so authorizing the deduction and transmitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within five (5) days after the end of each calendar month, accompanied by an alphabetical list of names of the employees from whom the deductions were made. Also attached will be a copy of the employee's letter who opted out of the union during that month.
4.04	Such authorization cards shall be provided and issued by the Union. No cards in any other form foi the check-off of union dues shall be issued or offered by the Union. and no cards in any fonn shall be issued by the Company. Only the authorization forms specified above will be honoured by the Company.
E_CQMELAINTS_ANn_GRIEA(ANCES
5.01	The purpose of this article is (1) to provide opportunity for the discussion and settlement of any employee's complaint or problem, and (2) to establish procedures for the processing and settlement of grievances. A grievance shall be defined as a written complaint that a specified provision of the agreement has not been followed in a specified situation involving the grievor.
3
Timing
5.02	After the employee has invoked the Grievance Procedure, the conference in each step shall take place at the earliest date of mutual convenience, and the time limits may be extended by mutual consent with the objective of aiding settlement of the grievance by the parties.
Emplo)___'s Rights
5.03	Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to deprive an employee of the ability to discuss and adjust his/her complaint directly with the Management,
5.04	An employee who has been discharged, suspended for disciplinary reasons or subject to any disciplinary action, may invoke the grievance procedure in this Agreement. In the event that the discharge or suspension is not upheld by the grievance procedure and such employee is reinstated, he/she shall be paid any back pay due him/her as a result of the terms of the reinstatement but not to exceed ninety (90) calendar days for the time lost at his/her regular rate of pay less any wages he/she made by working for another employer during the period, and less any payment he/she has received from Employment Insurance Comiission and does not refund to the Commission for the period.
5.05	Any discharge or disciplinary suspension grievance must be presented in writing within seven (7) calendar days after the discharge or suspension or the grievor will lose his/her right to use the arbitration procedure, and shall be disposed of by the parties within ninety (90) calendar days from date of discharge or suspension.
5.06	Attendance by aggrieved employees or Union Representatives at grievance or complaint meetings will not be compensable by the Company.
5.07	For the duration of this agreement, there will be no lockouts, picketing, strikes, work stoppages, interruptions or disruptions of any kind. In the event of such activity, the Union and all officers will take appropriate steps to end such activity.
P---------
5.08	INFORMAL DISCUSSION • The employee who may be accompanied by a Union Committeeman, must first discuss the matter with his/her foreman within seven (7) calendar days of the occurrence giving rise to the complaint or grievance except as provided in 5.05.
The foreman will reply to the employee as soon as possible but in no event later than seven (7) calendar days from the time that the employee brought the matter to his/her attention.
4
5.09	STEP 1 - Should the employee be unsatisfied the response of the foreman or failing a reply within the specified time limits, the matter may be referred to his/her department manager on an approved grievance form within seven (7) calendar days of the foreman's response or lack of response. The department manager will meet with the Union Grievance Committee and the grievor within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the grievance and will respond in writing within seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
5.10	The grievance shall state (1) the specific provision of the Agreement involved, (2) the action by which Management has either misapplied or not complied with this provision of the Agreement, and (3) the action the employee believes Management should have taken or should not take to properly follow the Agreement.
5.11	STEP 2 - Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance at Step 2 the Union may refer the matter to the Plant Manager within seven (7) calendar days of the receipt of the reply from the department manager. The Plant Manager or his designate will convene a meeting at a time mutually agreed, with the Representatives of the Union and the grievor and will give his written decision within seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
5.12	Within seven (7) calendar days of the date of Management's decision in the final step in the grievance procedure on a grievance, the Union may notify the Company in writing that ii desires to submit the grievance to Arbitration. Within seven (7) calendar days after the notice is received by the Company! Company and Union Representatives will meet and attempt to agree upon whether the grievance is contractually arbitrable and upon a written expression of the grievance to be arbitrated. If no agreement is reached, the Union and the Company will write separate statements on the [natter for the Arbitrator(s).
5.13	Within seven (7) calendar days after this meeting, the Union and the Company will each select and advise the other party of a member of the Board of Arbitration to hear this grievance. Upon mutual agreement, the parties can agree to use one (1) Arbitrator who will be chosen according to provisions provided in 5.14.
5.14	The two representatives so named shall within three (3) calendar days of the.appointment of the second of them, meet arid select a third party to act as Chairman of the Board, and in default of doing so, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia may upon the application of either party appoint such a third person. In tile event the parties agree to use a single Arbitrator, the Arbitrator will be chosen upon mutual agreement within seven calendar days. In the event the parties do not agree on the choice of a single Arbitrator, a Board of Arbitration will be used as detailed in 5 .13.
5.15	Within fifteen (15)calendar days ofthe appointment of the Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall set a meeting date for hearing evidence regarding the grievance. The Board
5
shall endeavour to render its decision within forty-five (45) calendar days after appointment of the Chairman.
5.16	In hearing the grievance and in rendering its decision, the Arbitrator(s) must proceed as follows:
(a)	A complete written verbatim record of the proceedings and evidence must be made, and be available to the Arbitrator(s) and to the parties before the Arbitrator(s) makes its decision, unless both parties agree otherwise.
(b)	All evidence placed before the Arbitrator(s) must be given under oath.
(c)	The Arbitrator(s) must state the reasoning and grounds upon which it bases its decision.
(d)	The Arbitrator(s) must deal only with the grievance for which it is appointed. Evidence submitted must be pertinent to the grievance.
(e)	The Arbitrator(s) proceeding must be a judicial proceeding, not one of conciliation, mediation, or compromise. The parties shall be allowed to present their evidence, witnesses. or documents to the Arbitrator(s) and each shall be permitted to cross-examine the other.
(f)	In grievances involving Article 7 - Assignments, including employment. assignments. promotions, demotions, transfers, lay-offs, and recalls, the Arbitrator(s) shall not have jurisdiction to reverse or alter any Company decision unless there is proof that the Company's decision was not made sincerely and in good faith.
Where the lack of sincerity and good faith are alleged and proved, the Arbitrator(s) may require the Company to show that a bona fide decision was made but shall not weigh the decision or substitute its judgement for that of Management as to thejob requirements or the relative degree to which involved employees meet the requirements.
(g)	The decision of the Arbitrator(s) shall be final and binding on the grievance before it in accordance with the terms of the contract and the Trade Union Act.
(h)	The Arbitrator(s) may decide that Management's decision was in accordance with the terms of the agreement or that it was not. If not, the Arbitrator(s) shall request Management to make a new decision and shall provide guidance to Management as to an accurate interpretation and application of the terms of the Agreement in the grievance before it.
(i)	The fees arid expenses of the Arbitrator(s) will be shared equally between the Company and the Union after the Province of Nova Scotia pays its share.
6
6.01
6.02
6.03
A.
B.
C.
D.
ARTICLE 6 - SENIORITY
An employee's seniority shall be his position on a seniority list in relation to all other employees.
seniority list has been determined by agreement between Management and Union. This list is subject to change by mutual agreement, only to correct any errors that may be discovered in connection with its preparation, up to September30, 1961. On or after October 1, 1961, the seniority list, as amended by any changes noted above, will be final for the duration of this Agreement, and shall not be altered for any reason excepting the deletion of names due to loss of seniority in accordance with the terms of this Agreement listed below, and exception for the addition of names at the bottom of the list for new employees as they acquire seniority during the period of the Agreement, and in the proper place in the list in accordance with their Company length of service for transfers into the bargaining unit from other jobs in the Company.
It is agreed that the following method shall be used in determining the seniorii) of all employees from June 1, 1960, forward:
Employees will acquire seniority by working sixty (60) days within a six month period in which event the employee’s seniority will date hack sixty (60) days from the date seniority is acquired.
Employees hired after 6/13/93 will acquire seniority by working sixty days within a six month period in which event the employee’s seniority will date back to his/her most recent date of hire.
Continuous absences due to non-compensable injury or illness of less than thee years which have been properly reported to ihe Company and confinned by the Company shall not affect an employee’s seniority.
Employees shall lose seniority and employment will cease under any one of the following conditions:
( 1) If the employee has three (3) years or more length of service and twelve (12) months have elapsed since he last worked for the Company; or if the employee has less than (3) years length of service and six (6) months have elapsed since he last worked for the Company. Absence due to illness or accident, when such illness or accident has been properly reported to the Company and has been confirmed, shall not affect the seniority, except as slated in 6.03 (c).
7
(2)	He/she quits.
(3)	He/she is discharged without reinstatement through the grievance procedure
(4)	He/she is absent for five (5) consecutive work days or fails to report within five (5) working days after recall from lay-off by registered letter unless a satisfactory reason is given for his/her absence or failure to report.
6.04	The Company shall maintain a copy of the current plant seniority list available for observation by any employee.
6.05	The Company will provide the union with a current copy of the seniority list twice a year.
ARTICLE 7 - ASSIGNMENTS
7.01	The Company will make all decisions in determining assignments, transfers, promotions, demotions, lay-offs and recalls. Its decisions shall be based upon skill and ability, seniority, and performance. These decisions will be made by the Company. However. an employee may use the grievance procedure (Article 5) to obtain Management's reconsideration of any such decision. A "Job Change Application” fonn will be made available to employees as a method of indicating their desire to change jobs.
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS
8.01	Effective January 1, 1998 the following vacation provisions will be in force, all subject to the conditions and definitions set out herein. Sections 8.02 to 8.05 apply to each employee who has worked a minimum of 1200 hours during the previous calendar year (or preceding twelve months for new hires).
8.02	Each employee who has been continuously employed by the Company for|^>Lv£;(lZ.;);e-
months or more, but less than	receive annuallyw^ks- vacation'
with pay and a two hundred dollar vacation bonus.
8.03	Each employee who has been continuously employed by the Company for five ffifyeirs it but less than ;(iO) iy^ars shall receive annually three (3) weeks vacatio}t!with pay with a three hundred dollar vacation bonus.
8.04	Each employee who has been continuously employed by the Company for ten (10) y earS' but less than twenty (20) years shlll receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay and a four hundred dollars vacation bonus.
8
8.05	Each employee who has been continuously employed by the Company for more than twenty (20) years shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay and a five hundred dollar vacation bonus.
8.06	If an employee does not work the minimum 1200 hours during the previous calendar year or their first twelve months of employment vacation will be prorated based on time actually worked. For example, an employee who works 1000 hours over seven months of the preceding calendar year, who would otherwise be eligible for two weeks vacation, will receive six days paid vacation (7/12 of normal 10 days) or the equivalent of four percent of gross earings, whichever is greater.
8.07	If an employee does not work the minimum 1200 hours during the previous calendar year or their first twelve months of employment, the vacation bonus will be prorated based on time actually worked. For example, an employee with two years service who worked 1000 hours over a period of seven months during the prior year will receive a vacation bonus of $116.67 (7/12 of $200).
8.08	Vacation pay shall be on the basis of forty hours per week at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate of pay at the time the vacation is taken.
8.09	Vacation schedules must be approved by Management. Management will attempt to honour this request as long as, in Management’s judgement. it doer not interfere with the proper operation of the plant.
8.10	Only one year’s vacation may be taken in any calendar year. A vacation one year may not be carried over and taken in the following year. When an employee quits or is discharged, any vacation pay which lias been paid as a result of this agreement will te considered a prepayment of obligations of any applicable labour standards codes,
8.11	Accumulated length of service for any vacation entitlement will be lost lor any of the reasons outlined under seniority.
8.12	Where an employee is laid of€or allowed a leave of absence for an indefinite time, or longer than six months, or until the end of the current calendar year, he will receive the current year's vacation pay providing he has met the conditions to entitle him to vacation for the current year at the time lie goes on lay off or leave.
8.13	Length of service for purposes of vacation eligibility will not be accumulated for more than three (3) months of any single protracted absence from work for any reason except where the absence is due to military service where the veteran meets tie Act's requirements for mandatory re-employmerit.
8.14	An employee with interrupted service will be eligible for three (3) weeks, four (4) weeks, or five (5) weeks vacation if the last five (5) year of his service are continuous and if he meets all other conditions and definitions set out herein.
9
8.15	Where plant is purchased or new plant is constructed, time worked by employees for the former employer in the plant purchased, or for this Company in any of its plants, will be considered as time worked at this plant for the purpose of determining vacation allotments under this plan.
8.16	Payment of the full year's vacation bonus (less normal deductions) is made at the time the employee receives his/her vacation pay for the first full week (five days of vacation taken consecutively) in any year.
8.17	An employee who does not take a full week of vacation will receive the vacation bonus during the next payroll period beginning after September 1st.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND .OVERTIME
OVERTIME
9.01	Premium at the rate of one-half of the employee's regular straight time rate of pay shall be paid for:
(a)	All work done in excess of eight (8) hours in any one standard work day
(b)	All hours worked consecutively in excess of eight (8) hours when those excess hours extend from the preceding or carry over into the next standard work day.
(c)	All work done in excess of forty (40) hours of work during a standard work week
(d)	All work done on Sunday
For rules and conditions covering overtime premium for work on holidays. see under "Holidays".
9.02	Watchman will not receive overtime for work on Sunday except for work over eight (8) hours, or when he has already completed forty (40) straight time hours in the standard work week.
9.03	There shall be no duplication of overtime pay for the same hours of work. Where hours are counted as time worked for one overtime basis, the sanie hours will not be counted as hours worked for any other overtime basis. No unworked hours shall be counted toward overtime except as provided in Article 9.16(t) (Holidays) of this contract.
10
9.04	For the purpose of computing overtime pay, the standard work week shall begin at 1 X:00 P.M. Sunday and each standard workday of twenty-four (24) hours, including Sundays and Holidays, shall begin at 11.00 P.M. the preceding day. The basic work schedule will consist of forty (40) hours per week, and eight (8) hours per day, but this shall not be construed as any guarantee of hours of work; nor any limitation upon assignment of hours of work.
9.05	An employee's regular rate of pay for the purposes of computation of overtime shall be the average straight time hourly rate paid to the employee for hours worked during the week in which the overtime occurs.
9.06	Where two or' more shifts are working, the employees affected will be rotated with the shifts except in necessary cases including relief workers who will be rotated or given day work to the extent that the operations permit.
SHIFT DTFFF.R F.NTTA T.
9.07	A Shift differential o/twenty (20) cents per hour will be paid for work done on the second shift, and a shift differential of thirty (30) cents per hour will be paid for work done on the third shift. Effective June 8, 1997 a shift differential of forty (40) cents per hour will be paid for work done on the third shift.
9.08	The standard shifts shall be:	1st Shift- 7 A.M.- 3 P.M.
2nd Shift - 3 P.M. - 11 P.M.
3rd Shift - 11 P.M. - 7 A.M.
9.09 Any other regular shift scheduled shall be classified as first, second, or third shift according to where the majority of hours fall within the above time period. For example -shift schedules of 8 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. and 6 A.M. to 2:45 P.M. are first shifts.
9.10	When an employee works beyond or ahead of his shift schedule, the shift differential applicable to the hours either ahead of his shift or after his shift will be the shift differential of his regular shift.
9.11	Shift differentials are not to deterinine the rate of pay for vacation or pay for unworked holidays. Shift differentials are used io determinc the average straight time rate paid for the purpose of computing overtime
11
HOLIDAYS
9.12	Subject to the conditions below, each employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his straight time regular rate of pay for the following unworked holidays:
New Year's Day Thanksgiving Day Easter Monday	Armistice Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Labour Day	Floating Holiday *
Civic. Holiday
* The "Floating Holiday" will be selected by the Company and will be announced each year prior to February 28.
9.13	Work on these holidays shall be considered overtime work.
9.14	An employee, except one who is called out to load a ship at Hantsport, who is required to work on the holiday shall not receive the unworked holiday pay. He shall, instead, be paid the rate of his job for the holiday work, plus an overtime premium of one and one-lialf times his regular straight time rate of pay for each hour worked on the holiday. If the hours worked by an employee on the holiday are less than eight (8), he will also receive the straight time unworked holiday pay of the above paragraph for eight (8) hours minus the hours worked on the holiday.
An example is:
Suppose a man is called in and works five (5) hours on a holiday. He will receive five (5) hours worked holiday pay; namely, twelve and one-half (12 1/2) hours pay. In addition, he will receive pay for eight (8) hours minus five
(5)	hpurs, namely, three (3) hours unworked holiday pay. His total paid hours for the holiday will, therefore, be twelve and one-half (12 112) hours plus three (3) hours, or fifteen and one-half (15 1/2) hours pay at his regular straight time rate of pay for the holiday.
9.15	The holiday shall start and end as defined for the plant's standard work day. However, if an employee on the last shift preceding a holiday works on into holiday, these additional hours Wl not be considered holiday work. If an employee working the last shift on the holiday works on into the following work day, these additional hours will still be considered holiday work. If ai employee on the first shift after a holiday comes in early and works some time immediately preceding his shift, these preceding hours will not be considered holiday work.
12
9.16	The conditions for pay for unworked holidays:
(a)	The employee must have worked his last scheduled work day prior to the holiday an.d his next scheduled work day after the holiday, unless excused by the Plant Manager after being scheduled for work, because of the employee 's illness.
(b)	In order to receive unworked holiday pay, an employee must have worked for some period of time within the period of ten (10) calendar days preceding the holiday except where the employee is on vacation in accordance with paragraph (c).
(c)	If the holiday occurs during an employee's paid vacation, he will be given an additional day of paid vacation, or paid eight (8) hours' pay for the unworked holiday in addition to his vacation pay, at Management's option for individual cases.
(d)	If the holiday falls on Sunday, Monday shalJ be treated as the holiday instead of Sunday. If the holiday falls on Saturday, Saturday will be treated as the holiday. (This paragraph also applies to worked holidays.}
(e)	When an employee is requested to work on a holiday and is not excused from work, arid does not work, he shall not be paid for the unworked holiday, in addition to other appropriate discipline.
(f)	There shall be no duplication of overtime pay for the same hours of work. Worked holiday hours will not be counted as hours worked for any other overtime basis.
However, either up to eight (8) worked or paid unworked holiday hours will be counted as hours worked for computation of overtime except when the holiday falls on Saturday.
ARTICLE TO- LEAVE OF ABSENCE AMT) FUNERAL LEAVE
10.01	When the requirements of the plant permit, an employee may request, for a reasonable cause, and at the sole discretion of the Plant Manager, a written leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. An employee's length of service continues during such leave of absence. Reasonable cause shall include an absence to attend Labour Conventions or Conferences by one or several elected representatives. This leave may be extended beyond ^thirty (30) days to permit apprentices to attend schools of instruction as required by their training programs.
10.02	An employee sent home by Management because of injuries on the job shall receive a full day’s pay for that day.
13
10.03	When he would otherwise have been scheduled to work, an employee will receive up to three (3) days (24) hours straight time pay at his regular straight time rate of pay, without shift differential, to attend the funeral of his/her spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, grandchild. Paid funeral leave shall not extend beyond one working day (8 hours) following the funeral.
10.04	Effective January 1, 1997, when he/she would otherwise have been scheduled to work. an employee shall receive up to three (3) days, twenty-four (24) hours straight time pay at his/her regular straight time rate of pay, without shift differential, to attend the funeral of his/her spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, grandparent, grandchild. Paid funeral leave shall not extend beyond one working day (8 hours) following the funeral.
10.05	Unworked funeral leave paid hours will not count towards daily or weekly overtime.
Pay for any other unworked holiday hours (holiday pay, etc.) where applicable, will be paid in lieu of funeral leave pay. If an employee is on vacation at the time of a death of a covered relative the vacation time will revert to funeral leave according to funeral leave guidelines.
10.06	An employee must have worked sixty (60) calendar days after date of his last employment to be eligible to receive funeral leave pay.
10.07	Where an employee was raised by and resided with foster parents who were not relatives, who are not otherwise covered under this Funeral Leave Clause, he/she may nevertheless, receive funeral leave pay in the event of their death, if the fact that the deceased was a foster parent has been shown to the Company's satisfaction and recorded prior to the death.
ARTICLE 11 - REPORT TIME
11.01	Report rime is defined as when a^n.pfoye.e.._s.cile.dul.ed or notified io report Qr a shift of work, including ship loading, and is not notified otherwise, and he does so report to work, able and willing to work. He shall be given a minimum of work equivalent to four (4) hours straight time pay. If sufficient work is not available, he shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours straight time pay at the employee's regular rate of pay. except that this report time shall riot be paid in case of non-operation due to conditions or causes beyond the Company's control.
11.02	When an employee loads a ship and actually begins work on a Sunday or one of the Plant holidays, he/she will receive a minimum of eight (8) hours straight time pay. However, Management has the option to require the employee to work sufficient hours at the appropriate rate of pay to earn this minimum if any work is available.
14
11.03	When drillers and/or stripping department operators are prevented from working by bad weather, after reporting for scheduled drilling and/or stripping operating work, they will be provided with four (4) hours of some kind of work at their regular straight time pay, without replacing some other employee who is at work on that particular day.
ARTICLE 12 - CALI,-OUT TIME
12.01	Call-Out time is defined as when an employee nr>t scheduled to work and is called out for duty outside his regular work shift. When an employee is called out for duty starting outside his regular shift, he will be given four (4) hours work before he is released, or if work is not available, a minimum of four (4) hours straight time pay. In an early report, where the employee works on into his shift, all consecutive hours worked count toward the guarantee When an employee works overtime following his shift or before he has left the plant, this is not a call-out.
12.02	When an employee is called out to load a ship and actually begins to work on their day
off he/she will receive a	of six (6) hours straight time pay. However, Management
has the option to require the employee to work sufficient hours at the appropriate rate of pay to earn this minimum if any work is available.
ARTICLE 13 BULLETIN BOARD
13.01	Bulletin board space will be allowed for posting notices of meetings, elections, social and other recreation affairs of the Union. These notices shall be signed and dated by the Union President or approved by a member of the Executive Committee and shall be subject to the approval of the Plant Manager before being posted.
ARTICLE 14 - WARES
14.01	Effective July 22, 1996 ail wage rates are increased as set out in Schedule "A", and effective June 9, 1997 all wage rates are increased.as set out in Schedule "B". Effective June 8, 1998, all wage rates are increased as set out in Schedule "C". Schedule "D" is a description of Skill Areas. All of these schedules are attached hereto and made a part of this contract. These wage rates shall remain in effect for the life of this Agreement, except that the Company may make voluntary increases.
14.02	Pursuant to Article 7, the Company will continue to make all decisions in determining training assignments. Its decisions will be based on skill and ability, seniority, and performance. With respect to training and job assignment following training, the Company will endeavour to accord weight to seniority when providing opportunities to advance to higher skill levels or in job placement. Where an employee has physical limitations which prevent him/her from performing the essential functions of other positions, he/she will not be denied work or laid off as a direct result of job rotation to provide other employees with the
15
opportunity to train on his/her current job. To ensure the efficient operation of the plant, Management will determine the appropriate number of employees in training at any given time.
To encourage and reward employees for learning new jobs and to provide the Company with a flexible and experienced workforce, wage rate assignments will generally be based on the employee’s skill and ability in the skill area to which he or she is currently assigned.
Individual employees will be paid at the highest rate for which they qualify in the skill area in which they are curently working, even when assigned to ajob ordinarily calling for a lower pay level. For example, when an employee qualifies for an Operator 2 in a skill area, as long as they are working in that skill area and are able and willing to perfonn Operator 2 duties, they will be paid as an Operator 2 rate, even when assigned to Operator 1 duties. Similarly, when an employee who is an Operator 2 become fully qualified for Operator 3, he or she will be paid as an Operator 3 even though continuing to perform Operator 2 duties. An employee transferring to a different skill area will be paid the highest rate he or she qualifies for in the new skill area.
The foregoing provisions do not apply to the Chargehand classification or the Hantsport Operator 3 classification. Employees will be paid rates for these jobs only when actually performing these jobs.
14.03	If, after an employee begins working on his shift he is transferred to work at a lower rate of pay, the higher rate at which he started the shift shall be maintained until the end of the shift.
ARTICLE IS - DENTAL PLAN
15.01	A dental plan identical to the salaried plan will be made available to the hourly employees for the life of the contract as provided in the official plan documents. Should questions arise concerning the administration of the benefits and/or the interpretation or application of the benefits, the provisions as set out in the official plan that are in effect at the time the question arises shall prevail.
16.01	The Company agrees to continue the practise of reimbursing the employees up to fifty ($50.00) dollars, once in each contract year upon submission of receipts for approved safety equipment.
16
ARTICLE 17 - DT[RATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall become effective on July 22, 1996 and shall continue in force and effect to the 6th-day of June, 1999. inclusive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have executed this Agreement as follows, by the respective authorized agents.
FUNDY GYPSUM COMPANY UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 9209
	/Gu. / 1 W ' ly } I /•?//, „ ,
	i/ /! (nn^.
Date	.Of . Jtype's*
17
SCHEDULE A	Effective: July 22, 1996
MfrLWORKER
Mill Utility Mill Operator 1 Mill Operator 2 Mill Operator 3 MILL TESTER	$12.30 $13.32 $13.97 $14.29
Mill Tester Utility Mill Tester I Mill Tester 2 SERVICE	$12.30 $13.32 $13.97
Service Utility Service 1 Service 2 STORES	$12.30 $12.62 $13.79
Stores Utility Stores 1 Stores 2 HANTSPORT OPERATOR	$12.30 $13.32 $13.97
Hantsport Utility Hantsport Operator 1 Hantsport Operator 2 Hantsport Operator 3 DRILL/BLAST	$12.30 • $13.32 $13.97 $14.29
Drill/Blast Utility Drill/Blast 1 Drill/Blast 2 Drill/Blast 3	$12.30 $13.57 $14.05 $14.44
18
QUARRY
Quarry Utility Quarry Operator 1 Quarry Operator 2 Quarry Operator 3 Quarry Operator 4
MAC^MSTS
Utility Machinist Machinist 1 Machinist2 Machinist3
ELECTRICIAN
Utility Electrician Electrician 1 Electrician 2 Electrician 3
MEC^^IC/WELDER
Utility Mechanic/Welder Mechanic Welder 1 Mechanic Welder 2 Mechanic Welder 3
CHARGEHAND
Relief Chargehand
Chargehand
Effective: July 22, 1996
$12.30 $ 12.93 $13.57 $14.05 $14.44
$12.74 $13.83 $14.72 $15.51
$12.74
$13.83
$14.72
$15.51
$12.74 $13.46 $14.5 6 $15.33
$15.79
$16.08
19
SCHEDULEB	Effective: June 9,1997
MILL WORKER
Mill Utility Mill Operator 1 Mill Operator 2 Mill Operator 3	$12.61 $13.65 $14.32 $14.65
MILL TESTER Mill Tester Utility Mill Tester 1 Mill Tester 2 SERVICE	$12.61 $13.65 $14.32
Service Utility Service 1 Service 2 STORES	$ 12.61 $12.94 $14.13
Stores Utility Stores 1 Store's 2 HANTSPORT OPERATOR	$12.61 $13.65 $ 14.32
Hantsport Utility Hantsport Operator I Hantsport Operator 2 Hantsport Operator 3 DRILL/BLAST	$12.61 $13.65 $14.32 $14.65
Drill/Blast Utility Drill/Blast 1 Drill/Blast 2 Drill/Blast 3	$12.61 $13.91 $14.40 $14.80
20
QU^ARY
Qu^ty Utility Qu^ty Operator 1 Quarry Operator 2 Quarry Operator 3 Qu^ty Operator 4
MACHINISTS
Utility Machinist Machinist 1 Machinist 2 Machinist 3
ELECTRICIAN
Utility Electrician Electrician 1 Electrician 2 Electrician 3
MECHANIC/WELDER
Utility Mechanic/Welder Mechanic Welder 1 Mechanic Welder 2 Mechanic Welder 3
CHARGEHAND
Relief Chargehand
Chargehand
Effective: June 9, 1997
$12.61
$13.25
$13.91
$14.40
$14.80
$13.06
$14.18
$15.09
$15.90
$13.06
$14.18
$15.09
$15.90
$13.06 $13.80 $14.92 $15.71
$16.18
$16.48
21
SCHEDULE C	Effective: June 8, 1998
MILL WORKER	
Mill Utility	$12.93
Mill Operator 1	$13.99
Mill Operator 2	$14.6 8
Mill Operator 3	$15.02
MILL TES^	
Mill Tester Utility	$12.93
Mill Tester 1	$13.99
Mill Tester 2	$14.68
SERVICE	
Service Utility	$12.93
Service 1	$13.26
Service 2	$14.48
STORES	
Stores Utility	$12.93
Stores 1	$13.99
Stores 2	$14.68
HANTSPORT OPERATOR
Hantsport Utility	$12.93
Hantsport Operator.l	$13.99
Hantsport Operator 2	$14.68
Hantsport Operator 3	$15.02
DRILL/BLAST
Drill/Blast Utility	$12.93
Drill/Blast 1	$14.26
Drill/Blast 2	$14.76
Drill/Blast 3	$15.17
22
QU^ARY
Quarry Utility Quarry Operator 1 Quarry Operator 2 Quarry Operator 3 Quarry Operator 4
MACHINISTS
Utility ■ Mac^rist Machinist 1 Machinist2 Machinist 3
ELECTRICIAN
Utility Electrician Electrician 1 Electrician 2 Electrician 3
MEC^HANIC/^WELDER
Utility Mechanic/Welder Mechanic Welder 1 Mechanic Welder 2 Mechanic Welder 3
CHARGEHAND
Relief Chargehand Chargehand
Effective: June 8, 1998
$12.93 $13.58 $14.26 $14. 76 $15.17
$13.39
$14.53
$15.47
$16.30
$13.39
$14.53
$15.47
$16.30
$13.39
$14.15
$15.29
$16.10
$16.58
$16.89
2
SCHEDULE D - SKILL AREAS
SKILL AREAS
MILL WORKER
Mill Utility Mill Operator 1 Mill Operator 2
Mill Operator 3
INCLUDES FOLLOWING TORS-
-	Entry level.
-	Watchman, Brakeman, Labourer.
-	Locomotive Operator, Crusher Operator, Sink-Float Worker.
-	Sink-Float Operator.
MILL TESTER	
Mill Tester Utility	- Entry level
Mill Tester 1	- Tester.
Mill Tester 2	- Tester.
SERVICE	
Service Utility	- Entry level.
Service 1	- Labourer, Wash Pad.
Service2	- Equipment Service.
STORES	
Stores Utility	- Entry level.
Stores 1	- Utility Truck Operator, Relief/fill in Storekeeper.
Stores 2	■ Storekeeper.
HANTSPORT	
Hantsport Utility	- Entry level.
Hantsport Operator 1	- Labourer, Watchman, Brakeman, Dumpman, Tunnel Belt Loader.
Hantsport Operator 2	- Locomotive Operator, R.R. Car Unloader, Tunnel Boss, Mill Serviceman.
Hantsport Operator 3	- Stacker Operator, Shed Dozer Operator.
24
DRILL/BLAST
Drill/Blast Utility Drill/Blast 1 Drill/Blast 2 Drill/Blast 3
-	Entry level, Inexperienced employee training to operate drill.
-	Must hold valid entry level Blasting Trainee Certificate.
-	Must hold a 3rd class Blasting Certificate & operate mobile drill.
-	Must hold a	2nd class Blasting
Certificate.
QU^ARY	Equipment:Haulage/Water Truck, Diesel
Bulldozer, Grader, Front End Loader, Dropball, and Excavator.
Quarry Utility Operator	- Entrance position, Haulage Truck.
Quarry Operator 1	- Haulage Truck Operator.
Quarry Operator 2	- Haulage Truck Operator plus one other major piece of mobile equipment.
Quarry Operator 3	- Haulage Truck Operator plus two other major pieces of mobile equipment.
Quarry Operator 4	- Haulage Truck Operator plus three other major pieces af mobile equipment.
MAC^MST	
Machinist Utility	- Training, or new machinist.
Machinist 1	- Block II level - second year credit or equivalent work experience and/or skills.
Machinist 2	- Block III level or has equivalent work experience and/or skills.
Machinist 3	- Block IV level or has equivalent work experience and/or skills.
ELECTRICIAN
Electrician Utility Electrician 1
Electrician 2
Electrician 3
-	Training, Helper or new electrician.
-	Block II level - second year credit or equivalent work experience and/or skills
-	Block III level or equivalent work experience and/or skills.
-	Block IV level or equivalent work experience and/or skills.
lVIECHANIC/WELDER
Mechanic/Welder Utility Mechanic/Welder 1
Mechanic/Welder 2 Mechanic/Welder 3
-	Training, Helper or new Mechanic/Welder.
-	Block II. - 1st year credit Industrial Mechanic or equivalent work experience and/or skills.
-	Block III level or equivalent work experience and/or skills.
-	Block IV level or equivalent work experience and/or skills.
CHARGE-HAND
Relief Chargehand
Chargehand
-	Acts as .relief foreman from time to time, filling in for the normal chargehand.
-	Full time chargehand or has high degree of responsibility.
NOTE: Hantsport workmen will be paid their normal rate when loading ships.