AGREEMENT
Between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED
PUGWASH WORKS
Nova Scotia
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 8,1999 EXPIRES OCTOBER 7, 2002
1
AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO THIS TWENTY-NINTH DAY OF
MAY - 2000
by and between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED, a Company having an office at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter called "The Company”, and acting herein with respect only to its Pugwash Works, hereinafter referred to as "said works”.
AND
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, AND ■ PAPERWORKERS UNION, PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823, located at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter referred to as "The Union”.
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE..............................1
AGREEMENT ........................... 2
Article No.	Paoe No.
I	PURPOSE ...................... 5
U	RECOGNITION.................... 6
Hi	CHECK-OFF...................... 8
IV	CO-OPERATION ................. 9
V	REPRESENTATION................ 11
VI	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE........... 14
VII	ARBITRATION................... 17
VIII	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.... 19
IX	WAGES- CLASSIFICATION......... 28
X	BEREAVEMENT - JURY DUTY....... 30
XI	HOLIDAYS...................... 32
XII	VACATIONS..................... 37
XIII	SENIORITY..................... 41
XIV	^SAFETY AND HEALTH ........... 47
XV	CONTRACTING OUT............... 52
3
XVI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
G
SCHEDULED" - CLASSIFICATIONANDWAGE RATES. 54
PREMIUMS............................. 55
SHIFT.......................... 55
PREMIUM" A...................   55
PREMIUM.. B1'.................. 55
PREMIUM “C".....................56
PREMIUM "D..................... 56
PREMIUM "E".................... 56
CERTIFIED HIGH PRESSU RE WELDERS 57 WORKING LEADERS ............... 57
RETROACTIVEPAY....................... 5B
EMPLOYEE GROUP BENEFIT PLAN.......... 56
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING ............ 61
NO. 1: FINE SALT PLANT......... 61
NO. 2: BRINERS 12 HOUR SHIFT... 61
NO. 3: PAN OPERATORS........... 62
NO. 4: SHIFT ENGINEERS ........ 62
NO. 5: NOTICE OF LAY-OFF....... 62
NO. 6: TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES__62
NO. 7:’ APPRENTICESHIP AND PROMOTIONS • 63
NO. 8: VACATION ............... 65
NO. 9: VACATION - LAY-OFF ..... 65
NO. 10: TOWER OPERATOR......... 65
NO. 11: SHAFTSMAN .. OVERTIME.. 66
LETTERS OF INTENT- DISABILITYWAGE PLAN. .. .67
SENIORITY LISTS...................... 69
4
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1 .1.0 The Company and the Union have entered into this Agreement at Pugwash. Nova Scotia. for the purpose of recording terms and conditions of employment, resulting from collective bargaining, which are to be observed bythe parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided. and to work together to promote the safety and health of the employees and to achieve the most efficient operation of the works.
1.1.1	In any case where the benefits provided under the Labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Provinceof Nova Scotia are found to be greater than those provided in this Agreement, then the benefits provided under that Code shall apply.
1.1.2	This Agreement shall conform to the existing Occupational Health and Safety Act, Province of Nova Scotia and both parties agree to co-operate in the observance of this Act.
1.1.3	Except where the context otherwise requires, words or expressions used in this Agreement denoting the masculine gender shall be read as including the feminine gender.
5
ARTICLE!! - RECOGNITION
2.1.0	This Agreement shall apply to all the employees of the Company with the exception of Classifications listed below:
Management, Office and Stores Staff,
Supervisory Employeesabove and including the rank of Foremen.
Technical Engineers, Laboratory Staff and Assistants
Temporary and Probationary Employees,
Guards. Gatemen and Watchmen,
Office Janitorial Staff.
2.1.1	The Company recognizesthe Union during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
2.2.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Companyto managethe said works and direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote or transfer any employee and to demote, suspend, disciplineordischarge any employee for just cause. In the interest of the efficient operation of the said works, the Union agrees that the Company may change hours of work, determine er change work assignments or methods and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured and to determine all other matters concerningthe operation of the Company's
6
business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in the Agreement, and that any such action shall not be inconsistent^^ the terms of this Agreement and any such action which results in individual injustice. shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
2	3 0 The Union recognizes the right of the Companyto make and to alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistentwith the terms of this Agreement
2 4 O The Union further recognrzes the right of the Company to incorporate all manner of technical and processimprovementsat any time, notwthstanding the fact that such improvements may reduce the labour force required to operate the works Such reductions shall be consistentwith qualifications and seniority rights.
2 4 1 The letters of understanding exchanged between the parties on the signing of this collective agreement, and to be printed with the agreement, are part of the collective agreement and are binding uponthe parties hereto during the term of this agreement
7
ARTICLE 1ll - CHECK-OFF
3.1.0	The Companywi deduct from the pay of each employee the monthly dues, initiation fees and other assessments and dues authorized by the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union. The amounts of such deductions shall be deposited by the Company into the Union's Bank account no later than the 14th day following the month for which the deductionswere made. A record of those from whose pay the deductions were made shall be submitted to the Union
3.2.0	The Company shall notify the Union in writing. the names, classifications and rates of pay of all new employees upon hiring.
3.3.0	The CompanywiH notifythe Union in writing within three (3) days of an attempt to recall a laid-off employee.
8
ARTICLE IV - CO-OPERATION
4.1.0	All new employees musttake out and maintain Union membership within five (5) working days from the date of employment with the Company.
4 .2.0 The Company agrees that the Union may use the Company's Bulletin Boards, located throughout the said Works, provided that the use by the Union of the Bulletin Boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have received the approval in writing of the Company priorto posting and that the subject matter of such notices shall be restricted to matters pertaining to recreational or social activities, notices of meetings or notices of; the results of elections in connection with affairs of the said Union, and provided further that no notice shall be posted which contains advertising or political matter. (Every effort shall be made both by the Company and the Union notto interfereunreasonablywith each other's use of the boards.)
4.3.0	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint. coercion or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents regarding any employee because of membership or non membership in the Union, nor because of his race, colour, creed, religious or political beliefs. No employee shall, however, conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
9
4.4.0	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction, nor permit its membersto cause or take part in, any sit down, stay-in. or slowdown in any department. or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company's operation or any curtailment of work or restriction or interference with production or any picketing of the Company’s premises during the term of this Agreement.
4.4.1	The Company agrees there shall be no lock out during the life of this Agreement.
10
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.1.0	The Company agrees to recognize a Union
negotiating committeeofsix (6) members. one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President, and one (1) from each of the following departments:	Mine, Rock Salt Mill and
Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this committee shall represent the Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union.
5.1.1	It is understood that compensation to the employee committee members for regular wages lost in connection with re-negotiation of this Agreement shall be made by the Company. The Company’s obligation to pay for lost time shall cease at such time as a Conciliation Officer is present.
5.2.0	The Company also agrees to recognize a
GrievanceCommitteeof six (6) members, one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President and one (1) from each of the following departments:	Mine, Rock Salt Mill and
Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this committee shall represent the Communications. Energy. and Paperworkers Union.
5.3.0	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the local Union officers, committeemen, and shop stewards and the effective dates of their elections or appointments.
5.3.1	Members of the Union Executive. including the Chief Shop Steward. who have been excused from their regular shift, and who have participated in a full shift of Union Business, wil be paid at time and one half for all work performedon their regular shift when requested to work by the Company.
11
5.4.0	It is understood and agreed that the plant chairman, committeemen and shop stewards have their regular duties as employees to perform. Such a representativeshall, however, after arrangementwith. and the consent of his Foreman, whose consentshall not be unreasonably withheld, be permitted during his working hours, and without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonablelength of time in order to investigate and settle grievances in his jurisdiction.
The Union President shall be permittedto work on the Day Shift when such work is available within his classificationand for which he is qualified.
The Union President, Secretary Treasurer and Ex^^we will be granted time off. without pay, to attend the regular monthly Union Meetings.
The request for such absence must be made to the Department Supervisor prior to the posting of the Weekly Schedule in which the meeting occurs.
When such absence, for executive members only, requires the payment of Overtime Premium in order to provide relief, then such time off may be denied.
5.4.1	Each Foreman shall maintain. on special formsto be supplied by the Company, a record of the actual time when the chairman, committeeman and shop steward leaves his regular duties when about to engage in the investigationor settlement of a grievance or grievances and of the actualtimewhen he returns and resumes his regular duties. The Foremanand Union representativeshall initial each entry of time on the said form.
5.5.0	The Company agrees that a leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any employee for Union
12
business up to a maximum of sixty (60) working days in any one year. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during this period. The Union agrees to give the Company at least ten (1O) days notice in writing of such leave giving appropriate details. The Union agrees there shall not be more than two (2) employees on leave of absence for Union business at any one time and that such leaves shall not in any event exceed three (3) months in the aggregate during each one (1) year period of this Agreement.
5.5.1	In addition to Clause 5.5.0, an employee who is appointed to a full time position with the Union, shall be granted a Leave of Absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Upon application thirty (30) days prior to the end of such twelve month period or any subsequent twelve month period, the Leave of Absence will be extended for an additional twelve (12) months.
Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such periods.
5.6.0	The Company agrees to notify all committee members. in writing forty-eight (48) hours in advance of Company initiated Management Committee Meetings and to give as much notice as practicable for all other meetings or the cancellation of meetings that they are to attend.
13
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.1.0	Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called a "Grievance")which any employee or group of employees may wish to present to the Company shall be handled in the following manner.
6.1.1	Stage One: Any employee having a grievance shall first present it to his Foreman within a period of three (3) working days from the time that such an alleged grievance has arisen. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his shop steward. The foreman shall deal 'Hfth the Grievance and shall render his decision not later than three (3) working days after he receives the grievance.
6.1.2	Stage Two: lfthe foreman does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee under the provisions of Stage One hereof, the employee and, if he so desires. with his shop steward, shall take the matter up directly with the Superintendent, in writing, on forms provided by the Union, within four (4) working days. The decision at this stage should be in writing within four (4) working days. Copies will be sent to all Grievance Committee members.
6.1.3	Stage Three: Should the Shop Steward and the Employeebe unableto secure a satisfactory settlement from the Superintendent within four (4) working days after the grievance has been submitted to him, the Union Grievance Committee shall, within four (4) working days submit to the Facility Manager a written request for a Third Stage meeting. The Company and the Union shall then, within four (4) working days arrange a meeting. The Company shall, within four (4) working days after such meeting, submit its written reply to the Union.
14
6.1.4	Any allegation involving the misinterpretation or violation of any provision of this agreement may be lodged either by the Union or by the Company^with the other party, in writing at Stage Three ^within ten (1 O) working days after the alleged misinterpretationor violation of the agreement has occurred. In the event of failure of the Company and the Unionto agree on a settlement of the issue. it may be referred to arbitration by either party within ten (10) working days in accordance with the provisions of Stage Four.
6.1.5	A Grievance arising from the discharge, or the suspension of three (3) working days or more, of an employee may be submitted at Stage Three of the Grievance procedure: within four (4) working days after the discharge or suspension has occurred. Any employee, who has been found through the Grievance Procedure, to have been wrongfully discharged, shall be reinstated.
6.1.6	No grievance shall be lodged or prosecuted against the discharge by the Company of a probationary employee.
6.1.7	The aggrieved employee may attend any meetings at Stage Three.
6, 1.8 Stage Four: In the event of failure to reach agreement at Stage Three, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance with Article VIL Such submission must be made ^foin ten (10) working days after the grievance has been dealt in Stage Three.
15
6.2.0	Saturdays, Sundays, Day off or Day of rest (for seven (7) day operations) and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken each of the foregoing steps. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended at anytime by mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union.
6.3.0	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personalgrievances directly to the Company provided such grievances are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
6.4.0	Committeemen. if on shift, and when granted leave of absence to engage in grievance procedure meetings with the Facility Manager at Stage Three only, shall not be penalized for loss of time or pay, provided the total time involved in all such meetings does not exceed eight (8) hours, for any one grievance.
6.5.0	The Company agrees that it has an obligation to deal as expeditiously as is reasonable in the application of discipline.
The Company shall, however, advisethe employee of the desapllnary action to be taken as soon as a decision to that effect has been reached.
6.6.0	In imposing discipline on a current charge, Managementwill not take into account any prior infractions which occurred more than two (2) years previously.
16
ARTICLE VU - ARBITRATION
7.1.0	When either party decides to submit a grievance to arbitration. under 6.1.8, then the other party shall be so^writing. The Company and the Union shall then each appoint an arbitrator within ten (1O) working days. The two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as chairman of the arbitration board. If the third arbitrator be not chosen within ten (10) working days, then the Minister of Labour of the province of Nova Scotia shall be requestedto assist in appointing an impartial chairman
7 2.0 No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator wno has been involved previouslyin an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7 .3.0	Each party shall pay the remuneration and
expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by such party and the remuneration and expenses of the third or single arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
7.4.0	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board shall be e^xpedtted by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto, but the arbitrators shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent the provisions of this Agreement. nor alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, in wage rates, nor deal any matter not covered by this Agreement.
17
7.5.0	Grievances related to discharge and suspension of three (3) working days or more appealed to Arbfiration. will be umpired by a single Arbfirator.
The party desiring to appeal a grievance under this section to ^Arbitration shall notify the other party, in writing. of its intent including the remedy sought.
Within ten (10) working days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, the parties shall meet to select an impartial Arbitrator.
Should the parties fail to agree within five (5) working days, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia wil be requestedto appoint a person who shall umpire.
The Arbitrator shall hear the case as soon as possible.
18
ARTICLE VIII • HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1.0	The regular hours of work are stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours worked.
8.1.1	The regular hours of work for otherthan the continuous twefve (12) hour shift or the continuous eight (8) hour shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day, five (5) days a week Monday to Friday inclusive.
8.1.2	Continuous twelve (12) hour shift: Employee
pay week is to be from 8:00 p.m. Sundayto 8:00 p.m. the following Sunday. Hours of work:
Day Shift - 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Night Shift .. 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
8.1.3	Continuous twelve (12) hour shift:
-	Pan Operators, Shift Engineers, and Screen Mixer Attendants, only
-	Regular hours of work shall be twelve (12) regular hours per day, three (3) and four (4) days per week for an average of forty-two (42 hours per week on a four (4) week cycle in accordance with the agreed shift schedule.
8.1.4	The Union recognizes that due to operational requirements, the Company may institute continuous eight (8) hour shift operations with four (4) regular rotating crews for shift engineers, pan operators and briners only. The
regular hours of work for continuous seven (7) day operationshall be eight (8) hours per day, five (5) or six (6) days per week in accordance the mutually agreed
19
rotating shift schedule (twenty (20) week cycle) for an average forty-two (42) regular hours.
8.2.0	It is understood that because of the nature of the salt business, the operation of this works requires a certain amount of periodic overtime.
When considered necessary by the Company, employees shall be requested to perform overtime work in excess of the regular hours of work.
Employees with a justifiable reason, shall be excused from working overtime. However, it is agreed that if sufficient qualified employees are not voluntarily available, then one (1) or .more of the above excused employees, having the lowest Overtime Worked Total, shall be required to work.
8.2.1	The Company shall endeavor, as far as reasonably practicable. over a period of three (3) months, to distribute overtime equitably among qualified employees in the department by classification in which such work becomes necessary.
will be posted every three (3) months indicating, by department, overtime worked and refused. Overtime will be recorded as equivalent straight time hours.
A copy of the Overtime Distribution Ust will be sentto the Union Executive Member and posted in each department weekly.
In the event of inequities of more than twenty-four (24) hours existing at the end of a three (3) month period. they will be corrected by assigning overtime available to the applicable employee(s) as soon as practicable.
20
8.2.2	The three (3)month periods referred in Article
8 .2.1 shall be defined as follows:
Period number one:
Period number two:
Period number three:
Period number four:
January (first Monday following last Sunday in December) to March (last Sunday in March)
April (first Monday following the last Sunday in March) to June (last Sunday in June)
July (first Monday following the last Sunday in June) to September (last Sunday in September)
October (first Monday following the last Sunday in September) to December (last Sunday in December).
Overtime worked and refused during these four (4) periods wilt be charged as follows:
1.	At the end of each three (3) month period, the total number of hours worked and refused for each employee will be reduced by the lowest employee total in the r^espective classifications. The lowest employee total(s) ^ftin the respects classifications will be set to zero (0).
2.	A list showing the new totals will be posted the first week of the new period.
3.	This list will also include a year to date total of hours worked and refused. This total will restart at zero (0) each January.
8.2.3	An employee shall have his overtime set at the average of the employees in his classification when he
21
returnsto work following an absence from work in excess of 4 weeks, excluding vacation.
8.2.4	On completion of his probationary period, a new employee will be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees in his classification.
Probationary employees shall not be eligible for overtime until all qualified, regular employees in the classification in the department have been offered said overtime.
The following guidelines will be used to administer the Equalizationof Overtime System:
1 All employees, except those who have signed out of the system. who are requested to work overtime. wil be charged with having worked or refused.
2.	Overtime which ts the result of a penalty payment, such as a Company initiated change of shift, will not be charged.
3.	An employee may decline to participate in the process of equitable distribution of overtime by completing the appropriate form and submitting this form to the Company.
4.	When an employee electsto slgn out of the system. the difference in 'total hours worked and refused' between himself and the highest total (in his classification) will be recorded. When re-entering the system, this differential will be maintained. Should the employee signing out of the system be the highest in total hours worked/refused, then the difference between himself and the next highest total will be maintained.
22
3. An employeewho has signed out of the system will not
be requestedto work until all other qualified employees
within his classification have been asked.
8.2.S	In order to fadlttate the equitable distributionof overtime and to ensure that personnel are available for overtime assignments. employees will be allowed up to twenty-four (24) hours from the time of posting to advise unavailabilityfor overtime assignments.
8.3.0	An employee whose working week is Monday to Friday inclusive, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
8.3.1	An employee whose working week includes Saturday or Sunday or both (excepting as in 8.3.2) of these days shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on his first day Off and double time for all hours worked on his second day off.
8.3.2	For continuoustwelve (12) Hour Shift Workers, any work in excess of three (3) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid at the rate of Time and One-half and any work in excess of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts wil be paid at the rate of Double Time.
8.3.3	When. as a result of a change of production schedule (a) from a five (5) day week to a seven (l) day week or (b) from a seven (1) day week to a five (5) day week or (c) from a five (5) day week or a seven (7) day week to the continuous twelve (12) hour shift, an employee is requiredto work more than five (5) consecutive days, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the sixth day and double time for the seventh day.
23
8.3.4	When, as a result of a change of production schedule from a continuous twelve (12) hour shift lo a five (5) or Seven (7) day week, an employee is required to work in excess of three (3) or four (4) consecutive days. these excess days will be paid in accordance with clause 8.3.2.
8.3.5	An employee, except as noted in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked:
(A) In excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours, commencing at the employee's regularly scheduled starting time
(E) Between Sunday midnight and the employee's first scheduled shift of the week.
(C) In excess of eight (8) hours if an employee does not have at least an eight (8) hour break period prior to his firstscheduled shift of the week. The "Continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours" for the first scheduled day of that week will commence with his actual starting time on Sunday rather than his scheduled starting time. The remainder of the week wil be as outlined in (A) above.
8.3.6	An employee on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the employee's regular scheduled starting time.
8.3.7	Subjectlothe provisionsof 8.5,1 the Company agrees to compensatethe employee for any loss of regular hours incurred as a result of a Company initiated change in
24
the Posted Weekly Shift Schedule.
8.3.8	"'1 employee will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first shift only of a Company initiated change in a Posted Weekly Shift Schedule when such change is made after4:00 on Friday.
8.3.9	An employee acting in the capacity of a relief operator, or in training (Pan Operator or Shift Engineer) in a continuous operation. who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekly Schedule", shall be paid a rate equal to time and one half for all hoursworked in excess of 40.
An employeeacting inthe capacity of a relief operator, or in training (Pan Operator or Shift Engineer) in a five (5) day, 12 hour shift operation, who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekty Schedule" shall be paid at the rate of time and one half for all hoursworked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday. Further, employeeswill be paid at the rate of time and one half for all hours worked in excess of 40.
8.4.0	An employee may, with the approval of the Company, arrange for a change of shift with another employee provided each employee will have at least an eight (8) hour break between shifts and the mutual exchangewill not result in any additional overtime pay.
8.4.1	the approval of the Company, employees on twelve (12) hour shifts may arrange for a mutual exchange of up to four (4) hours. provided that the right to any overtime payment, which may be incurred by the employee as a result of such change, is waived.
25
8.4.2	Employees who are not eligible for a mutual exchange of shifts as provided for in Article VIII (8.4.0) because of their particular job or classification. may under this Agreement now arrange for such change.
Prior approval of the Foreman must be received and the initial change or subsequent change back to the regular schedule will not result in any overtime payment.
8.5.0	An employeewho is called in by the Company to perform work outside his normal hours of work shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours pay at the appropriate overtime rate calculated at the employee's basic rate or the job classification rate, whichever is the higher. However, no minimum payment shall apply when the hours so worked are continuous with the employee's regularly scheduled working hours.
8.5.1	An employee who reports for work on his regularly scheduled shift. and for whom no work is available, will be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at his regular rate.
This provision shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an absence or when such lack of work is due to the lateness of the employee, a labour dispute, fire, flood, power shortage, or other such cause beyond the control of the Company.
8.5.2	Overtime paymentsshall not be pyramided nor shall more than one basis for calculating overtime be used to cover the same hours.
8.6.0	Hoisting and lowering schedules for undergroundemployees will be arranged to provide eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift. but variations from such schedules, not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes
26
which do not occur consistently, shall be disregarded. Delays in such schedules in excess of fifteen (15) minutes shall be consideredtime worked.
8.6.1	It is understood that all surface department employees shall be at their working place and ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their shift.
8.6.2	If. at the commencement of his scheduled shift, an employee is late, he shall be penalized to the extent of fifteen minutes for lateness of one to fifteen minutes, and to the extent of a further fifteen minutes for each succeeding period cl lateness of one to fifteen minutes. The entries on the employee's Clock Card shall govern the application of this Clause.
8.6.3	If such an employee leaves his working place before the end of any scheduledworking period, he shall be penalized to the extent of fifteen (15) minutes for early leaving for every quarter-hour or fraction thereof included in the period between the time when the employee left his working place and the end of such scheduled shift. The entries on the employee's Clock Card shall govern the application of this Clause.
8.7.0	Absence of an employee without prior notice
reasonable excuse or without subsequent reasonable excuse, may on the first offence result in a reprimand by the Company. On the second offence, the employee may be suspended for a period decided upon by the Company, but not to exceed one (1) week. The third offence may result in discharge. Any reprimand for absence will be cancelled from the record of an employee six (6) months after it is incurred.
27
ARTICLE IX -WAGES - CLASSIFICATION
9.1.0	The classification of all occupations and wage rates appearing in Schedule "A" attached hereto, n made part of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the partes hereto. Any new occupation established during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in Schedule "A". Prior to the implementation of any new classification, the Company agrees to meet \with the Union executive to negotiate the wage rate of such new classification. If necessary. the Company may establish an interim rate to be useduntilagreement is reached on a final rate.
9.2.0	ft is agreed that when an employee is assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, he shall be paid at his regular rate, provided work is available for him at the time in his regular classification. If there is no work available in his own classification, such employee shall be paid the classification rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned. Any employee, with the exception of those assigned as relief to the classification of Conveyor Floor Attendant or Truck Scale Attendant shall get the classification of the highest class of work he does any time during his regular shift.
For those employees acting as relief Conveyor Floor Attendants or Truck Scale Attendants, the higher rate shall apply only for the actual time assigned to that classification.
9.3.0	An employee who is to be demoted because his job is to be permanently eliminated shall be given advance notice of ten (10) calendar days or in lieu of such notice, shall retain his previous rate for ten (10) calendar days.
28
9.4.0	lt is the express policy of the Company that Foremen, acting Foremen and Supervisors shall not perform the regularwork ofa member of the bargaining unit except:
(A)	In the ^case of emergencywhere immediate action is necessary in order to protect personnel or equipment;
(B)	For the purpose of instructionor training including demonstrating the proper method to accomplish the task assigned;
(C)	For the purpose of developing a method or technique:
(D)	For the purpose of checking operating conditions.
29
ARTICLE X - BEREAVEMENT- JURY D UM
10.1.0	An employeewwho hasattainedseruort status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a Leave of Absence with pay not to- exceed three (3) days off or twenty-four (24) hours pay at straight time.
10.1.1	An employee on the continuoustwelve (12) hour shift who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a Leave of Absence with straight time pay not to exceed three (3) days off at twelve (12) hours perday, subject to the following cenditions.
10.1.2	The days eligible for payment shall bethree
(3)	days upto and induding the day following the funeral. Such days must be scheduled working days of the employee who. but for the bereavement. would have worked on those days.
10.1.3	A member of the immediatefamily shall be defined as father or stepfather, mother or stepmother. brother, sister, father-in-law or mother-in-law, of the employee or any person \who has acted in one of these capacitiesfor at leastthe past two (2) years.
10.1.4	In the event an employee, who has attained seniority, suffers the bereavement of a brother-in-law or sister-i^n-law, grandparents grandchildren, the Company wil grant one (1) day Leave of Absence with pay at straight time to attend the funeral provided the funeral takes place onthe employee's scheduled woridng day.
30
10.1.5	In the event an employee suffers the bereavement cf beth his parent and stepparent during his
employment with the Company, the employee shall be granted Leave of Absence under 10.1.3 in one ^e and
10.1.4	inthe other.
10.1	.6 An employee who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of his child, current spouse, or step child of current spouse, or any person who has acted in one of these capacities for at least the past years shall be granted four (4) consecutive ^^^uled, non-overtime. days leave of absence with pay at straight time.
10.1.7 For !he purpose of Article X. the word 'Common Law SpdUse' will be recognized within the full meaning of the word spouse, so long as cohabitation has existed for a continuous period of 12 months.
10.2.0	An employeewho is summoned and reports
for Jury Duty or issubpoenaed by a court as a witness and appears in court shall be paid by the Company, an allowance equalto the difference between the employee's straight tjme earnings lost as a resutt of hisjury service or appearance in court as a witness and the amount ofjury or	^se, exduding travelling allowance, paid by the
court.
10.2.1	In order to qualify for such payment, the
employee will be required to give the Company prior notice that he has been summoned for Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness and to furnish satisfactory evidencettatJury	performedorthat he attended
as a witness on the days for which he ctalms such allowance.
31
10.3.0	Absence as a result of a conviction under eitherthe ^of^Vehide A d or Sections253, 254, and 255 ofthe Criminal Code of Canada (1999). shall be treated as Leaves ofAbsence ^without pay, not to exceed a period of ninety (90) days.
32
ARTICLE XI • HOLIDAYS
11.1.0	It is agreed that the following days shall be considered paid holidays during the Term of this Agreement for employees on the Seniority List:
NewYear's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day
Memorial Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Armistice Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
24th/31st (All 4 - 12 Shift) (All others)
1 Floater
Friday Dec. 31/00 Friday, Apr. 21/00 Monday, Apr. 24/00 Monday, May WOO Monday, June 12/00 Friday, June 30/00 Monday, Aug. 7/00 Monday, Sept. 4/00 Monday, Od. 9100 Friday, Nov. 10/00 Monday, Dec. 25100 Tuesday, Dec. 26/00 Friday, Dec. WOO Friday, Dec. 29/00
NewYears Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
Monday, Jan. 1/01 Friday, Apr. 13/01 Monday, Apr. 16101 Monday, May 21/01 Monday, June 11/01 Monday, July 2/01 Monday, Aug. 6/01 Monday, Sept. 3/01 Monday, Oct. 8/01
33
Armistice Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
24th/31st (All 4 -12 Shift) (All Others)
1 Floater
Monday, Nov. 12/01 Tuesday, Dec. 25/01 Wednesday, IDec.25/01 Monday, Dec. 24/01 Monday, Dec. 31/01
2002
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day 1 Floater
Tuesday, Jan. 1/02 Friday, Mar. 29/02 Monday, Apr. 1/02 Monday, May 20/02 Monday, June 10/02 Monday, July 1/02 Monday, Aug. 5/02 Monday, Sept. 2/02
11.1.1	An employee who is off work on any of the above Holidaysshall, subject to the provisionsof Clause 11,1.2, be paid an amount equivalent to that which he would have received for his regular scheduled shift.
11.1.2	An employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
(A)	If hedees not work on any non-statutory holidaywhen he has been scheduled to do so, unless he has been excused from work in advance oc furnishes a subsequentjustifiable reason for such failure.
(8) If he is absentwithout a justifiable reason on the last scheduledworking day preceding the holiday or the next scheduled working day succeeding the holiday.
34
For the purpose of Holiday Pay entitlement only, overtime shall not be considered as a scheduled shift.
(C) However, in the case of illness certified by medical certificate, leave of absence or layoff, an employee shall receive his holiday pay if he had worked fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
11.1.3	For scheduled continuous shift employees, holidays covered by Article XI will be observed on the calendar day on which they actually fall.
11.1.4	Employees who have acquired seniority will be eligible for one (1) floater holiday to be taken between January 1 and December 31 of each year as follows:
1) Upon completion of 90 days worked in each yearly period, the employee becomes eligible for one (1) holiday.
An employee wishing to use a floater holiday for which he has becomeeligible, shall request permission from his supervisor prior to the posting of the weekly schedule.
Although permissionwill not unreasonablybe withheld, absence due to a floater holiday will be considered as part of the department's maximum allowable absence.
Normally, employee time off for banked and floater holidays will be scheduled so that a replacement can be provided on regulartime basis.
It will be possible, however, when the request, inthe opinion of the immediate supervisor, is reasonable and justified, to provide replacement on an overtime basis.
35
The floater holiday will not be carried over from one year to the next. If the floater holiday is not taken, it wil be paid out at regular rate at the beginning of each new year.
An employeewho has acquired seniority may. with the permission of his supervisor, use the floater holiday in advance of eligibility. At the end of December of each year, employees \who have taken the floater holiday but have not satisfied the eligibility, as stated in number 1 above, will be required to reimburse the Company any holiday pay advanced.
11.2.0	In addition to the holiday pay stipulation in Clause 11:1.1, employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-halffor all work performs on the above holidays.
11.2.1	Pan Operators, Shift Engineers and Briners when on Continuous Shift as defined in Clause 8.1.3 and
8.1.4	who work on a Holiday, shall have the option of taking a day off in lieu of the Holidayworked.
Al Holidays banked must be used prior to December 31st of the following year. Holidays not used will be cancelled and employeeWill be paid amount being held in lieu.
For those employeeswho elect to take a day in l ieu of a Holiday worked, the following shall apply:
One week's notice fn writing shall be required of the employee's intentto take a day in lieu. Arrangementsfor the day off in lieu of the Holiday worked will require the approval Othe Dept Supervisorand will require notice in writing of one (1) week.
Such approval by the Department Supervisorwill not
36
be unreasonably withheld.
Payment of the Premium portion will be paid for the Holiday worked. Payment of the regular portion will be paid when the day in lieu is taken.
To satisfy the requirementof a "Weeks Notice”, such notice must be given priorto the posting of the "Posted Weekly Schedule".
11.3.0	Employees who are ineligiblefor holiday pay by reason of insufficient service. will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed on any of the above holidays.
11.4.0	Employeeswithout seniority are governed by the Labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia.
37
ARTICLE XU -VACATIONS
12.1.0	Subject to the rules contained below, an employee who has completed the prescribed period of service by March 31st .» shall be granted a vacation with pay as follows:
12.1.1	Employees with six (6) months but less than twelve (12) months accumulated service shall be granted a vacation equal to 0.83 of a bey per month of service.
Vacation Pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's gross earningswith the Company.
12.1.2	A vacation week for all employees will be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on the first regular scheduled working day following the employee's regularscheduled day days Off.
For continuous shift workers. vacation shall be seven(!) co^^^ve days commencing on Monday and ending on Sunday.
12.1.3	Employees withi one (1) year but les than five (5) years accumulated service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's earningswith the Company.
12.1.4	Employeeswith five (5) years but less than ten (10) years accumulated service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be six (6) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.5	Employees wth ten (10) years but lessthan twenty (20) years accumulated service shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be eight
38
(8) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.6	Employees with twenty (20) years but less than (^twenty-five (25) accumulated service shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be ten (10) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.7	Employees with twenty-five (25) years tr more accumulated service shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be twelve (12) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.8	For the purpose of these rules Accumulated Service shall be the total period during which. the employee has been an employee of the Company commencing onthe employee's most ^mit hiringdate or January 1, 1952, whichever is the most recent.
Any employee whose 5th. 1oth. 20th or 25th year of accumulated service falls within the current vacation year, shall be permitted to take the corresponding vacation entitlement at the applicable rate of pay beginning April 1st of the	vacation year.
12.1.9	Vacations may not be postponed from one yearto another, nor may they be waived by an employee andvacationpaybed^^ in lieu of the vacation. No part of a Leave of Absence shall be conskiered as the vacation period.
However, an employee returning from lay-off may, upon his return to work waive part or all (in increments of (1) one week) of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieuthereof.
39
An employee who has a layoff period which equals or exceeds his vacation entitlement may, upon his return to work waive part or all (in increments of one (1) week) of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
12.1.10	For those entitled to three (3). four (4), five (5), or six (6) weeks vacation. the Company reservesthe right to limit their vacation during July and August to two (2) weeks. Such employees may schedule the remainder of their vacation outside of July or August.
The Company and the Union recognize that the week that includes Christmas Day and the Nova Scotia March . Break periods have become prime vacation periods. To . help ensure that more employees have an opportunityto take vacation during one er the other of these periods, employees may be ^restricted to one or the other. Seniority will govern selection of these vacation periods should restrictions become necessary due to department operating requirements.
12.1.11	Vacations shall be scheduled by the Company to take place mainly during the summer months and shall be arranged to coincide as far as possiblewith the wishes _ of the employees, subject in both encases to the efficient operation of the department concerned.
12.1.12	Where a recognized holiday or holidays
occur during an employee's vacation, he shall be entitled to take an additional day or days either immediately p^receding orfollowing his vacation providedthe Company has been	in writing of his intent at least one (1)
week priorto the commencement of his vacation.
12.1.13	Vacation pay shall be paid the employee on the last day preceding the date the employee is
40
scheduledto go on vacation. providing that the employee shall have confirmed in writing his impending vacation with the Company at least one (1) week in advance.
The employee has the option of taking all or pact of his vacation pay entitlementwhen going on vacation.
12.1.14	Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid a vacation allowance of four (4) percent, six (6) ^^rnt. eight (8) percent, ten (10) percent or twelve (12) percent of his gross wage as determined by preceding Clauses 12.1.1. 12.1.2, 12.1.3, 12.1.4, 12.1..S, 12.1.6, 12.1.7.
12.1.15	In any case where the benefits provided underthe Nova Scotia Vacation Pay A d are found to be greater than the above provisions. the benefits provided underthe Act shall apply.
12.1	.16 Members of the bargaining unit, not exceeding morethan one (1)from each department at any one time, shall be granted upon request with adequate noticefor scheduling, a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed two (2)weeks in each year of this Agreement.
In any event, leaves of absence, except for the purpose of bereavement, wil not be granted when such leave exceeds the department's maximum allowable absence.
41
ARTICLE XIII - SENIORITY
13.1.0	An employee shall acquire seniority status after he has been in the employ cf the Company for an aggregate probationary period of ninety (90) days during any 6 month period.
Seniority shall date three (3) months priorto the date on which seniority was acquired, but not priorto the first day worked.
13.1.1	When two (2). or more, newly hired employees acquire seniority in a department on the same dale, the order of appearance on the seniority list will be decided by a draw, witnessed by the Union President or designate and the effected employees.
13.2.0	In all cases of promotion includingvacation relief. demotion, transfer. lay-off. and recall. the Company will considerthe following:
(A)	Seniority
(B)	Skill and ability to perform the work required.
13.2.1	When, in the judgement of the Company, Factor (B) is equal, as between two (2) or more employe, seniority shallgovem. Cases of disagrement shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of Article VI.
13.3.0	It is agreed that there shall be four (4) divisionalseniority lists, Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. When an employee transfers from one division to another, his name shall be placed at the bottom ofthe DiviSonal Seniority List a n d he shall retain hissen iority in his originaldivision for a period of sixty (60) days.
42
At the end of sixty (60) days Of cumulative seniority in the new division, (sixty (60) working days in the Maintenance Division and sixty (60) calendar days in all other divisions) the transfer shall be considered final and hisseniority shall then date from the* date of such transfer.
13.3.1	A notice of vacancy will be posted for a
period of forty-eight (48) regular working hours in all departments inviting applications from interested candidates.	postings will be valid for a period of
sixty (60) days. The resultswill be posted within one (1) week, seven (l) consecutive days.
13.3.2	Promotions to vacant positionswill be filed from within the division in which the vacancy occurs provfded suitable applicants are available. Failing ^^^s in locating a suitable candidate from within the division in which the vacancy occurs. applications from other divisions will then be considered in order of total plant service.
13.3.3	Forthe pu^rpose of interdepartment transfer, Temporary Positions of less than sixty (60) days duration need not be posted.
13.3.4	Promotions of a non-permanent nature (greaterthan sixty (60) calendardays) will be reversed upon return to work of the permanent i ncumbent, if i nthe judgement of the Company, the incumbent is physically and otherwise capable of performing all of the required duties.
13.3.5	Notwithstanding any provisions of Article XII i , students may be hired for periods not to exceed four
(4)	consecutive months. Such employees shall be considered as probationary and shall not acquire seniority.
All other provisions of this Agreement shall apply to
43
these employees.
13.3.6
1.	Employees who are laid-off for a continuous period
of (60) calendar days or more will return to work at the	d^ascation within their department.
2.	For lay-off periods less than sixty (60) continuous days, employeeswill return to the classification they held at the time of their lay-off.
3.	The exception will be:
a)	Maintenance Department employees
b)	BoilerOperators
The above exceptions will retain their classifications when returningfrom periodsof lay-off.
13.4.0	Hoistmen shall be included on the Mine Seniority List.
13.5.0	An employee will lose all seniority if he or she:
(A)	Voluntarily quits.
(B)	lsjustifiably discharged.
(C)	If in Nova Scotia. fails to returnto work whhln five
(5)	days after notice to return has been sent by registered mail. If outside Nova Scotia, he must return in a reasonable time. In either ^case, both Union and Company must be notified immediatelyof change of address.
(D)	Is laid-off in excess of the greater of twenty-four (24) months or the employees service.
44
{E) il absent from work for five (5) consecutive normal
working days ^toout notifying the Company giving
a satisfactory reason for such absence.
13.6.0	A 1aick>ff employee holding seniority in one (1) division who is accepted for temporary employment in another division and who has not accumulated sixty (60) continuous days in his temporary positionwill returnto his former division as soon as regular work is available for him in that division.
13.6.1	If such temporary employment exceeds sixty (60) continuousdays in one (1) division, the position will be posted. The successful candidate shall maintain his seniority in his original department until he has actually filled his new position for a period of sixty (60) days or until he elects to assume the service in the new position accumulated prior to the posting of the position. If the employee elects to assume such service it will be combinedwith his service in the position. The employee shall be required to advise the Company in writing of his decision within the sixty (60) day period.
13.6.2	The Company agrees that before hiring probationary employees, any member of the bargaining unit on lay-off qualified to do the work available will be given first choice to fill the job opening.
13.6.3	Five (5) days following receipt of a Lay-off Notice, an employee shall be entitled to exercise accumulated service over a probationary employee in anotherdepartmentwho has not attained seniority status in that department.
13.7.0	If an employee istransferred to a supervisory
position, he shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement. However, if an employee returns to the
45
bargaining unit within nine (9) months, he will retain his accumulated seniority and Union dues will be remitted to the Union by the company for this period.
46
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY AND HEALTH
14.1.0	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employeesduring the hours of their employment.
Such protective devices as the Company requiresto bewom and other equipment which in the opinion of the Company is n^^^iy to protect the employee from injury shall be provided by the Company.
14.1.1	Employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug abuse will be covered by the Disability Plan provided they subject themselves to prescribedtreatment.
14.1.2	It is agreed that the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will be comprised of:
3	Union Representatives 3 Company Representatives
Each party will advise the other in January of each year the names of their representatives.
14.1.3	It is agreed that each department will have one (1) safety repi^^ntative with the exception of the maintenancedepartmentwhich will have two (2). one (1) from surface maintenanceend one (1) from underground maintenance.
These representatives will participate in their departmentsafety meetings and safety tours.
14.2.0
(A) Coverall/overalls will be provided to all employees free of charge.
47
(8)	A.N.S.I.Z87/C.S.A. approved non-prescription
safety glasses wil be provided free of chargeto a
maximum of six (6) pair per year/employee.
Effective0ctober8, 199, the Company will provide a refund of $185.00 ($190.00 effective October 8, 2001) upon receipt of proof of purchase of A.N.S1Z87/C.SA approved safely frames and prescription lenses once every two (2) year period as follows:
Period between October8, 1998 - October7, 2000
Period between October 8, 2000 • October 7, 2002
The Company agrees to replace the lenses only of prescriptionsafety frames and safety lenses when such lensesare damaged as a result of the employee's work at the Plant.
Such replacementwill be on the following basis:
MaintenanceDepartment Employees: Three times per two year period, October 8, 1998 - October 7,2000; end three times pertwo year period , October 8, 2000 • October 7, 2002.
All Other Employees: Once per above two year period.
C) 1. Miners belts will be provided free of charge.
2.	Gloves will be providedfor ditty and hazardous jobs, as determined by the Company, free of charge. Othergloveswill be provided at cost.
3.	Dust masks will be providedfree of charge.
4.	Hearing protection will be provided free of charge on request and will be required to be
48
wom on designatedjobs.
5.	Welding equipment will be provided free of charge.
D) The Company will refund the purchase price of Company approved safety footwear up to the maximum shown below:
From October 8, 1999 - October 7, 2000 $115.00 From October 8, 2000 - October 7, 2001 $120.00 From October8, 2001 - October7, 2002 $125.00
Effective October 8, 2000, Hand Scalers, Brlners, and Pan Operators will be eligible for an additional refund of $100.00 per contract year on the purchase price of Company approved footwear.
14.2.1	Wheneverthe Company recommendsto the employeesfor their better protection, the use of additional personal safety equipmentwhich it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees a ^cmt.
14.2.2	For the infonnation of employees, the following guidelines set outthe procedure to be followed under Section 43 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, if an employee has reason to believe that work he is being asked to do isdangerous to himself orto others in the workplace. It is agreed that these are only guidelines andas ^sudi, are not a su^thute for the provisions of the Occupation Health & Safety Act. and particularly Section 43 of the Ad, which wtll govern in all applicable instances.
Guidelines:
If an Employee has reason to believe that work they are being asked to do is dangerous to themselves or
49
anyone else in the workplace, they can refuse to do the work until:
1.	The Employertakes action to remedythe problemto the Employee's satisfaction.
2.	The Safety Committee has investigated the situation, and all members of the Committee advise the Employee to do the work, or
3.	A Department of Labour Officer investigates the situation and advises the Employee to do the work.
If an Employee is going to refuse to do work, these are the stepsthat should be followed:
1.	Reportto a supe^rvisor that they refuse to do the work,
2.	If the problem is not remedied to the Employee's
Employeeshould report it to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee or Health and Safety Representative.
3.	Ifthe problem is still not remediedto the Employee's
the Employeeshould report it to the N.S. Departmentof l^beur.
When an Employee refuses to do work, that Employee hasthe right to participate inthe investigation along with the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, Health and Safety Representative or, Department of Labour Officer. when they inspect the workplace to see it the Employee has a good reason for refusingto do the work.
50
Duringthe investigation, the Employee will be paid their regularwages.
When an Employee refuses to do certain work, the Employer is allowed to give them otherwork to do.
Also. when one person refusesto do certainwork, the Employer also has the right to give the work to another person, provided the second Employee is made aware of:
1 . The first person's refusal
2.	The first person's reason for refusing.
3.	The second Employee's right to refuse.
14.3.0	The Company shall. if possible. provide an
overtime meal ifthe employee is required to work more than ten (10) continuous hours and if employment continues an overtime lunch if possible at thirteen (13) hours and at intervals of four (4) hoursthereafter. If it is not	for the Company to providethe above meals
and/or lunches, then the employeewill be paid $7.75 per meal ($8.00 effective October8,200) and $5.75 per l unch ($6.00 effective October 8,2000).
14.3.1	Employeeson the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid for or provided with lunches and meals only afterfourteen (14): hours and seventeen (17) hours worked at intervalsof four (4) hoursthereafter.
14.4.0	When an employee has been authorized to use his vehicle for trips to the Marine Terminal or Macleod Lake, he shall be reimbursed $4.25 per round trip to the Marine Terminal and $5.50 per round trip to MacLrod Lake.
51
ARTICLE XV • CONTRACTING OUT
15.1.0	Whenever it becomes necessary for the Company to contract out a particular Portion of its workJoad or requirements, except in emergencies or other situations beyond the control of the Company, the Company wil notify the Union in writing no less than seven (7) calendar days before tenders are let. The Company agrees to discuss with the Union within f ive (5) calendar days of the notification. the nature and scope of the work to be done, if requested by the Union.
15.1.1	It is agreed that members of the bargaining unit shall not- be laid off as a result of work which they are qualified to perform being contracted out to other sources.
52
ARTICLE XVI -DURATION OF AGREEMENT
16.1.0	This Agreement shall become effective as of Odober 8, 1999. shall remain i n full force anrt pffert imtil Odober 7.2002 and shall be automatically renewed for a
period of one (1) year unless notice in writing is given by either party to the other for modification or termination duringthe period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiry date of October7, 2002.
16.2.0	Wrthin three (3) months of the expiry of this Agreement, either party may give notice to the other party, in writing, of its intention to negotiate a renewal of this Agreement.
Within ten (10) working days of receipt of such notice, both parties will meet and exchange proposed modifications or revisions of thisAgreement.
Both parties shall thereupon enter into negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable effort to secure such a renewal.
18.3.0	The noticesprovidedfor inArticie XVI shall be inwriting and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed, if to the Company, to: The Canadian Salt Company Limited, P^^ash, Nova Scotia, and if to the Union to: The President. Local 823, Chemical. Energy and PaperworkersUnion, Pugwash, Nova Scotia.
53
SCHEDULE "A”
CLASSIFICATIONAND WAGE RATES
Effect.	E^ffect.
Oct. 8/99 Oct. 8/00 Oct. 8/01
Mine Department Hoistman Shaftsman Miner
Miners' Dry Attendant
Mill Department Dispatcher Dispatcher/Helper Checker/Loader Mobile EquipmentOperator Conveyor Floor Attendant Truck ScaleAttendant MarineTerminal Operator Warehouseman/Bagger
Fine Salt Department Shift Engineer2nd Class Shift Engineer 3rd Class Pan Operator Briner
Sr. Pkg MachineOperator Dairy Mill Operator Screen/Mixer Attendant Warehouseman!Bagger
Malntenane Department
Journeyman
1st. Class
2nd. Class
3rd. Class
Preventive Maint. I
Preventive Maint. II
19.89	20.39	20.85
18,73	19.20	19.63-
18.52	18.99	19.42
18.05	18.46	18.88
18.17	18.58	19.00
17.65	18.05	18 45
17.68	18.08	18 49
17.60	18.00	18.41
17.68	18.08	18.49
17.68	18:08	18.49
17.44	17.63	1B.23
17.31	17.70	18.10
20. 10	20.55	21.01
19.21	19.64	20.08
19.21	19.64	20.08
17.74	18.14	18.55
17.66	18.00	18.47
17.43	17.82	18.22
18.24	19.06	19.49
17.31	17.70	18.10
19.94	20.39	20.85
18.83	19.25	19.68
18.16	18.57	18.99
17,93	18.33	18.74
18.83	19.25	19,68
18.16	18.57	18.99
54
CLASSIFICATION ADJUSTMENTS
Effective October8, 2000 $0.05/Hour	Miners
(Included in Schedule 'A' Wage Rates) Shaftsman
Hoistman
Effectjve \when the continuous shift isfirst implementedfor the Screen/Mixer Attendant $0.40/hour Screen/Mixer Attendant.
PREMIUMS
SHIFT
A shift premium will be paid in addition to the applicable wage rate, whenever an employee wotks the following shifts:
EffectiveOct. 8/99	121 g
$0.51/hr.
PREMIUMS"
For employees other than Miners, Hoistmen, Shaftsmen, worklng underground, on hoist cables,
headframe below sheave deck ........ $0.29/hour.
Effective October 8, 2000 $0.34/hour.
PREMIUM "B"
Working in the shaft, on sheave deek or- above, hanging, i^rering and removing materialfrom beneaththe skip and performing maintenancework on No. 6 conveyor at the Marine Terminal • $0.40/hour.
No pyramidingof Premium ' ’A" and "B".
55
PREMIUM "C"
Fine Salt Manufacture employees, (excepting shift engineers) with 4th Clas Enf)ine0pera1or's Certificatewill be-paid$0.10lhour overtheir regular rate for a twelve (12) month period providing they continue their studies toward obtainingtheir 3rd Class certificate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 3rd Class Engine Operator's Certificate (Full Ticket) will be paid SO. 1 5/hour above their regular rate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 2nd Class Engine Operator's Certificate will receive $0.20/hour over and above their regular rate.
PREMIUMS"
Working inside Fine Salt Plant Boilers, removal or replacement of boiler cesina or insulation and removal. repair or replacement of-soot blower lances. The economizer is considered part of the Fine Satt Plant Boilers - $0.35/hour.
PREMIUM "E"
Miner handling or firing explosive.
Miner operating Rock Dril:
High Pressure Washer- $0.18/hour.
56
CERTIFIED HIGH PRESSURE WELDERS
The existing High Pressure Welder will receive $1.OOlhr. when perfonning work requiring High Pressure Welding Certification.
Employeeswho, 2'.:.the request of the Company, hold certification in a ^second recognized trade, will receive a premium of $0.35/hr. for ell hours worked.
WORKING LEADERS
Working leaders shall be included underthe coverage of this Agreement and shall receive $1.00/hour more than the rate of the highest rankingjob in the group being led.
57
RETROACTNE PAY
All employees on strength as of October 8, 1999 will be paid retroactivelywhere applicable:
Wage adjustment Safety Footwear Safety Glasses
EMPLOYEE GROUP BENEFIT PLAN
It is agreed that the application of the Employee Group Benefrts comprised of the Group Life Assurance Plan (asamended0ctober8, 1996), the Pension Plan (as amended MarcH 1.1999), Sun Life Medicare Supplement Insurance (effective January 1, 1994) and the Disability Wage Plan (amended Octobers, 1993) shall continue in res^^ of the employees of said works, except as set out below.
The Company agrees that the aforementioned coverages will continuewithout further change during the term of this Agreement except as set out below or unless such changes are agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Effective July 1,2000 the Company will cordinate a LongTerm Dlsablity Plan through a third party (example, Sun Life) with a long-term disability benefit of $1200.00 per month, subject to the terms and conditions of such plan. There will be no integrationor carve.out. The cost of the planwill be shared as follows:
Effective July 1.2000:	50% Company 50%
Employee
58
Effective October 1, 2001:	75% Company 25%
Employee
Effectivewith the implementation of the Long Term Disability Plan, TOI ^benefits underthe Ufa Assurance Plan will cease. except in cases where employees may cu^^ty be in ^receipt of ^^beityWage Plan benefits and thereby ineligiblefor Long Term Disability plan benefits.
59
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED PUGWASH,N. S.
A.W, D'8Vidson...
Facility Manager ,
j. r. Wiic:ox....
Human Resou rc^Manager

COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, PAPERWORKERS UNION, PUGWASHSALT, LOCAL823
MEMBERS OF NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
-,	i*.	..
President. Local 823 J	J
David MacUan^KJS^.....!^..
Maintenance
Daniel Purdy Rock Salt Mill

Stephen Reid Underground
Randy Bonnyman Fine Salt
Ian Thom National Representative C.E.P.U.

60
LETIERS OF UNDERSTANDING
NO. 1: FINE SALT PLANT
NotwithstandingArticle VIII (8.1.3) during'periods of low production requirements of evaporated salt, the Company wil have the option of instituting, for Pan Operators only. a Monday through Friday shift schedule comprising twelve (12) hourshifts and averaging forty (40) houi^Week over a three (3) week cycle. The Company will post the change to or from this schedule by the Monday of the week prior lo the commencement of the new schedule. The two (2) employees working the first shift only of such changed schedule will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for such shift if the notice is not provided by the Monday of the week prior to the
commencement of the new schedule.
NO. 2: BRJNERS 12 HOUR SHIFT
Following an agreed schedule, three (3) employees will 12 hour shifts, 8 am • 8 p.m. at regulartime, for an average of 40 hours per^we over a thi^ week cycle.
Holidays that (^ocrwhile employees are working this schedulewll be paid a! 12 hour each.
This ^^^ulewill r^pain in efect as long as the Mine Department continuesto hoist on a 12 hour/day production cycle end as long as there is a requirementfor brine. A change in e'f^’ of these factors will allow the Company to return the Brine Classification to a regular 8 hour shift schedule without penalty.
61
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING- Continued
NO. 3 PAN OPERATORS
During periods of unusually high production demands and/or limited staff availability for extended shifts, it is mutually agreed tmt payment for hours worked will be the greater of:
1)	Existing contract provisions covering 5 day, 12 hour shift schedules
or
2)	For the period 12:01 a.m. Monday - 12:00 midnight Sunday of each week:
First 40 hours	-	Regular Time
40 hrs. - 52 hrs.	-	Time & One Half
52hrs to 12:00 Midnight Su^nday - Double Time
Employe will be	when this provision i s in effect.
NO. 4: SHIFT ENGINEERS
Upon completion of each class of Operator's Ticket granted by the Department of Labour, Province of Nova Scotia, the Shift Engineer wil be eligible for a bonus payment of $225.00.
This applies only to Shift Engineerswho are in the full time employ of the Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, N.S. at the time the ticket Is granted and who have accumulated the hours necessaryfor such class of ticket at this Plant.
62
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING • Continued
NO. 6: NOTICE OF LAY-OFF
Subject to tie LabourStandardsCode of Nova Scotia, the Companywill provide (one (1) \^k notice in writing of layoff to affected employees specifyingthe date of lay-off.
NO. 6: TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES
Subject to the requirements of the dassification. the Company will ensure that training opportunities within departmentswi II be offered when reasonablypracticable to employees in order of seniority.
NO. 7: APPRENTICESHIP AND PROMOTIONS
Many of the Trades under the Province of Nova Scotia "Trades & Apprenticeship Division of the Department of Labour'' are recognized by the Company as being applicableto the Maintenance Department.
From time to time tt may be practical and desirableto fill	which are vacant or may ^^me vacant with
applicants from within the Plant who are interested in entering the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
These applicants who are deemed qualified by The Companywif be hired ortransferred into the Maintenance Department ct the level of Class and wi II be entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
NotwithstandingArticle XIII (13.3.0). employeeswho
63
transfer to Maintenance 3:d. Class and are entered Into the TradesApprenticeship Program may be returned or elect to be returned to their previous classification ff they are not successful in attaining an established standard in Block I of their particular trade.
Employees enrolled in a Trades Apprenticeship Program will be eligible for promotion on the following basis:
-3rd Class to 2nd Class ■ 12 months of service inthe Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 1st year Trade School.
-2nd Class to 1st Class • 24 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 2nd year Trade School.
-1st Class to Journeyman • 48 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus Journeyman certification i n one ofthe above i^trades.
AppHcants who hold certification in a recognized trade or who in the opinion the Company have equivalent experience. will be hired or transferred into the Maintenance Department at the level of 2ndi Class.
Promotions of th'5 group holding certification or equivalent experience in a recognized trade will be on the following basis:
-2nd Class to 1st Class • u^^ acquiring seniority within the Maintenance Department.
-1st Classto Journeyman • 15 monthsrf satiSfactol)' servicewithin the Maintenance Department.
64
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING- Continued
ID. 8: VACATION
an employee, while on vacation, suffers a major illness, injury or family crisis, the Company agrees to discusswith a view to reschedulingthe vacation period.
Each ^case will be judged on its	merits and in all
cases the Company's decision wil I be final.
NO. 9: VACATION - LAY-OFF
The Company and Union agree to expand the interpretationof Clause 12.1.9 to allow an employee, while still on lay-off, to waive all or part of his vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
The amount of vacation time waived must not be greaterthan the period of lay-offwithin the vacation year.
ID. 10: TOWER OPERATOR
The employee assigned to act as Tower Operator during boat loading operationswill be paid a rate equal to the classification of Checker Loader.
65
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING • Continued NO. 11: SHAFTSMAN -OVER11ME
It is agreed that the Company may schedule employees within the classification of Sha^ftsman to overtime assignments ^within the classification of Miner and that this may occur even when all of the employees ^within the d^ascation of Miner have not been scheduled to work.
All overtime worked and refused tit employees ^within a classificationwill be credited to that classification.
66
LETTERS OF INTENT
PiSABfUTY' WAGE PLAN •FIRST DA Y BENEFIT COVERAGE-
1) The Company agrees to recognize certain medicaVsurgical procedures as qualifying for first day coverage.
These procedureswill be identified by the Company with participation bythe Union executive.
Procedures which qualify will be those which historicallyrequired a hospitalized recovery period but which now are being performed as an outpatient service/day surgery.
Examples of proceduresthat could be recognized as qualifying for first day coverage:
1.	Hernia repair
2.	Gallbladder removal
3.	Tendon removal or repair (Carpal Tunnel Syndrome)
4.	Vasectomy
5.	Circumcision
6.	Non-electlve eye surgery
7.	Wisdom teeth removal
8.	Non-elective lump removal
9.	Eartube surgery
1 0. Kidney stone removal
provided the employee provides documentationfrom a doctor confirming that the employee Ls prevented from attending work. if so requested by the Company.
As other surgical procedures are provided as an
67
outpatient service the Company and the Union wit meet to detennine i1they qualify for addition to the list of first day coverage.
2) The term ‘hospitalized’ will be interpreted to mean admittance to a recognized hospital or if appropriate a recognized medicaldinic, generating a charge for at least one day, supported by medical documentation. and preventing the employee from attending work for at least one day.
68
66
135
33
169
186
157
183
129
83
196
115
184
15
174
213
154
162
247
10
50
2
6
39
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
as at September 29, 2000
Name
MAINTENANCE
	Plant
Seniority	Service
Date	Date
Jul. 4/71	Jan. 4/71
Jun. 8/73	May28/73
Jun. 17/73	Jun. 4/73
Sef:>t.12173	Jun. 19/70
Feb. 19/74	Sept.17173
Feb. 23/74	Jul. 3/73
Oct. 7/74	Sept. 34/74
Mar. 8/75	Feb. 24/75
Jun. 9/75	Dec. 9/74
Sept. 19175	Sept. 8fl5
Nov. 23/75	Nov. 14/75
Dec. 13/76	tyr. 16/74
Dec. 2o/76	Jun. 22/73
Sept. 8/77	Jan. 14/69
Nov. 6/77	Jan. 13/71
Feb. 21/79	Jan. 29/79
May 11/79	May 24/74
May 11179	Oct 12178
Sept. 34/79	Sept. 10/79
May 16/80	Nov. 28158
Dec. 9/80	Aug. 6/74
Sept. 28/85	Sept. 9/85
Oct 5/85	Sept. 16/85
Oct 31/86	Oct 20/86
69
70
88
104
103
90
156
1
105
125
53
126
48
242
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
Name
MAINTENANCE - Page 2 Seniority Date	Plant Senrice Date
Dec. 6/88	Nov. 9/88
Jll. 25189	Jun. 13189
Sept. 29/89	Sept 18189
Oct. 2189	Sept. 18189
Dec. 2192	Nov. 30192
Aug. 3/93	Jan. 20m
Feb. 13195	Feb. 13195
Sept. 5195	Sept. 5/95
Dec. 4/95	Dec. 4195
Sept ^	JUy7/87
Oct. 29/96	Oct. ^
Jun. 23197	Jun. 2M7
Feb. 25/98	Feb. 18198
70
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
as at September29, 2000
MINE
Payroll Name	Seniority 	 Date-	Plant Service - Date
99	Aug. 1/58	Aug 1/58
101	Nov. 23/63	Jan. 4/63
4	Mar 2/72	Feb. 14/72
182	Feb. 27/73	Jan. 31/73
41	Jun. io/73	May 16/73
31	Apr. 16/74	Nov. 28/73
55	Nov. 4/74	Nov. 4/74
185	Feb. 11/75	Feb 11175
16	Mar. 3!15	Mar. 3/75
122	Apr. 2175	Apr. 2175
13	Jan. 12/76	Jan. 7/76
24	Feb. 28/77	Feb. 28/77
71	Feb. 28/77	Feb. 28/77
116	Apr. 27/77	Apr. 27/77
26	May 2177	May2177
114	May anS	Jun. 29m
145	Oct. 12/78	Oct. 12178
207	Dec. 18/78	Dec. 18/78
209	Jan. 2/79	Jan. 2/79
202	Jan. 3/79	Oct 20178
241	Sept. 7/79	Sept, 7/19
240	Oct. 1/79	Sept. 5/79
128	Jan. 11/81	Jan. 8/81
139	Jan. 13/81	Jan. 12/81
7	Jul. 28/86	Jul. 28/86
52	Jul.1918	Jul. 19/88
3	Sept. 29/88	Jul. 26/88
71
64
44
54
58
80
89
102
100
42
40
51
111
110
59
57
147
152
150
193
216
214
123
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
MINE - Page 2
Name
	Plant
Seniority	Service
Date	Date
Oct. 1/88	Jul. 27/88
May 10/89	May3/89
May 10/89	May 3/89
May 10/89	May 3/89
Jun. 5/89	May29/89
Jun. 20/89	Jun. 13189
Sept. 25189	JJ. 31/89
Mar. 19/90	Mar 19/90
Mar. 20190	Mar. 20190
Sept. 22/94	Apr. 24190
Jun. 27/95	Jun. 27/95
Jun. 27/95	Jun. 27/95
Jun. 27/95	Jun. 27195
Jul. 10195	Jul. 10/95
Jul. 10195	Jul. 10/95
Jul. 21/95	Jul. 17/95
Jul. 7/96	Jun. 24/96
Jul. 7196	J. 24/96
Jul. 11/96	Jun. 28/96
Jul. 7/97	Jul. 7/97
Jul 7/97	Jul. 7/97
Jul. 9/97	July. 9/97
72
46
62
192
87
149
198
177
9
73
180
91
34
97
179
227
5
14
166
181
32
25
65
72
118
117
76
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
as at September 29, 2000
FINE SALT
Name	Senioritv
_____________________ Date
Jan. 9/65 Mar.5/65 Nov. 2/68 Jun. 29/73 Jul. 4/73 Nov. 1/73 May24174 Oct 13/74 Apr 14175 Jun. 13/75 Jul. 15/75 Jul. 29175 Jul. 24178 Oct. 16178 Jun. 19179 Jun. 30/80 Aug. 13/80 Aug. 15180 Jul. 28/82 Jul. 29/86 Jul. 26/88 Aug. 22188 Apr. 25190 Jun. 18/90 Jun. 21/90 Feb. 10192
Plant
Service
Oct. 19/64 Feb. 15/65 Jul. 9168 Jun. 6173 Jun. 14173 Sep/. 5fl3 May. 24174 Oct. 1117 4 Apr. 14175 Jun. 13/75 Jul. 15!5 Jul. 29/75 Jul. 24178 Oct. 16178 Jun. 19179 Jun. 30/80 Aug. 13/80 Aug. 13/80 Jul. 28/82 Jul. 26/86 Jul. 26/88 Aug. 22/88 Apr. 2^80 Jun. 18/90 Jun. 21/90 Feb. 10192
73
FINE SALT - Page 2
Payroll Name	Seniority	Plant Service
112	Jun. 19/95	Dec. 1/94
109	Jun. 19/95	Dec. 1/94
197	Jun. 20195	Jan. 9/95
121	Nov. 13/95	Nov. 13195
151	Sep. 15198	Jun. 24/96
133	Jul. 12/99	Oct 10/97
246	Sep. 20199	Nov. 4/97
252	Oct. 5199	• Sep. 20199
74
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
as at September29, 2000
ROCK SALT MILL
Payroll Name
NO— ________
81
120
74
98
47
22
8
18
159
63
138
106
208
210
223
233
244
245
11
69
35
37
38 17
36
Seniority
Date
Aug, 28/70 Jan. 1/71 Nov. 4172 Nov. 12/72 Oct. 9174 Jun. 18175 Oct. 14175 Sept. 28/16 Nov. 30176 Aug. 12177 Jun. 19/78 Aug. 18/78 Dec. 29/78 Jan. 3/79 May 7/79 Jul. 4179 Sept. 11179 Sept. 12179 Jul. 31/80 Oct. 14/80 Aug. 7/86 Aug. 7/86 Aug. 11/86 Jul. 26/88 Jul. 26/88
Plant
Service
Date
Oct. 10170 Dec. 15170 Oct. 20172 Oct. 25172 Oct. 9174 Jun. -18/75 Oct. 14fl5 Sept. 27176 Nov. 4176 Jun. 20177 Jun. 19178 Aug. 18/78 Dec. 29/78 Jan. 3179 May 7/79 Jul. 4/79 Sept. 11/79 Sept. 12/79 Jul. 31/80 Oct. 14/80 Aug. 7186 Aug. 7/86 Aug. 11/86 Jul 26/88 Jul. 26/88
75
ROCK SALT MILL -Page 2
Payroll Name No.	Seniority Date	Plant Service Date
96	Jul.24189	Jul. 24189
94	Oct. 22/90	Jun. 26/89
95	Oct. 22/90	
84	Nov.9m2	May. 29/40
113	Oct 1MM	Jul. 11194
119	Oct 17194	JJ. 13194
124	Nov. 19194	Nov. 17194
29	Oct ^	Jun. 27/95
82	Oct 10196	Jul. 18196
131	Nov. 25196	Nov. 25196
127	Nov. 25196	Nov.25196
130	Nov. 25196	Nov. 25196
132	Oct 16197	Oct 16197
134	Oct 17/97	Oct 16197
79	Oct 16197	Oct 10/97
217	Nov. 2719	Dec. 2199
218	Nov. 2819	Dec. 2/99
76
SUBJECT INDEX
	CLAUSE	PAGE
(A) Absence • Union Leave of	5.50	12
• Reprimands	8,7,0	27
* Employee	8.6,3	27
Agreement		
- Application	2. 1,0	6
• Duration	16.10	53
- Noticeto enter into 16 2 0	16.3.0	53
Alcohol & Drug Abuse	14.1.1	47
Application	2. 1,0	6
Arbitration	Article VII	17
• Single Arbitrator	7.5.0	18
• Discharged Suspension	7.5.0	18
* Expense	7.3.0	17
(B) Bereavement Leave	Article X	30
- Spouse/Child	10.1.6	31
• Common Law Spouse	10.1 7	31
Benefit Package- Group Benefit Plan		58
Bulletin Boards	4.2.0	9
(C) Calendar Days - Seniority	13.1.0	42
Call Out	8.5.0	26
Change of Production Schedule	6.3.3	23
	8.3.4	24
Change ofShift		
- Loss of Hours	Q.3,7	24
• Company Initiated	8.3.8	25
• Mutual Exchange	8.4.0	25
Check Off	3.1,0	8
Chief Shop Steward	5.3.1	11
Classification • Loss of	13.3.6	44
Committeemen - Payment- Stage 3	6.4.0	16
Company- Recognition	2.2.0	6
contracting Out	15.1.0	52
ConveyorFloor Attendant	9.2.0	28
Coveralls	14 2.0	47
committee • Duties	5.4.0	12
• Grievance	5.2.0	11
	6.4 0	16
- J.O,H.& S	14.1.2	47
77
• Negotiating	5.1.0	11
■ Safety	14.1.3	47
Compensation		
• Grievance	6.4.0	16
• Negotiations	5.1.1	11
(D)		
Demotion- Elimination of Job	9.3.0	28
Discrimination. Intimidation, etc.	4.3.0	9
Disciplinary Action • Advising Employee	6.5.0	16
Dues • Union	3.1.0	8
(E)		
Employee Group Benefit Pian		58
Employe Not Covered by Agreement	2.1.0	6
Employees on Lay-Off		
• Right to replace probationaryemployees	13.8.2	45
Employment		
-Temporary in another department	13.6.0	45
(Ft		
Foremenand Supervisors notworking	9.4.0	29
(G)		
Gender Neutral	1.1.3	5
Grievance Commit	5.2.0	11
Grievance Commiteemen		
- Payment of Stage 3	6.4.0	16
Grievance- Discharge	6.1.5	15
■ Gulde for Arbitrator	7.5.0	18
. Procedure	Article Vi	14
- Probationary	6.1.6	15
• Personal	6.3.0	18
(H)		
HazardousCondition	14.2.2	49
Health & Safety • Promotion	1.1.0	5
Holidays	Article XI	33
• 'Banking of	11.2.1	36
• ContinuousShift Workers	11.1.3	35
• Ouring Vacation	12.1.12	40
• Floater	11.1.4	35
• Loss of	11.1.2	34
Hours of Work	2.2.0	6
• Regular Hours of Work	8.1.1	19
• Continuous 12 Hour Shift	8.13	19
78
0
Immediate Family. Deflnttion	10.1.4	30
Investigating & Settlementof Grievance		
- Time Off	5.4.0	12
• Procedure	5.4.1	12
(J)		
Job .. PermanentlyEliminated	9.3.0	28
Job Posting	13.3.1	43
J.O.H.S. Committee	14.1.2	47
Jury Duty	10.2.0	31
	10.2.1	31
(L)		
Labour Standards Code	1.1.1	5
Leaveot Absence		
- MVA Violation	10.3.0	32
- Union Business	5.5.0	12
• Pr^es10ent & Secretary Meetings	5.4.0	12
• Personal	121.16	41
-Vacation	12.1.9	39
Leter of Intent - Disability Wage Plan		67
Letters of Understanding - Policy	2.4.1	7
• Apprenticeship & Pro^icns		63
- Briner 12 Hour Shift		61
• Fine Salt Plant		61
• Notice of Lay-off		63
• Pan Operators, Overtime		62
• Shat'tsman		66
• Shift EngineerTraining Bonus		62
-Training Opportunities		63
- T^ower Operator		65
- VacatlonNacatlon Lay-Off		65
Lock Out	4.4.1	10
Los of RegularHO\Jrs	8.3.7	24
(MJ		
Management Rights	2.2.0	6
Meetings - NotlflcatJon	5.6.0	13
• Time Off	5.4.0	12
Membership^ Union	4.2.0	9
Mutual Exchangeof Shifts	8.4.0	25
Mutual Exchangeof Shifts		
-12 HourWorkers	8.4.1	25
79
(N)
N^fating Commitee	5.1.0	11
Negotiation Ovmu.lJtb:e Compensation	5.1.1	11
Notices • Bultetin Boards	4.2.0	9
- Job Vacancy	13.3,1	43
- ^Meings	5.60	13
* New Employ&n	3.2.0	8
No Wori< AvaUabfe • Reporting	8.5.1	28
No Pyramiding Overtime Payments	8.5.2	26
(O)		
Overtime • Change in Posted Schedule	8.3.8	25
- Continues Won<ers	8.3. t aa.3.2	3
- Continuous 12	8.3.9	20
• Distribution	8.2.1	23
• Distribution. 12 HourWori<era	8.3.2	23
• Executive Members	5.3.1	11
- 5 Days/12 hours	0.3 9	28
• Holidays	11.2.0	38
- Probationary Employee	11.3.0	37
. Noticeof Availability	8.2.5	23
• ProbationaryEmpl^loye	11.2.0	38
.. Qualification	8.3.5	24
- Saturday & Sunday	8.3.0	3
• Work	8.2.0	28
Overtime Lunches		
• Regular Shift	14.3.0	51
• Continuous Shift	14.3.1	51
(P)		
Pan Operators Shift Schedule	8.1.3	19
Payroll Oegeductions	3.1.0	8
Posting Job Vacancy	13.3.1	43
Premiums		55
Promotions -Maintenance Dept. (Letter of Understanding)		63
Promotion. Relief, Demotion	13.2.0	42
Protective. Clothing	14.2.0	47
(R)		
Rules and Regulations	23.0	7
(SJ		
Safely	Article XIV	47
- General	14.1.3	47
- Equipment	14.2.0	47
	14.2.1	49
80
.. Conditions	14.2.2	49
- Etc.	14.2,0	47
Seniority	Article XIII	42
• By Draw	13. 1.1	42
• Divisional Lists	13.3,0	42
• Hoist^men	13.4,0	44
• LOH Of	13.5.0	44
• Promotion/D^rotlon	13.2.0	42
• status	13.1.0	42
Seniority Lists		
- Maintenance		69
- Mine		71
• FineSatt		73
- RockSalt		75
Service - Re: V^tiona	12.1.8	39
Shift Engineers- Bonus (Letter of Understanding)		62
Shift Schedule		
• Pan OperatorsJShlft Engineers	8.1.3	19
Slow D^ms, etc.	4.4.0	10
Strikes	4.4.0	10
Students	13.3.5	43
Supervisory • Transferringto	13.7.0	45
(T) Technical & Pr^oces Improvement	2.4.0	7
Temporary Cli$sification • Working In	9.2.0	28
Transfers, Lay-off. etc. Travel	13.2.0	42
■ MacLeod Lake, Marine Terminal	14.4.0	51
Truck ScaleAttendant	9.2.0	28
(U) Union Business		
-Meeting Time	5.4.0	12
-G rievance Meetings	6.4.0	16
Union Executive & Officers. Notify Company	5.3.0	11
Union Membership & Dues	4.10	9
Union President - Day Shift	5.4.0	12
Union Recognition	2.1.1	6
(V) Vacations Article XII		38
• Entitlement	12.1.3 -12.1.4	38
	12.1.5	38
12.1.13	40
81
- Pay Requirement