niSTRICT 3
00231(09)
TEN COMMANDMENTS OF SAFETY
1.	You are responsiblefor yourself and the safety of others working with you.
2.	Know the rules of safety that apply to your job.
3.	THINK AHEAD - "What can happen that may cause an accident?
4.	Review the safety aspect of your job with Supervisors and co-workers before starting work.
5.	Follow the Supervisor's instructions at all times with regard to safety on the job.
6.	Make use of safeguards that are provided for your protection.
7.	Demonstrate safety in your work habits and personal conduct.
8.	Report all injuries to your Supervisor. Give all details.
9.	Co-operate fully with those who are concerned with your safety.
10.	REMEMBER: Not only does accident prevention reduce human suffering and loss of life and limb, it is good business. SAFETY is one of your prime obligations-to your family, your fellow man and your employer.
NEAR ACCIDENTS ARE WARNINGS
TABLEOFCONTENTS
Article	Page No.
1	Recognition................................................ 3
2	Discrimination ............................................ 5
3	No Union Activity on Company Time ......................... 6
4	Grievance Procedure........................................ 7
5	Discharge or Suspension................................... 14
6	Arbitration .............................................. 16
7	Union Negotiating Committee............................... 18
8	Seniority and Job Posting................................  18
9	Probationary Employees.................................... 38
10	Temporary Employees......................................  38
11	Leave of Absence.......................................... 39
12	Vacations With Pay........................................ 50
13	Public Holidays.........................................   55
14	Hours of Work and Overtime................................ 57
15	Safety and Occupational Health............................ 63
16	Union Security............................................ 68
17	Handicapped Employees....................................  70
18	Bulletin Boards.......................................     70
19	Co-Operative Wage Study................................... 71
20	Supervisors Working....................................... 74
21	Tools...................................................   75
22	Wage Differentials ....................................... 76
23	Notice.................................................... 76
24	Copies of Agreement....................................... 77
25	Terms of the Agreement.................................... 77
Appendix "A" - Standard Hourly Wage Scale............ 80
Exhibit "A" - Lines of Progression - Mine Operating..	81-82
Exhibit "B“ • Lines of Progression • Mine Maintenance..	83
Exhibit "C" • Lines of Progression - Plant Operating.	84
Exhibit'O" - Lines of Progression - Plant Maintenance..	85
Exhibit "E" - Lines of Progression ■ Plant Loadout...	86
Exhibit "F" • Lines of Progression -Warehouse Dept 	87
Exhibit *'G" • Lines of Progression - Safety Dept....	88
Appendix "B" • Apprenticeship Program................ 89-92
Appendix "C" ■ Schedule of Apprenticeship Training...	93
Appendix "D" - Non Trade Training Requirements.......	94-95
Appendix" E • Compressed Work Week...................... 96
Benefit Summary........................................ 100
Memorandums and Letters of Agreements.............. 109-122
Subject Index.......................................... 123
e;0:<3/ Co!)
1
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 26th day of October, 2005 by and between:
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division, operators of PCS Potash Allan Division, hereinafter called the "Company"
Party of the first part,
and.
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNIONfor itself and on behalfof its Local 7689, hereinafter called the "Union"
Party of the second part,
In the spirit of co-operation and to provide for an efficient operationthe partieshereby mutually agree as follows:
NOTE: For purposes of this Agreement, any reference to employees as "he" or "his", etc. shall mean all employees, male and female, in the Bargaining Unit.
2
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of bargaining collectively with regard to rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions and other conditions of employment, for all employees employed by PCS Inc., Allan Division near Allan, Saskatchewan, except supervisors; foremen; superintendents; managers; office and clerical staff; the mine, process, laboratory and instrumentation technician; nurse; first aid attendant; plant security; and a person having and regularly acting on behalf of management in a confidential capacity with the intent that this Agreement will promote an efficient and effective operation and a procedure for the prompt settlement of grievances.
1.02	The Company reserves all rights and prerogatives unless clearly and explicitly granted to the Union by this Agreement. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union understands and agrees that the Company has the exclusive and undisputed right and power to operate and manage the business in all respects, including, but not limited to, the right
a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, to determine job content and the assignment of work, to make, alter and amend rules of conduct and procedures for employees;
3
b)	To hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, lay-off, recall, suspend or discipline employees, provided, however, that if the employee believes that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause orthatany other exercise of the foregoing rights is in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, he may havethe matterdealt with underthe Grievance Procedure;and,
c)	generally to managethe business, locate, extend, curtail, cease operations and to determine the numbers and classifications of employees required for any or all operations, the kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used and the schedule of production.
d)	The Company recognizes the Union's concern over “contracting out” by the Company because of its effect uponsuch matters as job opportunity for the employees.
The Company will, therefore, having due regard to the availability of equipment,	engineering,	skills,
manpower, supervision and services and to operating efficiency and the time to do the work, make efforts to limit the amount of future work to be “contracted	out” during this
agreement.
4
The Company shall not contract out work normally performed by employees in its workforce if as a result of such contracting out employees are laid off or demoted.
Where possible, except in the case of an emergency, the Company will notify the Union at least two (2) weeks in advance of contractors arriving onsite. Such notice will contain the number of persons working, the work they are performing, and the anticipated duration of the job.
The company will maintain a list of contractor's qualifications and a list of contractors with whom there are safety concerns. Lists will be available to the Union and Occupational Health Committee.
e)	The Company agrees that this clause will not be used in an unfair, inequitable or unjust manner against any employee.
ARTICLE 2 - DISCRIMINATION
2.01	No employee of the Company shall be intimidated or discriminated against by either party because of membership or non-membership in any union, or because of their race, religion, religious creed, colour, sex,
5
political belief, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, or age (with the exception of an employee's normal retirement date). In addition, consistent with the provision of the Human Rights Act, 1993, the parties agree that there shall be no discrimination by either the Company or the Union by reason of family status, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
2.02	Affirmative Action
The parties of this Agreement, The Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division and the United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., Local 7689, agree there is a need to redress the underrepresentation inthe work force of persons of native ancestry, women and the disabled.
To this end, the parties agree to develop and implement measures to redress such imbalances, such measures to be worked out within the overall corporate policy.
ARTICLE 3 - NO UNIONACTIVITY ON COMPANY TIME
3.01	Except as provided in this Agreement, there shall be no Union activity on the Company's time or property.
3.02	The Union President or his representative may spend one-half hour with new Bargaining Unit employees for the purpose of orientation, at a time scheduled by the Company.
6
Followingthe completion of the employee's probationary period, the Company will endeavour toschedule new employees for a follow-up interview with the Union President, or his representative. Such interview will not exceed one halfhour.
3.03	The President ofthe Local, or his designate, will be granted up to twelve (12) hours leave of absence with pay in each week at his regular straight time hourly rate, to administer local union business on site, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. weekdays. Such activity will not interfere with employeeson duty in the performance of their work, and if the union representative desires to talk with an employee while on duty, he must receive permission from the employee's supervisor. Such time will not be accumulative.
The Union President may use this leave for off-site local union business, if prior permission is obtained from the General Manager or his designate.
ARTICLE 4 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01	"Grievance" meansany difference betweenthe Company and any employee or employees bound by this Agreement, or between the Company and the Union, concerningan alleged violation of the interpretation, application or operation of the terms of this Agreement. The
7
party submitting a grievance will ensure that it clearly states the issue or issues involved. All grievances shall be finally and conclusively settled in the manner set out in this Article.
4.02	In all cases while grievances are being investigated the employee(s) and all other scheduled employees, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension or on layoff, must continue to work. Where an employee(s) has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled.
4.03	"Shop Stewards" means employees of the Company who have been authorized by the Union to deal with grievances. A Shop Steward shall not leave his duties until proper relief has been provided by his supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. Under no circumstances shall a Shop Steward take any action, (except individual rights as provided for by Provincial legislation), or issue any instructions which will interfere with the production or with the management, operation or direction of the Company's plants, operations, or working force. The jurisdiction of a Shop Steward to act as such shall normally be confined to the particular section or area of the operation in which he is employed during his regularly scheduled working hours.
The number of Shop Stewards shall not exceed thirty (30) employees. If it is necessary for any
Steward to take time off during working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance, he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regularly scheduled working hours.
4.04	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of Stewards, Grievance Committee members and Executive Officers and the Company shall not be required to recognize any Steward, Grievance Committee member, or Executive Officer until such notice is received. A Shop Steward will not be recognized until the day after the Company has received official notice from the Union that he is a Shop Steward.
4.05	Because of the desirability of a continuity of activities, the parties agree that when possible the negotiation of grievances shall be conducted immediately after the start, or concurrent with the end of the shift. A copy of the Grievance Reply at each Stage will be sent to the Union's Grievance Chairman.
Should a grievance arise, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the grievance in the following manner:
a)	Stage 1 - The Employee(s) concerned, with or without their Shop Steward in attendance may, provided it is done within fifteen (15) days after the occurrence of the grievance, present his
9
alleged grievance, in writing, to his immediate supervisor.
For matters relating to an employee's payroll cheque, the occurrence of a grievance shall be the day the employee receives his payroll cheque.
The immediate supervisor shall advise the employee of his decision on the grievance within three (3) days.
b)	Stage2- Failingasatisfactorysettlement of the grievance at Stage 1, the employee(s) in person, with their Shop Steward in attendance, may, within three (3) days after the decision of the immediate supervisor at Stage 1 has been or should have been given, submit the grievance inwriting to the department superintendent, or his delegate. The grievance shall state the exact nature of the grievance, the act or acts complained of, and when they occurred, the identity of the employee or employees who claim to be aggrieved, the section or sections of the agreement that the employee or employees claim the Company has violated, and the remedy he or they seek. The Department Superintendent or his delegate shall advise the employee of his decision in writing within three (3) days from the time the grievance was submitted to him.
10
c)	Stage 3 - Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance at Stage 2, the Grievance Committee may submit the grievance, which shall be stated in writing to the General Manager or his delegate within five (5) days after the decision of the department superintendent has been or should have been given.
The General Manager, or his delegate, shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days from the date upon which he received written notice of the grievance.
The grievance shall be presented at Stage 3 by not more than three (3) membersof the grievancecommittee,the International Staff Representative and a shop steward. The General Manager may, if he so desires, be accompaniedby other officials of the Company. The employee(s) alleging the grievance shall be present at the hearing if the Company or Union so request.
The General Manager shall give his decision in writing within ten (10) days from the date of such hearing.
The decision shall besigned by the General Manager, or will be noted on his behalf by his delegate.
The Company will pay the Grievance Committee members for one hour of
11
grievance preparation prior to a Stage 3 meeting for one or two grievances, andtwo hours of grievance preparation prior to a Stage 3 grievance meetingfor3 or more grievances.
d)	Stage 4 - Failing satisfactory settlement at Stage 3, the Union may submit the grievance to arbitration within ten (10) days from the date of the decision of the General Manager or his delegate, was given or should have been given.
The Union shall give its decision in writing within ten (10) days to the General Manager or his designate.
4.06	If the grievance is not submitted within the time limits provided inthis Article, then the grievance is deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
4.07	A grieving employee's scheduled days off, vacation leave, inventory correction lay-offsand Public Holidays as designated in Article XIII, shall not be counted in determining the time limits within which any action is to be taken in each of the first three stages of the Grievance Procedure.
4.08	The time limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing.
12
4.09	The procedure for settling of disputes set out in this Article shall be strictly adhered to, except where the Company and the Union agree to by-pass Stages 1 and 2.
4.10	In the event that two (2) or more employees have a grievance which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, it may be submitted at Stage 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
A grievance involving two (2) or more employees shall be presented by not more than two (2)employees of those in the group directly concerned.
In the event that two (2) or more grievances which are sufficiently common in nature are processed to third (3rd) stage, the Company may hear them together. The grievances shall be represented by not more than two (2) employees.
4.11	The Company shall have the right to submit any grievance in writing to the Union Grievance Committee at Stage 3. The Union Grievance Committee shall give the decision to the Company in writing, within ten (10) days from the date of such hearing. Failing a satisfactory settlement, the Company may submit the grievance to arbitrationwithinten(IO) daysfrom the decision of the Union Grievance Committee was given or should have been given at Stage 3.
13
4.12	Any grievance arising directly between the Union and the Company shall be submitted in writing at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.13	The service record of an employee shall be available for inspection in the Industrial Relations Department, by appointment during office hours, by the employee or his delegate, provided the employee has given written permission for his delegate's inspection and they have obtained permission from their immediate supervisors to leave the job.
4.14	Disciplinary action which has not been the basis of further disciplinary action for a period of twelve (12) months shall not be used to determine the level of any new disciplinary action that may be assessed to an employee.
ARTICLE 5 - DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
5.01	a) When an employee is discharged or suspended for just cause, the employee and the union shall be notified in writing of the discharge or suspension. A copy of any written warning, which is to be placed in an employee's personnel file, shall be given to the employee.
b) If a permanent employee is demoted, suspended without pay, or discharged, for disciplinary reasons, he will be entitled to a hearing with Management and two Union representatives, i.e., the employee's shop
14
steward and the grievance committee chairman or his delegate.
As much as is practical, such hearing will be held prior to the disciplinary action being taken except in the case of gross misconduct and/or a case requiring immediate action. Such hearing will be without prejudice to any subsequent grievance or arbitration procedures.
5.02	If an employee claims that his discharge or suspension is without just cause, then he may submit a grievance within five (5) days after the notice of discharge or suspension has been given. The grievance shall be presented at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The five (5) days exclude the griever's scheduled days off that would have occurred if he had not been discharged or suspended.
5.03	The General Manager, or his delegate, shall give his decision to the Union and to the employee within five (5) calendar days from the date of the hearing. The General Manager's or his delegate's decision may confirm the discharge, or suspend the employee with or without pay for a specified period, or reinstate the employee without loss of basic regular earnings.
5.04	If no grievance with respect to the discharge is initiated by the employee involved within five (5) days of the date the employee is notified of his discharge, the matter shall be considered
15
closed and not subject to further review. Days are as defined in 5.02.
ARTICLE 6 -ARBITRATION
6.01	If a grievance is submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article IV, Grievance Procedure, within ten (10) days of receipt of such written notice,the Companyandthe Union shall select an Arbitrator as outlined below and notify him of his selection.
6.02	Each grievance submitted to arbitration shall be heard separately. A grievance dealing with the suspension or discharge of the Chairman of the Grievance Committee, the OHC Co-chairman orthe Presidentofthe Local may, atthe Union’s request, be brought forward, ahead of others, to arbitration on a priority basis.
6.03	The Arbitrator to hear and decide each grievance requiring arbitration shall be selected from the following panel:
1)	D. Ish
2)	G. England
3)	K. Norman
6.04	The Arbitrator to hear each case shall be selected by rotation in the order listed in 6.03 above, If the Arbitrator so selected is unable to serve, the Arbitrator next on the list of names shall be selected.
16
6.05	No member of the panel of arbitrators can be removed except by mutual consent of the Company and the Union in writing.
6.06	If a member of the panel of arbitrators is permanently unable to serve for any reason, the Company and the Union may mutually agree upon a replacement.
6.07	The arbitrator shall be presentedwith the written grievances submitted and the Company's replies. The arbitrator's award shall be confined to such issue(s),
6.08	The expenses of the Arbitrator and a mutually agreed to place of hearing shall be borne in equal shares by the Union and the Company.
6.09	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling such witnesses.
6.10	The award of the Arbitrator, in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on all parties concerned, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect. However, the Arbitrator may, before the close of the hearing of a discharge grievance, request that the Company and the Union make a further attempt to settle such grievance.
6.11	The Arbitrator shall be requested to give his award in writing to each of the parties within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing
17
and the presentation of all materials to the Arbitrator.
6.12	If an Arbitrator decides that an employee has been discharged or suspended without just cause, the Company will reinstate the employee without loss of seniority and basic regular earnings less any amounts earned, or will put into effect any lesser settlement determined by the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 7 - UNION NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
7,01	The Company will pay a member of the Union Negotiating Committee (maximum five (5) members) at his base rate for eight (8) hours per day for each day the Committee member meets with the Company to negotiate the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Such employee(s) will be placed on day shift for the duration of negotiations. If a work stoppage or restriction is in effect, payment will not apply. Such hours will not be considered as time worked for the calculation of overtime payment.
ARTICLE 8 -SENIORITY AND JOB POSTING
8.01	a) The Company and the Union recognize that job opportunity and job security should increase with an employee's length of service with the Company. In all cases of promotion, demotion, training, layoff or recall, the senior qualified employee shall be entitled to preference except where otherwise provided herein.
b)	The Company shall determine the number of employees in each job classification and
18
if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to be left vacant.
c)	When the services of individuals with special abilities or training are required and are not available within the Bargaining Unit, the Company may employ such individuals from outside the Bargaining Unit.
d)	"Qualified" shall mean the physical and mental fitness and the ability to meet the regular requirements of the job after a reasonable trial or training period. In maintenance job classifications qualified also means the ability to satisfactorily perform at the classification level.
e)	In the event of a demotion caused by layoff, an employee with more than three years service in the job he was demoted from will retain his rate of pay on a "red circled" basis for a period of one year. No wage increases shall apply to the "red circled" rate.
If a demoted employee does not qualify for maintenance of rate because of his service, as above, he will qualify for the rate of any lower job he spent the most time at during the previous three (3) years.
Apprentices who are demoted will qualify for the rate for the job they held for three (3) years prior to entering the apprenticeship program. The maintenance of rate, as per
19
this paragraph, will be for one year on a "red circled" basis as above.
An employee who is laid off on a workforce reduction who meets the above qualifying criteria and is recalled will also be paid on a "red circled" basis from the time of recall to a maximum of one year from the original date of lay-off.
8.02	a) "Seniority" as used in this Agreement shall
be defined as:
General (or Company) - the length of continuous service with the Company since the employee's date of hiring, except as expressly provided herein.
Departmental - the total length of time an employeewith continuousservice has spent in a department except where it has been adjusted as per Article 8.08(b).
b)	Iftwo or more employees begin work for the Company on the same date, they shall be rated on the General Seniority list in alphabetical order based on their surname as of the date of hire.
8.03	An employee's seniority will be lost when;
a)	he voluntarily quits, or
b)	he is discharged, or
20
c)	he is laid off for a period equal to his seniority or twenty-four (24) months whichever is lesser, (minimum of twelve (12) months), or
d)	he fails to return to work within the required time after lay-off, unless he gives a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure to return to work. or
e)	he fails to return to work immediately upon completion of an approved leave of absence, unless he gives a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure to return to work, or
f)	he is absent without leave for three (3) consecutive working days. His absence will be considered as a voluntary separation or "quit without notice".
8.04	In any reduction of work force or recalling after lay-off (except lay-offs of six (6) days or less) the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee or employees shall be laid off or recalled:
a)	The Company Seniority of each employee concerned;
b)	The qualifications of each employee concerned to meet the normal requirements of the job.
21
A reduction inthe number of employees in a classification in a Department is deemedto be a workforce reductionand the process outlined in 8.05 will be followed for employees affected by such a reduction.
8.05	a) In any reduction of the workforce, for more than six days, employees with the least Company seniority will be laid off, except that the Company will not be required to retain an employee because of his Company seniority unless such employee possesses the necessary qualifications to perform, and is willing to perform the work of the employee who would otherwise be laid off in accordance with this provision.
An employee who was assigned to hisjob in accordance with the provisions of Article 17.01 shall not be subject to the bumping provisions in this Article except where the employee does not have enough Company Seniority to remain on site. This protection only applies if the employee's job still remains following the reduction.
b) Within each Department affected by the reduction, the Company will determine the specific positions required, and employees will be reclassified to available positions within their Department on the basis of qualifications and Company seniority.
22
c)	If there are vacancies available in departments due to the reduction of employees by Company seniority, employees who have been unable to remain in their respective Departments will be assigned to fill such other vacancies on the basis of qualifications and Company seniority, except that a journeyman may displace junior employees inthe same trade in another department providing they are qualified and meet the full requirements of the position.
d)	The reasonable trial or training period as referred to in Article 8.01 (d), does not apply inthe case of layoff or recall, except for permanent reductions in the workforce, or lay off in excess of one
(1)	year, as outlined below.
However, a senior employee will be entitled to a 3-day familiarization period in one of the existing vacancies. It is understood the Company may refuse to grant the 3-day familiarization period if it can demonstrate that the employee could not meet the requirements of the job even if a 3-day familiarization period were granted. An employee who fails to meet the requirements of the job during the 3-day familiarization period in a job above Job Class 8 will be eligible to displace a junior employee in a position at or below Job Class 8 (excluding Apprenticeship jobs) or Wagonmaster, Dispatch and
23
Chute Operators, on the basis of Company seniority.
In the event of a permanent reduction of the workforce, or lay off in excess of one (I y>ar, senior employees who are displaced from their Department and are not qualified for other vacancies identified as per 8.OS (c.) at the time of the reduction, will be allowed a reasonable trial or training period not exceedingthirty (30)working days inone of these vacancies for which they are eligible based on Company Seniority. If an employee fails to meet the requirements of the job during the trial and training period he will be laid-off or may displace a junior employee at or below Job Class 8 on the basis of Company seniority. If an indefinite lay off becomes a permanent lay off, those employees affected will have their eligibility for work determined based on their status at the time the lay off or reduction commenced, including the thirty (30)day trial or training period as outlined above.
e)	Subject to Article 17.01, and the paragraph below, when it is determined that a subsequent permanent vacancy is to be filled, qualified employees who have been displaced from the job in question, as a result of a workforce reduction, within the
24
twenty-four (24) months prior to the date the vacancy is being filled and who are working on site on a permanent basis, will be offered the vacancy on the basis of Company Seniority.
If the vacancy is in a Line of Progression, the most senior employee who has been displaced from the job in question, or a higher job in the Line, will be offered the vacancy. If the employee declines the vacancy, he will lose any options provided by this clause and the Company will not be required to offer him any future vacancies in that job classification. If the employee was being paid at a red-circled rate, that will cease at the time of refusal.
Ifthe vacancy cannot be filled asabove,the provisions of Articles 8.13 and 8.18 will be followed and, where applicable, Article 8.05(f). If the vacancy is in a Line of Progression, the most senior employee who has been displaced from the job in question, or a higher job in the Line, will be offered the vacancy.
f)	Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their Company seniority and ability to meet the qualifications of the job for which they are being recalled.
g)	Except for jobs of a temporary or emergency nature, an employee being recalled will be sent notice by registered
25
mail to the employee's last known address. It is the responsibility of any employee to notify the Company of any change in postal address. The employee shall notify the Company of his intention to return to work within five (5) days and shall return to work within ten (10) days from the mailing of such notice, or on the specified date of recall, if later. The employee shall lose the right of such recall on the failure to comply with these conditions.
h)	An employee may be granted an additional ten (10) days to return to work for reasons satisfactory to the Company. If he fails to return at the end of the ten (10) day extension, the employee shall lose the right of recall, This period will be extended if disability prevents immediate return if the employee notifies the Company of the disability within the ten day period.
i)	However, an employee recalled to a temporary assignment may refuse recall without loss of subsequent recall rights.
j)	An employee who returns to work following recall and is subsequently laid off will again qualify under the provisions of Article 8,03
(c).
k)	If at the time of a layoff the Company gives an employee a definite date in writing upon which he is to return to work, further notice of recall will not be required and the
26
employee shall lose the right of such recall, subject to Article 8.05 (g), if he fails to return on the date specified.
l)	An employee may elect layoff in lieu of a demotion to a lower job classification without loss of subsequent recall rights.
m)	An employee with five or more years of Company Seniority who is laid off as a result of technological change, as defined by the Trade Union Act, 1994, shall receive a severance payment of one week's pay at the employee's base wage at the time of lay-off, for each complete year of accumulated service prior to this lay-off, up to a maximum of thirteen (13) week's pay. In the event an employee who received a severance payment as provided above, is recalled within the period covered by the payment(maximumofthirteen (13)weeks), he shall repay a prorata amount of the severance payment based upon the date of recall. The parties agree that for the purpose of this agreement, the term "significant numbers" as referred to in the Trade Union Act shall mean one or more persons, and as such any provisions outlined in this agreement or in the Trade UnionAct shall apply should a technological change affect one or more employees.
An employee who is demoted due to a technological change will maintain his base rate for a maximum of eighteen calendar
27
months from the original date of demotion providing he has three years of service with the Company. An employee who is maintaining his rate in accordance with this provision shall be required to accept any higher paying permanent vacancy in the department he was demoted from providing he has the seniority and qualifications to fill that classification. Failure to do so will result in the loss of these rate maintenance provisions.
8.06	Employees who have been laid off for more than fourteen days will be entitled to subsequent layoff notice or pay in lieu of notice, which shall not be less than:
-	one week's notice if the employee's period of employment is less than three years;
-	three week's notice if the employee's period of employment is three years or more but less than five years;
-	five weeks' notice if the employee's period of employment is five or more years.
The above provisions do not apply if the period of layoff is for six days or less, or if an employee is recalled for a specified, limited period of work.
The Company will pay the employee's base rate for that portion of the notice period in respect of which notice was not given.
28
8.07	TRANSFERS: If the transfer of an employee from one department to another is required by the Company for the efficient conduct of operations, the employee, upon completion of three (3) months from the date of his transfer, shall elect:
a)	to remain in the department to which he was transferred and his departmental seniority shall be from the date of his transfer, or
b)	to return to the department from which he was transferred, and his departmental seniority shall include the departmental seniority acquired in the department to which he was transferred.
The Company will place such employee in a job classification equal to, or higher than, the job from which he was originally transferred.
8.08	a) If the transfer of an employee from one
department to another is required by the Company because of considerations of health, his departmental seniority in such other department shall be deemed to be equal to his departmental seniority in the department from which he was transferred.
b) An employee who is displaced from one Department to another on a workforce reduction and is unable to return to his original Department as per Article 8.05(e)
29
will, if he chooses to do so, have his Departmental Seniority adjusted to include his Departmental Seniority from his original Department. The adjustment will be made 24 monthsfollowingthe date he was placed inthe new Department and he will no longer have seniority in the original Department.
8.09	TEMPORARY VACANCIES:	A temporary
vacancy is one which lasts forty-eight (48) days or less. This can be extended by mutual agreement.
a)	A temporary vacancy occurs when an employee is absent from work in the case of sickness, vacation, leave of absence, or a vacancy caused by a successful bid of an incumbent prior to the vacancy being filled permanently.
b)	When a temporary employee is hired to fill a temporary vacancy, as defined in
8.09	a), the Union will be advised of:
1.	The Classification being filled
2.	The expected date of hire
3.	The date of termination of the temporary employee
8.10	TRAINING: To the extent consistent with efficient operations, a senior lower bracket employee will be given the opportunity to train for the higher bracket job next available to him in his Line of Progression, provided however that in determining the qualifications of
30
successful bidders, as provided in this Article, such training will not be given preference in determining qualifications.
8.11	If the senior employee in a job classification or assignment refuses to avail himself of training opportunities or refuses a promotion, the Company may assign a less senior employee in that job classification or assignment to another shift or assignment consistent with his departmental seniority and qualifications if required to allow for promotional opportunities for other employees. "Promotion opportunities" as used above also refers to the additional skill assignments in the Plant Department.
8.12	FILLING A TEMPORARY VACANCY:	A
temporary vacancy as defined in Article 8,09 may be filled by an employee who is regularly classified in the job classification in which the vacancy exists or by the temporary advancement of an employee on the same shift based on departmental seniority and qualifications.
When filling temporary vacancies, the Company will determine in a fair and equitable mannerthe qualifications of an employee to fill the particular vacancy, which exists.
8.13	Filling a Permanent Vacancy - a permanent vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the following sequence:
31
a)	firstly in accordance with the Lines of Progression as contained in the Exhibits (a) to (g) of this Agreement based on departmental seniority, (in the event that more than one vacancy exists in a line of progression, the vacancies will be filled so as to maximize the advancement opportunities of employees with the most departmental seniority)
b)	secondly, general seniority subject to the job bidding in provisions of Article 8,18.
If qualified employees are not available within the Bargaining Unit the permanent vacancy may be filled from outside the Bargaining Unit.
An employee awarded a permanent vacancy shall be entitled to a reasonable training period as designated in notes to Appendix C and D and lines of progression.
8,14	Qualifying on the Job: If within thirty (30) working days an employee working in a newjob classification or assignment voluntarily disqualifies himself he shall return to his last classification and assignment if the job assignment still exists.
After thirty (30) days worked, if an employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in a job classification or assignment, he shall be returned to his last classification and assignment ifthe job assignment still exists, and
32
he will not be considered for the jobassignment he was disqualified from for a period of upto six months.
8.15	TRANSFER OUT OF THE BARGAINING UNIT:
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the transfer of an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit to a position not included in the bargaining unit, or vice versa. In the case where such a transfer is temporary in nature (not exceeding six (6) months in duration), the employee shall continue to accumulate both company and departmental seniority. In the event the transfer is for more than six (6) months, the employee shall lose all retained seniority. The six (6)month limit may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties, in writing.
8.16	DEPARTMENTS AND SENIORITY LISTS:
For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement, the departments shall be as follows:
a)	Mine Operating Department
b)	Mine Maintenance Department
c)	Plant Operating Department
d)	Plant Maintenance Department
e)	Plant Loadout Department
f)	Warehouse Department
g)	Safety Department
33
8.17	The Company will prepare lists of the employees showing the respective dates of their last entry into the Company's service and into their present department. Such lists shall be posted and remain for a period of three (3) weeks for the express purpose that any employee may make a complaint as to the correctness of the date of his last entry into the Company's service or into his present department. At the end of this three (3) week period, the lists, including any corrections that have been made, shall become final, if such corrections are accurate. Seniority lists shall be revised and posted quarterly. A copy of the corrected list will be supplied to the Union.
8.18	Job Posting: All permanent job vacancies in sub-section (a), (b), (c), (d) and (9will be posted for Company wide bidding, subject to Article 8,13, Sub-section (e), Apprenticeship job vacancies will be posted for Company wide bidding.
a)	New job assignments not specified in the Agreement.
b)	Job assignments above bid level jobs which the Company has been unable to fill in a line of progression.
c)	Bid level job assignments asdesignated in Exhibits "A" to "G" of the Agreement.
d)	Permanent day shift maintenance job assignments.
34
e)	An apprenticeship job vacancy.
f)	All permanent day shift vacancies that cannot be filled from the Line of Progression, including those below bid level, will be posted.
Notice of the vacancies as defined above shall be posted for six (6Jdays and shall show job classification, job assignment, rate of pay, department, shift work or day work, and the crew where the initial vacancy exists.
An employee who desires to be considered for the posted vacancy shall submit a written bid on a bid form supplied by the Company, within the posting period which closes at the end of the day shift on the sixth (6th) day of posting. A shop steward may file a bid on behalf of an absent employee.
Job bids submitted within the six (6) day posting period shall be considered infilling the vacancy. The vacancy shall be awarded to the senior qualified applicant. The name of the successful bidder will be posted within five (5) days following the end of the bidding period.
The Company will transfer the successful bidder within thirty (30) days following the posting of the successful bidder's name if a qualified employee is available to fill the vacancy of the successful bidder. In the event two or more successful bidders to the same job posting
35
cannot be transferred simultaneously, the employee with the most General Seniority will begin accumulating Department Seniority in the new department when any successful bidder on that job istransferred. Ifthe Company is unable to make such transfer within thirty (30) calendar days after posting the name of the successful bidder, then such bidderwill receive the rate for the new job starting at the thirty-first (31s1) day, provided the new rate of pay is higher than the bidder's present rate and the bidder will begin accumulating the new Departmental Seniority on the thirty-first (31s1) day.
An employee who bid and was awarded the job may not bid on another vacancy within six (6) months of posting of his name as a successful bidder unless the new vacancy posted is for an apprenticeship or maintenance progression vacancy and his prior successful bid was on a non-apprenticeship	or non-maintenance
progression vacancy.
The permanent vacancy notices as provided for above will be posted on a bulletin board provided for that purpose in the Dry area. Bids on these permanent vacancies shall be deposited in the Bid Box located in the Dry area.
Vacancies in j ob classifications that require job posting, will be posted prior to the hiring of personnel from outside the Bargaining Unit.
Any vacancies injob classifications that require job posting, that are posted, but not filled by
36
bids or outside hiring within three (3) months, will be reposted ifthe Company stillwishes to till the vacancy.
8.19	If any employee who has been selected to fill a vacancy posted in accordance with the provisions of this Article applies for and is selected to fill another vacancy before he takes up the first position then the first vacancy need not be posted again but may be filled in accordance with this Article from among the original applicants.
8.20	The provisions of this Article (8.20) will apply during normal operating periods. Except for the initial orientation period, the junior tradesmen in a Department are required to be on shift until they have enough Company seniority to get off shift. However, a more seniortradesman inthe Department may elect to go on shift if a vacancy exists or through mutual exchange with the most senior tradesman on shift who desires to get off shift. Also, a senior tradesman on shift may elect twice each year (January or July) to return to day shift providing there still is a junior tradesman on day shift. Inthe event there is an inventory correction in January or July, the election may be made within one month following start-up.
Where an employee group chooses to follow a rotational pattern it will be exempt from these provisions until such time as the rotation is discontinued.
37
ARTICLE 9 - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
9.01	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, an employee, including a temporary employee shall be considered to be a probationary employee and he shall not have seniority until he has actually worked four hundred and eighty (480) hours, within a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, at which time he shall become entitled to company and departmental seniority dating from his last hiring with the Company. The Company will provide the employee with a copy of all written evaluations completed during the probationary period.
9.02	A probationary employee may take advantage of the Grievance Procedure except in the case where his employment has been terminated by way of discharge or otherwise,
ARTICLE 10 -TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
10.01	A temporary employee is one who has been hired for work of a temporary nature, or because of a temporary increase in production schedules. It shall be specifically stated and acknowledged at the time of hiring that the individual is a temporary employee.
10.02	A temporary employee will become entitled to seniority on completion of his probationary period. He may use his seniority to bid on posted permanent vacancies; however, he
may not use his seniority to displace another employee so long as he is classified as a
38
temporary employee. A temporary employee will be given full consideration for permanent employment should a vacancy occur prior to completion of the probationary period. Temporary employees shall be enrolled in the Company's benefit plans when eligible.
10.03	If and when a temporary employee becomes a permanent employee he shall, if he has completed his probationary period, become entitled to company seniority dating from his last hiring by the Company and to departmental seniority dating from his last entry into the service in his department.
A temporary employee, upon reaching 2000 hours worked, will be classified as permanent and will be eligible for benefit coverage in the same manner as a permanent employee.
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	An employeewill be granted a leave of absence without pay for personal reasons for up to fourteen (14) days, if
a)	The employee requests in writing from the Company one (1) week in advance of the absence.
b)	The leave is for good reason and does not interfere with the company's operations.
(An extension shall be granted for good and sufficient reason.)
39
In an emergency situation, such leave may be granted upon a verbal request and such leave shall be confirmed by the employee in writing at a later date.
11.02	If an employee on leave of absence accepts employment, except as provided in this Article, it shall be deemed that he has voluntarily quit without notice his employment with the Company.
11.03	The company will grant an employee a leave of absence without pay upto one (1) year without loss of seniority to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union. The employee and the Union must request the leave inwriting. The leave may be extended for an additional one (1) year period upon written request of the Union. Only one (1) employee may be absent on such leave at any one time.
11.04	a) An employee who has been elected or
appointed by the Union to attend a Union Convention or Conference shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. The Union will request the leave of absence for the delegate or delegates in writing at least one (1) week in advance. Only five (5Jemployees (maximum two (2) employees from any one (1) department) at any one time will be granted such leave of absence.
40
b) The Union President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, Financial Secretary will be granted time off, without pay to attend the regular evening monthly Union meetings of the executive and the membership. Wherever possible, two (2) weeks notice of required leaves will be given to the Company.
11.05	If the Company is given at least one (1) week's notice in writing, a leave of absence, without pay, will be granted to an employee acting as a steward, or officer of the Union, or Chairman of Standing Committees not to exceed eight (8)i n number (maximum two (2)employees from any one (1) department) to attend one of the Union's labour seminars. Wherever possible, two (2) weeks notice of required leaves will be given to the Company.
11.06	a) There are special and unusual
circumstances when an employee will be granted time off with pay. Under such special circumstances an employee may be granted sixty-four (64) hours off in any calendar year, except for the first year of employment. Approval of the employee's supervisor must be obtained prior to the absence to be eligible to receive time off with pay. Inthe event the employee cannot contact his immediate supervisor, approval may be obtained from another supervisor in the employee's work area. Inan emergency situation, exceptions to the prior notification
41
requirements may be made for justifiable reasons.
Employees will be entitled for days under this section after one (1) year of employment. For the first year of employment days will be proratedto the end ofthe calendaryear ofeligibility. A new hire will receive an allotment of 2.5 hours for each full pay period remaining in the calendar year. The allotment will be available for use on the first work day following completion of the probationary period.
Temporary hires will be allotted 15 hours entitlement each quarter in which at least 30 days of continuous employment is provided. The allotment will be available following completion of the first month or on the first day following completion ofthe probationary period, which ever is later (maximum 64 hours per calendar year). This formula will also be followed for these employees on subsequent recalls.
The following are the only reasons for granting time-off with pay:
1.	Illness of employee.
2.	Serious illness of a member of employee's immediate family that requires the employee's presence at home.
42
3.	Wedding of member of immediate family, or employee's own wedding.
4.	Immediate family is defined as spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, child, foster child, foster parent, legal ward, legal guardian, mother-in-law,father-in-law, sister-in-law,brother-in-law, grandchildren, and the grandparents of the employee or his/her spouse.
Common law spouse will be interpreted the same as spouse for the purposes of this clause and shall mean a person who although not legally married to an employee, has co-habitated with that employee in the manner of husband and wife for a period of not less than six (6) months, and the employee has previously notified the Company in writing that such is his/her common law spouse.
5.	For childbirth of the employee's spouse.
6.	For medical and dental appointments not Company arranged.
If an employee is absent in excess of one shift and there is any dispute on the validity of the reason for a request for time off with pay, the employee shall provide a medical certificate or
43
other such satisfactory proof of the reason for his absence.
Abuse of the provisions of this clause by an employee will result in the cancellation of any benefits conferred by this clause and is subject to discipline procedure.
At the end of each calendar year, the unused portion of sixty-four (64) hours time-off-with-pay will be accumulated from year to year. Upon reaching 120 hours, the excess time will be converted to a dollar amount (ie. number of excess hours X basic hourly rate, less any applicable deductions) and deposited into the Individual Wage Security Account of each Employee. The full text of the Individual Wage Security Account Agreement contains the exact terms and conditions and shall be the governing factor whenever a question arises.
Funds in the I.W.S. Account, including accrued interest, can be drawn out during lay-offs of one week or more at the rate of $250.00 per week. When the Account balance exceeds $2 500.00, the excess can betaken out in cash in February of each year. Upon termination, all monies including accrued interest will be paid out. ]ii addition to the above, the retained hours (maximum 120), multiplied by the employee's base rate (less appropriate deductions) will be paid out on death or retirement.
In the event of accident or sickness of the 44
employee, a minimum of twenty-four (24) accumulated unused hours will be utilized prior to the employee becoming eligible for the Company's Short-Term Disability Plan benefits.
At the employee's option, additional unused hours may be utilized prior to the Short-Term Disability Plan benefits.
11,06	b) An employee who is absent from work because of his attendance at the funeral of a member of his "immediate family" shall receive Funeral Leave of Absence benefits subject to the following conditions:
The benefits due such employee shall be computed on the basis of the number of regularly scheduled hours (8, 10, or 12 hours) per day at straight time base rate for his job classification as shown on the Company's records, excluding premium pay.
Funeral Leave benefits shall be paid for up to 4 days (8,10 or 12 hours) within the five-calendar-day period immediately following the death of a member of the employee's "immediate family". The first day ofthe five-day period shall, at the employee's election, commence either on the day the death occurred or on the following day.
In the event an employee is required to be a pallbearer at a funeral, the Company will
45
grant the necessary time off and he will not lose pay for the regular scheduled time missedto a maximum of one full shift (8,10 or 12 hours).
11.07	Jury and Witness Duty:
An employee who is prevented from working any of his scheduled hours of work by virtue of having been called to Jury Duty by the Crown or having been subpoenaed as a Witness in a court of Law in a case other than his own, shall receive the difference between the jury or witness fee received by him and the straight time rate of his classification, excluding all premiums, for the hours missed, not to exceed eighty (80) hours averaged over a two week period.
The employee shall notify the company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the day that he is to report for Jury Duty or as a Witness, and shall provide proof of such service. When an employee is excused from Jury or Witness duty on a scheduled workday, he shall notify his supervisor and report for work on his regular shift unless a conflict between Jury or Witness duty and scheduled working time prevents his reporting for work.
11.08	An employee who cannot report for work on his regularly scheduled shift shall notify his immediate supervisor prior to the start of his shift. If it is impossible to notify his immediate supervisor, he shall notify another supervisor in
46
his work area to report his absence. If unable to make contact as above an employee shall leave a voice mail message on his Supervisor's line.
11.09	The employerwill grant an employee a period of sixty (60) days unpaid leave of absence subject to at least forty-eight (48) hours written notice of such requested leave to seek the nomination and/or run as a candidate in a Federal, Provincial or Municipal election for public office. On election, the leave will be extended for additional one (1) year periods upon written request of the employee. The employee is required to return to work within fourteen (14) days following the expiration of the term of office or another mutually agreed date.
47
11.10	Educational Leave
When an employee wishes to further the possibility of his advancement with the Company by taking a full-time course oftraining, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations grant him an Educational Leave of Absence without pay provided that:
a)	The employee requests the leave in writing at least thirty (30) days in advance.
b)	The employee has at least three (3) years of seniority.
c)	The leave is not for a period in excess of ten months.
The number of employees granted Educational Leaves of Absence from any department at any one time may be restricted by the Company so as to not interfere unduly with the operations of that department.
If an employee fails to maintain regular attendance at the course of training for reasons other than proven illness, his leave will be cancelled and his employment may be terminated by the Company.
11.11	Forall Leavesof Absence under Articles 11.03, 11.09, 11.10, the following conditions shall apply:
1.	All employees' privileges except the right to be reinstated, the right to benefits as
48
indicated, and the right to the grievance procedure, shall be forfeited.
2.	After thirty days leave, should the employee wish to maintain benefit coverage under the following plans, the employee will be required to pay the full premium costs of such benefits, i.e. Life and Disability Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Medical Services Insurance, etc.
3.	The Company may require the employee to have a medical examination before and after the Leave of Absence.
4.	The period of leave shall be included in determining the employee's seniority.
5.	The employee shall return to his previous job on completion of the leave provided he is entitled to such job by his seniority.
11.12	An employee who is granted a leave without pay and qualifies for Employment Insurance (El) compassionate care leave shall have benefit coverage maintained and premium cost paid by the Company for the following benefits: dental, life, AD&D, Blue Cross and long-term disability (employer portion).
Such benefit coverage shall be limitedtothe period for which the employee qualifies for El compassionate care leave, including the applicable waiting period.
49
ARTICLE 12 -VACATIONS WITH PAY
12.01	An employee with less than one (1) year of continuous employment as of June 30, or the appropriate pay period ending at this time as determined by the Company, shall be granted an annual vacation often (10) working hours per month of service, but not to exceed 120 working hours and vacation pay of six percent (6%), of his total earnings during the vacation period.
12.02	The cut-off for vacation pay purposes shall be the end of the last pay period ending before June 17lh of each year. Any excessof available vacation earnings as determined by multiplying entitled vacation hours times the employee's base rate as of the cut-off date will be paid out the first pay period of July each year. Employeeswith insufficientearnings, due to layoff will have their vacation entitlement reduced per Article 12.12.
The balance of available vacation earnings will be paid in the applicable pay period as entitled vacation hours are taken. The time is taken at the employee's base rate at the vacation cut-off day but in no case more than the rate determined by the employee's available earnings divided by his entitled vacation hours.
50
	VACATION	VACATION PAY (based on gross earnings during entitlement year)
One or more years. but less than six years	120 working hours	6.0%
Six years, but less than seven years	128 working hours	6.4%
Seven years, but less than eight years	136 working hours	6.8%
Eight years. but less than nine years	144 working hours	7.2%
Nine years. but less than ten years	152 working hours	7.6%
Ten years but less than fifteen years	160 working hours	8.0%
Fifteen years or more	200 working hours	10 0%
12.03	Vacations will be granted in accordancewith the Labour Standards Act.
12.04	All vacations must be taken at a time satisfactory to the Company and will be arranged,when possible,in accordance with the wishes of the employees.
A vacation maintenance shutdown may be designated by the Company provided it falls during the school summer vacation period and the Union will be notified of the Company's intention regarding such vacation maintenance shutdown not later than April 1, of that year.
In accordance with past practice, Vacation Maintenance Shutdown work in a Department will be allocated to employees in the Department, subject to Company Seniority and
51
qualifications, and vacation requests received within the time frame specified in Article 12.05.
12.05	Company Seniority, subject to Article 12.04, will be given every possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to April 15th. It is understood that the requirements of the Vacation Maintenance Shutdown may take precedence over vacation requests.
12.06	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be carried over to the following year.
12.07	Employees will not be paid in lieu of vacation.
12.08	If a Public Holiday as designated in Article XIII occurs during an employee's vacation period, he shall receive an additional day of vacation and shall be paid for the Public Holiday.
12.09	A vacation Bonus of One Hundred Fifty ($150) dollars will be paid to eligible employees who have accumulated one (1) full year of continuous service priorto the entitlement date of July 1, A vacation Bonus of Two Hundred ($200) dollars will be paid to eligible employees who have accumulated five (5) full years of continuous service priorto the entitlement date of July 1. A vacation Bonus of Two Hundred Fifty ($250) dollars will be paid to eligible employees who have accumulated ten (10) full years of continuous service prior to the entitlement date of July 1.
12.10	a) Employees who were absent and on
Workers' Compensation, or those employees
52
with more than one (1) year's service who were absent and on Accident and Sickness benefit who worked in a vacation year but were absent for more than thirty (30) consecutive days during that vacation year will have their gross earnings for vacation adjusted to a maximum of fifty-two weeks on any one disability. The adjustment will be based on the number of working hours lost during that vacation year and the base rate, excluding differentials, which would have been applicable during the absence. The adjustment will not apply for any period in which the employee would have been laid off had he not been on such disability.
b) Employees who are absent in attendance at Apprenticeship School in accordance with Appendix B 1.02, will have their gross earnings for vacation adjusted based on the number of working hours lost during such absence and the base rate excluding all differentials, which would have been applicable during the absence.
12.11	In the event that an employee becomes disabled for 24 or more consecutive work hours during his scheduled vacation period, the employee may submit an STD claim subject to the normal approval procedure. If approved, the unused vacation will be rescheduled within the vacation year following the principles in Article 12.04.
53
12,12	When an employee's vacation pay is reduced in a vacation year due to lay-offs, the following adjustment in vacation hours will be made: Reductions in vacation pay for reasons other than lay-off will not impact on this provision:
1.	The gross amount of vacation pay for the applicable vacation year will be divided by the employee's base rate at the vacation cut-off date in Article 12,02. The resulting "Adjusted Vacation Entitlement" (AVE) will become the employee's vacation entitlement if it is less than the amount specified in 12.02.
2.	If an employee is not required to work during the specified vacation maintenance shutdown and his"AVE" total is notenough to cover that period, he will be considered on lay-off forthe shortfall for the purpose of Employment Insurance, Wage Security Account and related programs.
3.	An employee described in 2.) above will not be considered on lay-off for the purpose of Article 8 or any other article in this Agreement except for any period where his normal entitlement falls short of the vacation shutdown period.
4.	During the remainder of the vacation year, an employee wishing additional vacation time off, once the "AVE" is exhausted, may request vacation without pay (for the difference between normal entitlement and
54
the "AVE") which will be granted subject to the provisions of Article 12. This time will not be treated in the same manner as that in 2) above.
5.	Vacation paywill be paidoutonthe basisof the above noted base rate as the "AVE" is taken.
ARTICLE 13 - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
13.01	a) The following days will be observed as Public Holidays:
New Year's Day
Heritage Day, or the 3rd Monday in February Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day First Monday in August Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
b) In the event a Public Holiday falls after an employee is laid off, he shall be paid eight (8) hours at his basic hourly rate for the Holiday providing he worked, or was on approved vacation leave, at least one (1) complete shift during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately prior to the Holiday. In addition, if an employee is
55
eligible to receive pay under this clause for Christmas Day, he shall also be paid for Boxing Day and New Year's Day.
This provision does not apply to an employee who is eligible for Disability or Workers Compensation benefits when the holiday falls.
13.02	If an employee is scheduled to work on any or all of the Public Holidays and the Company does not require him to work on any or all of the Public Holidays, he shall be entitled to his regular wages exclusive of overtime for that day were that day not a holiday.
13.03	If an employee does work on any or all of the Public Holidays, he shall be paid eight (8Jhours at his basic hourly rate and be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all hours worked.
13.04	When New Year's Day, Christmas Day or Remembrance Day falls on a Sunday, then the Monday following such day shall be observed as New Year's Day, Christmas Day or Remembrance Day for the purposes of Article 13.01; and further when Christmas Day is moved to the following Monday then the next day, Tuesday, shall be observed as Boxing Day for the purposes of Article 13.01.
13.05	This Article shall not limit the right of the Company to schedule an employee to work on any such Public Holiday. However, the Company agrees that the number of employees
56
required shall be minimized as far as practicable without interfering with the operation.
13.06	An employee who was not scheduled to work and does not work on any or all Public Holidays, shall be entitled to his regular basic wage, provided he hasworked his last scheduled shift prior to the Public Holiday and his first scheduled shift after the Public Holiday.
13.07	An employee who has been scheduled to work on a Public Holiday and does not work shall not receive any pay for that holiday, unless he gives reasons satisfactory to the Company for such failure to work.
13.08	The workweek is to be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday listed in 13,01 for the purpose of pay calculations only.
When two (2) Public Holidays fall in a calendar week and an employee is scheduled to work only one of the Public Holidays, he will be paid eight (8) hours shortened workweek overtime in respect of the holidaythat falls on his day off, less any regularly scheduled hours in that week he does not work.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours.
57
14.02	A day means a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the start of an employee's scheduled shift.
14.03	The workweek shall be the period commencing midnight Saturday, and ending at midnight the following Saturday.
14.04	Hoisting and lowering schedules for employees working underground will be arranged to accommodate the scheduled shift for that day from collar to collar but variations from such schedules not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently shall be disregarded. Any delay greater than fifteen (15) minutes in hoisting employees from underground which is due to necessary repair work or safety considerations or causes beyond the Company's control shall be paid for on the basis of two (2) times the employee's basic hourly rate, but such time shall not be considered to be time worked.
14.05	An employee shall be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for time actually worked in excess of his daily scheduled hours or for hours worked in excess of the hours of the averaging provision in effect.
14.06	If an employee is required by the Company to work his scheduled day off, he shall be paid two
(2)	times his basic hourly rate for all hours actually worked on his scheduled day off.
58
A scheduled day off shall be defined as starting when the employee has completed his scheduled shift.
14.07	a.) If an employee's scheduled days off are
changed with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice prior to commencement of his days off, he shall be paid at two (2) times his basic hourly rate for the first day worked of his previously scheduled days off.
b.) Where a laid-off employee is recalled to work ona temporary basis with less than eight (8) hours notice prior to the beginning of his shift, the employee will be paid double time for the hours worked onthe first day of such a recall.
14.08	There shall be no "pyramiding" of overtime.
14.09	a) When an employee is called out to work
after he has left site and less than 12 hours notice is given, he shall receive payment of $22.00 or 45 cents per kilometer traveled from his place of residence (maximum 120 kilometers per round trip). Future increases in Corporate travel allowance, as a result of CRA maximum mileage increases, will be applicable to the per-kilometer rate and stated round trip maximum in this article.
He shall be paid six (6,)hours at his basic hourly rate, or two limes (2) his basic hourly rate for all hours worked, whichever is the
59
greater; provided, however, that when such work continues into the employee's regular work shift, such work prior to his regular work shift shall be paid for at two (2) times his basic hourly rate, and his regular work shift shall be paid for at the basic hourly rate for the hours worked.
This minimum guarantee shall also apply to an employee who reports for work for prearranged overtime, unless he is told in advance not to report.
b)	An employee so called out shall not be required to perform routine work, after he has completed the work for which he was originally called out, excepting that he may be required to perform other emergency work consistent with his skills which has arisen from the time of the callout or arises during the period of the callout.
c)	An employee who is called out and works any portionof time inthe first four (4) hours of the eight (8) hours immediately preceding his next scheduled shift, will not be required for his regular shift that day until eight (8) hours have elapsed from the time he finished callout work. He will be paid at his base straight time rate for any time missed on his regular shift due to this provision. In addition to the above rest period, an employee will be granted an additional two (2) hours leave without pay upon request.
60
Ifthe employee has less than two hours left in his regular shift after the required eight hours rest period, he will not be required to work the remainder of the shift and he will not receive pay for the additional time missed.
d)	When callout continues into an employee's regularscheduled shift, an employee will be permitted to work to the end of his regular scheduled shift.
14.10	a) An employee who reports for work on his
regular shift and was not told in advance not to report, shall be given his regular scheduled hours of work, or, at the Company's option, shall be given his scheduled hours of work pay at his basic hourly rate. When such employee has no transportation available, he shall be provided transportation to his residence.
b) This provision shall not apply to an employee who is returning to work after an unauthorized absence. This provision will not apply if the employee has been absent from work and fails before returning to work to notify the Company of his intention to return to work; or if the employee has not notified the Company of his correct telephone number; or if he has no telephone.
14.11	The daily lunch period for an employee who is on a continuous shift schedule shall be thirty
61
(30) minutes which will be paid as though the employee worked, during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
The daily lunch period for an employee who is on a day shift schedule will be thirty (30) minutes, workstation to work station, which will be paid as though the employee worked.
14.12	When an employee is required to work overtime for more than two (2) hours following his scheduled shift, he shall be supplied a lunch. If the overtime will progress past another normal meal interval (approximately four (4) hours), a second lunch will be provided. Employees shall be provided with a twenty (20) minute paid break to eat the lunch provided.
Meals will not be provided for scheduled overtime work.
Supervisors shall have the option of allowing a lunch allowance in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) in lieu of a lunch break if the employee is in agreement. This will not be applicable if the overtime exceeds two and one half (2 'A) hours from the start of the overtime shift.
14.13	When an employee is required to work unscheduled overtime and there is no transportation available, he shall be provided transportation to his residence.
14.14The Company will post weekly work schedules on the Monday prior to the start of the
62
workweek. The Company will not change these schedules for short periods (one week) in order to require employees to work at regular rates on days for which overtime would otherwise be payable. This article does not apply where a schedule is changed to replace an absent employee, or where Article 13,02 applies.
14.15	Overtime will be voluntary, except when an employee cannot be relieved or in the event of an emergency.
14.16	Overtimework will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among employees normally performing the work. It is understood that this does not assume that each employee sharing overtime has received at any given time the same number of overtime hours but is the intent of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance as is reasonably practicable under the circumstances.
The Company will maintain up-to-date records of overtime work for the purpose of equitable distribution and post balances on a monthly basis. In addition, the rules for administration of overtime, as agreed by the majority of the effected employees and the Company, will be posted.
ARTICLE 15 -SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
15,01	The Union, Company and the employee(s) recognizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment will all
63
co-operate to make the Company a safe, clean and sanitary place to work. Safety and health are the responsibility of every person. Reasonable rules and regulations may be established and enforced by the Company for the health and safety of employees and the protection of Company and employee property, and to maintain clean and sanitary work areas. Failure to co-operate, being to the detriment of all employees, shall be deemed just cause for discipline.
Employees have the right to refuse to do any particular act or series of acts where they have reasonable grounds for believing it could be unusually dangerous, until steps have been taken to satisfy them otherwise, or until the Safety Committee or an Occupational Health Officer has ruled on the matter. The Company may assign alternate work,to the employees until the matter is resolved. Employees should consult their Safety Manual for detailed provisions outlining the right to refuse unsafe work.
Where a worker has refused to perform an act or series of acts, and where that worker has reasonable grounds for believing it could be unusually dangerous, the Company shall not request or assign another worker to perform that act or series of acts unless that other worker has been advised by the Company, in writing, of the refusal and the reasons for the refusal; the reason or reasons the worker being assigned or requestedto do the act or series of acts can,
64
in the Company's opinion, carry out the act or series of acts in a healthy and safe manner, and; the right of the worker to refuse to do the act or series of acts.
The Company will publish a booklet containing safety rules and regulationsfor employees. Any safety rules put into effect after the booklet has been prepared will be posted in proper places for the information of employees. Prior to the publication of any new booklet containing safety rules and regulations, the Company will have meaningful consultation with the Safety Committee. Inthe event the committee believes any safety rule or regulation is in conflict with the Agreement, the matter shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure and such grievance may be submitted at the third step of the Grievance Procedure.
Copies of minutes of monthly crew safety meetings will be posted in the Dry area and distributed to the Co-Chairpersons. Copies of accident/incident reports will be distributed to the applicable Co-chairperson.
15.02	(a) The Union shall appoint a Safety Committee composed of three (3) employees for the mine and three (3) employees for the plant. In addition, the Union may appoint alternate delegates to replace each of the six (6) regular delegates. The Unionmay appoint an additional alternate delegate for both the mine and plant to provide shift coverage when they are operating ona 4-shift schedule.
65
Members of the Safety Committee, or their appointed alternates, shall accompany the Safety Co-ordinator (or his designate if mutually agreed by the applicable Cochairmen) on a regularly scheduled inspection of their respectiveworking areas, once each month and on the following basis:
i)	The Safety Committeemen from the underground group shall inspect the underground areas.
ii)	The Safety Committeemen from the surface groupshall inspectthe surface areas.
Upon request to the Company, the applicable Co-chairman, or designate, shall accompany the Mine Inspector, or other such government inspector where the inspection impacts on the health and safety of employees.
(b)	The Surface Co-chairman of the safety committee shall accompany the safety committee on surface tours and the Underground Co-chairman of the safety committee shall accompany the safety committee on underground tours.
(c)	The underground and surface committees shall meet as a joint committee at least once quarterly and shall tour at the request
66
of either Co-chairman ofthe committee. The Committee Members will be given one-half (Vi) hour preparation time priorto each joint meeting to prepare an agenda.
(d)	The Safety Committee shall act as a Safety Committee as prescribed in the Occupational Health Act of 1993, as amended.
(e)	Employees on the Safety Committee shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during their regularly scheduled working hours.
(f)	If a committee member is on scheduled time off, he will be paid his basic hourly wages exclusive of differentials, for time spent in attendance at the meeting. Such time will be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
15.03	The Company shall continue its policy of paying an employee for his full work shift if the employee sustains a compensable industrial accident and is unable to complete the balance of the shift.
15.04	The Company agrees to continue its present practices with regard to the supply of required personal safety equipment.
15.05	The Company shall replace an employee's clothing irreparably damaged as the result of an industrial accident.
67
15.06	The Company agrees that any employee who is required by the Company to undergo medical examination during his regular working hours will not lose pay for the time spent obtaining the examination upto a maximum ofthree (3) hours at straight time rate.
ARTICLE 16 - UNION SECURITY
16.01	In accordance with the requirements of the Saskatchewan Trade Union Act, every employee, who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after the commencement in his employment, apply for, and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, provided that any employee in the appropriate bargaining unit who is not required to maintain his membership or apply for and maintain his membership in the Union shall, as a condition of his employment, tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly required to be paid by the members of the Union.
16.02	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will deduct from the wages owing to each employee inthe bargaining unit, (who has duly completed upon commencement of employment an assignment of wages for union dues), union dues in accordance with the formula provided by the United Steelworkers of America.
68
16.03	The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a completed USWA R115 Form (Summary of Union Dues - Revision 11/15/98) and a statement showing the names of each employee from whose pay deductions have been made and the total amount deducted for the month, the total earnings for the month and the total number of hours worked. Such statements shall also list the names of the employees from whom no deductions have been made and the reasons why.
A duplicate R115 Form and employee deduction statement shall be forwarded to the Union office at #110 A - 2103 Airport Drive, Saskatoon, SK S7L 6W2.
16.04	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any liability or action, arising out of the operation of this Article.
16.05	The Company agrees to deduct one cent (1 $) for each hourworked from wages of employees in the bargaining unit and within two (2)weeks following such deductions pay the amount to the "Flumanity Fund" by forwarding said deduction to: United SteelworkersC.L.C. Local7689
110A - 2103 Airport Drive Saskatoon, Sask, S7L 6W2
Employee deductions are voluntary and may be cancelled at any time. However, employees wishing to cancel must provide two (2)weeks advance written notice of such cancellation to the Company.
69
16.06	The Company hereby agrees to deduct $10.00 from the wages of full time, active employees in the Bargaining Unit and remit same to the Union each time a participating eligible employee in the Bargaining Unit retires or dies. The sum of money deducted will be presentedtothe retiring employee or the surviving beneficiary, as applicable.
Employee deductions are voluntary and may be cancelled at any time by providing two weeks written notice of such cancellation to the Union. Cancellations are irrevocable. Payrollwill be provided with advance notice of deduction requirements and cancellation.
ARTICLE 17 - HANDICAPPED EMPLOYEES
17,01	Inthe event an employee sustains an injury at work, or becomes affected by an occupational disease during the course of his employment and becomes physically handicapped as a result thereof, every reasonable effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee a job suitable to his condition if such is available in which case the provisions of Article 8.18 shall not apply.
ARTICLE 18 ■ BULLETIN BOARDS
18,01	The Company shall provide and maintain Union Bulletin Boards at locations agreed upon by the Union and the Company. Such Bulletin Boards may be used by the Union for the purpose of posting notices signed by the President of the
70
Union or in his absence an officer thereof. The Union or its members shall not otherwise post or distribute any kind of literature upon the property of the Company without first obtaining written approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 19 - CO-OPERATIVEWAGE STUDY
19.01	The Co-operative Wage Study(C.W.S) Manual forthe Job Description,Classificationand Wage Administration, dated July 27, 1979 (herein referred to as "the Manual") is incorporated into this Agreement as APPENDIX "A" and its provisions shall apply as if set forth infull within this Agreement.
19.02	Each employee's job shall be described and classified and a rate of pay applied to such employee in accordance with the provisions in this Agreement.
19.03	The Standard Hourly Wage Scale set forth in Schedule " A and any increases thereto, shall become effective on the dates specified in Schedule "A".
The rates for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
TEMPORARY TRANSFER
19.04	An employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job shall be paid the standard hourly rate of the job to which he has been
71
transferred, provided such rate is not less than that of his regular job. If the rate of the job to which he is temporarily transferred, but not as a result of a lay-off, is less than the rate of his regular job, he shall be paid the rate of his regular job during the period of such temporary transfer.
INCENTIVES
19.05	Should the Company desire to install incentives to cover any jobs, the following shall govern:
a)	The standard hourly rates for the respective jobs shall be the base rates and minimum hourly guaranteed rates for such incentives; and
b)	The Company shall first discuss with and
explain to the Union the development of any incentive plan and reach mutual agreement with the Union regarding such incentive plan before such incentive plan is installed.
GENERAL
19.06	Any mathematical or clerical errors made inthe preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
19.07	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
72
TRADE AND ASSIGNED MAINTENANCE CONVENTION
19.08	In addition to the provisions of the Manual for describing and classifying trade and assigned maintenance jobs the following shall apply:
A)	The description and classification shall be carried out in accordance with the Manual.
B)	The job classification of trade jobs, having been classified as in Paragraph (a), above, shall be increased by two job classes and the two job classes shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job.
C)	The job classification of assigned maintenance jobs, having been classified at job class eleven or higher as in Paragraph (A), above, shall be increased by two job classes which shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job.
D)	Where a change in an existing job requires a new description and classification for a job on which this convention has already been applied, such job shall be reclassified in the same manner as that followed prior to the application of this convention and the provisions of Paragraphs (A), (B) and (C), above, shall apply
TIME OFF FOR C.W.S. COMMITTEE
19.09	There shall be a committee known as the "C.W.S. Committee", consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Unionto represent
73
the Union and three (3) persons appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its representatives from time to time.
Meetings of the C.W.S. Committees shall be held as frequently as required at mutually agreeable times.
The Company agrees to grant time offfromtheir regular work to the three (3) union C.W.S. Committee members to perform their C.W.S. responsibilities. This time off shall be considered as time worked and the Union Committee members shall:
(A)	Accumulate any seniority to which they normally would be entitled.
(B)	Receive their regular rate of pay from the Company as based upon a normal work week, and
(C)	Return to their regular employment when their C.W.S, work is completed.
ARTICLE 20 -SUPERVISORS WORKING
20.01	A supervisor's prime responsibility is to plan, organize and supervise the work of his men. Supervisory and other out of scope personnel will not perform work normally done by a bargaining unit employee, except:
- in emergencies for protection of Company property, and/or the safety and health of employees;
74
-	in the instruction and training of employees;
-	work of a researchand developmentnature.
ARTICLE 21 - TOOLS
21.01	The Companywill issue the employee at no cost the tools required inthe opinion of the Company for the performance of the work by the employee. The employee will sign for all tools at the time of issue.
21.02	The employee shall be responsible for all tools issued to him. All tools issued to the employee shall be returned in good condition, excusing fair wear and tear only, upon the request of the Company or upon termination. The cost of any tool, which is not returned, shall be deducted from any wages due and payable to the employee.
21.03	The employee's supervisor may authorize the replacement of a broken or worn out tool, or a tool lost due to excusable circumstances.
21.04	Clothing and Boot Allowance
A clothing and boot allowance of $225 will be paid to employees of record as of July 1,2006; $250 effective July 1, 2007.
21.05	Work gloves will be provided, at no cost to the employee, and replaced when warranted on an exchange basis. A new employee will be issued a new pair of gloves at the time of hiring.
75
ARTICLE 22 -WAGE DIFFERENTIALS
22.01	Shift workers working on the Afternoon and Midnight shifts shall be paid premiums over and above their basic hourly wage rate as follows:
Afternoon shift - $1.00/hour Graveyard shift - $1.00/hour
Effective May 1,2006:
Afternoon shift - $1.10/hour Graveyard shift - $1.10/hour
Effective May1, 2007
Afternoon shift - $1.25/hour Graveyard shift - $1.25/hour
22.02	Employees shall receive an additional forty (40) cents per hour while working underground.
22.03	The Company will pay an employee who is scheduled to work on a Sunday a premium of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) for each hour actually worked on Sunday. Effective May 1, 2007 the premium will be two dollars and seventy-five cents ($2.75). This is in addition to any shift or underground differential. Sunday premium shall not be paid for the hour(s) an employee works at overtime rates or on a Statutory Holiday.
ARTICLE 23 - NOTICE
23,01	Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: To the Company:
PCS Inc., Allan Division Allan, Saskatchewan S0K0C0
76
To the Union:
United Steelworkers C.L.C. Local 7689 110A-2103 Airport Drive Saskatoon, Sask.
S7L 6W2
23.02	Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
23.03	Either party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
ARTICLE 24 - COPIES OF AGREEMENT
24.01	The Company will arrange to have copiesofthis Agreement printed in a suitable booklet for reference of employees and make one (1) copy available to each employee.
ARTICLE 25 -TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT
25.01	This agreement shall become effective the date of ratification and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight April 30, 2008 and from year to year thereafter unless written notice is given as provided by Article 25.02.
25.02	On written notice of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement either party to this Agreement may give notice to require the other
77
party to enter into negotiations for a new Agreement.
25.03	This document contains the entire Agreement between the parties and shall not be deemed modified or expanded in any way unless such modificationor expansion shall be evidenced in writing, signed by both parties and dated on or subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
78
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC.:
L. Knafelc, Director, Industrial Relations & People Development
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF PCS INC., ALLAN DIVISION:
D, A. Weinheimer, Administration Superintendent K. Coombs, Mill General Superintendent S. Brown, Mine General Superintendent W, D. Walters, Human Resources Superintendent
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS
B. Welke, International Representative
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS and its Local 7689:
G. Field, President
R, Howell, Negotiating Committeeman R, St. Pierre, Negotiating Committeeman D. Wutzke, Negotiating Committeeman R. J. Boehm, Negotiating Committeeman
79
APPENDIX "A"
Standard Hourly Wane Scale
In accordance with Article 19.03 of this Agreement and the provision of the Co-operative Wage Study, the Standard Hourly Wage Scales listed below become effective on the dates specified.
		Oslo Of Ratification	Dale May 1" 2006	Date: May 1", 2007
4ob	Old Rats	Increment -D.54Q	Increment - 0.555	Increment -0.570
1	18.750	19.270	19.810	20.440
2	19.275	19.810	20.365	21.010
3	19.800	20.350	20.920	21.580
4	20.325	20.890	21.475	22.150
5	20.850	21.430	22.030	22.720
6	21.375	21.970	22.585	23.290
7	21.900	22.510	23.140	23.860
8	22.425	23.050	23.695	24.430
9	22.950	23.590	24.250	25.000
10	23.475	24.130	24.805	25.570
11	24.000	24.670	25.360	26.140
12	24.525	25.210	25.915	26.710
13	25.050	25.750	26.470	27.280
14	25.575	26.290	27.025	27.850
15	26.100	26.830	27.580	28.420
16	26.625	27.370	28.135	28.990
17	27.150	27.910	28.690	29.560
18	27.675	28.450	29.245	30.130
19	28.200	28.990	29.800	30.700
20	28.725	29.530	30.355	31.270
Retroactivity based on all hours worked, including Public Holidays paid during the period May 1 to 31, 2005, for all employees on the payroll as of date of ratification. Any employee retiring on or after May 1sl, 2005 will be included. Signing bonusalso applicableas described in Memorandumof Agreement plus COLA provision as described in Letter of Agreement.
80
EXHIBIT "A"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT
Job	Training			Job	Training		
P.lass	Class.			Glass	P.lass		
19	Mine	3)	17	15	Sen/ice	3)	13
	Machine	2)	15		Crew	2)	11
	Op.. I	1)	13		OP|.l	1)	9
17	Rehab,	3)	15	13	*Service	2)	11
	Machine	2)	13		Crew	1)	9
	°P|.	1)	11		Op. II		
15	Back-up	2)	13				
	Op. I	1)	11				
10	*Back-up Op. II	1)	8				
Job							
Class							
3	Labourer						
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Jobs.
NOTES
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
81
EXHIBIT "A"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT - HOISTMAN/SHAFTMAN LINE
JOB CLASS	TRAINING CLASS
16	Hoistman	2)	14
	|	1)	12
17	Shaftman	3)	15
	I	2)	13
	I	1)	11
12	Cagetender I	1)	10
13	Skiptender	2)	11
	I	1)	9
10	"Wagonmasfer	1)	8
JOB CLASS TRAINING CLASS JOB CLASS TRAINING CLASS 9 "Lubricator 1)	7	11 'Dispatcher 1)	9
(* BID LEVEL JOBS)
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class.
NOTES
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotionalsequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of thejob being learned.
82
EXHIBIT "B"
LINES OF PROGRESSION INTHE MINE MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Job
iC]ass
18
Trade Jobs
Heavy Duty Industrial Electrician Mechanic Mechanic ___________________________
Apprentice Apprentice Apprentice
Welder
*Apprentice
FOOTNOTES
For the Apprenticeship Training periods see Schedule Appendix E.
The trade jobs listed above shall receive a two job class additivefor the Company recognizedlicensedjourneyman ticket. This two job class additive is interpreted as the two job class additive in Article 19.08 -Trade and MaintenanceConvention, sub-section(b) of this Agreement.
83
'Bid Level Job
EXHIBIT"C"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE PLANT OPERATING DEPARTMENT
JOB	TRAINING
CLASS
19	** OPERATOR GENERAL		3)	17
	I		2)	15
	I		1)	13
16	FLOTATION		3)	14
	I		2)	12
16	CRYSTALLIZATION I I		2)	14
16	COMPACTION		2)	14
	I		1)	12
14	PRODUCT SCREENIN'	AND DISPATCH	2)	12
	I		1)	10
13	DEWATER AND SLURRY I		I)	11
13	FEED PREPA	RATION	1)	11
12		'REAGENTS	2)	10
			D	8
8	* PLANT UTILITY			
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid level job
** The Operator General must have training in the Reagent Area.
NOTES
If it becomes necessary lo have Reagents on more than one shift, Reagents would be put back In to Re Lines of Prograssion between Plant Utility and Feed Preparation Operator, and would no longerbe a bid leveljob.
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher Ran the standard hourly rate of thejob being learned.
An employee progressing through the direct line of progression from Compaction to Crystallization will receive an additional twenty cents (20$) per hour while in Crystallization and on progressing to Flotationwill receive afurther twenty cents (200) per hour while in Flotation, The employee will not retain these additional monies when progressing to the position of Operator General.
a4
EXHIBIT “D”
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE PLANT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Job Class 18	Trade Jobs Electrician Stationary Welder Eng. II	Industrial Mechanic		Heavy Duty Mechanic	Machinist
	'Apprentice 'Apprentice ‘Apprentice	‘Apprentice		‘Apprentice	‘Apprentice
Job Class Assumed Maintenance Jobs		Trainim			
16	‘Sandblaster Painter	3)	14		
		2)	12		
		1)	10		
9	‘Lubricator	1)	7		
8	‘Tool Crib Attendant	1)	6		
FOOTNOTES
For the Apprenticeship training periods see Schedule Appendix E.
‘Bid Level Job
The trade jobs listed above shall receive a two job class additive for the Company recognized licensed Journeyman ticket. This two job class additive is interpreted as the two job class additive in Article 19.08 - Trade and Maintenance Convention, sub-section (b) of this Agreement.
NOTE - Assigned Maintenance Jobs
The job trainee period shown are for an employee who does not have the appropriate job training. When this occurs then the employee will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
-250 hours actually worked in each training class.
EXHIBIT "E"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN PLANTLOADOUT
Job			Training
Class			Class
15	Weigh	master	1) 13
			2) 11
			3) 9
13	Mobile	Equipment Operator	1) 11
		I	2) 9
g	Chute Operator		1) 7
8	* Utility Operator l		
3	1 Labourer		
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class
* Bid Level Job
NOTE
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
86
EXHIBIT"F"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Job		Training
Class		Class
12	* Warehouseman	2) 10
		1) 8
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Job
NOTE
The job trainee period shown are for an employee who does not have the appropriate job training. When this occurs then the employee will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
87
EXHIBIT "G"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE SAFETYDEPARTMENT
Job
Class
5	* Dryman
FOOTNOTES
* Bid Level Job
88
APPENDIX B
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
B1.01 Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled in accordance with thejob posting provisions of Article 8.18 ofthis Collective Agreement subject to the qualification requirements as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch and upon the bidder demonstrating the potential to successfully complete the program through a prescribed aptitude test.
An eligible employee can only enter one apprenticeship during his employmentwith the Company, unless the original apprenticeship was cancelled as in B1.09 or a minimum of 4 years has passed since the employee was removed from an Apprenticeship for any reason. Journeymen will not be allowed to enter the Apprenticeship Program nor will any other employee employed as a Tradesman.
B1.02 Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend formal training in accordance with the number and types of courses offered and the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
B1.03 Successful candidates will be placed in available Apprenticeships in order of seniority and will start at the entry level unless they are
89
B1.04
recognized by the Apprenticeship Branch as
eligible to enter at a higher level.
a)	Subject to (d) and (e) below apprenticed employees, while taking the off site Apprenticeship Training Program will be paid the equivalent of their regular salaries (basic straight time rate with no premium pay) less any training allowance monies received from Government sources.
b) Any Government ' 'living away from home" allowance received by the apprentice while on a training course will not be deducted in any calculation made by the Company in order to determine the basis of Company monetary assistance during Apprenticeship training.
c)	While taking the above training, the employee will be paid return mileage for one complete trip perweek (atthe rate of forty-one [41 (f] cents per kilometre) less any mileage monies received from Government sources.
d)	If the employee fails to pass any level of training on the first attempt, he will only be paid make-up pay (as described in (a) above) for repeating one level. He will be eligible for mileage allowance as in (c) above and the cost of benefit coverage (as outlined in Article 11.11 Leave of Absence) will be paid by the Company
90
B1.05
B1.06
while the employee in on approved leave of absence for such training.
e)	Employees who are required to take formal training after the second attempt at the Journeyman's exam will receive the make-up pay and mileage allowance described in (a) and (c) above if the training requires them to be absent from work.
a) Apprenticeship wages will be as shown in Appendix C,
5) An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch, or after having completed the required months of experience.
c) Any Companywage allowance paidto an apprentice who is away on a training course will be paid on the normal pay dates of the Company.
Inthe event an apprentice, while on course, is excused from attendance, as shown on his course report, and received his full wage allowance from the Government program, he may also receive his full allowance from the Company as per Article 11.06. If the apprentice is not excused from attendance he shall receive no wage allowance.
91
B1.07 An apprentice will be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and his Apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
a) Just cause.
k) If an apprentice fails to take the training course when he is scheduled to take same, provided that his failure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond his control or the Company has agreed to a change in scheduled training.
c)	If an apprentice fails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
d)	If an apprentice fails the Journeyman's exam on the third attempt.
B1.08 If an employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in an Apprenticeship Program, as per B1.07 he shall be returned to his last job classification prior to entry into the Apprenticeship Program, and assignment, if the job assignment still exists.
B1.09 If an Apprenticeship is cancelled due to a reduction of the work force, the displaced Apprentice will be returned to the assignment he held immediately prior to becoming an Apprentice, if the job assignment still exists.
92
APPENDIX "C
Appendix C - Apprenticeship Pay Rates
Indentured Apprentices in a four-year program will be paid as follows:
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Post-Fourth Year, Without Journeyman Journeyman
J.C. 14 J.C. 15 J.C. 16 J.C. 17 J.C. 18
J.C. 20
93
APPENDIX D
NON TRADE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
A schedule of Trainee rates for the respective Trainee periods of 250 hours of actual training experience with the Company on jobs for which training opportunity is not provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be established at the level of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale rates for the respective job classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor2 ofthe job classification record of the respective job as follows:
(A)	CodeC: Seven to twelve months:
(1) One trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
(B)	Code D: Thirteen to eighteen months:
(1)	A first trainee period classification at a level four job classes below the job class of the job, and
(2)	A second trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
(C)	Code E and higher: nineteen monthsand above:
(1)	A first trainee period classification at a level six job classes below the job class of the job.
(2)	A second trainee period classification at a level four job classes below the job class of the job, and
(3)	A third trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
94
APPENDIX "D"
List of Non-Trade Jobs in Job Class 8 and up with Factor Two (2) Being C.08 or higher are:
Sandblaster Painter Surface Lubricator Underground Lubricator Surface Tool Crib Attendant Operator General Flotation Crystallization Compaction
Grinding and Desliming Operator Dewater, Drying and Tails Disposal Op. Reagent Operator
Product Screening& Dispatching OP, Wfeighmaster
Mobile Equipment Operator
Crushing and Screening Operator
Chute Operator
Mining Machine Operator
Rehabilitation Machine Operator
Back-up Operator I
Back-up Operator II
Service Crew Operator I
Service Crew Operatorll
Shaftman
Hoistman
Skiptender
Cagetender
Wagonmaster
Dispatcher
Surface Warehouse
Underground Warehouse
Factor Job 2 Class E 1.6	16
CO,8	9
CO.8	9
CO.8	8
G2.4	19
E1.6	16
D1.2	16
D1.2	16
CO.8	13
CO.8	13
D1.2	12
D1.2	14
E1.6	15
D1.2	13
CO,8	10
CO.8	9
F2.0	19
E1.6	17
D1.2	15
CO.8	10
F2.0	15
D1.2	13
F2.0	17
D1.2	16
D1.2	13
CO.8	12
CO.8	10
CO.8	11
D1.2	12
D1.2	12
95
APPENDIX "E"
COMPRESSEDWORKWEEK(Productionemployees and others on rotating 12 hour schedules)
The terms of the cited Collective Bargaining Agreement are the applicable terms to be applied except as modified herein.
This addendum applies only to those employees working a twelve (12) hour Compressed Work Week Schedule.
This Addendum shall continue in effect, unless terminated by either party upon written notice. In the event this addendum is terminated, there will be a thirty (30) day cancellation provisionwith no cost to the Company for discontinuing the schedule and returning to the original schedule.
The parties agree that the provisions inthis agreement are more favourable than related provisions of the Labour Standards Act.
The following is agreed to as a part of the negotiating process between the Union and the Company and reflects a new and unique approach to the hours of work.
ARTICLE 12 -VACATIONS WITH PAY
12,08 If a public holiday as designated in Article XIII occurs during an employee's vacation period, he shall receive an additional working day of vacation and shall be paid for the public holiday in accordance with Article 13.06 of this addendum.
96
ARTICLE 13 - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
13,01 c) Each Public Holiday will be observed as commencing at 8:00 a.m. the calendar day of the Public Holiday, and ending 8;00 a.m. the calendar day following the Public Holiday. Article 13.04 does not apply to employees covered by this agreement.
13.06 An employee who was not scheduled to work and does not work on any or all Public Holidays, shall be entitled to eight (8) hours pay at his regular basic wage, provided that he has worked his last scheduled shift prior to the public holiday and his first scheduled shift after the public holiday.
However, the Company may give an employee another day offwithout pay to shorten the hours of work in the pay period and in such case his public holiday pay will be the greater of his basic wage times eight (8) hours or times the hours he was scheduled to work on the other day off. Such other day off will be consecutive with the employee's other scheduled days off in the pay period.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.03 (a) Averaging periods commence at 8:00 a.m. on a Sunday.
The work week for the purposes of averaging hours shall be based on an average of forty (40) hours per week over the averaging period.
97
14.11 The daily lunch period for any employee who is on a continuous shift schedule shall be thirty (30) minutes after approximately four (4) consecutive hours of work and thirty (30) minutes after an additional approximate four (4) hours of work, which will be paid as though the employee worked, during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
14,15 Overtime will be voluntary, except when an employee cannot be relieved or in the event of an emergency. Due to the length of shifts under this Addendum, overtime will remain voluntary provided there are adequate numbers of qualified employees who serve notice to the company of their availability to work in case of an operational necessity in any shift. If the requirement of voluntary employees are not met, it is understood and agreed, for the continuance of this Addendum, a compulsory rotation selection of employees for such operational necessities shall be mandatory.
APPENDIX B-APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
B1,04 (a) Apprenticed employees, while taking an off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular salaries (basic straight time rated based on eight (8) hours per day with no premium pay), less any training allowance monies received from Government sources.
98
ARTICLE22 -WAGE DIFFERENTIALS
22.01 Shift workers working between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. shall be paid a premium over and above their basic hourly wage rate in the amount of one dollar ($1.00) per hour; one dollar and ten cents ($1.10) per hour effective May 1, 2006; one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour effective May 1,2007.
See also special Crew agreements as follows:
Appendix E-I	Service Crew
Appendix E-2	Underground Field Crews
99
BENEFIT SUMMARY
The following is a brief summary of the benefit plans, which will be maintained by the Company on behalf of the membersofthe Union. The official plan texts state exact terms, conditions and limitations and will be the governing factor whenever a question arises. More information on the following plans can be obtained from the Industrial Relations Department.
The insurance and group benefit plan texts shall not be changed or modified to reduce benefit coverage in any way during the life of this agreement except by negotiation and mutual agreement of both parties.
The Company will pay the total premium cost of Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Long Term Disability Insurance, Dental Insurance, Weekly Accident and Sickness Insurance and Group Extended Health Benefits(M.S.I.)
Benefit coverage begins on the first day employment commences except as otherwise stated. The hourly employees' Benefit Plan policy numbers are: Great West Dental and STD - 51219; Great West LTD Taxable-134339GHA, GreatWestLTD Non-taxable-134340 GHA, Life - 134339GL, ADS D-f BSC 9029989 and Blue Cross - 50149.
PENSION
(Allan Hourly Plan Registration #Sask 50-696)
100
-	Fifty-one Dollars and Fifty Cents{$51.50) per month per year of pensionable service effective May1, 2005.
-	Fifty-Three Dollars ($53.00) per month per year of pensionable service effective May I , 2006.
Any employee who retires between May 1, 2005 and April 30, 2008 will have his pension based on $53.00 per month per year of pensionable service.
-	Unreducedearly retirement atage 60 or more and at least 30 years of service.
Employees will be enrolled in the PCS Defined Contribution Pension Plan with a contribution rate of 3.0% of basic .earnings, matched by the Company. The Company will match contributions to a maximum of three (3) months following the month in which an employee is laid off. Such contributions are to be made within 6 pay periods of returning to work. This increase in the DC Plan will be effective date of ratification.
LIFE INSURANCE
-	benefittwo (2)times basicannual earningstaken to the nearest multiple of $1000.
-	Dependent life insurance as follows:
- Spouse:	$10,000.00
-	Eligible Dependent:	$7,000.00
101
ACCIDENTAL DEATH& DISMEMBERMENT
-	benefittwo (2)times basic annual earningstaken to the nearest multiple of $1000.
-	additional benefits include 100% benefit to insured person for loss of both hands, both feet or sight of both eyes (or one of each), speech and hearing.
-	75% benefit for loss cf one arm or one leg.
67% benefit for lossofone hand, one foot, orone eye.
50% benefit for loss of speech or hearing.
33 1/3% benefit for loss of thumb and index finger on either hand.
loss of use of the above may also be covered.
-	in no event shall morethan 100% benefit be paid for injuries and/or death resulting from any one accident.
-	no benefits are payable for intentionally self-inflicted injury.
SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
- Short Term Disability benefit shall be 70% of base rate (at the time of disability) for up to seventeen (17) weeks of benefit, to take effect on the fourth day for an accident or illness, provided that a minimum of three accumulated sick days and time off with pay entitlement under C.B.A.
102
Clause 11.06 is used prior to Short Term Disability benefits taking effect.
- No benefits are payable under the Short Term Disability program for disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation.
Note: Any dispute as to the medical eligibility of such benefit entitlement is between the employee and the insurance company, which adjudicates the claim.
LONG TERM DISABILITY (see attached Letter of Agreement)
The employee may request and obtain from the Company in a timely manner a copy of the employer's statement form as submitted to the insurance company.
-	Benefits shall be 70% of base rate monthly earnings to take effect on expiration of Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefit.
Note: Any dispute as to the medical eligibility of such benefit entitlement is between the employee and the insurance company, which adjudicates the claim.
-	LTD benefits continue until the recipient recovers, reaches retirement age, is able to engage in other gainful employment, (whichever occurs first), or dies.
103
■	if an employee is eligible for disability related benefits from any other source (e.g. Canada Pension Plan disability pension), LTD benefits are adjusted so that the combined total cf all disability related benefits equal no more than 75% of the employee's original basic earnings.
■	no benefits are payable under the LTD program
for disabilities	covered by Workers'
Compensation.
DENTAL PLAN
Provides reimbursement of covered expenses made in accordance with the prevailing Dental Tariff in force in Saskatchewan at the time the expense is incurred, coverage is as follows:
PreventativeTreatment ■ including any necessary X-Rays.......................100% paid	by Plan
Basic Dental -	extractions,	fillings, etc.
.............................80%	paid	by Plan
Electives - inlays, crowns, etc. .............................80% paid by Plan
Dentures - new, repairs, etc. ......................... 80% paid by Plan
Orthodontia
...............................50% paid by Plan
to a maximum cf $1,500 per insured individual
104
-	All dental expenses are to be paid by the employee, and reimbursed to him on the above basis by the insurance carrier.
-	Caution: Before starting any course oftreatment in excess of $200, it is recommended that employees have their dentist prepare a "Treatment Plan", a written report describing the recommended procedure, treatment, costs, etc. The Treatment Plan can be submitted to the insurer in advance and the employee will know the expenses covered before work begins.
GROUP EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFITS
Eligible medical costs as outlined in the contract between MSI Blue Cross and PCS Inc., Allan Division will be paid at a level of 80% of allowable expenses.
The Company's responsibility is to maintain the designated level of benefit coverage, as outlined inthe contract between Blue Cross (MSI) and the Company, in effect on the date of ratification.
OPTICAL PLAN
Employees, their spouses and dependent children are covered for 80% of the cost of any combination of eye examinations, eyeglass frames and lenses, contact lenses, and laser eye surgery, per participant during any 24 consecutive months (12 consecutive monthsfor persons under 18 years of age). Check your Group Benefit booklet for exclusion.
105
The maximums for the above services are combined for a total of $290 effective date of ratification. Effective May 1, 2007, the combined maximum will be $310.
OPTIONAL INSURANCE
Employees may apply for either the optional group term life insurance and/or the voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance which is currently available. The effective date of such coverage will be as per the conditions specified in each of the plans. Premiums are paid by the employee through payroll deduction. In case of layoff or other absence without pay, premiums must be prepaid to maintain coverage.
GENERAL
The Company will continue certain benefit coverage for permanent employees, who are laid off due to inventory corrections or permanent workforce reductions, for a period of three (3) months from the date of lay-off. The Company-paid benefitsthatwill be maintained are Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Dental and Group Extended Health Plans (including Optical).
Permanent and Temporary new hires are coveredfrom the first day of active employment for Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment; upon completion of the probationary period they become eligible under the Dental, Group Health and Optical Plans. Permanent hires are also eligible for the Short
106
Term and Long Term Disability Plans upon completion of the probationary period.
Temporary employees recalled from the Recall List for temporary work will be covered by the Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment,Dental, Group Health and Optical Plans while at work.
Temporary employees who are laid-off subsequent to completing their probationary period will continue Life Insuranceand Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage for a periodof three (3)monthsfrom the date of lay-off. Coverage under the Dental, Group Health and Optical plans will continue to the end of the month following the month of lay-off.
107
Signed on behalf of PCS Inc.:
L. Knafelc
Director, Industrial Relations & People Development
Signed on behalf of PCS Inc.-Allan Division
D. Weinheimer	K. Coombs
Administration Superintendent	Mill General Superintendent
S. Brown	D. Walters
Mine General Superintendent	Human Resources
Superintendent
Signed on behalf of the United Steelworkers and its Local 7689
B. Welke
International Representative
G. Field	R. Howell
President	NegotiatingCommitteeman
R. St. Pierre	D. Wutzke
NegotiatingCommitteeman	Negotiating committeeman
R. Boehm
Negotiating Committeeman
108
Memorandum Of Agreement between
Potash Corporation Of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division and
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) and its Local 7689
RE: Work Done During Vacation Maintenance Shutdowns
The Company will endeavour to utilize its own employees to performworkfor which they are qualified during vacation maintenance shutdowns.
Signed this
day of
2005,
PCS Potash-Allan Division United Steelworkers and its Local 7689
R. Gauthier	B. Welke
General Manager	International Representative
W. D. Walters	G. Field
Human Resources	President. Local 7689
Superintendent
109
Memorandum Of Agreement between
Potash Corporation Of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division and
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers InternationalUnion (United Steelworkers)and its Local 7689 RE: COLA
Effective May 1, 2007 (Year 3):
If the April, 2007 All Items Consumer Price Index (CPI) for Saskatchewan (1992 = 100), measuredfrom April, 2006 exceeds2.8%, then the percentage in excess of 2.8% Wl be applied to base rate annual earnings for the previous year [May1, 2006 to April 30, 2007) and paid as a lump sum to each employee (not applied to base rates). 'For Examples Below Assume Base Rate Annual Earnings (May 1,2006 -April 30, 2007) = $63,000 Example #f:
April. 2006 April. 2007 Increase All ItemsCPI (SK)	130	134.9	3.77%
Payment = Lump Sum Amount: (3.77%* 2.8%) = 0.97% x $ 63.000 =$611.10
Example #2:	April. 2006 April. 2007 Increase
All ItemsCPI (SK)	130	132.9	2.23%
Payment= Nil (Increase to CPI does not exceed 2.8% for time period)
Signed this__________day of_______________, 2005.
PCS Potash-Allan Division
R, Gauthier
General Manager
W.D. Walters
Human Resources
Superintendent
United Steelworkers, and its Local 7689
B, Welke
International Representative
G. Field
President, Local 7689
110
Memorandum Of Agreement between
Potash CorporationOf Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division
and
United Steel, Paper and Forestry,Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrialand Service Workers InternationalUnion (United Steelworkers)and its Local 7689
Benefits- Lone Term Disability
The parties hereby agree to a Long Term Disability Plan, which will provide a total benefit payable of 55% of the employee's base wage at the date of disability to take effect on expiration of the STD plan. The program will be comprised of two plans:
Plan A
An employee paid plan at a benefit level of 38.5% of base wages and the current premium is 1.36% of the employee's annual base wage (effective January 1, 2006 itwill be 1.03%). Premiumswill be deducted on a biweekly basis. This plan will be fully funded by the employee and as such, any benefits received will not be subject to Income Tax deductions. The employee is also responsible for the continuation of payment of LTD premiumswhile absent from work for any reason except while receiving benefits from the plan.
111
Plan B
An employer paid plan at a benefit level of 16.5% of base wages and the current premium is 0.59% of the employee’s annual base wage (effective January 1, 2006 it will be 0.45%). This plan will be fully funded by the Company and as such, any benefits received will be subject to Income Tax deductions.
It is also noted that any CPP offsetwill beappliedto Plan B first. The amount remainingwill be applied to Plan A as outlined in the plan text.
The Company also agrees that they will continue to administer the LTD program and will continue to explore securing other insurance carriers that will provide the adjudication of claims in a timely and cost effective manner.
It isfurther agreed that the Company will not pursue any additional cost sharing of other benefit plans including medical, dental, life insurance and vision care programs.
This letter supercedes the LTD plan described in the Benefit Summary of the Collective Agreement for the life of this agreement.
The Company further agrees it will consult with the Union priorto any changes inthe LTD premiumsofthe employee paid plan.
112
Signed this
day of
2005.
PCS Potash - Allan Division United Steelworkers and its Local 7689
R. Gauthier
B. We Ike
General Manager
International Representative
D, Walters Human Resources Superintendent
G. Field
President, Local 7689
113
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
between
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWANINC. ALLAN DIVISION
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) and its Local 7689
For approved Leaves of Absence requested under Articles 11.04 and 11.05 not to exceed fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company agrees to pay the employee his base wage for the scheduled work time missed and bill the Union for the amount plus 10%, This is conditional upon having received a written requestforthe Leave fromthe Unionwhich also states the Company is authorizedto bill the Union.
Signed this_____________day of__________________, 2005.
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. United Steelworkers Allan Division	and its Local 7689
and
Re:
Payroll Buy-Back
R, Gauthier General Manager Representative
B. Welke International
W. D. Walters   Human Resources Superintendent
G. Field
President, Local 7689
114
Letter of Agreement
Employees Electingto Take Vacation in Lieu of Lay-Off
The parties agree that withinthe limits specified below, an employee who would otherwise be on lay-offstatus may elect to use entitled vacation rather than be on lay-off.
1.	Periods of Vacation taken under these circumstances must be a minimum of one (1) week.
2,	A maximum of two (2) weeks may be taken in a Vacation year.
3.	Vacation pay, if applicable, which matches the Vacation time will be paid when the Vacation is taken.
4,	Vacation requests must be received by the Company prior to the period requested.
Signed this__________day of_________________, 2005.
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc	United Steelworkers
Allan Division	and its Local 7689
R. Gauthier General Manager
B, Welke
International Representative
W. D. Walters	G. Field
Human Resources	President, Local 7689
Superintendent
115
Memorandum of Agreement between
Potash Corporation Of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division
and
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) and its Local 7S89
This Memorandum of Agreement is designed for the purpose of re-affirming the basic principles of the Cooperative Wage Study Program (referred to as C.W.S.). This re-affirmation is necessary because of recent trends within the workforce that employees feel thatC.W.S, isto beusedasadetailedjobdescription, used to determine one's day-to-day job duties.
The following principles are statements cited form the Job Descriptionand Classification Manual published in August 1971 by the United Steelworkers of America -AFL - CIO CLC:
A. Significant details concerning the function and requirements of each job shall be set forth in a job description which shall:
Provide a means of identifying the job under consideration, the processes, equipment and products with which it is concerned, and shall serve only as a basis from which to classify the job.
Reflect the general details considered necessary to describe the principal functions of the job identified and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the
116
work requirements that may be inherent in the job.
Provide, together with the reasons for the classification, the basis from which to judge changes in the job content which may result from new or changed conditionswhen such are established from time to time.
B. The job classification of ajob shall serve only to assign the job into a proper job class for application of the standard hourly wage scale.
In summary, these principles outlined are designed solely for the purposes of determining wage rates and not to provide any basis for determining the day-to-day job activities of any individual employee. Referring to the term "inherent' as outlined on the bottom of each job description, this term is defined as: Job duties that have been common to a particular job prior to the implementation of C.W.S., whether they were specifically addressed in the job description or not, shall continue to be part of that particular job.
Signed this __________day of______________________, 2005.
Potash Corporationof Saskatchewan Inc. United Steelworkers Allan Division	and its Local7689
R. Gauthier	B. Welke
GeneralManager	International Representative
W. D. Walters	G. Field
Human Resources	President, Local 7689
Superintendent
117
|	Memorandum Of Agreement
between
Potash Corporation Of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division and
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) and its Local 7S89
Re:______Lay-Off Notice_________________________
This Agreement supercedes the provisionsof Article 8.06 of the Collective BargainingAgreement.
Temporary Shutdown of Operations
When all or part of the operation is shut down for a period not exceeding sixty (60) calendar days, written notice (or pay in lieu thereof) indicating the shutdown date and start-up date shall, be given as follows to all affected employees:
1.	If the shutdown is for a period of one (1)week - one (1) week's notice;
2.	If the shutdown is for a period of two (2) weeks, or more than one (1) week -two (2) weeks' notice;
3.	If the shutdown is for a period of three (3) weeks, or more than two (2) weeks - three (3) weeks' notice;
4.	If the shutdown is for a period of four (4) weeks, or more than three (3) weeks -four (4) weeks; notice;
5.	If the shutdown is for a period of four (4) weeks but less than sixty (60) days - four (4) weeks' notice.
The Vacation Maintenance Shutdown which may be designated as per Article 12.04 is not deemed a shutdown of operations for the purpose of this letter.
118
Indefinite Lav-off
Inthe event an employee is laid off for an indefinite period due to a manpower reduction or shutdown of operations for an unspecified period, written notice (or pay in lieu thereof) will be provided as follows:
1.	One (1) weeks' notice if his seniority is one (1) year or less;
2.	Two (2) weeks' notice if his seniority is one (1) year, or less than three (3)years;
3.	Four (4) weeks’ notice if his seniority is three (3)years, or less than five (5) years;
4.	Six (6) weeks' notice if his seniority is five (5) years, or less than ten (10) years:
5.	Eight (8) weeks’ notice if his seniority is ten (10) years or more.
The above provisionsdo not apply if the period of lay-off is for six (6) days or less, or if an employee is recalled for a specified, limited period of work.
It is understood and agreed that the provisions of this Agreement are better than the provisions of the law.
Signed this____________day of_______________________, 2005.
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. United Steelworkers Allan Division	and its Local 7689
R. Gauthier General Manager
B. Welke
International Representative
W. D. Walters	G. Field
Human Resources	President, Local 7689
Superintendent
119
Letter of Agreement
Senior EmployeesElecting Lay-Off
The parties agree that there are certain circumstanceswhere a
senior employee will be allowed to elect lay-off during an
Inventory Correction Period:
1.	The specified period of lay-offfor the employee must be the entire length of the shutdown, or a combination cf vacation and lay-off may be used to cover the entire period.
2.	There must be ajunior qualified employee inthe same classification or line of progressionwilling to replace the senior employee without the need for training.
3.	An employee cannot elect lay-off under this Agreement if, afterthe shutdown, he will have more than 80 hoursof unused vacation entitlement.
4.	An employee who elects lay-off (or his replacement) may not submit a grievance regarding his decision to elect lay-off.
Signed this___________day of_____________________, 2005,
Potash Corporationof Saskatchewan Inc. United Steelworkers
Allan Division	and its Local 7689
R, Gauthier General Manager
B. We Ike
InternationalRepresentative
W. D, Walters   Human Resources Superintendent
G. Field
President, Local 7689
120
Memorandum Of Agreement Apprenticeships -AptitudeTesting
This Agreement outlines the basis and procedures for evaluating candidates for Apprenticeships at PCS Potash - Allan Division. Pursuant to the revised Appendix B, senior bidders for Apprenticeship vacancies will be evaluated utilizing an aptitude test battery to assess their potential for successful completion of an Apprenticeship Program.
1.	The evaluations will be performed by SIAST -Kelsey Campus or other education consulting service agreed upon by the Company and Union.
2.	All employees who take part ii the evaluation must sign a release allowing the individual conducting the evaluation to release information to the Company and the Union. The only information to be released to the Company and the Union is whether or not the employee is deemed to have the potential required.
3.	Employees deemed not having the potential will be given a breakdown of their evaluation in a follow-up confidential interview conducted by those responsible forthe evaluation. Inaddition, the employee will be advised what he/she can do in order to possess the required potential.
4.	The Company will not consider an employee deemed not to have the potential for future reevaluation unless satisfactory proof is supplied to the Company and the Education Consultant to
121
demonstrate the employee has taken the necessary steps, as identified in point 3 above, to warrant a re-evaluation.
5.	The Company will be responsible for the cost of the Education Consulting Service.
Signed this_________day of___________________, 2005.
Potash Corporation^ Saskatchewan Inc. United Steelworkers Allan Division	and its Local 7689
R. Gauthier	B. Welke
General Manager	International Representative
W. D. Waiters	G. Field
Human Resources	President, Local 7689
Superintendent
122
SUBJECT INDEX
Apprenticeship...
Arbitration..
Day..
Departments..
Discharge.
Callout,
COLA..
Clothing & Boot Allowance......
C.W.S. (Effective Jan. 11, 1981)..
Dues...........................
Filling a Temporary Vacancy....
Filling a PermanentVacancy.....
Grievance- Definition..........
-	Stages.................
Immediate Family...............
Job Posting....................
Jury & Witness Duty............
Layoffs........................
Leave of Absence...............
Lines of Progression...........
Lunch Breaks...................
Management Rights..............
Meals - Overtime...............
Overtime.......................
Probationary Employees.........
Public Holidays...............
Qualifying on the Job..........
Recall........................
Safety Tours...................
Schedules- Change..............
-	Posted.................
Seniority - Definition........
-	Lists..................
-	Loss Of................
Stewards......................
Temporary Vacancy,.
Time Off with Pay..
Tools..
Training..
Transfer..
Transfer out of Bargaining Unit..
Vacations....................
Wage Differentials...........
ARTICLE PAGE
Appendix B & C
6,01
14.02	to 14.06
8.15
5.01
14.09
22.03
21.04 19,00 16,02 8,11 6,12
4.01
4.05 11.06 8.17
11.07
8.04
11.01
ExhibitsA-G
14.11
1.02
14.12
14.04
9.01
13.01	to 13.08 8,13
8.05
15.02
14.07 14,14
8.02
8.16
8.03
4.03
3.09 11.06
21.01	to 21,03
8.10	& 8.11
8.07	& 8.08 8,15
12.01	to 12.10
22.01	to 22.03
89-93
16
58-59
33 14 59 76 75
71-74
68
31
31
7 9
45
34
46 21 39
80-88
61
3
62
58 38
55-57
31
22
65
59 62 20 33 20
8
30
45
75 30 29 33
50-53
76
EFAP: THE OBJECTIVE
TO ASSIST EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION TALK TO:
YOUR HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT YOUR SUPERVISOR A MEMBER OF YOUR EFAP JOINT COMMITTEE
ProfessionalCounselling and Mediation
934-5898
or
The Family Counselling Center
652-3121
SAFETY IS THE KEY Use It Always
No job is so urgent That we do not Have the time To do it Safely!!