AGREEMENT
Between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED
PUG WASH WORKS
Nova Scotia
and
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION
PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 8, 1987 EXPIRES OCTOBER 7, 1990
00232 (03)
AGREEMENT
by and between
'mf- CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED, A Company having an office at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter called "The Company", and acting herein with respect only to its Pugwash works, hereinafter referred to as "said works".
AND
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION, PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823, located at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter referred to as "The Uni on".
1
INI) ]’. X
’age No. 1
Preambl c Article No.
L	Purpose
II	Recognition
III	Check Off
IV	Co Operation
V	Representation
VL	Grievance Procedure
VI	I	Arbitration
VIII	Hours of Work and Overtime
IX	Wage s Classification
X	Bereavement	Jury IXity
XI	Holidays
XII	Vacations
XIII	Seniority
XIV	Safety and Health
XV	Contracting	Out
XVI	Duration of	Agreement
Schedule “A“ Classification and
Wage Rates Prerni urns
Industrial Relations Plan Letter of Understanding - Fine Salt 11 ant
Letter of Understanding - Pan Opr.
Trainees
letter of Understanding - Shift Fngi neers (Bonus)
Letter o f Understanding - Crystal 11 Production
letter of Understanding - Change of Shift
letter of Understanding - Maintenance 63
1ndex	64
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
L. 1.0	The Company and the Uni on
have entered into this Agreement at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, for the pupose of recording terms and conditions of employment, resulting from collective bargaining, which are to be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company arid the Union, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, and Lo work together to promote the safety and health of the employees and to achieve the most efficient operation of the works.
1.1.1	In any case where the benefits provided under the labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia a/'-e found to be greater than those provided in this Agreement, then the benefits provided under that Code shall apply. '
1.1.2	This Agreement shal1 conform to the existing Occupational Heal th and Safety Act, Province of Nova Scotia arid both parties agree to co-operate in the observance of this Act.
5
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.1.0	This Agreement shall apply to al L the employees of the Company with the exception of classifications listed
below:
Management, Office and Stores Staff, Supervisory Employees above and including the rank of Foremen.
'Technical Engineers, Laboratory Staff and Assistants
'Temporary and Probationary Employees, Guards, Gatemen and Watchmen,
Office Janitorial Staff.
2.1.1	The Company recognizes the Union during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
2.2.0	'The Union recognizes the right of the Company to manage the said works and direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote or transfer any employee and to demote, suspend, discipline or discharge any employee for just
6
cause. In the interest of the efficient operation of the said works, the Union agrees that the Company m y change hours of work, determine or change work assignments or methods and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured and to determine all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in the Agreement, and that any such action shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and any such action which results in individual injustice, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
2.3.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to make and to alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees. These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
2.4.0	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to incorporate all manner of technical and process improvements at any time, notwithstanding the fact that such improvements may reduce the Labour force required to operate the works. Such reductions shall be consistent with qualifications and seniority rights.
7
ARTICLE III - CHECK-OFF
3.1.0	The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee the monthly dues, initiation fees and other assessments and dues authorized by the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union. The amounts of such deductions shall be deposited by the Company into the Union's Bank Account no later than the 14th day following the month for which the deductions were made, A record of those from whose pay the deductions were made shall be subnitted to the Union.
3.2.0	The Company shall notify the Union in writing, the names, classifications and rates of pay of all new employees upon hiring.
3.3.0	The Company will notify the Union in writing within three (3) days of an attempt to recall a laid-off employee.
ARTICLE IV - CO-OPERATION
4.1.0	All new employees must take out and maintain Union membership within five (5) working days from the date of employment with the Company.
4.2.0	The Company agrees that the Union may use the Company's Bulletin bards, located throughout the said Works, provided that the use by the Union of the Bulletin
a
Boards shall be restricted to the posting therein only of such notices as have received the approval in writing of the Company prior to posting and that the subject matter of such notices shall be restricted to matters pertaining to recreational or social activities, notices of meetings or notices of the results of elections in connection with affairs of the said Union, and provided further that no notice shall be posted which contains advertising or political matter. (Every effort shall be made both by the Company and the Union not to interfere unreasonably with each other's use of the boards.)
4.3.0	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint, coercion or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents regarding any employee because of membership or non membership in the Union, nor because of his race, color, creed, religious or political beliefs. No employee shall, however, conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
4.4.0	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction, nor permit its members to cause or take part in, any sit down, stay-in, or slowdown in any department, or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company's operation or any curtailment of work or restriction or interference
9
with production or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
4.4.1	The Company agrees there shall
be no lock out during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.1.0	The Company agrees to recognize
a Union negotiating conmittee of six (6) merrbers, one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President and one (1) from each of the following departments:	Mine, Rock
Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this Conmittee shall represent the Energy and Chemical Workers Union.
5.1.1	It is understood that compensation to the employee committee members for regular wages lost in connection with re-negotiation of this Agreement shall be made by the Company. The Company's obligation to pay for lost time shall cease at such tine as a Conciliation Officer is present.
5'.2.0 The Company also agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee of six (6) merrbers, one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President	and one (1) from
each of the following departments:	Mine,
Rock Salt Mill dnd Shipping, Maintenance,
10
and Fine Sait Plant. The sixth member of this Committee shall represent the Energy and Chemical Workers Union.
5.3.0	The Union agrees Lo notify
the Company in wri ting of the names of the local	Union officers, committeemen,
and shop stewards and the effective dates of their elections or appointments.
5.4.0	It is understood and agreed
that the plant chniman, committeemen and shop stewards have their regular duties as employees to perform. Such a representative shall.	however, alter arrangement
and with the consent of his Foreman, which consent shall not be unreasonably withhold, lx: permitted during his	working hours,
and without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of Lime in order to investigate and settle grievances in his jurisdiction.
The Union President shall he permitted to wok on the Day Shi It when such work is available within his own classification and for which he is qualified.
both Lite Union President and the Sect.
Treasurer will he granted time off, without pay, Lo attend regular Union meetings, when on shift.
5.4.1	Each foreman shall maintain,
on special forms to be supplied by the Company, a record of the actual Lime when the chairman, committeeman and shop steward
1 1
leaves his regular duties when about to engage in the investigation or settlement of a grievance or grievances and of the actual time when he returns and resumes his regular duties. The Foreman and Union representative shall initial each entry of time on the said form.
5.5.0	The Company agrees that a
leave of absence without pay shal 1 he granted to any employee for Union business up to a maximum of sixty (60) working days in any one year. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during this period. The Union agrees to give the Company at least ten (10) days notice in writing of such leave giving appropriate details.	The
Union agrees there shall not be more than two (2) employees on leave of absence for Union business at any one time and that such leaves shall not in any event exceed three (3) months in the aggregate during each one (1) year period of this Agreement.
5.5.1	In addition to Clause 5-5.0 an employee who is appointed to a full time position with the Union, shall be granted a Leave of Absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Upon Application, thirty (30) days prior to the end of such twelve month period or any subsequent twelve month period, the Leave of Absence will he extended for an additional twelve (12) months.
Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such periods.
12
5.6.0	The Company agrees to notify the Union President-, in writing, forty-eight (481 hours in advance of any Company initiated Safety Meetings or I^ibor Management Committee Meetings, and to give as much, notice as practicable tor all other meetings that he or his committees are to attend.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.1.0	Ary dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called a ’'Grievance1') which any employee or group of employees may wish to present to the Company shall he handled in the following manner.
6.1.1	Stage One:	Any employee having
a grievance shall first present it to his Foreman within a period of three (3) working days from the time that such an al l.eged grievance has arisen. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his shop steward. The foreman shall deal with the Grievance and shall render his decision not later than three (3) working days after he receives the grievance.
6.1.2	Stage Two:	If the foreman
does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee under the provisions of Stage One hereof, the employee and, if he so desires, with his shop steward, shall take the matter up directly with the Superintendent, in writing, on forms provided
13
by the Union, within two (2) working days. The decision at this stage should he in writing within two (2) working days.
6.1.3	Stage Three:	Should the shop
steward and the employee be unable to secure a satisfactory settlement from the Superintendent within two (2) working days after the grievance has been submitted to him, the Union Grievance Committee shall, within two (2) working days submit to the plant manager a written request for a third step meeting. The Company and the Union shall then within two (2) working days arrange a meeting. 'The Company shall, within two
(2)	working days after such meeting submit its written reply to the Union.
6. ]	.4 Any	allegation involving	the
misinterpretation or violation of any provision of this agreement may he lodged either by	the	Union or	by the Company with	the
other party, in writing at Stage Three within ten GO)	working days after the
alleged misinterpretation or violation of	the	agreement	has occurred. In	the
event of failure of the Company and the Union to Agree on a settlement of the issue, it may be referred to arbitration by either party within ten (10) working clays in accor-clnce with the provisions of Stage four.
14
6. I . :3	A Grievance arising from the
discharge, or the suspension of (3) three working days or more, of an employee may be submitted at Stage 'three of the Grievance procedure within three (3) working days after the discharge or suspension has occurred.	Any employee, who has been found
through the Grievance Procedure, to have been wrongfully discharged, shall be reinstated.	'
6.1.6	No grievance shall be lodged or prosecuted against the discharge by the Company of a probationary employee.
6.1.7	The aggrieved employee may attend any meetings at Stage 'three.
6.1.8	Stage Four:	In the event
of failure to reach agreement at Stage Three, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance with Article VII. Such submission must be made within ten (10) working days after the grievance has been dealt with in Stage Three.
6.2.0	Saturdays, Sundays, Day off
or Day of rest (for seven (7) day operations) and holidays shall not he counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing steps. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended at any time by mutual written agreement between the Company and t he Union.
6.3.0	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal grievances directly to the Company provided such grievances are riot inconsistant with the terms of this Agreement.
6.4.0	Committeemen, if on shift, and when granted leave of absence to engage in grievance procedure meetings with the manager at Stage Three only, shall not be penalized for loss of time or pay, provided the total time involved in all such meetings does not exceed eight (8) hours, for any one gri evance.
6.5.0	The Company agrees that it has an obligation to deal as expeditiously us is reasonable in the application of discipline.
The Company shall , however, advise the employee of the disciplinary action to be taken as soon as a decision to that effect has been reached.
6.6.0	In imposing discipline on a current charge, Management will not take into account any prior infractions which occurred more than two (2) years previously.
16
ARTICI£ VII - ARBITRATION
7.1.0	When either party decides
to submit a grievance to arbitration, under 6.1.8, then the other party shall be so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shaiI then each appoint an arbit rator within ten (10) working days.	The two
(2)	arbitrators shall endeavour to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as chairman of the arbitration board. If the third arbitrator be not chosen within ten (10) working days, then the Minister of Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia shai I be requested to assist in appointing an impartial chairman.
7.2.0	N) person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7.3.0	Kach party shall pay the remuner-
ation and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by such party anti the remuneration and expenses of the third or single arbitrator shai 1	be	borne	equal Ly	by the Company	and
the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall	be	paid	by the	party calling	the
witness.
7.4.0	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of. the majority of such board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto, but Ihc arbitrators
17
shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
7.5.0	Grievances related to discharge and suspension of three (3) working days or more appealed to Arbitration, wi 1.1 be umpired by a single Arbitrator.
The party desiring to appeal a grievance under this section to Arbitration shall notify the other party,	in writing,	of
its intent including the remedy sought.
Within Len (10) working days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, the parties shall meet to select an impartial Arbitrator.
Should the parties fail to agree within five (5) working clays,	the Minister of
Labour of the EJrovince of Nova Scotia wi 11 be requested to appoint a person who shal I umpire.
The Arbitrator shall hear the case as soon as possible.
18
articii*: viii
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1.0	The	regular hours of	work	are
stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee el any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours worked.
8.1.1	The	regular hours ol	work	for
other than the continuous twelve (12) hour shift or the continuous eight (8) hour shift shall be	eight	(8) consecutive	hours	per
day, five (5) days a week Monday to Friday i ncl us i ve.
8.].2 Continuous twelve (12) hour shift: Employee pay	Week	is to be from 8:00	P.M.
Sunday to 8:00 P.M. the following Sunday. Hours of work:
Dav Shift	-	8:00	A.M. to	8:00	P.M.
Night Shift -	8:00	P.M. to	8:00	A.M.
8.1.) Continuous twelve (12) hour shift Pan Operators and Shift Engineers only - Regular hours of work shall be twelve (1.2) regular hours	per	day,	three	(13)	and	four
(4) days per week for an average ot iorty-two (42) hours per week on a four (4) week cycle in accordance with the agreed shift schedule.
8.1.4	The Union recognizes that due to opera!ionaJ requirements, the Company may institute continuous eight (8) hour shift operations with four (4) regular
19
rotating crews for shift engineers, pan operators and briners only. The regular hours of work for continuous seven (7) day operation shall bo eight (8) hours per day, five (5) or six (6) days [)er week m accordance with the mutually agreed rotating shift schedule (twenty (20) week cycle) for an average forty-two (42) regular hours.
8.2.0	It is understood that because of the nature of the salt business, the operation of this works requires a certain amount of periodic overtime.
When considered necessary by tho Company, employees shall be requested to perform overtime work in excess of the regular hours of work.
bmp! oyees with a jus t i f i abl e re; son, shall be excused from working overtime.
However, it is agreed that if sufficient qualified employees are not voluntarily available, then one (1) or more of the above excused employees, having the lowest Overtime Worked Total , shal I be requi red to work.
8.2.1	The Company sha 11 endeavour as far as reasonably practicable over a period of four (4) months to distribute overtime equitably among qualified employees in the Department- by classification in which such work becomes necessary.
20
Lists will be posted every tour 14) months indicating, by Department, overtime worked and refused.	Overtime will
1x2 recorded as equivalent straight time hours.
A copy of the Weekly Overtime Distribution list will be sent to the Union President.
In the event	of inequities	of:	more
than twenty-four (24)	hours existing at
!he end of a four (4) month period they will	corrected	by assigning	overtime
available	to the	applicable employee!s)
as soon as practicable.
Reasonab! e effort	wi 11	be made	to
contact eligible and available employees. If no contact can be made with an employee
who	does	not have	a phone, the	employee
will be considered as having reiused overtime and be charged such time.
8.2.2	Kmployees eligible for overtime assignments shal 1 be charged with overtime missed as a result of:
(a)	Disability due to sickness or accident.
(b)	Leave of Absence (except leaves for Uni on bus i ness).
(c)	Casual absences.
(d)	Suspensions.
8.2.2	An employee transferring from one classification to another shall be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees within his new classification.
21
8.2.4	Gi completion of his probationary period, a new employee will be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees in his classification.
8.2.5	In order to facilitate the
equitable distribution of overtime and to ensure that personnel are available for overtime	assignments, employees will
be allowed up to twenty-four (241 hours from the time of posting to advise unavailability for overtime assignments.
8.3.0	An	employee whose working
week is Monday to Friday inclusive, shall be paid	at	the	rate	of	time and	one-half
for iill hours worked on Saturday and double time for al I hours worked on Sunday.
8.3.1	Al	emp]oyee whose work! ng
week includes Saturday or Sunday or both (excepting as in 8.3.2) of these days shall be paid	at	the	rate	of	time and	one-half
for all	hours worked	on	his first	day oft
and double time fur all hours worked on his second day off.
8.3.2	For Continuous twelve (12)
Hour Shift Workers, any work in excess of three (3) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will	be	paid	at	the rate	of Time
and One-half and any work in excess of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shirts will he paid at the rate of Double Time.
22
8.3.3	When,	as	a result	of	a change
of production schedule	(a) from a five
(5)	day week	to a seven (7)	day	week or
(b) from a seven (7) day week to a five (5)	day week	or (c)	from a five	(3) day
week or a seven (7) day week to the continuous twelve (12) hour shift, an employee is required to work more than five (3) consecutive days, he shall bo paid at the rate of time and one-half for the sixth day and double time for the seventh day.
8.3.4	When,	as	a result	of	a change
of production schedule from a continuous twelve (12) hour shift to a five (3) or seven (7) day week, an employee is required to work in excess of throe (3) or four (4) consecutive days, these excess days wi iL be paid in accordance with clause
8.3.2.
8,3.3 An employee, except: as noted in Clause	8.1.3	and 8.1.4	shall	be	paid
at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked;
<A)	In excess of eight (8) hours in any
continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours, eonmencing at the employee's regularly scheduled starting time.
!B.) Between Sunday midnight and the employee's	first	scheduled	shift	of	the
week.
(C)	In excess of eight (8) hours if an
employee does not have at least an eight (8) hour break period prior
23
to his first scheduled shirt of the week. The "Continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours" for the first scheduled day of that week will commence with his actual starting Lime on Sunday rather than his scheduled starting time. The remainder of the week will be as outlined in (A) above.
8.3.6	An employee on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the employee's regular scheduled starting time.
8.3.7	Subject to the provisions of 8.5.1 the Company agrees to compensate the employee for any loss of regular hours incurred as a result of a Company initiated change in the Posted Weekly Shift Schedule.
8.3.8	Ai employee will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the fir-st shift only of a Company initiated change in a Posted Weekly Shift Schedule,
8.4.0	Ai employee may, with the
approval of the Company, arrange for a change of shLit with another employee provided each employee will have at least an eight (8) hour break between shifts and the mutual exchange will not result in any additional overtime pay. See also - better of Understanding Re Shift Change, pg. 63.
24
8.4.1	With the approval of the Company, employees on twelve (12) hour shifts may arrange lor a mutual exchange of up to four (4) flours, provided that the right to any overtime payment, which may be incurred by the employee as a result of such change, is waived.
8.3.0	An	employee who is called
in by the Company to perform work outside his normal hours of work shall lie paid a minimum of throe (3) hours pay at the appropriate overtime rate calculated at the employee's basic rate or the job classification rate,	whichever	is the higher.
However, no minimum payment shall apply when the hours so worked are continuous with the employee's regularly scheduled working hours.
8.3.1	An employee who reports lor
work on his	regularly scheduled shiit,
and for whom no work is available', will fx:	guaranteed four (4) hours work or four
(4) hours pay at his regular rate.
This provision shal 1 not apply to employees who are returning to work after an absence or when such lack of work is due to the lateness of the employee, a labour dispute, fire, flood, power shortage or other such cause bevond the control of the Company.
8.3.2	Overtime payments shall not lx? pyramided nor shall more Ilian one basis for calculating overtime be used to cover the same hours.
8.6.0	Underground employees are to be at the mining, level at the start of the shift and remain at the mining level until the shift has teen completed.
Employees	are	expected	to	arrive at
the 'Time Clock fifteen (15) minutes prior to the start of the shift.
In the event that an employee arrives at the Time Clock later than fifteen (15) minutes prior	to	the start	of his shift,
hut subsequently is at the mining level at the scheduled shift starting time, veri Lied by his Foreman, he will not be penalized due to late punch.
8.7.0	Absence of an employee without
prior notice with reasonable excuse or without subsequent reasonable excuse, may on the Tirst offence result in a reprimand by the Company.	On the second offence,
the employee may be suspended for a period decided upon by the Company, hut not to exceed one (1) week. The third offence may	result in discharge.	Any	reprimand
for	absence	wiil	be cancel 1 ed	from the
record of an employee six (6) months after it is incurred.
ARTICLE IX - WAGES- CLASSIFICATION
9.1.0	The Classification of all
occupations and wage rates appearing in Schedule "A" attached hereto, is made part of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto. Any new
26
occupation established during the term of this Agreement shal] be deemed to bo included in Schedule "A".
9.2.0	It	is	agreed that	when an
employee is assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate Lhan his own, he shall be pajd at his regular rate, provided work is available lor him at the time in his regular classification.	If	there	is	no work available in
bis own classi f i cat urn, such employee shall Ixj paid the classification rate of the job	to which he	is	temporarily	assigned.
Any employee, with the exception of those assigned as relief to the classification of Conveyor Floor Operator or Truck Scale Operator shall get the classification of the	highest	class	of	work he does	any time
during his regular shift.
For those employees acting as relief Conveyor Floor Operators or Truck Scale Operators, the higher rate shall apply only for the actual time assigned to that c1assi1i cat i on.
9.3.0	An employee who is to be demoted
because his job is to be permanently eliminated shall lx:	given	advance notice of ten
(10) calendar days or in lieu ot such notice, shall retain his previous rate Lor ten '10) caIondar days.
9.A.0	It is the express policy of
the Cornpanv that Foremen, acting Foremen and Supervisors shall not perform the regular
27
work of a member of the bargaining unit:
except:
(A) In the case of emergency where immediate action is necessary in order to protect personnel, or equipment;
ItS) For the purpose of instruction or training including demonstrating the proper method to accomplish the task assigned;
(C)	For the purpose of developing a method or technique;
(D)	For the purpose of checking operating conditions.
ARTTCIii X - BEREAVEMENT - JURY DUTY
10.1.0	An employee who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a leave of absence with pay not to exceed three (3) days off or twenty-four (24) hours pay at straight time, subject to the following condition : (A) Attend the Funeral.
10.1.1	Should the employee be unable to attend the funeral of a member of his immediate family, he shall bo granted a Leave of Absence with pay for two (2) of the above mentioned days, provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished to the Company.
28
10. 1 .2	An employee on the eonl_inuous
twelve (12) hour .shift who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a leave of Absence with straight time pay not to exceed three (3) days off at twelve (12) hours per day, subject to the following conditions.
10.1.3	The days eligible for payment shal I eormioneo with the day of death and/or shill I end with the day of the funeral. Such clays must be scheduled working days of the employee who, but for the bereavement, would have worked on those days.
10.1.4	A member of the immediate family shall be defined as lather or stepfather, mother or step-mother, current spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, father-in-law or mother-in-law of the employee or any person who has acted in one of these capaej ties for at least the past two (2) years.
10.1.3	In the event an employee,
who has attained seniority, suiters the bereavement of brother-in-law or sister-inlaw, grandparents or grand-children, the Company will, grant one (1) day Leave of Absence with pay at straight time to attend the funeral provided the funeral takes place on the employee's scheduled working day.
29
10.1.6	In the event an employee
suffers bereavement of both his parent and step-parent during his employment with the Company, the employee shall be granted heave of Absence under 10.1.4 in one case and 10.1.5 in the other.
10.2.0	An employee who is summoned arid reports for Jury Duty or is subpoened by a court- as a witness and appears In court shall be paid by the Company, an allowance equal to the difference between the employee's straight time earnings lost as a result of his jury service or appearance in court as a witness and the amount of jury or witness fees, excluding travelling al lowance, paid by the court.
10.2.1	In order to qualify lor such payment,	the employee will	be required
to give the Compary prior notice that he has been summoned for Jury Duty or subpoened as a witness and lo furnish satisfactory evidence that Jury Duty was performed or that he attended as a witness on the days for which he claims such allowance.
10.3.0	Absence as a result of a
conviction under either the Motor Vehicle Act or Sections 234,	234.1,	235,	236 and
237 of the Criminal Code of Canada, shall be treated as Leaves of Absence without pay.
30
ARTICLE XI - HOLIDAYS
! 1.1.0 It is agreed thal the following days shall be considered paid holidays during the term of this Agreement for employees on the Seniority List:
- 1987
ihanksgi vi rig Day Armistice Day Christmas Day Boxing Day 24th or 3lst
-	Monday - October 12, 1987
-	Wednesday - Nov. 11, 1987
-	Friday - December 23,1987
-	Monday - December 28,1987
-	For Fan Operators & Shift Eng. and all Employees on 4-12 Shift:
-	Thursday - December 24, 1987 All Others
-	Thursday - Dec. 31, 1987
1988
New Years Day - Friday C'ood Friday - Friday Faster Monday - Monday Victoria Day - Monday Miners Memorial
Day	-	Monday
Canada Day	-	Friday
Civic Hoi iday	-	Monday
labour Day	-	Monday
Employee’s Birthday - Sec Thanksgiving Day -	Monday
Armistice Day	-	Monday
Christmas Day	-	Friday
Boxing Day	-	Monday
-	January 1 , 1988
-	April I , 1988
-	Apri I 4, 1988
-	May 23, 1988
-	.June 13, 1988
-	July 1, 1988
-	August 1 , 1988
-	Sept. 3, 1988 Clause 11.1.4
-	October 10,1988
-	November 11,1988
-	December 23,1988
-	December 26,1988
31
1989
New Years Day Good Friday Easter Monday Virtoria Day Miners' Memorial Day
Canada Day Civic Hol iday Labour Day Employee' s Ri ri nd. Thanksgi vi ng Day Armistice Day Christmas Day boxing Day 24th. or 31st.
-	Monday - January 2, 1989
-	Friday - March 24, 1989
-	Monday - March 27, 1989
-	Monday - May 22, 1989
-	Monday - June 12, 1989
-	Monday - .July 3, 1989
-	Monday - August 7, 1989
-	Monday - September 4,1989 ay - See Clause 11.1.4
-	Monday - October 9, 1989
-	Monday - November 13,1989
-	Monday - December 25,1989
-	Tuesday - December 26,1989
-	Pan Operators & Boi ler Opr. And All Employees on 4-12 Shi it
-	Friday - December 22,1989 All Others
-	Friday, - December 29,1989
32
I 990
New Years Day Good Friday faster Monday Victoria Day Mi ners' Memorial
-	Monday - January 1, 1990
-	Oriday - April 13, 1990
-	Monday - April 16, 1990
-	Monday - May 21, 1990
Day
Canada Day Civic Hoi i labour Day
employee1s
-	Monday - June' 11, 1990
-	Monday - July 2, 1990 day - Monday - August 6, 1990
-	Monday - Sept.3,1990 Birthday- Sec Clause 11.1.4
11.1.1	An	employee	who is off	work
on any oi the above holidays, shall, subject to the provisions of Clause 11.1.2, be paid an	amount	equivalent to eight	(8)
hours pay	at his	straight	time hourly	rate
(excluding any wage premiums).
11.1.2	An	employee shall not he
entitled to be so paid:
(A)	If he does not work on any non-statutory holiday when he has been scheduled to do so, unless he has been excused from work in advance or furnishes a subsequent justifiable reason for such failure.
(B)	If he is absent without a justifiable
reason on the last scheduled working day	preceding the	holiday or	l he
next scheduled working day succeeding the holiday.
For the purpose of Holiday Pay entitlement only, overtime shall not he considered as a scheduled shift..
33
(C)	However, in the case of illness certified by medical Certificate, Leave of Absence or layoff, an employee shaJL receive his	holiday pay	only if	his absence
did not commence more than six (6) calendar days prior to the ho] iday in question.
11.1.3	For schcdu] ed continuous
shift employees, holidays covered by Article XI	will	be observed	on the	calendar day
on which they actually fall.
11.1.4	Birthday Holiday:	In the
event that an employee's "Birthday Hoi iday" falls on a recognized holiday or weekend he	shall take the	scheduled	working day
inroediatel y preceeding or following such recognized holicTay or weekend.
employees shall advise their Supervisor of	their	intentions	prior to	the posting
of the "Posted Weekly Schedule".
11.2.0	In addition to the holiday pay stipulation in Clause 11.1.1, employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all work performed on the above holidays.
11.2.1	Pan Operators, Shift Engineers and Briners when on Continuous Shift as defined in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 who work on a Holiday, shall have the option of taking a day off in lieu of the Holiday worked.
34
A maximum of live (o) such Holidays may be held in the "bank" by the employee at any one time.
for these employees who elect to take a day in lieu of a Holiday worked, the following shall apply:
1 week's notice in writing shall be required of the employee's intent to take a day in lieu. Arrangements Tor the day off in lieu of the Holiday worked wi 1 I require the approval of the Dept. Supervisor and will require notice in writing of one (1) week.
Such approval by the Department Supervisor will not: lye unreasonably withheld.
Payment of the Premium portion will be paid for the Holiday worked. Payment of the regular portion will lx- paid when the day in lieu is taken.
To satisfy the requirement of a "Weeks Notice", such notice must be given prior to the posting of the "Posted Weekly Scho-dule".
11.3.0	(employees who are ineligible for holiday pay by reason of insufficient service, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed on any of the above holidays.
11.4.0	Kmployees	without seniority
are governed by the labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scot ia.
35
ARTICLE XII - VACATIONS
12.1.0	Subject: to the rules contained below, an employee who has completed the prescribed period of service by March 31st., shall be granted a vacation with pay as fol Iows :
12.1.1	Employees with six (6) months but less than twelve (12) months accumulated service shall be granted a vacation equal to 0.83 of a clay per month of service.
Vacation Pay shall be kX of the empl oyce's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.2	A vacation week for all. employees will be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on the first regular scheduled working day following the employees regular-scheduled day or days off.
12.1.3	Employees with one (1) year
but	less	than	five lb)	years	accumulated
service shall lie entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.4	Employees with five (3) years
hut	less	than	ten (10)	years	accumulated
service shall be entitled	to three (3)
weeks vacation.	Vacation pay shal I be
six (6) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
36
12.1.5	employees with ten (10) years
but less then twenty (20) years accumulated service	shall bo	entitled	to	four	(41 weeks
vacation.	Vacation	pay shall be eight-
18) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.6	employees with twenty (20)
years but less than thirty (30) accumulated service	shall be	entitled	to	live	(5) weeks
vacation. Vacation pay shall be ten (10) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.7	effective April 1st.,	1989,
employees with thirty CIO) years or more accumulated service shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be twelve (12)	percent	of	the	employee's
gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.8	for the purpose ol these
rules Accumulated Service shall be the total period during which the' empl oyec has been an employee of the Company commencing on Lhe employee's most recent hiring date or January 1,	1952, whichever is the most
recent.
Any	employee	whoso 5th,	lOlh, 20th or
3()th year of accumulated .service falls within the current vacation year, shall be permitted to take the corresponding vacation entitlement at the applicable rate of pay beginning April 1st of the current vacation year.
37
II, however, the employee should resign or i s otherwise terminated prior to his anniversary date, he will be required to reimburse the Company for the extra week of vacation pay he was granted.
12.1.9	Vacations may riot be postponed from	one	year	to	another,	nor may	they
loo waived by an employee and vacation pay bo drawn in lieu of the vacation. No part of a Leave of Absence shall be considered as the vacation period.
An employee who has a layoff period which equals or exceeds his vacation entitlement	may,	upon	his	return	to work	waive
part or ail (in increments of one (!) week) of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
12.1.J0	For those	entitled	to three
(3),	lour	(4),	five	(5), or	six (6)	weeks
vacation, the Company reserves the right to	limit their vacation during	July and
August to two 12) weeks. Such employees may schedule the reminder of their vacation outside of July or August.
12.1.11	Vacations	shall be	scheduled
by the Company io take place mainly during the summer months and shall be arranged to	coincide	as far as	possible	with the
wishes of the employees, subject in both cases to the efficient operation of the department concerned.
38
12.1.12	Where	a recognised holiday
or hoJidavs occurs during on employee's vacation, he shall be entitled Lo take an additional day or clays	either immediately preceding
or following his vacation provided the Company has been advised in writing of his intent at least one (1) week prior- to the commencement of his vacation.
12.1.13	Vacation Pay shall be paid to the employee on the last day preceding the date the employee is scheduled to go on vacation, providing that the employee shall have confirmed in writing his impending vacation with the Company at least one (1) week in advance.
The employee has the option of taking all or part of his vacation pay entitlement when going on vacation.
12.1.14	Upon termination of employment an employee shall be paid a vacation allowance of iour(4) percent, sixth) percent, eight (8) percent, tent 10) percent or twel.ve(12) percent ol his gross wage as determined by preceding Clauses 12.1.1,	12.1.2,	12.1.3,
12.I.4, 12.1.5, 12.1.6, and 12.1.7.
12.1.15	In any case where the benefits provided under the Nova Scotia Vacation Pay Act arc found Lo be greater than the above provisions, the benefits provided under the Act shal I appl y.
12.1.16	Members of the bargaining unit, not exceeding more than one t 1 ) from each Doaprtment at any one Lime, shall be granted, upon request ? a leave of Absence without pay not to exceed two (2) weeks during the life of this Agreement.
*9
ARTICLE XIII - SENIORITY
13.1.0	A regular employee shall
acquire seniority status after he has worked the following probationary period:
(A)	All Mine, Rock Sait Mill anti Shipping
and Fine Salt employees a period of	sixty	(60)	calendar	days	in	any
six (6) month period.
(B)	All maintenance employees a period
of	sixty	(60)	working	days	in	any
six (6) month period.
Seniority shall date two (2) months prior to the date on which seniority was acquired, but not prior to the first- day
worked.
13.2.0	In all cases of promotion including vacation relief, demotion, transfer, lay-off and recall, the Company will consider the foil owing:
(A)	Seniority
(B)	Skill and ability to perform the work required.
13.2.1	When in the judgement of the Company, Factor (B) is equal, as between two (2) or more employees, seniority shall govern. Cases of disagreement shall be dealt: with in accordance with the provisions of Article VI .
40
13.3.0	II is agreed that Chora' shall,
be four (4) divisional seniority lists, Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance and Fine Salt Plant. When an employee transfers	from one division	to another
his name shall be placed at:	the bottom
of the Divisional Seniority List and he shall retain his seniority in his original, division lor a period of sixty (60) days.
At the end of sixty (60) calendar or working days of cumulative seniority in the new division, the transfer shall he considered final, and his seniority shall	then date
trom the date of such transfer.
13.3.1	A	notice of vacancy will,
lx' posted for a period of forty-eight (48) regular working hours in all departments inviting	applications	from	interested
candidates. Such postings will be valid for a period of sixty (60) days.
13.3.2	Promotions to vacant positions
will	be filled from within the division
in which the vacancy occurs provided suitable applicants are available. Falling success in locating a suitable candidate from within the division in which the vacancy occurs, applications from other divisions will then be considered in order of total plant servi ce.
13.3.3	Temporary positions of less than sixty (60) calendar days duration need not be posted.
41
13.3.4	Promotions of a non-permanent nature (greater than sixty (60) calendar days) may be reversed upon return to work of the permanent incumbent.
13.3.5	Notwithstanding any provisions of Article XIII, students may be hired for periods not to exceed four (4) consecutive months. Such employees shall be considered as probationary and shall not acquire seniority. All other provisions of this Agreement shall apply Lo these employees.
13.4.0	Hoistmen shall be included on the Mine Seniority List.
13.5.0	Ai employee will lose all seniority if he or she:
(A)	Voluntarily quits.
(B)	Is justifiably discharged.
(C)	If in Nova Scotia, fails to return to work
within five	(5)	days after notice
to return has been sent by registered mail. If outside Nova Scotia, he must return	in a reasonable time.
In either case, both Union and Company must be notified immediately of change of address.
(D)	Is laid-off in excess of the greater of twenty-four (24) months or the employees service.
42
(K) Is absent from work for five (3) eonsecu-Live normal working days without notifying the Company giving a satisfactory reason for such absence.
(F) If, after twenty-four (24) months of continuous absence, it is the opinion of the medical profession that	the
employee is unable to return to his regular job.
For this purpose medical opinion may be expressed by a Physician representing the employee and a Physician representing the Company.
In cases of disagreement at this stage, an opinion will he obtained from a Physician mutually agreed upon	and
this opinion will be binding.
L3.6.0 A 1 aid-off employee holding seniority in one (1) division who is accepted for temporary employment in another division arid who has not accumulated sixty (60) continuous days in his temporary position will return Lo his former division as soon as regular work is available for him in that division.
13.6.1	If such temporary employment exceeds sixty (60) continuous clays in one
(1)	division, the employee may elect to apply this period for a permanent transfer to the seniority list of the now division.
43
The employee shall, in this event, be required to advise the company in writing, of his decision to transfer his seniority within a period of seven t7) days alter he has been notified by the Company, in writing, that he is eligible to transfer his senoirity.
13.6.2	The Company agrees that before hiring probationary employees, any member of the bargaining unit on lay-off qualified to do tho work available will be given first choice to fil 1 the job opening.
13.6.3	Five (5) days following receipt of a Lay-off Notice, an employee shal I he entitled to excercise accumulated service over a probationary employee in another department who has not attained seniority status in that department.
13.7.0	If an employee is transferred to a supervisory position, he shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement. However, if an employee returns to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months, he will retain his accumulated seniority.
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY AND HEALTH
1A - 1.0 The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees (luring the hours of their employment.
44
Such protective device's as the Company requires to lx; worn and other equipment which in the opinion oi the Company is necessary	to protect the employee from
injury shall, he provided by the Company.
14.1.1	Employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug abuse will be covered by the Disability Plan provided they subject themselves tii prescribed treatment.
14.1.2	ft is agreed that the Occupational Health and Safety Committee will include five (5) Union Members;
one	(1)	from	the Mine
one	(1)	from	the Fine Salt Plant
one	(1)	from	the Rock Salt Mi 1 I
one	(I)	from	Maintenance	(surface)
one	(1)	from	Maintenance	(underground)
A list of these committee members including the designated chairman, along with an alternate for each will he presented by the Union to the Company in Uanaury of each year.
14.2.0	Protective devices shall lie provided as follows:
(A) Protective clothing will be provided by the Company free of charge to;
(1) Dairy Mill employees
45
(A)	(2) Employees using Amex Loading
Machi lies.
(3)	Preventive Maintenance I and
II.
(A) Protective clothing will be provided to Maintenance Department employees on a 50/50 cost share program.
(5)	Protective clothing will be provided for all other employees on a 50/50 cost share basis. Participation by this group is optional.
(6)	Those employees not participating in item (5) will receive $20.00 per year.
In addition the Company will provide protective clothing free of charge to employees [excluding Maintenance Department employees and employees participating in item
(4)	assigned to the following jobs:
(1)	Working in evaporators.
(2)	Working in boilers.
(3)	Cleaning under hoists.
(4)	Changing Hoist Cables.
(5)	Rock Salt - Blueing.
(6)	Working with corrosive chemicals.
(7)	Working on Main Ventilation Ivins underground.
(8)	Greasing Fork Lift Trucks.
(9)	F.C. Bulk Loading.
(13) C.S.A. approved non-prescription safety glasses will Ire provided free of charge up to a maximum of six (6) pr/ycar.
46
(ft)	The Company will provide free one
(1) pair/two (2) year period of prescription safety glasses in accordance with American Optical Safety Glass Program.
(C)	Miner5 belts will be provided free of charge for employees working in the Mine.
(D)	Cloves will	be provided for dirty
and hazardous jobs as determined by the Company free of charge. Other gloves will be provided at cost:.
([_/) Dust masks will he provided free of charge.
(D	Hearing protection	will	be	provided
free of charge on request and will be required	to 1x3	worn	on designated
jobs.
(G)	WeLding equipment	will	be	provided
free of charge.
(H)	The company will	pay,	as	follows,
upon the initial purchase ot Company
approved safety footwear:
Between	Oct.	8/87	&	Oct.	7/88	-	$55.00
Between	Oct.	8/88	&	Oct.	7/89	-	$60.00
Between	Oct.	8/89	&	Oct.	7/90	-	$65.00
14.2.1	Whenever the Company recommends to the employees for their better protection, the use of additional personal safety equip ment which it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees at cost.
47
14.2.2	If ti hazardous condition is perceived by an employee he shell 1 point it out to his Foreman. If a remedy is not agreed to, the situation studJ be examined by a committee consisting of the Union President or his deputy, the Department Safety Committeeman, the Company Safety Supervise r, the Department Supervisor and a Qualified member of the Maintenance Department when required.
This Committee will recommend a remedy to the Department Superintendent. IC this is not accepted the matter will be referred to the Mine Manager for a decision.
Ln the event of Department of Mines regulations being introduced to cover this situation, such regulations will Lake precedence .
14.3.0	'fhe Company shal 1 , if possiblo,
provide an overtime meal if the employee is	required	to work more than	ten	(10)
continuous hours and if employment continues an	overtime	lunch	if possible at	thirteen
(13) hours	and at	intervals of	four	(4)
hours thereafter. If it is not possible for the Company to provide the above meal and/or lunches, then the employee will be [>aid $6.00 per meal and $4.00 per lunch.
14.3.1	employees on the continuous
twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid for or	provided	with	lunches and meals	only
after fourteen (14) hours and seventeen (17) hours worked and at intervals of four
(4)	hours thereafter.
48
V/
14.4.0	When an employee 11 i:■> been authorized to use his vehicle for trips to the Marine Terminal or MacLeod lake, he shal l he reimbursed ‘p3.7b per round Lrip to tile Marine Terminal and $5.00 per round ..rip to MacLeod lake.
ARTICLE XV - CONTRACTING OUT
15.1.0	Whenever it becomes necessary for the Company to contracl out a particular portion of its work load or requirements, the Company agrees to discuss, with the Union, the nature and scope of Lhe work to be done.
15.1.1	It is agreed that members of the bargaining unit shall not be laid off as a result of work which they are qualified to perform being contracted out to other sources.
ARTICUi XVI - DURATION OF ACRKl'MI'NI
16.1.0	This Agreement whal1 become effective as of October 8,	1987:	shall
remain in full force and effect until October 7,	1990:	and shall be automatically renewal
for a period of one (1) year unless notice in writing is given by either party lo Lhe other for modification or termination, during the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiry date of October 7, 1990.
49
16.2.0	Within three (3) months of the expiry of this Agreement, either party may give notice to the other party, in writing, of its intention to negotiate a renewal of this Agreement:.
Within ten (10) working days of receipt of such notice, both parties will meet and exchange proposed modifications or revisions of this Agreement.
Both parties	shall	thereupon enter
into negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable	effort	to secure such
a renewal.
16.3.0	the notices provided for in
Article XVI shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed, if to the Company, to:	The
Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, Nova Scotia, and if to the Union to:	The
President, Local 823, Energy and Chemical Workers Union, Pugwash, Nova Scotia.
30
SCHEDULE A
CLASSIFICATION & WAGE RATES
Effect. Effect. Get.8/87 Oct.8/88
Mine Dept. Ebistman Shaftsran Mirer
Mill Cept. Dispatcher
Dispatcher/
Helper
docker/
leader
Mrbile Eqaip. Qxrrator
Grwcy. Floor Attendant
Tnxk Scale Attendant
Mari re Term. Qxrrator
Wirdxrusaiun/
Itiggpr
13.11 13.61 12.13 12.63 11.95 12.45
12.05	12.55 1L.60 12.10 11.63 12.13
11.55	12,05 1143 11.93
11.55	12,05 1143 11.93 11.31 11.81
Effect.
Qct.8/89
14.26
13.28
13.10
13.20
12.75
12.78
12.70
12.58
12.70
12.58 12.46
51
Fine Salt Plant:
Shift Engineer 2nd Class
Shift Hrgineer 3rd Class
Shift langireer Atln Class
Itm Operator Briner
Sr.lkg.
Machine Cpr.
Dairy Mill Cpr.
Screen/Mtxer
Attendant
Vtafcusenan/
Ilngger
Maintenance Journeyman 1st Class 2nd Class 3rd Class
Ftewntative Maintenance I
Preerantative Maintenance II
Effect. Effect. Effect. Ctt.8/87 Get.8/88 Oct.8/89
13.69	14.19	14.84
12.93	13.43	14.08
12.71	13.21	13.86
12.93	13.43	14.08
11.68	12.18	12.83
11.61	L2.ll	12.76
11.42	11.92	12.57
11.71	12.21	12.86
11.31	11.81	12.46
13.56	14.05	14.71
12.61	13.11	13.76
12.04	12.54	13.19
11 .a	12.34	12.99
12.61	13.11	13.76
12.04	12.54	13.19
52
PREMIUMS
SKf.Fl'
A shift premium will be paid in addition to the applicable wage rate, whenever an employee works the following shifts:
Effective Oct. 8/87	- 4 - 12 - $ .33
12 - 8 - $ .37 Effective Oct. 8/88 - 4 - 1.2 - $ .36 12 - 8 ~ $ .40 Effective Oct. 8/89 - 4 - 12 - $ .38 12 - 4 - $ .45
PREMIUM
Working underground, on hoist cables, headframe below sheave deck - $0.25/hour.
PREMIUM "R”
Working in the shaft, on sheave deck or above, hanging, lowering and removing material from beneath the skip and performing maintenance work on the ship loading pipe at the Marine Terminal - $0.40/hour.
N> pyramiding of Premium "A" and "B".
53
PREMIUM "C"
Fine Salt Manufacture employees, (excepting shift engineers) with 4th Class Engine Operator's Certificate will be paid $0.10 per hour over their regular rate for a twelve (1.2) month period providing they continue their	studies	toward	obtaining
their 3rd Class Certificate.
Employees,	excepting	Shift	Engineers,
with 3rd Class Engine Operator's certificate (Full 'Ticket) will be paid $0.15/hour above their regular rate.
Employees	excepting	shift	engineers,
with 2nd Class Engine Operator's Certificate will	receive	$0.20/hour	over	and above
their regular rate.
PREMIUM "D"
Working inside Fine Solt Plant Boilers, removal or replacement of boiler casing or insulation and removal, repair or replacement of soot blower lances. The economizer is considered part of the Fine Salt Plant toilers - $0.35/hour.
PREMIUM ME"
Miner handling or firing explosive, Miner operating Rock Drill,
High Pressure Washer -	$0.18/hour.
54
CERTIF1 I'D HIGH PRESSURE WEEPERS
A maximum of one (1) Maintenance employee, certified as a High Pressure Welder will be paid $0.35/hour so long as he maintains certification and remains available to perform work requiring such certification within the I’ianL site.
When applicable, Premium "0" will be received in addiLion to the certified high pressure welder's premium.
WORKING LEADERS
Working leaders shall be included under the coverage of this Agreement and shall receive $0.75/hour more than the rate of the highest ranking job in the group being led.
RETROACTIVE PAY
A1 1 employees on strength as of October 8,	1987 wild be paid retroactively where
applicable:
(1)	The general wage increase
(2)	Premiums
( i) Holiday (Birthday)
Ik) Classification Adjustment
58
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS PLAN
It is agreed that the application of the Industrial Relations f Ians comprising the Group Life Assurance Plan, the Pension Plan (as amended July I, 1987), Pugwash Group Medical Plan (amended January 1 , 1981) and the Disability Wage Plan (amended December 29,	1987) shall continue in respect
of the employees of said works.
The Company agrees that the afore-mentioned coverages will continue without further change during the term of this Agreement unless such changes arc agreed to between the Company and the Union.
56
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED PUGWASH, N. S.
J . Wm. McCormi do. ,	. . :■. if.. S-iu < •. i (. . . .
Plant/Mi ne Manager	/'	, /
L. R. Hartling......A- ^fA.l J.t-A	.
Personnel/labour Relations Manager
ENERGY AMD CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823
Daniel Purdy. . v.. .. President, local. 823
■y
//
Zi. >■
Alan Mackenzie. i'.LC.-.l. .
Negotiating Committee Member - Maintenance
Ronald Rryson........ .'................
Negotiating Committee Member - R.S. Mill
(iryne MacIntyre...............................
Negotiating Committee Meml^r - Underground
Douglas l’attersoyif... v! S	is <: M.'.'ri. .
Negotiating Conriittee/Member - Fine Salt
MEMBERS OF UNION NEGOTIATING COMITTEE
M i A- •.
George Morri son.. . <w. -. ./.z. } }y.*X. it 1 .
National Representative E.C.W.U.
r>7
- FINE SALT PLANT
Notwithstanding Article VIII (8.1.3) during periods of low production requirements of Kvaporated Salt, the Company will have the. option of instituting, for Pan Operators only, a Tuesday through Saturday, and/or a Monday through Friday shift, schedule comprising twelve (12) hour shi Ets and averaging forty (40) hours/week over a three (3) week cycle.
For Local 823	For ’fhe Company
K.C.W.U.
58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- PAN OPERATOR TRAINEES -
It is agreed to establish a rate for Pan Operator Trainees equal to $0.7!3 less than the Pan Operator’s rate.
Canditates for the position of Pan Operator Trainee will be selected by the regular Job Posting System.
Future Pan Operator Positions will be filled by employees who have participated in and successfully completed the Pan Operator's Trainee Program or from employees who	are	considered	to lx:	fully trained
Pan Operators.
Pan Operator Trainee candidates will return Lo their	regular	classification
when	not	required	in this	position. A
Pan Operator Trainee will receive the Pan Operators rate when, in the' absence of the	Pan	Operator	he fills	that capacity
on a regular shift.
r)9
I-ETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHIFT ENGINEERS -
Upon completion of each class of Operator’s ‘Ticket granted by the Department of Labour, Province of Nova Scotia, the Shift Engineer will, be eligible for a tonus payment of $200.00.
This applies only to Shift Engineers who arc in the full time employ of The Canadian Salt Company limited, Pugwash, N. S. at the time the ticket is granted and who have accumulated the hours necessary for such class of ticket at this Plant.
For Local 823	For l tic Company
E.C.W.U.
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CRYSTAL II PRODUCTION
While operating the Crystal II line during a maximum of six (6) weekends per year and holidays with production at twenty-five (25) pal lets (or less) per shift, the packaging	warehousing operation may
lx? limited to two (2) employees who will perform the following duties:
1	- Fine Salt - Warehouscman/Bagger - who
will operate the filIer/sealer.
1	- Mobile Equipment Operator - who wi 11
palletize,	stretch wrap, and store
product.
For Local 823	For the Company
K.C.W.U.
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- MAINTENANCE LABOUR CLASSIFICATION -
It. is agreed to establish a committee comprised of two (2) members of the Bargaining Unit and two (2} members of Management with the following mandate:
- to add to the present letter of Understanding "Maintenance Apprenticeshi p and Promotion11 provision for hiring Into the Maintenance Department a Labour Classification.
Establi sh se]ecti on gui delines.
Establish a ratio of skil 1 ed/unskilled employees within the Maintenance Department .
This report wi 11 be presented by the Committee to the members of the Company and Union negotiating committee.
Once agreed upon it will form part of the
new agreement.
Until agreement is reached on new Letter of Understanding as described above, the Letter of Understanding as detailed in the Agreement effective Oct. 8, 1986 and expiring Oct.	7, 1987, page; 36 & 37
will remain in effect.
UCrTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RK CHANGE OF Sill FI -
The Company and Union arc agreed by signature to include the following as pari of our current Agreement.
Employees who are not eligible for a mutual exchange of shifts as provided for in Article VIII (8.4.0) because of their particular job or classification, may under this Agreement now arrange for such change.
Prior approval of the Foreman must be received and the initial change or subsequent change back to the regular schedule will not result in any overtime payment.
For bocal 823	For The Company
63
SUBJECT INDEX
C1AUS1
(A)
Absence limp] oyee Absence Reprimands Agreement Duration Agreement Notice to enter into 16.2.0 Alcoholism & Drug Abuse Arbitration Arbitration Single Arbitrator
Arbitration Discharge & Suspension
8.7.0
8.7.0 16.1.0
16.3.0
14.1.1
Art i cIc VII
7.5.0
7.5.0
(B) Bereavement Leave Bulletin Boards
Article X 4.2.0
(C)
Call ait	8.5.0
Change of Prod.
Schedule	8.3.3& 8.3.4
Change of Shift	8.3.7
Change of Shift -
Company Initiated	8.3.8
Change of Shift -
Mutual. Exchange	8.4.0
Check Off	3.1.0
Committeemen - Payment -
Stage 3	6.4.0
Calendar Days - Working	13.1.0
Contracting Gut	15.1.0
Conveyor Floor Operator	9.2.0
64
PACK
26
26
49
50 45 19
18
18
28
8
25
23
24
24
24
8
16
40
49
27
SUBJECT INDEX
Cl AUSK
ID)	Demotion - Elimination	9.3.0
of Job
Discrimination	4.3.0
Intimidation, etc.
Disciplinary Action	6.9.0
(E)	Employees not covered	2.1.0
by Agreement
Employees on Lay Off -	13.6.2
1st Choice to fill job opening
Employment - Another	13.6.0
Seniority Division
(F)	Foremen and Supervisors	9.4.0
not working
(G)	Grievance Committee	9.2.0
Grievance Committeemen	6.4.0
Payment on Stage 3 Grievance Discharge	6.1.9
7.5.0
Grievance Procedure , , . ,	...
Article VI
PAG
27
9
16
6
44
43
27
10
16
1 5 18
13
(H)
Holidays
Holidays “Ranking of’ Holidays - Continuous Shift Workers Hoiidays * During -Vacation Hours of Wotk
Article XI 11.2.1 11.1.3
12.1.0
2.2.0
3I
34
34
36
6
65
SUBJECT’ INDEX
Cl ause
(H) Hours of Work	8.1.2
Continuous 12	Hr	Shift	8.1.3
Hours of Wok	8.1.1
Continuous 8	Hr	Shift	8.1.4
Hours of Work	8.1.1
Kegular-Monclay-Fri day
(I) Industrial Relations Plan Investigating & Settlement
Grievance -
(1) Time Off	5.4.0
(2) Procedure	5.4.1
(J) Job-Permanently eliminated 9.3.0 Jury Duty	10.2.1.	10.2.0
(L) Labour Standards Code	1.1.1
Leaves of Absence
-	MVA Violation	10.3.0
-	Union Business	5.5.0
-	President & Secretary 5.4.0
Meetings
-	Personal	12.1.6
-	yacatjon	12.1.7
Letters of Understanding
-	Shift Schedules tor Fine Salt Plant
-	Pan Operator ‘Trainees
-	Shift Engineer Training tonus
Page
19
19
19
19
19
11
11
27
30
30
12
11
39
37
58
59
60
66
SUBJECT TNRKX
CI ause
(I.) Letters of Understanding
-	Crystal II Production
-	exchange of Shi ft
-	Maintenance Hiring &
Promot i on
Lock Out	4.4.1
loss oi Regular Hours	-	8.1.7
Shift Change
Lunches-Ovcrtimc	14.1.0
14.3.1
Page
(>1
67
63
10
24
48
48
CS) Management Rights
Meeti ngs-Not i fi cat ion Mutual exchange of Shifts Mutual exchange of Shi i ts -12 Hr Workers
2.2.0	6
8.6.0	13
8.4.0	28
8.4. I	28
(N) Negotiating Committee Negotiating Coirmitteo compensati on Notices - Meetings Notices - New employees Notices - Onion Notices - Vacancy No Work Available No Pyramiding O.T. Payments
8.1.0	10
8.1.1	10
8.6.0	13
3.2.0	8
4.2.0	8-9
13.3.1	40
3.8.1	26
8.8.2	26
(0)	0. H. & S Act
(A'ert i nie-Change in Posted Schedule
1.1.2	5
8.3.8	28
67
SUBJECT INDEX
(0) Overtime-Days Oft
Overtime-Distri bution
Overt ime-Di stri but ion 12 Hr Workers Overtime Holidays
Overtimc-In Excess of 8 Hrs
Overtime Lunches
Overtime-Notice of Avnilability Overtime-Sat & Sun Overtime Work
Clause • Pago
8.3.1	22
8.3.2	23
8.2.1
8.2.4	20-22
8.2.6	22
11.2.0
11.3.0	54-35
8.3.3	23
14. i.O
14.3.1	46-47
8.2.5	22
8.3.0	22
8.2.0	20
(P)
Pan Operators Shift Schcdule
Payroll Deductions Posting Vacancy 13.3.1, Promotions-Maintenance Dept. (Letter of Understanding)
Promotion, Relief, Demotion Protective Clothing Premiums
Punch ‘Time - U. G.
8. 1.3
3.1.0
13.3.4
13.2.0
14.2.0
8.6.0
19
8
41-42
64
40
45
53
26
68
R) ■ S)
Safety
Safety Conmittec General
Safety equipment	14.1.0
_	'	14.2.0
Safety Hazardous	14.2.2
Condi tions
Safety and Health	1.1.0
Satety Shoes, Glasses,	14.2,0
etc.
Seniority	Articl XI 11
Senioritv-Divi sionaI	i.3.0
Li i t s
Seniority -	HoisLmen	3.4.0
Seniority -	Loss of	3.3.0
Seniority -	Status	3.1.0
Seniority -	Student	3.3.3
Hi ring
Sei-vi ee-Re-Vacati oils	12. 1 .6
Shift, engineers - Bonus (letter of Understanding)
Shift Schedule - Pan	8. 1.3
Operators
Slow Downs, etc.	4.4.0
Supervi sory-Transferring	Ii.7.0
to
Page
7
7*4
43
44
47
48
>
45
40
41
42 42 40 42
37
60
19
9
44
69
SUBJECT INDEX
(T)	Technical & Process
improvement
Temp. Classi ficat\on -Working in
'Transfers, lay-off , etc Tracel-MacLeod Inke, Marine Terminal
(U)	Union executive? and
Of f i cors
Union Memlxn'ship and 1 Duos
Union Presideni - Day Shi
(V)	Vacations
Vaeat i ons~Sorvi ee and id'll i 11 ornenl
Cl nuse	l>aK1'
2.4.0	7
9.2.0	27
. H. 2 . 1	40
14.4.0	48
9.9.0	11
1.1 .0, 4.1 .0	8
ft r>.4.0	11
Article XI1	36
12.1.2	'16-9
to 12.1.7	
70