AGREEMENT
Between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED
PUGWASH WORKS
Nova Scotia
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 8, 2008 EXPIRES OCTOBER 7, 2011
00232 (10)
A G R E E M E N T
ENTERED INTO THIS 5th Day OF
February 2009 by and between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED, a Company having an office at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter called "The Company”, and acting herein with respect only to its Pugwash Works, hereinafter referred to as "said works".
AND
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823, located at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter referred to as "The Union".
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE................................1
A G R E E M E N T.......................2
Article No.	Page No.
I	PURPOSE...........................6
II	RECOGNITION.......................7
III	CHECK-OFF.........................9
IV	CO-OPERATION.....................10
V	REPRESENTATION...................12
VI	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..............15
VII	ARBITRATION......................18
VIII	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.......20
IX	WAGES - CLASSIFICATION...........30
X	BEREAVEMENT - JURY DUTY..........33
XI	HOLIDAYS.........................35
XII	VACATIONS........................40
XIII	SENIORITY........................45
XIV	SAFETY AND HEALTH................50
XV	CONTRACTING OUT..................56
XVI	DURATION OF AGREEMENT............57
SCHEDULE " A" - CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES. ... 58 PREMIUMS...............................59
SHIFT............................59
PREMIUM "A"......................59
PREMIUM "B"......................59
PREMIUM "C"......................59
3
PREMIUM "D"..........................60
PREMIUM "E"..........................60
CERTIFIED HIGH PRESSURE WELDERS ....60
WORKING LEADERS......................60
FIELD SERVICE MECHANIC...............61
BOAT LOADING.........................61
RETROACTIVE PAY.............................62
EMPLOYEE GROUP BENEFIT PLAN.........
....62
BRIDGING....................................63
VISION CARE.................................63
DENTAL COVERAGE.............................63
SKILLED TRADES LICENCE REIMBURSEMENT......64
EAP.........................................64
CANADA SAVINGS BONDS........................64
SIGNATURES PAGE.............................65
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
NO. 1: FINE SALT PLANT...............66
NO. 2: BRINERS 12 HOUR SHIFT.........66
NO. 3: PAN OPERATORS.................67
NO. 4: SHIFT ENGINEERS...............67
NO. 5: NOTICE OF LAY-OFF.............68
NO. 6: TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES........68
NO. 7: APPRENTICESHIP AND PROMOTIONS.68
NO. 8: VACATION......................70
NO. 9: VACATION - LAY-OFF............70
NO. 10: TOWER OPERATOR...............70
4
NO. 11: SHAFTSMAN - OVERTIME............70
NO. 12: INTERDEPARTMENTAL RELIEF POSITIONS.71
NO. 13: MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT - DAIRY MILL..71
LETTERS OF INTENT - DISABILITY WAGE	PLAN......75
SENIORITY LISTS................................76
INDEX..........................................84
5
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.1.0	The Company and the Union have entered into this Agreement at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, for the purpose of recording terms and conditions of employment, resulting from collective bargaining, which are to be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, and to work together to promote the safety and health of the employees and to achieve the most efficient operation of the works.
1.1.1	In any case where the benefits provided under the Labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia are found to be greater than those provided in this Agreement, then the benefits provided under that Code shall apply.
1.1.2	This Agreement shall conform to the existing Occupational Health and Safety Act, Province of Nova Scotia and both parties agree to co-operate in the observance of this Act.
1.1.3	Except where the context otherwise requires, words or expressions used in this Agreement denoting the masculine gender shall be read as including the feminine gender.
6
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.1.0	This Agreement shall apply to all the employees of the Company with the exception of Classifications listed below:
Management, Office and Stores Staff,
Supervisory Employees above and including the rank of Foremen.
Technical Engineers, Laboratory Staff and Assistants
Temporary and Probationary Employees,
Guards, Gatemen and Watchmen,
Office Janitorial Staff.
2.1.1	The Company recognizes the Union during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
2.2.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to manage the said works and direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote or transfer any employee and to demote, suspend, discipline or discharge any employee for just cause. In the interest of the efficient operation of the said works, the Union agrees that the Company may change hours of work, determine or change work assignments or methods and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured and to determine all other matters concerning the operation of the
7
Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in the Agreement, and that any such action shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and any such action which results in individual injustice, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
2.3.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to make and to alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees. These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
The Company shall provide the Union with copies of new rules and regulations before they are posted on Company bulletin boards.
2.4.0	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to incorporate all manner of technical and process improvements at any time, notwithstanding the fact that such improvements may reduce the labour force required to operate the works. Such reductions shall be consistent with qualifications and seniority rights.
In the case of a permanent reduction of the work force as per or the closure of a department, a displaced employee will exercise their plant wide seniority within the plant on any position where they are qualified.
The Company shall meet with the Union to discuss any displacement of employees per this article.
2.4.1	The letters of understanding exchanged between the parties on the signing of this collective agreement, and to be printed with the agreement, are part of the collective agreement and are binding upon the parties hereto during the term of this agreement.
8
ARTICLE III - CHECK-OFF
3.1.0	The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee the monthly dues, initiation fees and other assessments and dues authorized by the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union. The amounts of such deductions shall be deposited by the Company into the Union's Bank account following the month for which the deductions were made. A record of those from whose pay the deductions were made shall be submitted to the Union.
3.2.0	The Company shall notify the Union in writing, the names, classifications and rates of pay of all new employees upon hiring.
3.3.0	The Company will notify the Union in writing within three (3) days of an attempt to recall a laid-off employee.
9
ARTICLE IV - CO-OPERATION
4.1.0 All new employees must take out and maintain Union membership within five (5) working days from the date of employment with the Company.
4.2.0	The Company agrees that the Union may use the Company's Bulletin Boards, located throughout the said Works, provided that the use by the Union of the Bulletin Boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have received the approval in writing of the Company prior to posting and that the subject matter of such notices shall be restricted to matters pertaining to recreational or social activities, notices of meetings or notices of the results of elections in connection with affairs of the said Union, and provided further that no notice shall be posted which contains advertising or political matter. (Every effort shall be made both by the Company and the Union not to interfere unreasonably with each other's use of the boards.)
4.3.0	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint, coercion or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company, or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents regarding any employee because of membership or non membership in the Union, nor because of age, race, colour, religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, physical disability, mental disability, irrational fear of contracting illness or disease, ethnicity, national or aboriginal origin, family status, source of income and/or political belief, affiliation or activity. No employee shall, however, conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
10
4.4.0	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction, nor permit its members to cause or take part in, any sit down, stay-in, or slowdown in any department, or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company's operation or any curtailment of work or restriction or interference with production or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
4.4.1	The Company agrees there shall be no lock out during the life of this Agreement.
11
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.1.0	The Company agrees to recognize a Union
negotiating committee of six (6) members, one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President, and one (1) from each of the following departments:	Mine, Rock Salt Mill and
Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this committee shall represent the Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union.
5.1.1	It is understood that compensation to the employee committee members for regular wages lost in connection with re-negotiation of this Agreement shall be made by the Company. The Company's obligation to pay for lost time shall cease at such time as a Conciliation Officer is present.
5.2.0	The Company also agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee of six (6) members, one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President, one (1) of whom shall be the Chief Shop Steward, and one (1) from each of the following departments: Mine, Rock Salt Mill, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The representative from the Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers’ Union may also be present.
5.3.0	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the local Union officers, committeemen, and shop stewards and the effective dates of their elections or appointments.
5.3.1	Members of the Union Executive, including the Chief Shop Steward, who have been excused from their regular shift, and who have participated in a full shift of Union Business, will be paid at time and one half for all work performed on their regular shift when requested to work by the Company.
12
5.4.0	It is understood and agreed that the plant chairman, committeemen and shop stewards have their regular duties as employees to perform. Such a representative shall, however, after arrangement with, and the consent of his Foreman, whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, be permitted during his working hours, and without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of time in order to investigate and settle grievances in his jurisdiction.
The Union President shall be permitted to work on the Day Shift when such work is available within his own classification and for which he is qualified. The Vice President shall be permitted to work on the day shift on occasions where the President is unavailable for periods of one (1) week or more. In addition, a minimum of one (1) weeks’ notice is required.
The Union President, Secretary Treasurer and Executive will be granted time off, without pay, to attend the regular monthly Union Meetings.
The request for such absence must be made to the Department Supervisor prior to the posting of the Weekly Schedule in which the meeting occurs.
When such absence, for executive members only, requires the payment of Overtime Premium in order to provide relief, then such time off may be denied.
5.4.1	Each Foreman shall maintain, on special forms to be supplied by the Company, a record of the actual time when the chairman, committeeman and shop steward leaves his regular duties when about to engage in the investigation or settlement of a grievance or grievances and of the actual time when he returns and resumes his
13
regular duties. The Foreman and Union representative shall initial each entry of time on the said form.
5.5.0	The Company agrees that a leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any employee for Union business up to a maximum of sixty (60) working days in any one year. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during this period. The Union agrees to give the Company at least ten (10) days notice in writing of such leave giving appropriate details. The Union agrees there shall not be more than two (2) employees on leave of absence for Union business at any one time and that such leaves shall not in any event exceed three (3) months in the aggregate during each one (1) year period of this Agreement. The Company will consider allowing two (2) additional Union representatives to be absent at the discretion of the Manager. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.5.1	In addition to Clause 5.5.0, an employee who is appointed to a full time position with the Union, shall be granted a Leave of Absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Upon application, thirty (30) days prior to the end of such twelve month period or any subsequent twelve month period, the Leave of Absence will be extended for an additional twelve (12) months.
Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such periods.
5.6.0	The Company agrees to notify all committee members, in writing forty-eight (48) hours in advance of Company initiated Management Committee Meetings and to give as much notice as practicable for all other meetings or the cancellation of meetings that they are to attend.
14
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.1.0	Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called a "Grievance") which any employee or group of employees may wish to present to the Company shall be handled in the following manner.
6.1.1	Stage One: Any employee having a grievance shall first present it to his Foreman within a period of three (3) working days from the time that such an alleged grievance has arisen. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his shop steward. The foreman shall deal with the Grievance and shall render his decision not later than three (3) working days after he receives the grievance.
6.1.2	Stage Two: If the foreman does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee under the provisions of Stage One hereof, the employee and, if he so desires, with his shop steward, shall take the matter up directly with the Superintendent, in writing, on forms provided by the Union, within four (4) working days. The decision at this stage should be in writing within four (4) working days. Copies will be sent to all Grievance Committee members.
6.1.3	Stage Three: Should the Shop Steward and the Employee be unable to secure a satisfactory settlement from the Superintendent within four (4) working days after the grievance has been submitted to him, the Union Grievance Committee shall, within four (4) working days submit to the Facility Manager a written request for a Third Stage meeting. The Company and the Union shall then, within four (4) working days arrange a meeting. The Company shall, within four (4) working days after such meeting, submit its written reply to the Union.
15
6.1.4	Any allegation involving the misinterpretation or violation of any provision of this agreement may be lodged either by the Union or by the Company with the other party, in writing at Stage Three within ten (10) working days after the alleged misinterpretation or violation of the agreement has occurred. In the event of failure of the Company and the Union to agree on a settlement of the issue, it may be referred to arbitration by either party within ten (10) working days in accordance with the provisions of Stage Four.
6.1.5	A Grievance arising from the discharge, or the suspension of three (3) working days or more, of an employee may be submitted at Stage Three of the Grievance procedure within four (4) working days after the discharge or suspension has occurred. Any employee, who has been found through the Grievance Procedure, to have been wrongfully discharged, shall be reinstated.
6.1.6	No grievance shall be lodged or prosecuted against the discharge by the Company of a probationary employee.
6.1.7	The aggrieved employee may attend any meetings at Stage Three.
6.1.8	Stage Four: In the event of failure to reach agreement at Stage Three, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance with Article VII. Such submission must be made within ten (10) working days after the grievance has been dealt with in Stage Three.
6.2.0	Saturdays, Sundays, Day off or Day of rest (for seven (7) day operations) and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing steps. Any and all time
16
limits fixed by this Article may be extended at any time by mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union.
6.3.0	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal grievances directly to the Company provided such grievances are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
6.4.0	Committeemen, if on shift, and when granted leave of absence to engage in grievance procedure meetings with the Facility Manager at Stage Three only, shall not be penalized for loss of time or pay, provided the total time involved in all such meetings does not exceed eight (8) hours, for any one grievance.
6.5.0	The Company agrees that it has an obligation to deal as expeditiously as is reasonable in the application of discipline.
The Company shall, however, advise the employee of the disciplinary action to be taken as soon as a decision to that effect has been reached.
6.6.0	A disciplinary warning shall be deleted from an employee’s file if a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed without any new infraction resulting in disciplinary action.
6.7.0	The record of a suspension shall be deleted from an employee’s file if a period of eighteen (18) months has elapsed without any new infraction resulting in disciplinary action.
17
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.1.0	When either party decides to submit a grievance to arbitration, under 6.1.8, then the other party shall be so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shall then each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) working days. The two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as chairman of the arbitration board. If the third arbitrator be not chosen within ten (10) working days, then the Minister of Labour of the province of Nova Scotia shall be requested to assist in appointing an impartial chairman.
7.2.0	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7.3.0	Each party shall pay the remuneration and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by such party and the remuneration and expenses of the third or single arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
7.4.0	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto, but the arbitrators shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
7.5.0	Grievances related to discharge and suspension of three (3) working days or more appealed to Arbitration, will be umpired by a single Arbitrator.
18
The party desiring to appeal a grievance under this section to Arbitration shall notify the other party, in writing, of its intent including the remedy sought.
Within ten (10) working days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, the parties shall meet to select an impartial Arbitrator.
Should the parties fail to agree within five (5) working days, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia will be requested to appoint a person who shall umpire.
The Arbitrator shall hear the case as soon as possible.
19
ARTICLE VIII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1.0	The regular hours of work are stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours worked.
8.1.1	The regular hours of work for other than the continuous twelve (12) hour shift or the continuous eight (8) hour shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day, five (5) days a week Monday to Friday inclusive.
8.1.2	Continuous twelve (12) hour shift: Employee pay week is to be from 8:00 p.m. Sunday to 8:00 p.m. the following Sunday. Hours of work:
Day Shift - 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Night Shift - 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
8.1.3	Continuous twelve (12) hour shift:
-	Pan Operators, Shift Engineers, , Screen Mixer Attendants,, Mobile Equipment Operator(12) and Warehouse and Bagger man (12)
-	Regular hours of work shall be twelve (12) regular hours per day, three (3) and four (4) days per week for an average of forty-two (42 hours per week on a four (4) week cycle in accordance with the agreed shift schedule.
8.1.4	The Union recognizes that due to operational requirements, the Company may institute continuous eight (8) hour shift operations with four (4) regular rotating crews for shift engineers, pan operators and briners only. The regular hours of work for continuous seven (7) day
20
operation shall be eight (8) hours per day, five (5) or six (6) days per week in accordance with the mutually agreed rotating shift schedule (twenty (20) week cycle) for an average forty-two (42) regular hours.
8.2.0	It is understood that because of the nature of the salt business, the operation of this works requires a certain amount of periodic overtime.
When considered necessary by the Company, employees shall be requested to perform overtime work in excess of the regular hours of work.
Employees with a justifiable reason, shall be excused from working overtime. However, it is agreed that if sufficient qualified employees are not voluntarily available, then one (1) or more of the above excused employees, having the lowest Overtime Worked Total, shall be required to work.
8.2.1	The Company shall endeavor, as far as reasonably practicable, over a period of three (3) months, to distribute overtime equitably among qualified employees in the department by classification in which such work becomes necessary.
Lists will be posted every three (3) months indicating, by department, overtime worked and refused. Overtime will be recorded as equivalent straight time hours.
A copy of the Overtime Distribution list will be sent to the Union Executive Member and posted in each department weekly.
In the event of inequities of more than twenty-four (24) hours existing at the end of a three (3) month period, they will be corrected by assigning overtime available to the
21
applicable employee(s) as soon as practicable.
8.2.2	The three (3) month periods referred in Article
8.2.1	shall be defined as follows:
Period number one: Period number two: Period number three:
January (first Monday following last Sunday in December) to March (last Sunday in March)
April (first Monday following the last Sunday in March) to June (last Sunday in June)
July (first Monday following the last Sunday in June) to September (last Sunday in September)
Period number four: October (first Monday following the last Sunday in September) to December (last Sunday in December).
Overtime worked and refused during these four (4) periods will be charged as follows:
1.	At the end of each three (3) month period, the total number of hours worked and refused for each employee will be reduced by the lowest employee total in the respective classifications. The lowest employee total(s) within the respective classifications will be set to zero (0).
2.	A list showing the new totals will be posted the first week of the new period.
3.	This list will also include a year to date total of hours worked and refused. This total will restart at zero (0) each January.
22
8.2.3	An employee shall have his overtime set at the average of the employees in his classification when he returns to work following an absence from work in excess of 4 weeks, excluding vacation.
8.2.4	On completion of his probationary period, a new employee will be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees in his classification.
Probationary employees shall not be eligible for overtime until all qualified, regular employees in the classification in the department have been offered said overtime.
The following guidelines will be used to administer the Equalization of Overtime System:
1.	All employees, except those who have signed out of the system, who are requested to work overtime, will be charged with having worked or refused.
2.	Overtime which is the result of a penalty payment, such as a Company initiated change of shift, will not be charged.
3.	An employee may decline to participate in the process of equitable distribution of overtime by completing the appropriate form and submitting this form to the Company.
4.	When an employee elects to sign out of the system, the difference in “total hours worked and refused” between himself and the highest total (in his classification) will be recorded. When re-entering the system, this differential will be maintained. Should the employee signing out of the system be the highest in total hours worked/refused, then the difference between himself and the next highest total will be
23
maintained.
5.	An employee who has signed out of the system will not
be requested to work until all other qualified employees
within his classification have been asked.
8.2.5	In order to facilitate the equitable distribution of overtime and to ensure that personnel are available for overtime assignments, employees will be allowed up to twenty-four (24) hours from the time of posting to advise unavailability for overtime assignments.
8.2.6	When overtime is required in the position of Tower Operator, overtime will be offered first to the employee with the lowest grand total overtime hours in the Mill Department.
8.3.0	An employee whose working week is Monday to Friday inclusive, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
8.3.1	An employee whose working week includes Saturday or Sunday or both (excepting as in 8.3.2) of these days shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on his first day off and double time for all hours worked on his second day off.
8.3.2	For continuous twelve (12) Hour Shift Workers, any work in excess of three (3) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid at the rate of Time and One-half and any work in excess of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid at the rate of Double Time.
8.3.3	When, as a result of a Company initiated change of shift schedule (a) from a five (5) day week to a seven (7) day week or (b) from a seven (7) day week to a
24
five (5) day week or (c) from a five (5) day week or a seven (7) day week to the continuous twelve (12) hour shift, an employee is required to work more than five (5) consecutive days, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the sixth day and double time for the seventh day.
8.3.4	When, as a result of a change of production schedule from a continuous twelve (12) hour shift to a five (5) or seven (7) day week, an employee is required to work in excess of three (3) or four (4) consecutive days, these excess days will be paid in accordance with clause 8.3.2.
8.3.5	An employee, except as noted in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked:
(A)	In excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours, commencing at the employee’s regularly scheduled starting time.
(B)	Between Sunday midnight and the employee’s first scheduled shift of the week.
(C)	In excess of eight (8) hours if an employee does not have at least an eight (8) hour break period prior to his first scheduled shift of the week. The "Continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours" for the first scheduled day of that week will commence with his actual starting time on Sunday rather than his scheduled starting time. The remainder of the week will be as outlined in (A) above.
8.3.6	An employee on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time
25
worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the employee’s regular scheduled starting time.
8.3.7	Subject to the provisions of 8.5.1 the Company agrees to compensate the employee for any loss of regular hours incurred as a result of a Company initiated change in the Posted Weekly Shift Schedule.
8.3.8	An employee will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first shift only of a Company initiated change in a Posted Weekly Shift Schedule when such change is made after 4:00 p.m. on Friday (or) after 8:00 a.m. Friday for employees working on the back shift (if the Company fails to notify the employee by 4:00 p.m. Friday).
8.3.9	An employee acting in the capacity of a relief operator, or in training (Pan Operator, Shift Engineer or Screen/Mixer Attendant) in a continuous operation, who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekly Schedule", shall be paid a rate equal to time and one half for all hours worked in excess of 40.
An employee acting in the capacity of a relief operator, or in training (Pan Operator, Shift Engineer, or Screen/Mixer Attendant) in a five (5) day, 12 hour shift operation, who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekly Schedule" shall be paid at the rate of time and one half for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday. Further, employees will be paid at the rate of time and one half for all hours worked in excess of 40.
8.4.0	An employee may, with the approval of the Company, arrange for a change of shift with another employee provided each employee will have at least an
26
eight (8) hour break between shifts and the mutual exchange will not result in any additional overtime pay.
8.4.1	With the approval of the Company, employees on twelve (12) hour shifts may arrange for a mutual exchange of up to four (4) hours, provided that the right to any overtime payment, which may be incurred by the employee as a result of such change, is waived.
8.4.2	Employees who are not eligible for a mutual exchange of shifts as provided for in Article VIII (8.4.0) because of their particular job or classification, may under this Agreement now arrange for such change.
Prior approval of the Foreman must be received and the initial change or subsequent change back to the regular schedule will not result in any overtime payment.
8.5.0	An employee who is called in by the Company to perform work outside his normal hours of work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the appropriate overtime rate calculated at the employee’s basic rate or the job classification rate, whichever is the higher. However, no minimum payment shall apply when the hours so worked are continuous with the employee’s regularly scheduled working hours.
8.5.1	An employee who reports for work on his regularly scheduled shift, and for whom no work is available, will be guaranteed four (4) hours work or training or four (4) hours pay at his regular rate.
This provision shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an absence or when such lack of work is due to the lateness of the employee, a labour dispute, fire, flood, power shortage, or other such cause beyond the control of the Company.
27
Employees who are at work and because of a power shortage their regular work is unavailable the employer will make an effort to find alternative work or training for the remainder of the shift.
8.5.2	Overtime payments shall not be pyramided nor shall more than one basis for calculating overtime be used to cover the same hours.
8.5.3	Company will maintain a data log to verify all O/T calls. For emergencies there will be no waiting period for response. In cases of required OT where the employer has at least 24 hours notice all employees requested to work will be given at least one (1) hour to respond to overtime requests. If there is no response they will be charged and the process will be continued until the vacancy is filled.
8.6.0	Hoisting and lowering schedules for underground employees will be arranged to provide eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift, but variations from such schedules, not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently, shall be disregarded. Delays in such schedules in excess of fifteen (15) minutes shall be considered time worked.
8.6.1	It is understood that all surface department employees shall be at their working place and ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their shift.
8.6.2	If, at the commencement of his scheduled shift, an employee is late, he shall be penalized to the extent of six (6) minutes for lateness after the first six (6) minutes, and to the extent of a further six minutes for each succeeding period of lateness six (6) minutes. The entries on the employee’s Time and Attendance Report shall
28
govern the application of this Clause.
8.6.3	If such an employee leaves his working place before the end of any scheduled working period, he shall be penalized to the extent of six (6) minutes for early leaving for every tenth of an hour included in the period between the time when the employee left his working place and the end of such scheduled shift. The entries on the employee’s Time and Attendance Report shall govern the application of this Clause.
8.7.0	Absence of an employee without prior notice with reasonable excuse or without subsequent reasonable excuse, may on the first offence result in a reprimand by the Company. On the second offence, the employee may be suspended for a period decided upon by the Company, but not to exceed one (1) week. The third offence may result in discharge. Any reprimand for absence will be cancelled from the record of an employee six (6) months after it is incurred.
29
ARTICLE IX - WAGES - CLASSIFICATION
9.1.0	The classification of all occupations and wage rates appearing in Schedule “A” attached hereto, is made part of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto. Any new occupation established during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in Schedule “A”. Prior to the implementation of any new classification, the Company agrees to meet with the Union executive to negotiate the wage rate of such new classification. If necessary, the Company may establish an interim rate to be used until agreement is reached on a final rate.
9.2.0	It is agreed that when an employee is assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, he shall be paid at his regular rate, provided work is available for him at the time in his regular classification. If there is no work available in his own classification, such employee shall be paid the classification rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned. Any employee, with the exception of those assigned as relief to the classification of Conveyor Floor Attendant or Truck Scale Attendant shall get the classification of the highest class of work he does any time during his regular shift.
For those employees acting as relief Conveyor Floor Attendants or Truck Scale Attendants, the higher rate shall apply only for the actual time assigned to that classification.
9.3.0	An employee who is to be demoted because his job is to be permanently eliminated shall be given advance notice of ten (10) calendar days or in lieu of such notice, shall retain his previous rate for ten (10) calendar days.
30
9.4.0	It is the express policy of the Company that Foremen, acting Foremen and Supervisors shall not perform the regular work of a member of the bargaining unit except:
(A)	In the case of emergency where immediate action is necessary in order to protect personnel or equipment;
(B)	For the purpose of instruction or training including demonstrating the proper method to accomplish the task assigned;
(C)	For the purpose of developing a method or technique;
(D)	For the purpose of checking operating conditions.
9.5.0	An acting foreman is a bargaining unit employee who is responsible for a crew and is performing duties normally performed by a foreman. They will only perform bargaining unit work as per_Article 9.4.0 with the following exceptions:
1.	Acting foremen in the maintenance department, working back shift underground, Monday to Friday, as long as there are four (4) or fewer maintenance employees in total on shift.
2.	Acting foremen in the maintenance department working the weekend (Friday midnight to Sunday Midnight) as long as all maintenance employees have been offered the overtime work.
All Acting foremen will maintain their union classification and be eligible for O/T in their classification, as per O/T language, when not working in the acting foreman’s capacity.
A working leader is a bargaining unit employee, reporting to a foreman or acting foreman, who is designated by the company to coordinate tasks or lead other employees and performs some responsibilities that a foreman would normally perform. They will be paid the working leader rate
31
and will perform bargaining unit work.
A field service mechanic is a maintenance employee whose main responsibility is emergency repairs._They will perform some responsibilities that a foreman would normally perform. They will be paid the field service mechanic rate and will perform bargaining unit work.
The working leader and field service mechanic positions will be selected as per Article 13.2.0.
32
ARTICLE X - BEREAVEMENT - JURY DUTY
10.1.0	An employee who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a family member shall be granted a Leave of Absence with pay in accordance with the following conditions.
10.1.1	An employee on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a family member shall be granted a Leave of Absence with straight time pay at twelve (12) hours per day, subject to the following conditions.
10.1.2	An employee on an 8 hour schedule shift who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a family member shall be granted a Leave of Absence with straight time pay at eight (8) hours per day, subject to the following conditions
10.1.3	The days eligible for payment shall commence the day after the death occurs. Such days must be consecutive scheduled non overtime working days of the employee who, but for the bereavement, would have worked on those days.
10.1.4	One of the bereavement days can be scheduled at another time to attend the funeral
10.1.5	1 day bereavement: brother in law, sister in law
10.1.6	3 days bereavement:	grand child, grand
parents, step father, step mother, step brother, step sister, father in law, mother in law.
10.1	7 5 days bereavement:	spouse, child,
child of current spouse, father, mother, brother, sister
10.1.8 For the purpose of Article X, the word 'Common Law Spouse' will be recognized within the full meaning of the word spouse, so long as cohabitation has existed for a continuous period of 12 months.
33
10.2.0	An employee who is summoned and reports for Jury Duty or is subpoenaed by a court as a witness and appears in court shall be paid by the Company, an allowance equal to the difference between the employee’s straight time earnings lost as a result of his jury service or appearance in court as a witness and the amount of jury or witness fees, excluding travelling allowance, paid by the court.
10.2.1	In order to qualify for such payment, the employee will be required to give the Company prior notice that he has been summoned for Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness and to furnish satisfactory evidence that Jury Duty was performed or that he attended as a witness on the days for which he claims such allowance.
10.3.0	Absence as a result of a conviction under either the Motor Vehicle Act or Sections 253, 254, and 255 of the Criminal Code of Canada (1999), shall be treated as Leaves of Absence without pay, not to exceed a period of ninety (90) days.
ARTICLE XI - HOLIDAYS
11.1.0	It is agreed that the following days shall be considered paid holidays during the Term of this Agreement for employees on the Seniority List:
For the duration of this collective agreement, if the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia adds an additional holiday in the Province of Nova Scotia the Company will amend Article 11.1.0 to include the holiday.
2009
New Year's Day *
Good Friday *
Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day *
Civic Holiday Labour Day * Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day *
Boxing Day
24th/31st (All 4 - 12 Shift) (All others)
1 Floater
New Year's Day * Good Friday *
Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day
Thursday, Jan. 1/09 Friday, Apr. 10/09 Monday, Apr. 13/09 Monday, May 18/09 Monday, June 8/09 Wednesday July 1/09 Monday, Aug.3/09 Monday, Sept. 7/09 Monday, Oct. 12/09 Wednesday, Nov. 11/09 Friday, Dec. 25/09 Monday, Dec. 28/09 Thursday, Dec. 24/09 Thursday, Dec. 31/09 To be Scheduled
2010
Friday, Jan. 1/10 Friday, Apr. 2/10 Monday, Apr. 5/10 Monday, May 24/10 Monday, June 14/10
35
Canada Day *
Civic Holiday Labour Day * Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day *
Boxing Day
24th/31st (All 4 -12 Shift) (All Others)
1 Floater
Thursday, July 1/10 Monday, Aug. 2/10 Monday, Sept. 6/10 Monday, Oct. 11/10 Thursday, Nov. 11/10 Monday, Dec. 27/10 Tuesday, Dec. 28/10 Friday, Dec. 24/10 Friday, Dec. 31/10 To be scheduled
2011
New Year's Day * Good Friday *
Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day *
Civic Holiday Labour Day *
Monday, Jan. 3/11 Friday, Apr 22/11 Monday, Apr 25/11 Monday, May 23/11 Monday, June 13/11 Friday July 1/11 Monday, Aug. 1/11 Monday, Sept. 5/11 To be scheduled
1 Floater * Statutory Holidays are denoted *
** Company and Union to coordinate with the Village of Pugwash,
11.1.1	An employee who is off work on any of the above Holidays shall, subject to the provisions of Clause
11.1.2,	be paid an amount equivalent to that which he would have received for his regular scheduled shift.
36
11.1.2	An employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
(A)	If he does not work on any non-statutory holiday when he has been scheduled to do so, unless he has been excused from work in advance or furnishes a subsequent justifiable reason for such failure.
(B)	If he is absent without a justifiable reason on the last scheduled working day preceding the holiday or the next scheduled working day succeeding the holiday. For the purpose of Holiday Pay entitlement only, overtime shall not be considered as a scheduled shift.
(C)	However, in the case of illness certified by medical certificate, leave of absence or layoff, an employee shall receive his holiday pay if he had worked fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
11.1.3	For scheduled continuous shift employees, holidays covered by Article XI will be observed on the calendar day on which they actually fall.
11.1.4	Employees who have acquired seniority will be eligible for one (1) floater holiday to be taken between January 1 and December 31 of each year as follows:
1) Upon completion of 90 days worked in each yearly period, the employee becomes eligible for one (1) holiday.
An employee wishing to use a floater holiday for which he has become eligible, shall request permission from his supervisor prior to the posting of the weekly schedule.
Although permission will not unreasonably be withheld, absence due to a floater holiday will be considered as part
37
of the department's maximum allowable absence.
Normally, employee time off for banked and floater holidays will be scheduled so that a replacement can be provided on regular time basis.
It will be possible, however, when the request, in the opinion of the immediate supervisor, is reasonable and justified, to provide replacement on an overtime basis.
The floater holiday will not be carried over from one year to the next. If the floater holiday is not taken, it will be paid out at regular rate at the beginning of each new year.
An employee who has acquired seniority may, with the permission of his supervisor, use the floater holiday in advance of eligibility. At the end of December of each year, employees who have taken the floater holiday but have not satisfied the eligibility, as stated in number 1 above, will be required to reimburse the Company any holiday pay advanced.
11.2.0	In addition to the holiday pay stipulation in Clause 11.1.1, employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all work performed on the above holidays.
11.2.1	For all employees on a 12-hour shift, who work on a Holiday, or the holiday falls on their scheduled day off, shall, have the option of taking a day off in lieu, for all Statutory Holidays.
All Holidays banked must be used prior to December 31st of the following year. Holidays not used will be cancelled and employee will be paid amount being held in lieu.
For those employees who elect to take a day in lieu of a Holiday worked, the following shall apply:
38
One week's notice in writing shall be required of the employee’s intent to take a day in lieu. Arrangements for the day off in lieu of the Holiday worked will require the approval of the Dept. Supervisor and will require notice in writing of one (1) week.
Such approval by the Department Supervisor will not be unreasonably withheld.
Payment of the Premium portion will be paid for the Holiday worked. Payment of the regular portion will be paid when the day in lieu is taken.
To satisfy the requirement of a "Week’s Notice", such notice must be given prior to the posting of the "Posted Weekly Schedule".
11.3.0	Employees who are ineligible for holiday pay by reason of insufficient service, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed on any of the above holidays.
11.4.0	Employees without seniority are governed by the Labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia.
39
ARTICLE XII - VACATIONS
12.1.0	Subject to the rules contained below, an employee who has completed the prescribed period of service by March 31st., shall be granted a vacation with pay as follows:
12.1.1	Employees with six (6) months but less than twelve (12) months accumulated service shall be granted a vacation equal to 0.83 of a day per month of service.
Vacation Pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee’s gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.2.	a A full vacation week for all employees will be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on the first regular scheduled working day following the employee’s regular scheduled day or days off.
For continuous shift workers, a full vacation week shall be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on Monday and ending on Sunday.
12.1.2.	b An employee may elect to take up to one (1) full vacation week in single shift increments, providing the following conditions are met:
•	Provide written notice Thursday of the week prior
•	Supervisory approval.
Single day vacation requests are subject to all other vacation provisions and restrictions as set forth in the collective agreement. The Company reserves the right to deny single day vacation requests for essential positions should there be no available replacement.
40
12.1.3	Employees with one (1) year but less than five (5) years accumulated service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee’s gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.4	Employees with five (5) years but less than ten (10) years accumulated service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be six (6) percent of the employee’s gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.5	Employees with ten (10) years but less than twenty (20) years accumulated service shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be eight (8) percent of the employee’s gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.6	Employees with twenty (20) years but less than twenty-five (25) accumulated service shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be ten (10) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.7	Employees with twenty-five (25) years or more accumulated service shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be twelve (12) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.8	For the purpose of these rules Accumulated Service shall be the total period during which the employee has been an employee of the Company commencing on the employee's most recent hiring date or January 1, 1952, whichever is the most recent.
Any employee whose 5th, 10th, 20th or 25th year of accumulated service falls within the current vacation year, shall be permitted to take the corresponding vacation entitlement at the applicable rate of pay beginning April 1st
41
of the current vacation year.
12.1.9	Vacations may not be postponed from one year to another, nor may they be waived by an employee and vacation pay be drawn in lieu of the vacation. No part of a Leave of Absence shall be considered as the vacation period.
However, an employee returning from lay-off period, which equals or exceeds his vacation entitlement, may, upon his return to work waive part or all of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
Furthermore, in cases of absence due to illness of periods which equal or exceed his vacation entitlement, an employee may waive all or part of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof. The employee’s vacation waiver will be limited to the number of weeks he was absent or the number of weeks he is entitled to, whichever is less.
12.1.10	For those entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5), or six (6) weeks vacation, the Company reserves the right to limit their vacation during July and August to two (2) weeks. Such employees may schedule the remainder of their vacation outside of July or August.
The Company and the Union recognize that the week that includes Christmas Day and the Nova Scotia March Break periods have become prime vacation periods. To help ensure that more employees have an opportunity to take vacation during one or the other of these periods, employees may be restricted to one or the other. Seniority will govern selection of these vacation periods should restrictions become necessary due to department operating requirements.
42
12.1.11	Vacations shall be scheduled by the Company to take place mainly during the summer months and shall be arranged to coincide as far as possible with the wishes of the employees, subject in both cases to the efficient operation of the department concerned.
12.1.12	Where a recognized holiday or holidays occur during an employee’s vacation, he shall be entitled to take an additional day or days provided the Company has been advised in writing of his intent at least one (1) week prior to the commencement of his vacation day and the day will not interfere with the vacation rights of other employees or exceed departmental vacation levels. The deferred days must be taken within the vacation year.
12.1.12.a Requests for vacation by seniority must be submitted by May 15th (or the closest working day) of each year. Approved vacation schedules will be posted by June 15th (or the closest working day) of each year. All vacations requested after May 15th will be on a first come first served basis.
Scheduling of vacation allotment will be limited to the employee’s vacation entitlement
12.1.13	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee on the employee’s regularly scheduled payday, unless the employee provides a written request to be paid advanced vacation pay. In which case, vacation pay shall be paid on the last day preceding the date the employee is scheduled to go on vacation, at minimum one (1) week increments. The employee must confirm in writing his impending vacation with the Company at least one (1) week in advance.
43
The employee has the option of taking all or part of his vacation pay entitlement when going on vacation.
12.1.14	Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid a vacation allowance of four (4) percent, six (6) percent, eight (8) percent, ten (10) percent or twelve (12) percent of his gross wage as determined by preceding Clauses 12.1.1, 12.1.2, 12.1.3, 12.1.4, 12.1.5, 12.1.6, 12.1.7.
12.1.15	In any case where the benefits provided under the Nova Scotia Pay Act are found to be greater than the above provisions, the benefits provided under the Act shall apply.
12.1.16	Members of the bargaining unit, not exceeding more than one (1) from each department at any one time, shall be granted upon request with adequate notice for scheduling, a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed two (2) weeks in each year of this Agreement.
In any event, leaves of absence, except for the purpose of bereavement, will not be granted when such leave exceeds the departments maximum allowable absence.
12.1.17	Employees retiring may elect to take their vacation prior to the retirement date, or to receive vacation allowance in lieu of unused vacation in the current year, unless the employee’s request is in conflict with Company policy, or the articles as outlined in this Collective Agreement. This payment will be paid out with the last pay the employee will be receiving.
44
ARTICLE XIII - SENIORITY
13.1.0	An employee shall acquire seniority status after he has been in the employ of the Company for an aggregate probationary period of six hundred (600) straight time hours during any 12 month period.
Seniority shall date back to the earliest hire within the 12 month period.
13.1.1	When two (2), or more, newly hired employees acquire seniority in a department on the same date, the order of appearance on the seniority list will be decided by a draw, witnessed by the Union President or designate and the effected employees.
13.2.0	In all cases of promotion including vacation relief, demotion, transfer, lay-off, and recall, the Company will consider the following:
(A)	Seniority
(B)	Skill and ability to perform the work required.
13.2.1	When, in the judgement of the Company, Factor (B) is equal, as between two (2) or more employees, seniority shall govern. Cases of disagreement shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of Article VI.
13.3.0	It is agreed that there shall be four (4) divisional seniority lists, Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. When an employee transfers from one division to another, his name shall be placed at the bottom of the Divisional Seniority List and he shall retain his seniority in his original division for a period of sixty (60) days.
45
At the end of sixty (60) days of cumulative seniority in the new division, sixty (60) working days in the Maintenance Division and sixty (60) calendar days in all other divisions) the transfer shall be considered final and his seniority shall then date from the date of such transfer.
13.3.1	A notice of vacancy will be posted for a period of forty-eight (48) regular working hours in all departments inviting applications from interested candidates. Such postings will be valid for a period of sixty (60) days. The results will be posted within one (1) week, seven (7) consecutive days.
13.3.2	Promotions to vacant positions will be filled from within the division in which the vacancy occurs provided suitable applicants are available. Failing success in locating a suitable candidate from within the division in which the vacancy occurs, applications from other divisions will then be considered in order of total plant service.
13.3.3	For the purpose of inter-department transfer, Temporary Positions of less than sixty (60) days duration need not be posted.
13.3.4	Promotions of a non-permanent nature (greater than sixty (60) calendar days) will be reversed upon return to work of the permanent incumbent, if in the judgement of the Company, the incumbent is physically and otherwise capable of performing all of the required duties.
13.3.5	Notwithstanding any provisions of Article XIII, students may be hired for periods not to exceed four (4) consecutive months. Such employees shall be considered as probationary and shall not acquire seniority. All other provisions of this Agreement shall apply to these employees.
46
13.3.6
1.	Employees who are laid-off for a continuous period of sixty (60) calendar days or more will return to work at the lowest classification within their department.
2.	For lay-off periods less than sixty (60) continuous days, employees will return to the classification they held at the time of their lay-off.
3.	The exception will be:
a)	Maintenance Department employees
b)	Boiler Operators
The above exceptions will retain their classifications when returning from periods of lay-off.
13.4.0	Hoistmen shall be included on the Mine Seniority List.
13.5.0	An employee will lose all seniority if he or she:
(A)	Voluntarily quits.
(B)	Is justifiably discharged.
(C)	If in Nova Scotia, fails to return to work within five (5) days after notice to return has been sent by registered mail. If outside Nova Scotia, he must return in a reasonable time. In either case, both Union and Company must be notified immediately of change of address.
(D)	Is laid-off in excess of the greater of twenty-four (24) months or the employees service.
47
(E)	Is absent from work for five (5) consecutive normal working days without notifying the Company giving a satisfactory reason for such absence.
13.6.0	A laid-off employee holding seniority in one (1) division who is accepted for temporary employment in another division and who has not accumulated sixty (60) continuous days in his temporary position will return to his former division as soon as regular work is available for him in that division.
13.6.1	If such temporary employment exceeds sixty (60) continuous days in one (1) division, the position will be posted. The successful candidate shall maintain his seniority in his original department until he has actually filled his new position for a period of sixty (60) days or until he elects to assume the service in the new position accumulated prior to the posting of the position. If the employee elects to assume such service it will be combined with his service in the position. The employee shall be required to advise the Company in writing of his decision within the sixty (60) day period.
13.6.2	The Company agrees that before hiring probationary employees, any member of the bargaining unit on lay-off qualified to do the work available will be given first choice to fill the job opening.
13.6.3	Five (5) days following receipt of a Lay-off Notice, an employee shall be entitled to exercise accumulated service over a probationary employee in another department who has not attained seniority status in that department.
48
13.7.0	If an employee is transferred to a supervisory position, he shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement. However, if an employee returns to the bargaining unit within nine (9) months, he will retain his accumulated seniority and Union dues will be remitted to the Union by the company on three (3) month intervals for this period.
49
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY AND HEALTH
14.1.0	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment.
Such protective devices as the Company requires to be worn and other equipment which in the opinion of the Company is necessary to protect the employee from injury shall be provided by the Company.
14.1.1	Employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug abuse will be covered by the Disability Plan provided they subject themselves to prescribed treatment.
14.1.2	It is agreed that the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will be comprised of:
3 Union Representatives 3 Company Representatives
Each party will advise the other in January of each year the names of their representatives.
14.1.3	It is agreed that each department will have one (1) safety representative with the exception of the maintenance department which will have two (2), one (1) from surface maintenance and one (1) from underground maintenance.
These representatives will participate in their department safety meetings and safety tours.
14.2.0
(A) Coverall/overalls will be provided to all employees free of charge.
50
(B)	A.N.S.I.Z87/C.S.A. approved non-prescription safety
glasses, with side shields, will be provided free of
charge.
Effective October 8, 2008, the Company will provide a refund up to $210.00 upon receipt of proof of purchase of A.N.S.I.Z87/C.S.A. approved safety frames and prescription lenses once every 24 month period
The Company agrees to replace the lenses only of prescription safety frames and safety lenses when such lenses are damaged as a result of the employee’s work at the Plant.
Such replacement will be on the following basis:
Maintenance Department Employees: Three times per two year period, October 8, 2008 - October 7, 2010; and three times per two year period, October 8, 2010-October 7, 2012.
All Other Employees: Once per above two year period.
C) 1. Miners belts will be provided free of charge.
2.	Gloves will be provided for dirty and hazardous jobs, as determined by the Company, free of charge. Other gloves will be provided at cost.
3.	Dust masks will be provided free of charge.
4.	Hearing protection will be provided free of charge on request and will be required to be worn on designated jobs.
5.	Welding equipment will be provided free of charge.
51
D) The Company will pay out the purchase price of Company approved safety footwear up to the maximum shown below:
From October 8, 2008 - October 7, 2009	$165.00
From October 8, 2009 - October 7, 2010	$165.00
From October 8, 2010 - October 7, 2011	$170.00
Effective October 8, 2000, Hand Scalers, Briners, Pan Operators, Shaftsmen and Front End Loader operators on surface will be eligible for an additional refund of $100.00 per contract year on the purchase price of Company approved footwear.
Employees in the Relief Briner and Relief Pan Operator positions, Blasters, and Maintenance employees assigned to surface, who accumulate 600 hours in a contract year, and Relief Hand Scalers who accumulated 200 hours in a contract year in their relief capacity, will be eligible for an additional refund up to $100 per contract year on the purchase price of Company approved footwear.
Effective on Oct 8 2008 and each subsequent year of the collective agreement the Company will reimburse employees as follows
All employees will receive the maximum reimbursement above on their cheque the nearest pay period following October 8th.
Employees who are eligible for the additional foot wear refund will receive the second reimbursement on their cheque the first pay period the following April.
52
14.2.1	Whenever the Company recommends to the employees for their better protection, the use of additional personal safety equipment which it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees at cost.
14.2.2	For the information of employees, the following guidelines set out the procedure to be followed under Section 43 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, if an employee has reason to believe that work he is being asked to do is dangerous to himself or to others in the workplace. It is agreed that these are only guidelines and as such, are not a substitute for the provisions of the Occupation Health & Safety Act, and particularly Section 43 of the Act, which will govern in all applicable instances. Guidelines:
If an Employee has reason to believe that work they are being asked to do is dangerous to themselves or anyone else in the workplace, they can refuse to do the work until:
1.	The Employer takes action to remedy the problem to the Employee’s satisfaction.
2.	The Safety Committee has investigated the situation, and all members of the Committee advise the Employee to do the work, or
3.	A Department of Labour Officer investigates the situation and advises the Employee to do the work.
If an Employee is going to refuse to do work, these are the steps that should be followed:
1.	Report to a supervisor that they refuse to do the work.
53
2.	If the problem is not remedied to the Employee’s satisfaction, the Employee should report it to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee or Health and Safety Representative.
3.	If the problem is still not remedied to the Employee’s satisfaction, the Employee should report it to the N.S. Department of Labour.
When an Employee refuses to do work, that Employee has the right to participate in the investigation along with the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, Health and Safety Representative or, Department of Labour Officer, when they inspect the workplace to see if the Employee has a good reason for refusing to do the work.
During the investigation, the Employee will be paid their regular wages.
When an Employee refuses to do certain work, the Employer is allowed to give them other work to do.
Also, when one person refuses to do certain work, the Employer also has the right to give the work to another person, provided the second Employee is made aware of:
1.	The first person’s refusal
2.	The first person’s reason for refusing.
3.	The second Employee’s right to refuse.
14.3.0	The Company shall, if possible, provide an overtime meal if the employee is required to work more than ten (10) continuous hours and if employment continues an overtime lunch if possible at thirteen (13) hours and at intervals of four (4) hours thereafter. The meal provided will be to a maximum of $10.00. The lunch provided will be to a maximum of $8.00. If it is not
54
possible for the Company to provide the above meals and/or lunches, or the employee chooses payment in lieu, then the employee will be paid $10.00 per meal and $8.00 per lunch.
The company will provide as much variety as possible for meals from all local restaurants.
14.3.1	Employees on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid for or provided with lunches and meals only after fourteen (14); hours and seventeen (17) hours worked at intervals of four (4) hours thereafter.
14.4.0	When an employee has been authorized to use his vehicle for trips to the Marine Terminal or MacLeod Lake, he shall be reimbursed $2.50 per one-way trip to the Marine Terminal and $3.00 per one-way trip to MacLeod Lake.
55
ARTICLE XV - CONTRACTING OUT
15.1.0	Whenever it becomes necessary for the Company to contract out a particular portion of its workload or requirements, except in emergencies or other situations beyond the control of the Company, the Company will notify the Union in writing no less than seven (7) calendar days before tenders are let. The Company agrees to discuss with the Union within five (5) calendar days of the notification, the nature and scope of the work to be done, if requested by the Union.
15.1.1	It is agreed that members of the bargaining unit shall not be laid off as a result of work which they are qualified to perform being contracted out to other sources.
15.1.2	In the event bargaining unit work (warranty and specialized work excluded, not including welding) is to be contracted out, the Company will pay a daily work permit fee for each contractors’ or subcontractors ‘employee on site of $3.00 per day. The company will remit such payment to local 823 on a monthly basis.
56
ARTICLE XVI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
16.1.0	This Agreement shall become effective as of October 8, 2008, shall remain in full force and effect until October 7, 2011 and shall be automatically renewed for a period of one (1) year unless notice in writing is given by either party to the other for modification or termination during the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiry date of October 7, 2011.
16.2.0	Within three (3) months of the expiry of this Agreement, either party may give notice to the other party, in writing, of its intention to negotiate a renewal of this Agreement.
Within ten (10) working days of receipt of such notice, both parties will meet and exchange proposed modifications or revisions of this Agreement.
Both parties shall thereupon enter into negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable effort to secure such a renewal.
16.3.0	The notices provided for in Article XVI shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed, if to the Company, to: The Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, Nova Scotia, and if to the Union to: The President, Local 823, Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union, Pugwash, Nova Scotia.
57
SCHEDULE " A"
CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES
Mine Department Hoistman Shaftsman Miner
Miners' Dry Attendant
Mill Department
Dispatcher
Dispatcher/Helper
Checker/Loader
Mobile Equipment Operator
Conveyor Floor Attendant
T ruck Scale Attendant
Marine Terminal Operator
Warehouseman/Bagger
Fine Salt Department Shift Engineer 2nd Class Shift Engineer 3rd Class Pan Operator Briner
Sr. Pkg. Machine Operator Dairy Mill Operator Screen/Mixer Attendant Warehouseman/Bagger
Maintenance Department Journeyman 1st. Class 2nd. Class 3rd. Class Preventive Maint. I Preventive Maint. II Preventive Maint. III
Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Oct. 8/08	Oct. 8/09	Oct. 8/10
25.16	25.69	26.27
23.76	24.29	24.84
23.53	24.06	24.60
22.91	23.44	23.94
22.89	23.42	23.94
22.28	22.81	23.32
22.31	22.84	23.35
22.22	22.75	23.26
22.31	22.84	23.35
22.31	22.84	23.35
22.31	~ 22.84	23.35
21.87	22.40	22.90
25.44	25.97	26.56
24.39	24.91	25.47
24.28	24.81	25.37
22.37	22.90	23.42
22.29	22.82	23.33
22.00	22.53	23.04
23.60	24.13	24.67
21.87	22.40	22.90
25.27	25.80	26.38
23.93	24.46	25.01
23.13	23.66	24.20
22.85	23.38	23.90
23.93	24.46	25.01
23.13	23.66	24.20
22.85	23.38	23.90
58
PREMIUMS
SHIFT
A shift premium will be paid in addition to the applicable wage rate, whenever an employee works the following shifts:
Effective Oct. 8/05	4-12	$0.55/hr.
12-8	$0.65/hr.
PREMIUM "A"
For employees other than Miners, Hoistmen, Shaftsmen, working underground, on hoist cables, headframe below sheave deck, Effective October 8,
2005...$0.45/hour. Primary Blasters will also receive this
premium.
PREMIUM "B"
Working in the shaft, on sheave deck or above, hanging, lowering and removing material from beneath the skip and performing maintenance work on No. 6, 7 and 8 conveyors at the Marine Terminal, or working on disposal system. $.50/hour.
No pyramiding of Premium "A" and "B".
PREMIUM "C"
Fine Salt Manufacture employees, (excepting shift engineers) with 4th Class Engine Operator's Certificate will be paid $0.10/hour over their regular rate for a twelve (12) month period providing they continue their studies toward obtaining their 3rd Class Certificate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 3rd Class Engine Operator's Certificate (Full Ticket) will be paid $0.15/hour above their regular rate.
59
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 2nd Class Engine Operator's Certificate will receive $0.20/hour over and above their regular rate.
PREMIUM "D"
Working inside Fine Salt Plant Boilers, removal or replacement of boiler casing or insulation and removal, repair or replacement of soot blower lances. The economizer is considered part of the Fine Salt Plant Boilers - $0.40/hour.
PREMIUM "E"
Miner loading, firing explosives or washing miss-fired holes.
High Pressure Washer - $0.25/hour.
CERTIFIED HIGH PRESSURE WELDERS
The existing High Pressure Welder will receive $1.00/hr. when performing work requiring High Pressure Welding Certification.
Employees who, at the request of the Company, hold certification in a second recognized trade, will receive a premium of $0.35/hr. for all hours worked.
WORKING LEADERS
Working leaders shall be included under the coverage of this Agreement and shall receive $1.10/hour more than the rate of the highest ranking job in the group being led.
60
FIELD SERVICE MECHANIC
Field Service Mechanics shall be included under the coverage of this Agreement and shall receive $1.10/hour more than the rate of the highest ranking job in the group being led.
BOAT LOADING
If a weekend boat schedule (including employees required to replenish the Marine Terminal if necessary) is adjusted after 8 p.m. on Friday, each originally scheduled employee whose schedule is adjusted will be paid a onetime one-call fee of $25. In the event that the schedule adjustment results in the cancellation of the shift for the entire weekend, then originally scheduled employees will be eligible for an alternative one-time payment of $50.
61
RETROACTIVE PAY
All employees on strength as of October 8, 2008 will be paid retroactively where applicable:
Wage adjustment
Safety Footwear
Stationary Engineer Licenses
EMPLOYEE GROUP BENEFIT PLAN
It is agreed that the application of the Employee Group Benefits comprised of the Group Life Insurance Plan (as amended October 8, 1996), the Pension Plan (as amended March 18, 2002), Sun Life Medicare Supplement Insurance (effective January 1, 1994) and the Disability Wage Plan (amended October 8, 1993) shall continue in respect of the employees of said works, except as set out below.
The Company agrees that the aforementioned coverages will continue without further change during the term of this Agreement except as set out below or unless such changes are agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Effective July 1,2000 the Company will coordinate a Long Term Disability Plan through a third party (example, Sun Life) with a long- term disability benefit of $1200.00 per month, effective Oct 8,2008 the long- term disability benefit will increase to $1375.00 per month, effective Oct 8 2009 the long term disability benefit will increase to $1425.00 per month and effective on Oct 8 2010 the long term disability will increase to $1475 per month subject to the terms and conditions of such plan. There will be no integration or carve-out.
62
BRIDGING
The current bridging benefit for employees who retired prior to March 1, 2008 shall remain unchanged at $450/month from age 60 - 65.
From March 1,2008, any affected employee who has completed 30 years of credited service and who retires on or after March 1,2008 after attaining age 55 will receive a bridging supplement as follows:
Prior to Age 60:	$600/Month
From Age 60 - 65:	$550/Month
VISION CARE
The Company shall provide a Vision Care program for the personal use of seniority employees and their eligible dependants with coverage in the amount of $150 every 24 months and $55 for eye exams every two (2) calendar years. Note: All prescription Safety Glasses purchased must comply with the A.N.S.I./C.S.A. standards and contain side shields.
DENTAL COVERAGE
The Company will provide a dental plan at the employee’s cost. Coverage will be mandatory unless proof is provided that the employee is covered under spousal plan.
Employee’s contribution to the dental plan will remain at the current rates for the term of this agreement
63
SKILLED TRADES LICENCE REIMBURSEMENT
The Company will reimburse Stationary Engineers for license they require in the performance of their duties. The Stationary Engineers will be required to provide a copy of their license and proof of payment for reimbursement.
EAP
The Company to assume the cost of EAP for employees and dependants.
CANADA SAVINGS BONDS
The Company will offer the Canada Savings payroll program to all employees.
64
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED Pugwash, N.S.
II.G. Sutherland . Facility Manager
Stewart MacSwain.. U/G Superintendent
Alexander Binette../.J.T: Surface Superintendent
Dave Henry............
Maintenance Superintendent
Ghantal Tremblay.. H.R. Area manager
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, PAPERWORKERS UNION PUGWASIi SALT, LOCAL 823
Randy Bonnyman i J President, Local 823.fcv:>5?tf
Robert Carter... Maintenance Representative
Robert Brander.........Sf&.-vw?
Rock Salt Mill Representative
Dale Langille...7.16.
Underground Representative
Garth Reid___
Fine salt Representative
Kim Power.........
National Representative C.E.P.U.
65
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
NO. 1: FINE SALT PLANT
Notwithstanding Article VIII (8.1.3) during periods of low production requirements of evaporated salt, the Company will have the option of instituting, for Pan Operators and/or Screen Floor Attendants only, Monday through Friday shift schedule comprising twelve (12) hour shifts and averaging forty (40) hours/week over a three (3) week cycle. The Company will post the change to or from this schedule by the Monday of the week prior to the commencement of the new schedule. The two (2) employees working the first shift only of such changed schedule will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for such shift if the notice is not provided by the Monday of the week prior to the commencement of the new schedule.
NO. 2: BRINERS 12 HOUR SHIFT
Following an agreed schedule, three (3) employees will work 12 hour shifts, 8 a.m. - 8 p.m. at regular time, for an average of 40 hours per week, over a three week cycle.
Holidays that occur while employees are working this schedule will be paid at 12 hour each.
This schedule will remain in effect as long as the Mine Department continues to hoist on a 12 hour/day production cycle and as long as there is a requirement for brine. A change in either of these factors will allow the Company to return the Brine Classification to a regular 8 hour shift schedule without penalty.
66
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING - Continued
NO. 3: PAN OPERATORS
During periods of unusually high production demands and/or limited staff availability for extended shifts, it is mutually agreed that payment for hours worked will be the greater of:
1)	Existing contract provisions covering 5 day, 12 hour shift schedules
or
2)	For the period 12:01 a.m. Monday - 12:00 midnight Sunday of each week:
First 40 hours	-	Regular Time
40 hrs. - 52 hrs.	-	Time & One Half
52 hrs to 12:00 Midnight Sunday -	Double Time
Employees will be advised when this provision is in effect.
NO. 4: SHIFT ENGINEERS
Upon completion of each class of Operator’s Ticket granted by the Department of Labour, Province of Nova Scotia, the Shift Engineer will be eligible for a bonus payment of $225.00.
This applies only to Shift Engineers who are in the full time employ of the Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, N.S. at the time the ticket is granted and who have accumulated the hours necessary for such class of ticket at this Plant.
The Company will reimburse Stationary Engineers for licences they require in the performance of their duties. The Stationary Engineers will be required to provide copy of their licence and proof of payment for reimbursement.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING - Continued
NO. 5: NOTICE OF LAY-OFF
Subject to the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia, the Company will provide one (1) week notice in writing of layoff to affected employees specifying the date of lay-off.
NO. 6: TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES
Subject to the requirements of the classification, the Company will ensure that training opportunities within departments will be offered when reasonably practicable to employees in order of seniority.
NO. 7: APPRENTICESHIP AND PROMOTIONS
Many of the Trades under the Province of Nova Scotia "Trades & Apprenticeship Division of the Department of Labour" are recognized by the Company as being applicable to the Maintenance Department.
From time to time it may be practical and desirable to fill positions which are vacant, or may become vacant, with applicants from within the Plant who are interested in entering the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
These applicants who are deemed qualified by The Company will be hired or transferred into the Maintenance Department at the level of 3rd Class and will be entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
Notwithstanding Article XIII (13.3.0), employees who transfer to Maintenance 3rd Class and are entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program may be returned or elect to be returned to their previous classification if they are not
successful in attaining an established standard in Block I of their particular trade.
Employees enrolled in a Trades Apprenticeship Program will be eligible for promotion on the following basis:
-3rd Class to 2nd Class - 12 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 1 st year Trade School.
-2nd Class to 1st Class - 24 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 2nd year Trade School.
-1st Class to Journeyman - 48 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus Journeyman certification in one of the above trades.
The program will be administered according to the Apprenticeship Program Guidelines.
Apprenticeship Program
•	Grade 12 high school diploma or equivalent.
•	Excellent safety record and the ability to perform job duties and meet physical requirements of all assignments.
•	Excellent attendance record
•	Satisfactory completion of pre-program testing for aptitude and ability.
•	Current disciplinary action on file will be considered.
When selecting internal applicants, the concept of seniority shall govern only where the qualifications are relatively equal between two or more employees.
NO. 8: VACATION
When an employee, while on vacation, suffers a major illness, injury or family crisis, the Company agrees to discuss with a view to rescheduling the vacation period.
Each case will be judged on its own merits and in all cases the Company's decision will be final.
NO. 9: VACATION - LAY-OFF
The Company and Union agree to expand the interpretation of Clause 12.1.9 to allow an employee, while still on lay-off, to waive all or part of his vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
The amount of vacation time waived must not be greater than the period of lay-off within the vacation year.
NO. 10: TOWER OPERATOR
The employee assigned to act as Tower Operator during boat loading operations will be paid a rate equal to the classification of Checker Loader.
NO. 11: SHAFTSMAN - OVERTIME
It is agreed that the Company may schedule employees within the classification of Shaftsman to overtime assignments within the classification of Miner and that this may occur even when all of the employees within the classification of Miner have not been scheduled to work.
All overtime worked and refused by employees within a classification will be credited to that classification.
NO.12: INTERDEPARTMENTAL RELIEF POSITIONS
The company will continue to post as per article 13.2.0 for relief positions and discuss with the union the positions to be posted and the number of positions.
All relief positions will be paid as per Schedule “A” classification rates for the job they are relieving
NO 13: MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR THE DAIRY MILL
Requirements:
•	Four Mill Department Mobile Equipment Operators
•	Eight Fine Salt Department Warehouse/baggers
Current Classification
•	Mill Department Continuous Mobile Equipment Operators (M-F) (14)
•	Fine Salt department Continuous Warehouse /Bagger (M-F) (11)
New Classification
•	Mill Department Mobile Equipment Operators (M-F) (10)
•	Mill Department Mobile Equipment Operators (Continuous) (4)
•	Fine Salt Department Warehouse / Bagger (M-F) (3)
•	Fine Salt Department Warehouse / Bagger (Continuous ) (8)
Shift:
12 hour continuous shift rotation; 8:00am to 8:00pm 8:00pm to 8:00am
Schedule
•	Regular hours of work shall be twelve (12) regular hours per day, three (3) and Four (4) days per week for an average of forty two (42) hours per week on a four (4) week cycle in accordance with the agreed shift schedule (as per 8.1.3). All sections of the current collective agreement that deal with 12 - hour continuous shifts will apply to the new classification.
Vacancies
•	Unplanned - any vacancy that occurs after the posting of the weekly shift schedule will be filled as follows
Relief, if required, will first be drawn from the mobile equipment operators and the warehouse /bagger on 8 - hour shifts.
If the hours cannot be filled with these personnel, then relief will be filled through an overtime request as per the overtime equalization list.
•	Planned - any vacancy known to occur before the posting of the weekly shift schedule will be filled as follows:
A relief person as per vacation relief.
If the hours cannot be filled with these personnel,
then relief will be filled through an overtime request as
per the overtime equalization list.
There will be a minimum of two (2) relief postings, 12-hour continuous mobile equipment operators.
There will be a minimum of two (2) relief postings for 12-hour continuous warehouse/baggers.
As required will be drawn from employees on layoff within the department first, then by seniority outside the department and be given appropriate training to perform the job.
Overtime
•	Mill Department Mobile equipment Operator M-F and Continuous
The new mobile equipment operator classification and the existing mobile equipment operator classification will be considered as one for overtime opportunities, including boat loading. The current Collective Agreement provisions for overtime equalization will apply.
The rate for the boat loading for the mobile equipment operator M-F (8 hours) will apply
•	Fine Salt Department warehouse /Bagger (M-F) and Continuous
The new warehouse/bagger classification and the existing warehouse /bagger classification will be considered as one for overtime opportunities. The current Collective agreement provisions for overtime equalization will apply.
•	Jurisdiction
If on the weekend the Company requires mobile
equipment operator other than that in the continuous shift position , this requirement will be filled as overtime (ie: boat loading , snow removal, lowering equipment, loading wharf trucks , etc)
The new warehouse/bagger classification duties will be Windsor Fines, Dried Coarse, Blocks, Totes, stock salt, and Crystal II. They will not run 12-2’s, rectangles unless all the regular Dairy Mill employees have refused the work.
•	Rate
One dollar per hour above Schedule A rates for
-	Mobile Equipment Operator
-	Warehouse\Bagger
•	Job postings
The postings for the new classifications will be as per the Collective Agreement (Article 13)
•	Restrictions
-	This new classification is not intended to reduce the man power within the current departments.
If order demand slows to the point where regular 84 jobs are affected the 12 hour rotation would be cancelled before the 8-4 employees are reduced.
This agreement is non precedence setting and the Union in no way agrees that the Company may implement new classifications of this type (similar work) in the future without the agreement of the Union.
LETTERS OF INTENT
DISABILITY WAGE PLAN - FIRST DAY BENEFIT COVERAGE -
1) The Company agrees to recognize certain non-elective medical/surgical procedures as qualifying for first day coverage.
These procedures will be identified by the Company with participation by the Union executive as follows:
Non-elective procedures that quality will be those which historically required a hospitalized recovery period, but that now are being performed as an outpatient service/day surgery.
Non-elective procedures that require the use of General Anesthetic or medication that render the employee unfit for duty.
The employee will be required to provide documentation from a doctor confirming that the employee is prevented from attending work for the reasons stated above.
The term “hospitalized” will be interpreted to mean admittance to a recognized hospital or, if appropriate, a recognized medical clinic, generating a charge for a least one day, supported by medical documentation, and preventing the employee from attending work for at least one day.
P/R
No
769
129
184
213
154
162
247
6
88
90
156
125
53
126
48
263
249
289
294
293
303
305
306
280
119
79
307
312
319
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LISTS As at December 14, 2008
MAINTENANCE______________________
Seniority	Plant Service
Date	Date
Name
Browne
Roach
Seaman
Forsythe
Carter
Jamieson
Beattie
VanDam
Lawless
MacLean
Lepper
Cox
Lavers
Doyle
Morris
Wood
Coulter
MacBurnie
Weatherbee
Maddison
MacNutt
Power
Baker
Langille
Jamieson
Jamieson
Taylor
Cameron
Wallace
J.Robert
Matthew
Brian
David
Robert
R. Bruce
J. Bruce
Robert
John
J.David
Alexander
Dennis
Kenneth
James
Scott
David
Jerry
Glenn
John
Stephen
Daniel
Rene
Glenn
David
Glenn
Andrew
Michael
Michael
Robert
Feb 19/74 Jun 9/75 Dec 20/76 Feb 21/79 May 11/79 May 11/79 Sep 30/79 Oct 5/85 Jun 25/89 Dec 2/92 Aug 3/93 Dec 4/95 Sep 24/96 Oct 29/96 Jun 23/97 Jan 21/02 Nov. 1/04 Dec. 7/04 May 24/05 May 24/05 Oct. 24/05 May 01/06 May 29/06 July 10/06 July 10/06 Aug 08/06 Sep 14/06 Oct 16/06 Jan 21/08
Sep 17/73 Dec 9/74 Jun 22/73 Jan 29/79 May 24/74 Oct 12/78 Sep 10/79 Sep 16/85 Jun 13/89 Nov 30/92 Jan 20/77 Dec 4/95 Jul 7/87 Oct 28/96 Jun 23/97 Jan 21/02 Dec. 16/02 Nov. 29/04 May 24/05 May 24/05 Oct. 24/05 May 01/06 May 29/06 Oct 04/04 July 13/94 Oct 10/97 Sep 14/06 Oct 16/06 Jan 21/08
320	Foster	Bob	Feb 11/08	Feb 11/08
321	Skinner	David	Apr 14/08	Apr 14/08
113	Ferdinand	Scott	Apr 21/08	Jul 11/94
287	Weeks	Allyson	May 5/08	Sep 28/04
325	Chapman	Calvin	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
P/R
No.
4
41
16
122
13
71
116
114
145
207
202
241
240
128
139
7
3
64
54
80
89
102
100
42
40
111
59
57
147
152
193
214
123
151
MINE
Plant Service
Lynds	Ronald
Allen	Ainsley
Duffy	John
Reid	Wayne
Patriquin	Warren
Tower	William
Collins	Ralph
Chapman	Henry
Boyd	Glen
Ferdinand	Frederick
Boyd	Leonard
Drummond	John
Hodgson	Michael
Reid	Robert
Drummond	Wade
Langille	Dale
Patriquin	John
Douglas	Allan
Weeks	Randy
Rushton	Charlie
Russell	Merlin
Parker	Steven
O'Neill	G. William
Duggan	E.R. Junior
Purdy	Michael
Hyatt	J.David
Rushton	Kencil
Stevens	John
Cottrill	Brent
Mattinson	William
Williams	Bryan
Rushton	Gary
Briggs	Michael
Pollard	Vincent
Seniority Date	Plant Service Date
Mar 2/72	Feb 14/72
Jun 10/73	May 16/73
Mar 3/75	Mar 3/75
Apr 2/75	Apr 2/75
Jan12/76	Jan 7/76
Feb 28/77	Feb 28/77
Apr 27/77	Apr 27/77
May 8/78	Jun 29/77
Oct 12/78	Oct 12/78
Dec 18/78	Dec 18/78
Jan 3/79	Oct 20/78
Sep 7/79	Sept 7/79
Oct 1/79	Sep 5/79
Jan 11/81	Jan 8/81
Jan 13/81	Jan 12/81
Jul 28/86	Jul 28/86
Sep 29/88	Jul 26/88
Oct 1/88	Jul 27/88
May 10/89	May 3/89
Jun 5/89	May 29/89
Jun 20/89	Jun 13/89
Sep 25/89	Jul 31/89
Mar 19/90	Mar 19/90
Mar 20/90	Mar 20/90
Sep 22/94	Apr 24/90
Jun 27/95	Jun 27/95
Jul 10/95	Jul 10/95
Jul 10/95	Jul 10/95
Jul 21/95	Jul 17/95
Jul 7/96	Jun 24/96
Jul 11/96	Jun 28/96
Jul 7/97	Jul 7/97
Jul 9/97	Jul 7/97
Jun 23/01	Jun 24/96
217
131
117
252
127
268
254
273
286
295
296
297
298
299
309
310
31 6
31 5
31 7
31 8
327
329
McKellar	Robert	Jun 28/01	Oct 18/99
Keiver	Terry	Oct 29/01	Nov 25/96
Patterson	Kevin	Jan 13/03	Jun 21/90
Purdy	Anthony	Jan 13/03	Sep 20/99
Canfield	Paul	Nov. 17/03	Nov. 25/96
Patriquin	Winston	July 19/04	Nov. 3/03
Langille	Robert	July 26/04	Sept. 4/01
MacKenzie	Myron	Oct. 12/04	Nov. 17/03
Wells	Timothy	Sept. 26/05	Sept. 24/04
Cail	Earl	Sept. 26/05	Sept. 26/05
Craib	Timothy	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
Craib	Richard	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
Stevens	Bobby	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
Wallace	Kerby	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
Kou wen berg	Dwight	Dec 31/07	Dec 31/07
Orlik	Jim	Dec 31/07	Dec 31/07
Peterson	Trevor	Jan 15/08	Jan 15/08
McGrath	Robbie	Jan 15/08	Jan 15/08
Smith	Nick	Jan 15/08	Jan 15/08
T renholm	Brodie	Jan 15/08	Jan 15/08
Margeson	David	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
Myers	Tim	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
FINE SALT
P/R. No.	Name		Seniority Date	Plant Service Date
87	Cook	Roger	Jun 29/73	Jun 6/73
149	Taylor	Robert	Jul 4/73	Jun 14/73
198	Mattatall	Leon	Nov 1/73	Sept 5/73
177	VanBuskirk	Charles	May 24/74	May 24/74
73	Gordon	Brian	Apr 14/75	Apr 14/75
180	Chapman	Leonard	Jun 13/75	Jun 13/75
97	Weeks	Ronald	Jul 24/78	Jul 24/78
179	Bonnyman	Randy	Oct 16/78	Oct 16/78
227	McGrath	Ralph	Jun 19/79	Jun 19/79
5	Weeks	Ralph	Jun 30/80	Jun 30/80
14	Crowe	James	Aug 13/80	Aug 13/80
166	Duggan	C.Peter	Aug 15/80	Aug 13/80
181	MacLeod	Daniel	Jul 28/82	Jul 28/82
32	MacKenzie	Carl	Jul 29/86	Jul 26/86
25	Reid	Garth	Jul 26/88	Jul 26/88
65	Watson	Peter	Aug 22/88	Aug 22/88
72	Crossman	Richard	Apr 25/90	Apr 25/90
118	Lockhart	Brian	Jun 18/90	Jun 18/90
76	Moran	Shayne	Feb 10/92	Feb 10/92
197	Brander	Paul	Jun 20/95	Jan 9/95
133	Dixon	Troy	Jul 12/99	Oct 10/97
246	Purdy	Timothy	Sept 20/99	Nov 04/97
259	Thompson	Ashley	Oct 22/01	Oct 22/01
260	MacIntosh	Cory	Oct 26/01	Oct 26/01
265	Miller	James	May 25/03	Nov 4/02
271	Smith	K. Scott	Jun. 20/03	June 20/03
274	Wells	Kevin	Aug. 9/04	Aug. 9/04
288	Coulter	Andrew	Oct. 15/04	Oct. 13/04
266	Cail	Darren	Jun. 14/05	Nov. 3/03
275	Reid	Peter	Jun. 14/05	Sept. 22/04
200	Carter	Robert Jr	Jun 10/06	
304	Metcalfe	John	Jul 10/06
314	Jardine	Gary	Dec 03/07
326	Elliott	Douglas	Jun 17/08
323	Bonnyman	Andrew	Jun 17/08
ROCK SALT MILL
P/R No. No.	Name		Seniority Date	Plant Service Date
47	Boyd	Timothy	Oct 9/74	Oct 9/74
22	Purdy	Daniel	Jun 18/75	Jun 18/75
8	Allen	Carl	Oct 14/75	Oct 14/75
159	Cameron	Eric	Nov 30/76	Nov 4/76
63	Bryson	Ronald	Aug 12/77	Jun 20/77
138	Seaman	Gene	Jun 19/78	Jun 19/78
106	Casey	Kenneth	Aug 18/78	Aug 18/78
208	Hawkes	Larry	Dec 29/78	Dec 29/78
210	Hawkes	Ronald	Jan 3/79	Jan 3/79
223	Allen	David	May 7/79	May 7/79
233	Newcombe	Charles	Jul 4/79	Jul 4/79
244	Arsenault	David	Sep 11/79	Sep 11/79
245	Sarson	Alan	Sep 12/79	Sep 12/79
11	Stevens	Steven	Jul 31/80	Jul 31/80
69	Trenholm	Bruce	Oct 14/80	Oct 14/80
35	Smith	Brian	Aug 7/86	Aug 7/86
37	Henderson	Ross	Aug 7/86	Aug 7/86
38	Sarson	Carl	Aug 11/86	Aug 11/86
36	Margeson	Carl	Jul 26/88	Jul 26/88
96	Benjamin	Gordon	Jul 24/89	Jul 24/89
94	Sellick	Allison	Oct 22/90	Jun 26/89
95	Brander	Robert	Oct 22/90	Jun 26/89
84	Lloy	Kenneth	Nov 9/92	May 29/90
124	Langille	Donald	Nov 19/94	Nov 17/94
29	Mundle	lan	Oct 30/95	Jun 27/95
82	Browne	C.Jason	Oct 10/96	Jul 18/96
130	Dwyer	Reginald	Nov 25/96	Nov 25/96
132	Pye	Vincent	Oct 16/97	Oct 10/97
134	Trenholm	Jody	Oct 17/97	Oct 10/97
218	Sprague	Joyce	Nov 28/99	Dec 1/99
215	Ferdinand	Stephen	Sep 10/01	Sep 10/01
262	Ouderkirk	Scott	Nov 23/01	Nov 19/01
302	Pridham	Mitch	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
300	Cook	Paul	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
301	Smith	Trevor	Oct. 3/05	Oct. 3/05
328	McRae	Paul	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
324	Canfield	Paul Jr	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
322	Allen	Stephen	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
330	Stone	Joel	Jun 17/08	Jun 17/08
332	Barton	Morris	Aug 5/08	Aug 5/08
331	Parker	Jeff	Aug 5/08	Aug 5/08
SUBJECT INDEX
CLAUSE_______PAGE
(A) Absence - Union Leave of	5.5.0	14
- Reprimands	8.7.0	29
- Employee	8.6.3	29
Agreement		
- Application	2.1.0	7
- Duration	16.1.0	57
- Notice to enter into 16.2.0	16.3.0	57
Alcohol & Drug Abuse	14.1.1	50
Application	2.1.0	7
Arbitration	Article VII	18
- Single Arbitrator	7.5.0	18
- Discharge & Suspension	7.5.0	18
- Expense	7.3.0	18
(B) Bereavement Leave	Article X	33
- Spouse/Child	10.1.6	33
- Common Law Spouse	10.1.7	33
Benefit Package - Group Benefit Plan		62
Bulletin Boards	4.2.0	10
(C) Calendar Days - Seniority	13.1.0	45
Call Out	8.5.0	27
Change of Production Schedule	8.3.3	24
	8.3.4	25
Change of Shift		
- Loss of Hours	8.3.7	26
- Company Initiated	8.3.8	26
- Mutual Exchange	8.4.0	26
Check Off	3.1.0	9
Chief Shop Steward	5.3.1	12
Classification - Loss of	13.3.6	47
Committeemen - Payment - Stage 3	6.4.0	17
Company - Recognition	2.2.0	7
Contracting Out	15.1.0	56
Conveyor Floor Attendant	9.2.0	30
Coveralls	14.2.0	50
Committee - Duties	5.4.0	13
- Grievance	5.2.0	12
	6.4.0	17
- J.O.H.& S.	14.1.2	50
84
- Negotiating	5.1.0	12
- Safety	14.1.3	50
Compensation		
- Grievance	6.4.0	17
- Negotiations	5.1.1	12
(D)		
Demotion - Elimination of Job	9.3.0	30
Dental Coverage		63
Discrimination, Intimidation, etc.	4.3.0	10
Disciplinary Action - Advising Employee	6.5.0	17
Dues - Union	3.1.0	9
(E)		
EAP		64
Employee Group Benefit Plan		62
Employees Not Covered by Agreement	2.1.0	7
Employees on Lay-Off		
- Right to replace probationary employees	13.6.2	48
Employment		
- Temporary in another department	13.6.0	48
(F)		
Foremen and Supervisors not working	9.4.0	31
(G)		
Gender Neutral	1.1.3	6
Grievance Committee	5.2.0	12
Grievance Committeemen		
- Payment of Stage 3	6.4.0	17
Grievance - Discharge	6.1.5	16
- Guide for Arbitrator	7.5.0	18
- Procedure	Article VI	15
- Probationary	6.1.6	16
- Personal	6.3.0	17
(H)		
Hazardous Condition	14.2.2	53
Health & Safety - Promotion	1.1.0	6
Holidays	Article XI	35
- 'Banking of'	11.2.1	38
- Continuous Shift Workers	11.1.3	37
- During Vacation	12.1.12	43
- Floater	11.1.4	37
- Loss of	11.1.2	37
Hours of Work	2.2.0	7
85
- Regular Hours of Work	8.1.1	20
- Continuous 12 Hour Shift	8.1.3	20
(I)		
Immediate Family - Definition	10.1.4	33
Investigating & Settlement of Grievance		
- Time Off	5.4.0	13
- Procedure	5.4.1	13
(J)		
Job - Permanently Eliminated	9.3.0	30
Job Posting	13.3.1	46
J.O.H.S. Committee	14.1.2	50
Jury Duty	10.2.0	34
	10.2.1	34
(L)		
Labour Standards Code	1.1.1	6
Leave of Absence		
- MVA Violation	10.3.0	34
- Union Business	5.5.0	14
- President & Secretary Meetings	5.4.0	13
- Personal	12.1.16	44
- Vacation	12.1.9	42
Letter of Intent - Disability Wage Plan		75
Letters of Understanding - Policy	2.4.1	8
- Apprenticeship & Promotions (No.7)		68
- Briner 12 Hour Shift (No.2)		66
- Fine Salt Plant (No.1)		66
- Interdepartmental Relief Positions (No. 12)		71
- Notice of Lay-Off (No. 5)		68
- Pan Operators, Overtime (No. 3)		67
- Shaftsman Overtime (No. 11)		70
- Sift Engineers (No. 4)		67
- Training Opportunities (No. 6)		68
- Tower Operator (No. 10)		70
- Vacation/Vacation Lay-Off (No. 8 & 9)		70
Lock Out	4.4.1	11
Loss of Regular Hours	8.3.7	26
(M)		
Management Rights	2.2.0	7
Meetings - Notification	5.6.0	14
- Time Off	5.4.0	13
Membership - Union	4.2.0	10
Mutual Exchange of Shifts	8.4.0	26
86
Mutual Exchange of Shifts
- 12 Hour Workers	8.4.1	27
(N)		
Negotiating Committee	5.1.0	12
Negotiation Committee Compensation	5.1.1	12
Notices - Bulletin Boards	4.2.0	10
- Job Vacancy	13.3.1	46
- Meetings	5.6.0	14
- New Employees	3.2.0	9
No Work Available - Reporting	8.5.1	27
No Pyramiding Overtime Payments	8.5.2	28
(O)		
Overtime - Change in Posted Schedule	8.3.8	26
- Continuous Workers	8.3.1 & 8.3.2	24
- Continuous 12 Hour	8.3.9	26
- Distribution	8.2.1	21
- Distribution, 12 Hour Workers	8.3.2	24
- Executive Members	5.3.1	12
- 5 Days/12 hours	8.3.9	26
- Holidays	11.2.0	38
- Probationary Employee	11.3.0	39
- Notice of Availability	8.2.5	24
- Probationary Employees	11.2.0	38
- Qualification	8.3.5	25
- Saturday & Sunday	8.3.0	24
- Work	8.2.0	21
Overtime Lunches		
- Regular Shift	14.3.0	54
- Continuous Shift	14.3.1	55
(P)		
Pan Operators Shift Schedule	8.1.3	20
Payroll Deductions	3.1.0	9
Posting Job Vacancy	13.3.1	46
Premiums		59
Promotion, Relief, Demotion	13.2.0	45
Protective Clothing	14.2.0	50
(R)		
Rules and Regulations	2.3.0	8
(S)		
Safety	Article XIV	50
87
- Committee	14.1.3	50
- Equipment	14.2.0	50
	14.2.1	53
- Hazardous Conditions	14.2.2	53
- Shoes, Glasses, Etc.	14.2.0	51
Seniority	Article XIII	45
- By Draw	13.1.1	45
- Divisional Lists	13.3.0	45
- Hoistmen	13.4.0	47
- Loss Of	13.5.0	47
- Promotion/Demotion	13.2.0	45
- Status	13.1.0	45
Seniority Lists		
- Maintenance		76
- Mine		78
- Fine Salt		80
- Rock Salt		82
Service - Re: Vacations	12.1.8	41
Shift Engineers (Letter of Understanding) Shift Schedule		67
- Pan Operators/Shift Engineers	8.1.3	20
Skilled Trades Licence Reimbursement		64
Slow Downs, etc.	4.4.0	11
Strikes	4.4.0	11
Students	13.3.5	46
Supervisory - Transferring to	13.7.0	49
(T) Technical & Process Improvement	2.4.0	8
Temporary Classification - Working In	9.2.0	30
Transfers, Lay-Off, etc. Travel	13.2.0	45
- MacLeod Lake, Marine Terminal	14.4.0	55
Truck Scale Attendant	9.2.0	30
(U) Union Business		
- Meeting Time	5.4.0	13
- Grievance Meetings	6.4.0	17
Union Executive & Officers, Notify Company	5.3.0	12
Union Membership & Dues	4.1.0	10
Union President - Day Shift	5.4.0	13
Union Recognition	2.1.1	7
(V) Vacations Article XII		40
88
-	Entitlement
-	Pay Requirement
-	Vision Care
12.1.3 - 12.1.5 12.1.13
41
43
63
89