LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
HARASSMENT
(Personal or Sexual)
The Company and Union agree that each employee has a fundamental right to work in any area of the Company's operations in such a way as to be free from any form of harassment, either personal or sexual.
Any employee who feels that harassment has occurred is invited to report any incident immediately to any company or union representative. All inquiries or incidents of harassment will be treated in the strictest of confidence.
There will be no adverse consequences to any individual as a result of submitting or filing a sincere complaint regarding personal or sexual harassment.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 12th day of September, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union,
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Local 892
00245 (07)
A G R E E M E N T
Between
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 892
- and -
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
February 1, 2001 to
January 31, 2004
I N D E X
ARTICLE___________SUBJECT______________PAGE
Article 1	Purpose...................................... 7
Article 2	Human Rights................................. 7
Article 3	Scope........................................ 7
Article 4	Management Rights............................ 8
Article 5	Union Recognition........................... 10
Article 6	Union Security.............................. 10
Article 7	Union Dues.................................. 11
Article 8	Union Committees............................ 12
Article 9	Seniority................................... 16
Article 10	Layoffs..................................... 30
Article 11	Grievance................................... 49
Article 12	Arbitration................................. 53
Article 13	No Strike - No Lockout...................... 55
Article 14	Hours of Work and Overtime.................. 55
Article 15	Wages and Shift Premiums.................... 66
Article 16	New or Changed Jobs......................... 67
Article 17	Holidays.................................... 68
Article 18	Annual Vacations............................ 70
Article 19	Leave of Absence............................ 75
Article 20	Special Time Off With Pay................... 82
Article 21	Employee Benefits........................... 85
Article 22	Pensions.................................... 90
Article 23	Notices..................................... 91
Article 24	Safety and Health........................... 92
Article 25	Contracting................................. 96
- 3 -
I N D E X
ARTICLE____________SUBJECT______________PAGE
Article 26	Work by Supervisors........................ 98
Article 27	Bulletin Boards............................ 98
Article 28	Legality of Provisions..................... 99
Article 29	Complete Agreement......................... 99
Article 30	Duration of Agreement...................... 99
Article 31	Technological Change...................... 100
Exhibit 1	Tools and Clothing........................ 104
Appendix A	Wages Rates............................... 107
Appendix B	Lines of Progression...................... 113
Appendix C	Apprenticeship Program.................... 119
Individual Security Account Plan......... 126
Definitions.............................. 153
- 4 -
SUBJECT
- INDEX -
(By Subject)
PAGE
Acting/Temporary Supervisor .	.. (Article 9.05 b)) 			 19
Annual Vacations 		.. (Article 18) 			 70
Apprenticeship Program 		.. (Appendix C) 			 119
Arbitration 		.. (Article 12) 			 53
Benefits (See also Benefits Handbook)		
• Dental 		.. (Article 21.02 d)) 			 87
• Long-Term Disability 		. (Article 21.02 b)) 			 86
• Medical 		.. (Article 21.02 f)) 			 88
• Pensions 		. (Article 22) 			 90
• Reserving Sick Pay 		. (Article 21.01) 			 85
• Short-Term Disability 		. (Article 21.02 a)) 			 85
• Sick Pay 		. (Article 20) 			 82
• Vision Care 		. (Article 21.02 e)) 			 88
Bulletin Boards 		.. (Article 27) 			 98
Complete Agreement 		. (Article 29) 			 99
Contracting 		.. (Article 25) 			 96
Definitions 				153
Designated Holidays 		.. (Article 17.01) 			 68
Duration of Agreement 		.. (Article 30) 			 99
- i -
SUBJECT
PAGE
Employee Benefits .............
Grievance Procedure ...........
Holidays ......................
Hours of Work .................
•	Changes in Shift Schedules .
•	Reporting Pay ...........
•	Shift Relief ............
•	Shift Schedules .........
•	Starting Times ..........
Human Rights ..................
Individual Security Account Plan
Job Posting and Bidding .......
•	Conditions ..............
•	General .................
•	Posting .................
•	When Required ...........
Layoffs .......................
•	Downsizing ..............
•	General .................
•	Notice (Permanent Layoff)
(Article 10.01 A)1)) .....
•	Notice (Temporary Layoff)
(Article 10.01 B)1)b)) ...
(Article 21) ................ 85
(Article 11) ................ 49
(Article 17) ................ 68
(Article 14) ................ 55
(Article 14.06 .............. 57
Article 14.07) .............. 58
(Article 14.20) ............. 64
(Article 14.21) ............. 64
(Article 14.06 .............. 57
Article 14.07) .............. 58
(Article 14.08) ............. 59
(Article 2) .................. 7
........................... 126
(Article 9) ................. 16
(Article 9.09) .............. 24
(Article 9.11) .............. 24
(Article 9.08) .............. 21
(Article 9.07) .............. 21
(Article 10) ................ 30
(Article 10.01 C)) .......... 43
(Article 10.01) ............. 31
31
39
- ii -
• Permanent 			 (Article 10.01 A)) ....		 31
• Recalls (Downsizing) 			 (Article 10.01 C)3)) .		 47
• Recalls (Permanent) 			 (Article 10.01 A)5))		 36
SUBJECT		PAGE
Layoffs (Continued)
• Severance Pay			 (Article 10.01 A)4)) ....	... 36
• Temporary 			 (Article 10.01 B)) 		... 39
• Unplanned 			 (Article 10.01 D)) 		... 48
Leave of Absence 			 (Article 19) 		... 75
• Adoption 			 (Article 19.11) 		... 80
• Bereavement 			 (Article 19.10) 		... 78
• Educational 			 (Article 19.15) 		... 80
• General 			 (Article 19.13 		... 81
	Article 19.14 		... 81
	Article 19.15) 		... 81
• Jury 			 (Article 19.09) 		... 78
• Maternity 			 (Article 19.11) 		... 80
• Paternity 			 (Article 19.11) 		... 80
• Personal 			 (Article 19.01 		... 75
	Article 19.02) 		... 75
• Public Office 			 (Article 19.15) 		... 81
• Sick 			 (Article 19.03 		... 75
	Article 19.04 		... 75
	Article 19.05) 		... 76
• Union 			 (Article 19.06 		... 76
	Article 19.07 		... 77
	Article 19.08) 		... 77
• Witness 			 (Article 19.09) 		... 78
Legality of Provisions 			 (Article 28) 		... 99
Letters of Understanding
• 9.08 e) Appointments ............................ 134
- iii -
•	10-Hour Shifts ............................... 140
•	90-Day Qualifying Period ..................... 138
•	Annual Vacations	- 2001	Only ................. 147
SUBJECT	PAGE
Letters of Understanding (Continued)
• Article 20 - Special Time Off With Pay 				 142
• Article 21.02 a) - Short-Term Disability 				 142
• Declining Jobs 				 135
• Harassment 			See inside cover
• ISAP Plan Amendment .			 133
• Pension - $52/Month/Year of Service 				 146
• Protected Positions 				 136
• Rules of Conduct/Standards of Discipline 				 137
• Split Vacation Shutdown -	K1/K2 			 141
• Temporary Labour Pool			 150
• Workweek Guarantee 				 139
Lines of Progression 			 (Appendix B)		 113
Management Rights 			 (Article 4) 			 8
New or Changed Jobs 			 (Article 16) ...		 67
No Strike - No Lockout 			 (Article 13) ...		 55
Notices 			 (Article 23) ...		 91
Overtime 			 (Article 14) ...		 55
• Callout 			 (Article 14.18		 63
	Article 14.19		 64
	Article 14.22)		 65
• Distribution 			 (Article 14.15		 61
	Article 14.16		 63
	Article 14.17)		 63
- iv -
• Meals
(Article 14.13
Article 14.14)
61
61
SUBJECT		PAGE
Overtime (Continued)		
• Pay 			 (Article 14.09 			 59
	Article 14.10)			 60
• Pyramiding 			 (Article 14.11) 			 60
• Transportation 			 (Article 14.14) 			 61
Pensions 			 (Article 22) 			 90
Postings and Bidding 			 (Article 9.07 			 21
	Article 9.08 			 21
	Article 9.09) 			 24
Premiums 			 (Article 15) 			 66
• Blasting 			 (Article 15.01 b)) ...		 67
• Lead Hand 			 (Article 15.01 c)) ...		 67
• Shift 			 (Article 15.02) 			 67
Probationary Period 			 (Article 9.03) 			 17
Progression 			 (Article 9.10) 			 24
Promotion from Bargaining Unit (Article 9.05 a)) 			.19
Purpose 		(Article 1) 		. 7
Qualifications 		(Article 9.02 		. 16
	Article 10.01 A)3)a) 		. 34
	Article 10.01 B)2)g) 		. 41
	Article 10.01 C)2)b)ii))	. 45
- v -
Renewal of Certificates
(Article 14.23)
66
Safety & Health 	 SUBJECT	(Article 24) 			 92 PAGE
Safety & Health (Continued)		
• Accidents 		(Article 24.12 			 95
	Article 24.16 			 95
	Article 24.17) 			 96
• Committees 		(Article 24.08 			 93
	Article 24.09 			 94
	Article 24.10) 			 94
• Meetings 		(Article 24.11 			 94
	Article 24.12 			 95
	Article 24.13) 			 95
• Preamble 		(Article 24.01) 			 92
• Procedure 		(Article 24.14) 			 95
• Refusal to Work 		(Article 24.18) 			 96
• Responsibility 		(Article 24.07) 			 93
• Right to Participate 		(Article 24.15) 			 95
Scope 		(Article 3) 			 7
Seniority 		(Article 9) 			 16
• Definition 		(Article 9.01) 			 16
• Floating Maintenance Crew		
(Article 9.19) 				28
• General 		(Article 9.18) 			 28
• Lists 		(Article 9.06) 			 21
• Loss of 		(Article 9.04) 			 17
• Probationary Period 		(Article 9.03) 			 17
• Transferring of		
Labourers/Helpers 		(Article 9.20) 			 29
- vi -
Special Time Off With Pay
•	Accumulation .....
•	Designated Holiday ....
•	Medical Proof ....
SUBJECT
(Article 20) ................ 82
(Article 20.01) ............. 82
(Article 20.05) ............. 84
(Article 20.04) ............. 84
PAGE
Special Time Off With Pay (Continued)
•	Not Entitled ............
•	Taken for ...............
Statutory Holidays ...........
Student Employment ...........
Technological Change .........
Temporary/Acting Supervisor ...
Temporary Labour Pool ........
Temporary Vacancies, .........
Assignments and Bids
Tools and Clothing ...........
Trades I/Journeyman ..........
Transfer from Bargaining Unit .. Union Committees .............
(Article 20.06) ............ 84
(Article 20.01) ............ 82
(Article 17.01) ............ 68
(Article 9.21) ............. 29
(Article 31) ............... 100
(Article 9.05 b) & c)) ...... 19
(LOA) ...................... 150
(Article 9.12 ............... 25
Article 9.13 ............... 26
Article 9.14 ............... 27
Article 9.15 ............... 27
Article 9.16) .............. 27
(Exhibit 1) ................ 104
(Article 9.17) ............. 28
(Article 9.05 b)) ........... 19
(Article 8) ................. 12
- vii -
Union Dues
(Article 7)
11
Union Recognition 	 Union Security 	 SUBJECT	.... (Article 5) 	 .... (Article 6) 			 10 	 10 PAGE
Vacations 		.... (Article 18) 			 70
Vacation Shutdown 		.... (Article 18.14) 			 74
Wage Rates 		.... (Appendix A) 			 107
Wages and Shift Premiums ....		 (Article 15) 			 66
Work by SuperVisors 		.... (Article 26) 			 98
- Viii -
THIS AGREEMENT effective the 1st day of February, 2001, is by and between IMC Esterhazy Canada Limited Partnership, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and Local 892 of Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, (hereinafter referred to as the Union) or collectively referred to as the Parties.
- 5 -
- 6 -
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertaining to employer-employee relations, including rates of pay, hours of work, and all other working conditions, the Parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the employees covered by this Agreement and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of disputes and grievances of such employees.
ARTICLE 2 - HUMAN RIGHTS
2.01	a) There shall be no discrimination by either the
Company or the Union by reason of age, sex, creed, color, nationality, religion, disability, political affiliation, ethnic background, alternate lifestyles or union activity as permitted by this Agreement or the Law.
b)	In all cases where the Agreement refers to a person, the references shall be of both genders (male and female).
ARTICLE 3 - SCOPE
- 7 -
3.01	This Agreement shall apply to all employees employed by IMC Esterhazy Canada Limited Partnership at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, except all managers, superintendents, supervisors, engineers, chief metallurgists, purchasing agents, senior accountants, senior cost accountants, senior traffic analysts, paymaster, confidential secretaries, planners, security guards, buyers, janitorial personnel for the administrational offices at K1 and K2 to a maximum of five (5) persons and persons having and regularly exercising authority to employ and/or discharge employees and persons regularly acting on behalf of management in a confidential capacity.
Dry personnel at K1 and K2 shall be recognized as in scope if the Company determines that they do not desire a subcontractor for such services.
3.02	The law, the certification and the provisions of this Agreement are the source of rights of the Union and any employee covered by this Agreement. The Parties herein agree that the relations between them shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement and the Law.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The management of the plant and the direction of the work force are vested solely and exclusively in the Company.
- 8 -
4.02	The rights retained by management include:
a)	The planning, control and direction of plant operations.
b)	The scheduling of work.
c)	The control and regulation of all equipment and other property of the Company.
d)	The determination of production standards.
e)	The determination of the quality of the work to be performed.
f)	The determination of the quantity of the work to be performed in the operations.
g)	The determination of the products to be manufactured.
h)	The location or relocation of plants.
i)	The closing down of plants or any parts thereof.
j)	The work assigned to each plant.
k)	The determination of whether and to what extent the work required in the Company's business shall be performed by employees covered by this Agreement.
l)	The methods, processes and means of manufacturing.
m)	The determination and establishment of any new or improved production methods or facilities.
n)	The determination of the skills required to run the operations.
o)	The assignment of employees to perform work.
p)	The retirement of employees within the terms of Article 22 of this Agreement.
q)	The determination of ability of employees as it relates to job performance.
- 9 -
r)	The establishment and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct.
s)	To maintain discipline and efficiency.
t)	The right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge or discipline for just cause, transfer and lay off employees.
u)	The appointment and removal of lead hands.
4.03	The enumeration of sole and exclusive management rights listed above shall not be deemed to exclude other rights not enumerated herein and that the Company retains the sole and exclusive right to manage the business.
4.04	The Company agrees that in the exercise of the management rights it will not violate any of the terms of this Agreement or the Law.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION RECOGNITION
5.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the employees defined in Article 3 and agrees to negotiate in good faith matters of collective bargaining including the establishment of a grievance procedure, hours of work, rates of pay and working conditions.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SECURITY
- 10 -
6.01	Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain membership in the Union as a condition of employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after the commencement of employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of employment, provided that any employee in the appropriate Bargaining Unit who is not required to maintain membership or apply for and maintain membership in the Union shall, as a condition of employment, tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly required to be paid by the members of the Union.
- 11 -
ARTICLE 7 - UNION DUES
7.01	The Company is hereby authorized and agrees to deduct from each employee's first pay each month uniform membership dues for the current month, uniform initiation fees and assessments and shall forward such deductions to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union or other properly designated official within ten (10) days after the date the deduction is made. A list of names and classifications of all employees for and on behalf of whom the deductions have been made will accompany the remittance. The statement shall include the names of all additions to and deletions from the Bargaining Unit.
7.02	The Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the monies deducted once they have been turned over to the Secretary Treasurer or other properly designated official of the Union.
7.03	The Company's obligation is limited to remitting to the Union the sum or sums from wages actually earned. It is further understood and agreed that union dues will be deducted provided an employee has been paid a minimum of five (5) days in the applicable deduction period.
7.04	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless from any and all claims that may be made against it for the amount of dues and initiation fees and
- 12 -
assessments deducted from the wages of employees under this Article.
7.05	The Company will include the total of union dues
deducted from an employee's earnings on their T4 slip each year.
ARTICLE 8 - UNION COMMITTEES
8.01	The Company agrees to recognize certain employees, as designated by the Union, as members of mutually agreed committees for the purpose of dealing with matters within the jurisdiction of the committee.
Third-Step Grievance Committee
8.02	The Company will recognize a Third-Step Grievance Committee of the Union which shall consist of a maximum of seven (7) persons selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as chairperson.
8.03	Third-step grievance meetings shall be conducted at a mutually agreeable time with the understanding that normal plant operations will not be unreasonably affected.
8.04	The Company agrees that the Union’s Third-Step Grievance Committee members shall not suffer loss of regular straight-time pay as a result of attending third-step grievance meetings.
- 13 -
Negotiating Committee
8.05	The Company shall recognize a Negotiating Committee of the Union, which shall consist of a maximum of seven (7) employees selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as chairperson. The Negotiating Committee referred to above shall consist of the Local Union President and the Unit Chairperson or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism or because either or both positions are held by nonemployees of the Company.
In addition, the Committee shall have representation as follows:
a)	One (1) employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) employee from the K1 underground operations.
c)	One (1) employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One (1) employee from the K2 underground operations.
e)	One (1) employee from the K2 water inflow operations.
8.06	The Company agrees to pay the members of the Negotiating Committee of the Local Union as designated in Section 8.05 above for scheduled time lost up to a maximum of eight (8) hours’ pay at the employee's straight-time rate of pay for each day of negotiations with the Company. The above is limited to those negotiating sessions prior to work stoppage or the appointment of a conciliation officer or board, provided
- 14 -
the conciliation officer or board is mutually requested by the Union and the Company or is solely requested by the Union.
Subject to the limitations referred to above, the members of the Negotiating Committee who otherwise are required to work on shift shall have their shift schedules amended to allow them to work on a regular Monday through Friday day shift schedule, if practical.
It is understood and agreed that the overtime requirements outlined in Article 14.07 will not be applicable if a shift schedule is amended for this purpose.
Union-Management Committee
8.07	The Company shall recognize the Union-Management Committee consisting of seven (7) employees selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as chairperson, for the purpose of meeting with the Company for discussion on matters of mutual interest. The meetings shall be held at the request of either Party at mutually agreeable times but not more frequently than once a month, unless by mutual agreement of the Parties. Mutually agreed decisions reached at the meetings shall be drafted by the Company, approved and signed by both Parties .
The Union-Management Committee referred to above shall consist of the Local Union President and Unit
- 15 -
Chairperson or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism or because either or both positions are held by nonemployees of the Company. In addition, the Committee shall have representation as follows:
a)	One (1) employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) employee from the K1 underground operations.
c)	One (1) employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One (1) employee from the K2 underground operations.
e)	One (1) employee from the K2 water inflow operations.
8.08	The Union members of the Union-Management Committee shall not suffer loss of regular straight-time pay as a result of attending Union-Management Committee meetings.
Steward Structure
8.09	The Union may, from time to time, designate stewards and alternate stewards provided that at no time may the Union have more than forty-five (45) stewards and more than forty-five (45) alternate stewards. The alternate steward shall function as a steward on those occasions when the regular steward is absent, provided that the alternate steward has advised their supervisor that the regular steward is absent and the alternate steward is assuming the regular steward's duties.
- 16 -
8.10	The Union will furnish a written list to the Manager, Human Resources or designated representative with the names of the Executive, the stewards and the alternate stewards and will keep the list current in writing. Only Union members whose names appear on this list will be recognized by the Company.
General
8.11	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization or engage in any union or labour organization activity on company time except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement and by the laws of this province.
8.12	All persons selected by the Union to act on any committee set forth in this Agreement shall be regular, full-time employees of the Company.
8.13	The Union may have the assistance of a representative of the National Union and/or an authorized agent of the Local Union present at any meeting with the Company of the committees set forth in this Article.
8.14	The Company recognizes the Pension Committee consisting of up to three (3) members. The Union members of this committee shall not suffer loss of regular straight-time pay as a result of attending Company-Union scheduled meetings.
- 17 -
8.15	The Company recognizes the Employee Rights
Committee consisting of up to six (6) members. The Union members of this committee shall not suffer loss of regular straight-time pay as a result of attending Company-Union scheduled meetings.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY
Definition of Seniority
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as an employee's period of continuous service with the Company since their last date of hire.
Definition of Qualifications
9.02	Qualifications of an employee shall be defined as ability, skills, experience, physical fitness and job performance.
Also refer to the “Definitions” page.
- 18 -
Probationary Period
9.03	An employee shall begin to accumulate seniority as soon as the employee has completed the probationary period, at which time the employee's seniority shall be made retroactive to the employee's last date of hire. All new employees shall be considered probationary until they have completed a period of four hundred and eighty (480) hours worked.
A former nonprobationary employee who is rehired shall be considered probationary until the employee has completed a period of two hundred and forty (240) hours worked.
The terms of the Agreement shall apply to all probationary employees except that probationary employees may be terminated for lesser cause. Lesser cause shall mean that, in the Company’s opinion, the probationary employee’s job performance or suitability to the job is unsatisfactory.
Probationary employees shall be eligible to receive benefits under the benefit plans referred to in Articles 20 and 21.
Loss of Seniority and Employment Rights
9.04	An employee's seniority and employment rights shall be considered lost by reason of:
a)	Dismissal for just cause.
- 19 -
b)	Voluntary resignation.
c)	Failure to report for work on recall from layoff within seven (7) days of being notified in writing by registered mail at the employee's last known mailing address of the requirement to report for permanent employment.
If the time requirements cannot be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement by the Union and Company.
d)	Retirement in accordance with the terms of Article 22.
e)	If an employee is absent for three (3) consecutive scheduled workdays without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence.
f)	Permanent discontinuance of plant operations.
g)	For those employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, sick leave for a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months; for those employees with less than ten (10) years of seniority, for a period equal to twenty-four (24) months of the employee’s seniority, whichever is the lesser, provided every employee will be considered to have a minimum of one (1) year's seniority. This period may be
- 20 -
extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
h)	If an employee does not return to work within three (3) consecutive scheduled working days without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence after the expiry of a leave of absence granted under Article 19, except as is provided in 9.04 g) immediately above.
Promotion from the Bargaining Unit
9.05	a) An employee who is promoted to a position out of scope shall maintain and accumulate seniority for a period of three (3) months from the date of the promotion. During months 4 through 6, the employee will maintain but not accumulate seniority. During the six- (6) month period, the Company may return the employee to their former in-scope position. The employee shall also have the right to return to their former in-scope position within the time limits. At the end of the six- (6) month period, the employee shall lose all seniority rights within the Bargaining Unit.
When the Company promotes an employee, they will within two (2) working days provide to the Union in writing the name of the employee, the position they are being promoted to and the effective date.
- 21 -
In the event the employee returns to an in-scope position, the employee shall pay back union dues for the period they accumulated seniority.
Transfer from Bargaining Unit
b)	i) Employees in scope may be temporarily
transferred out of scope for up to ninety (90) days to replace supervisors who are absent from their regular duties. Employees will continue to accumulate seniority and will be required to submit union dues.
ii)	Temporary supervisors will not be used during periods of temporary layoff unless their seniority allows them to retain a position. The position vacated by the in-scope employee who is transferred out of scope during any period of temporary layoff will be filled by another qualified, in-scope employee recalled from layoff.
iii)	All temporary transfers shall be considered to be in effect until the start of the employee’s next regular shift.
iv)	The above time limits may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
v)	The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of names of temporary supervisors upon
- 22 -
request. The list of temporary supervisors may change from time to time as may be deemed necessary by the Company. At any one time this list shall not exceed a total of thirty-five (35) in-scope employees.
vi)	The Company shall on a monthly basis supply to the Union a list of hourly employees who have worked as temporary supervisors and the number of hours they have worked in that capacity.
c)	The Company will notify the Union whenever they intend to train hourly employees to become temporary supervisors. This notification will include the name of the temporary supervisor being trained and the duration of the training, which will not exceed 90 calendar days. There will not be more than five (5) employees being trained as temporary supervisors at any given time. During this training period, the Company may use the employee in a temporary supervisory capacity as part of the training. Employees being trained as temporary supervisors will not be counted as part of the list of thirty-five (35) temporary supervisors.
Seniority Lists
9.06	a) Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on
designated bulletin boards every three (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority list shall be
- 23 -
brought to the attention of the Union and the Company through the grievance procedure. The sole remedy shall consist of a correction to the seniority lists.
b)	Each month the Company shall forward to the
Union a current copy of the seniority lists published in alphabetical order and in order of seniority by classification.
Job Posting and Bidding
9.07	Except for the provisions of Article 10, the Company will post all jobs it intends to fill through the job posting procedure.
9.08	a) When the Company determines the need to fill a
permanent job vacancy as described in Article 9.07, a notice of a job being available for bidding shall be posted on designated bulletin boards for a period of six (6) days and a copy of each job posting shall be forthwith supplied to the Union.
b)	An employee eligible to bid for a job shall file an application for such job with the Human Resources Department during the period of such posting.
c)	Upon the request of an employee who is absent from the plant for the duration of the posting, a shop steward may file a bid on behalf of the employee.
- 24 -
d)	All job postings shall set forth the job title, the rate of pay, the job requirements, the normal location and shift of the job, the number of vacancies, the normal hours of work per shift, whether the job is rotating shift, multi shift or single shift and it will define the shift schedule as 5-2, 10-4, 4-4 or any other variation.
The purpose of describing the terms or conditions of the job is for information only to those employees who bid on the job.
e)	Among applicants whose qualifications meet the job requirements, seniority shall be the determining factor. If there are no applicants whose qualifications meet the job requirements, the Company may elect to fill the vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit or from among the applicants whose qualifications do not meet the job requirements.
Where there are no qualified applicants for a vacancy and the Company intends to fill the position from the applicants, the most senior applicant possessing the best combination of academic education, experience and specific skills shall be appointed.
The above in no way reduces the established job requirements or qualifications for the job.
- 25 -
If the Company does not fill the vacancy from outside or from within the Bargaining Unit and the vacancy continues to exist, the Company shall repost the vacancy within ninety (90) calendar days of the original posting closing date.
If the Company fills a vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit, they shall forward to the Union the name of the person hired and the job posting filled.
f)	The name of the successful applicant and all other bidders shall be posted on the designated bulletin boards, with a copy to the Union, within ten (10) days after the closing date of the posting. The successful applicant shall fill the vacancy as soon as practicable. The interpretation of the word "practicable" shall include but not be limited to locating a suitable replacement for the successful applicant.
If the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after the selection, the successful applicant shall receive the rate of the new job commencing on the 31st day, providing the new rate is higher.
Where the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after the selection by the Company, the employee shall be notified in writing by the
- 26 -
Company as to the reason why the transfer was not made.
g)	It is the intention of the Company to transfer the successful applicant within thirty (30) days after the award of any job bid is posted, except it is understood and agreed that the transfer may be delayed by the Company in cases where:
•	an economic hiring freeze is in effect,
•	there are no bidders or no qualified bidders for the job which the employee would be leaving vacant or
•	there are no employees available to fill the job vacated by the employee.
9.09	In relation to Article 9.08, the following shall apply. Except for entering a bid on an apprenticeship posting or a higher rated job, any employee who successfully bids laterally or downwards on the pay scale shall not be eligible to bid within six (6) months from the closing date of the job posting. In specific instances, any of the above may be waived by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Progression
9.10	The normal lines of progression shall be within the department through the classifications as listed in Appendix B.
General Conditions for Job Bids
- 27 -
9.11	a) An employee transferred pursuant to a bid to a
lateral or lower job classification may be considered qualified in the new job classification at any time up to a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days plus one (1) day for each day the employee was absent from work on a regular scheduled workday and minus one (1) day for each full, extra shift the employee worked overtime.
b)	If an employee fails to qualify at any time during this period, the Company will return the employee to the employee’s former job.
c)	The 45-day period referred to above may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and Company.
d)	There shall be no qualification period for the successful applicant of a lateral bid within the classification as the employee is already deemed qualified.
e)	The successful applicant to a job bid shall be paid the rate of pay for the job as soon as the employee assumes the job, subject to Article 9.08 f).
Temporary Vacancies, Assignments and Bids
9.12	a) Temporary vacancies that are caused by an
employee being absent from work may last beyond ninety (90) calendar days.
- 28 -
b)	Temporary assignments for a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days may occur for the purpose of expediting production or for maintenance.
c)	Where temporary vacancies or temporary assignments are filled through the posting procedure, training or experience acquired during the filling of the temporary vacancy or temporary assignment shall be used in determining qualifications for permanent vacancies.
d)	Temporary bids that result from an employee being absent may exceed ninety (90) calendar days.
e)	Temporary bids for reasons other than an employee being absent may not exceed ninety (90) calendar days without mutual agreement between the Parties.
f)	At the end of a temporary bid, the affected employee(s) will return to their former position(s).
9.13	Notwithstanding the provision of Article 9.16, a temporary assignment or temporary vacancy under ninety (90) calendar days may be filled without recourse to the posting and bidding procedure with an employee within the department on the shift concerned.
The procedure will be to fill the vacancy, in order of seniority, in the following order:
- 29 -
•	Offer it to the qualified employee in the line of progression within the department on the crew concerned.
•	Assign the junior qualified employee on the crew concerned.
•	Offer it to other qualified employees in the department.
•	Assign the junior qualified employee in the department.
•	Offer it to other qualified employees.
•	Assign the junior qualified employee.
Training acquired during temporary assignments shall not be used to determine qualifications for permanent vacancies.
9.14	Temporary vacancies or temporary assignments filled in the above manner shall be limited to that specific temporary condition only. If the vacancy becomes permanent, it shall be subject to other applicable sections of this Article.
9.15	An employee who is temporarily transferred to another job in accordance with the above in which the rate of pay is different from that in effect in their regular job shall be paid as follows:
a) If the rate of pay for the job to which the employee is temporarily transferred is less than their regular pay for the job from which they have been temporarily transferred, they shall during each
- 30 -
temporary transfer receive their own higher rate of pay.
b) If the rate of pay for the job to which the employee is transferred is higher than their regular rate of pay, they shall receive the higher rate of pay for all hours worked on the higher rated job provided the transfer is for more than sixty (60) consecutive minutes.
9.16	No employee shall be transferred from the employee's job except in the event of a temporary vacancy as defined in Article 9.12 or in the event of the Company being unable to fill a permanent vacancy under Article 9.07, in which case the following procedure shall apply:
a)	The Company may elect to temporarily transfer the senior qualified employee following the lines of progression as outlined in Appendix B, or
b)	The Company may temporarily transfer the junior competent employee in the same department to fill the vacancy.
9.17	When an employee who is working in the appropriate trade as a tradesperson I challenges and passes the journeyman exam, they will be paid the journeyman rate of pay.
General
- 31 -
9.18	The qualifications and requirements as established by management for each job listed in Appendix A shall be maintained. Any changes to job postings will be reviewed by the Parties. In the event the Parties cannot agree on the changes, the Company is responsible for the decision and the Union has the right to grieve.
If the job is new or has been combined, it will be dealt with under Article 16.
9.19	a) The “Floating Maintenance Crew” may be utilized
by the Company at either location for a one-day maintenance shutdown providing the following:
•	The crew will work the hours of day shift.
•	The crew will report to their normal location, change into their work clothing and be provided transportation to and from the other location on company time.
b) The “Floating Maintenance Crew” may be utilized by the Company at either location to commence or complete projects providing the following:
•	Insofar as practical, the crew will normally work the hours of day shift.
•	The crew will not be used to replace or displace the regularly established maintenance crews and/or departments.
9.20	a) As vacancies arise from time to time, employees on
the labour crew at either plant shall be offered, by seniority, the opportunity for a temporary transfer
- 32 -
to shift positions on production, provided the employee has demonstrated the ability to perform the work. If nobody accepts the opportunity, the Company will assign the junior labourer at the site in question.
b)	When temporary vacancies under ninety (90) days occur due to the absence of a helper, the normal procedure will be to assign a labourer to fill the temporary helper vacancy.
Student Employment
9.21	Employees who are students and are hired under the student summer employment policy of the Company shall be deemed to be temporary employees. The employment of these persons shall commence no earlier than May 1 of each year and will be terminated no later than September 15 of each year.
Persons who are hired as Co-Operative Education students shall be deemed to be temporary employees. The employment of these persons shall commence and end to accommodate the Co-Operative Education student’s standard four-month work term.
The Company will identify temporary employees on the union dues check-off lists.
Students hired as temporary employees shall not be eligible for any benefits outlined in Articles 19, 20 or 21
- 33 -
except clauses 19.10 - “Bereavement Leave” and Exhibit 1 - “Tools and Clothing,” which are to be returned upon termination. Prescription safety glasses may be retained by the temporary employee upon termination of employment.
The student rate of pay will be eighty percent (80%) of the normal rate of pay for the job(s) they work at.
The Company will accommodate as many technical students as reasonably practical who wish to complete their practicum at IMC Potash Esterhazy. These students will be allowed the opportunity to shadow an experienced IMC employee but will not be allowed to work and will receive no compensation during this practicum period.
ARTICLE 10 - LAYOFFS
10.01 Layoffs may occur in the following ways:
A)	permanent reduction of the work force
B)	temporary layoff (temporary shutdown of operations)
C)	downsizing
D)	unplanned layoffs
In the event of a layoff, the Parties will meet prior to the announcement of a layoff to discuss the reasons for the layoff and to work out procedures for the layoff on the basis of seniority and qualifications.
- 34 -
General
1)	In no case shall an employee be laid off for any part of a regular shift after reporting for work that day.
2)	Overtime during layoffs should be kept to a minimum. Overtime during a layoff should be of an unplanned or emergency nature.
3)	Job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement will not apply to those classifications where employees are waiting to be recalled.
4)	A union steward may present a bid on behalf of a laid-off employee.
5)	The layoff notice provisions provided in this Agreement shall not apply when a shutdown is caused by a catastrophe or other emergency situations as referred to in Section D, “Unplanned Layoffs,” which are beyond the control of the Company or on days the plant is not operating due to a statutory holiday.
A)	Permanent Layoffs
1)	A permanent layoff is defined as one whereby an employee or employees are laid off for an indefinite period of time when the Company
- 35 -
reduces the number of employees employed by the Company.
Employees affected by a layoff will be laid off in reverse order of company seniority.
An employee subject to a layoff shall receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu as follows:
- one (1) week’s written notice for each year of employment or portion of a year of employment to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks’ notice.
2)	If You Are Laid Off
An employee who is permanently laid off will be severed from the company rolls but will retain the following rights:
a)	A permanently laid-off employee’s employment and seniority rights shall be considered lost by reason of:
i)	For those employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, layoff for a period of thirty-six (36) continuous months or
ii)	For employees with less than ten (10) years of seniority, layoff for a period equal to the employee's seniority or
- 36 -
twenty-four (24) months, whichever is the lesser.
iii)	Seniority shall be maintained but not accumulated during this period.
iv)	This period may be extended by the mutual agreement between the Parties.
b)	The laid-off employee shall be able to use seniority accumulated up to the point of layoff to bid on any job posting.
It will be the laid-off employee’s responsibility to know what job bids have been posted.
c)	Job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement will not apply to those classifications where employees are waiting to be recalled.
d)	Previously accumulated sick days that the employee had banked prior to permanent layoff will be reinstated upon recall.
e)	Previously accumulated vacation entitlements to which the employee was entitled prior to permanent layoff will be reinstated upon recall.
f)	In the event of a permanent layoff, coverage under the dental plan and the short-term and long-term disability plans ends on the last
- 37 -
day of work. Coverage under other plans normally ends on the last day of the month following the month in which the employee is laid off.
- 38 -
3)	Layoff Procedure
a)	Layoffs will be made on the basis of
seniority. The most junior employee(s) in the classification within the department affected will be given written notice of layoff. Those employees must indicate within two (2) working days whether they wish to bump or accept layoff. The Company will provide affected employees with bumping options. Those employees will then have up to two (2) working days to displace a junior employee in any classification and/or crew for which they have maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work. Should the employee bump someone who is not the most junior, the Company will lay off the most junior employee in that classification on that crew. No employee will be displaced from their current position unless they are the most junior employee in that classification on that crew. This procedure will continue until the most junior employees in the classifications concerned are laid off.
Qualified shall mean the employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, has held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records.
- 39 -
- 40 -
b)
Departments are as follows:
•	K1 Mine
•	K1 Surface
•	K2 Mine
•	K2 Surface
Inflow Control
Lab
Shaft
Administration (includes General Clerks and Warehouses)
c)	An employee receiving notice of layoff or reclassification and not exercising their rights or accepting another job as provided herein shall be placed on layoff.
d)	When displacement of any employee takes place because of layoff or reclassification and the displacement results in a change of shifts, the affected employee shall not be eligible for overtime rates on their days of rest under their previous schedule unless they work in excess of their previously scheduled regular hours in the first seven-day period. The employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work they assume, and if required to work on these days, they shall be paid at overtime rates.
e)	The Company will grant a period of
familiarization or retraining of up to six (6) regular shifts worked for the employee to show that they have maintained the necessary qualifications of the job. This
- 41 -
familiarization period can be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties.
f)
During permanent layoffs, the following jobs will be considered to be entry -level jobs. An entry-level job is one that all employees are considered to be qualified to hold.
• Labourer	• FRP II
•	Helper
•	Incline Helper
•	Mechanic IV
U/G Belt Construction II Buildings Repair II Warehouse II
•	HD Mechanic IV • Warehouse Dispatch
•	Loadout III
4)	Severance Pay
An employee placed on layoff will have the option to:
a)	remain on layoff with recall rights or
b)	elect to take severance pay as follows:
Employees who are permanently laid off shall be paid severance pay at the rate of one (1) week's pay per full or partial year of employment at the employee's rate of pay at the time of layoff. Upon acceptance of severance pay, an employee's seniority and employment rights will be terminated.
An employee must choose to select this option within one (1) year from the date of actual layoff or this option to select severance pay is withdrawn.
- 42 -
Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the
Parties from exploring other considerations
affecting permanently laid-off employees.
5)	Recalls
a)	Laid-off employees and employees who have been removed from their former jobs through bumping will be placed on a recall list with their names, former jobs and locations. Employees must be recalled and must accept recall to their former jobs and departments, as closely as possible, in the reverse order of layoff.
b)	An employee being recalled to work after a layoff shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work for which the employee has been recalled.
c)	Notice of recall shall be given either personally or by registered mail to the employee's last known mailing address. It will be the responsibility of the employee to notify the Company of any change of mailing address.
d)	An employee may refuse a recall if the employment being offered is of short-term
- 43 -
duration, that is, eighty-nine (89) calendar days or less, without losing the employee's rights to recall to permanent employment. The Company will have the right to recall the next senior qualified employee to cover the work requirements during the above-mentioned period.
The right of refusal of a recall to work by an employee, as permitted above, does not apply in cases where the partial or total operations of the Company is shut down and subsequently reopened.
e)	Any recall shall be deemed permanent unless otherwise stated.
f)	An employee who is offered a recall to a job other than the job held at the time of permanent layoff will have the option to refuse the recall. If the employee does refuse the recall, the employee shall not be recalled again until the job they held at the time of layoff is available. Employees electing this option may, at a later date, have one opportunity to elect to be placed back on the general recall list, in which case the employee will be recalled to a job as vacancies occur in accordance with their seniority and qualifications.
- 44 -
g)	An employee who was laid off or reclassified may defer recall to that employee's:
i)	former permanent classification or
ii)	former permanent classification and department
until they become the junior employee to be recalled. At that time, the employee must return to their former permanent classification.
Recall rights will be satisfied when the employee returns to their former permanent classification and department.
Excluding day shift jobs, employees who have been recalled to their former permanent
- 45 -
classifications will have the option to accept the new department as their permanent department. Once this option has been selected, the employee’s name will then be removed from the recall list.
The employee’s name will be deleted from the recall list when they are the successful bidder to a permanent job posting.
B)	Temporary Layoffs (Shutdown of Operations)
1) Temporary Layoffs
a)	A temporary layoff is defined as one whereby employee(s) are laid off and/or reclassified for a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days. This could include a total or partial shutdown of operations.
b)	Affected employees will receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu of notice. Notice will indicate the shutdown date and reopening date of the temporary layoffs (shutdowns) as follows:
i) If the shutdown is for a period of two (2) weeks or less - two (2) weeks' notice.
- 46 -
ii)	If the shutdown is for a period of three (3) weeks or more than two (2) weeks -three (3) weeks' notice.
iii)	If the shutdown is for a period of more than three (3) weeks but less than ninety (90) days - four (4) weeks' notice.
c)	The Company will continue all normal benefits for all employees on temporary layoff.
2) Layoff Procedure
a)	Only those employees who are displaced from their normal job, location, shift or scheduled hours of work will be allowed to exercise bumping rights.
b)	No employee shall displace another employee solely for the purpose of gaining overtime while other employees are on layoff.
c)	A displaced employee must complete a Bumping Request form to use seniority rights to regain, as closely as reasonably possible, the number of hours of work they would normally have worked had the shutdown not taken place.
- 47 -
d)	When exercising bumping rights during a temporary shutdown, the laid-off or displaced employee can use seniority to bump a junior employee.
e)	The Company shall, in accordance with an employee’s seniority and qualifications, reclassify the employee to a job being held by a junior employee for which they are qualified.
f)	If an employee is not satisfied with the reclassification, they may, within two (2) working days, exercise their seniority to displace a junior employee in any classification for which they have maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work.
g)	Qualified shall mean:
i)	Temporary. Layoff p.f.Less. Than.2.1 Days
The employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, has held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records and can demonstrate the ability to safely perform the work through the task observation process and a familiarization period which may take up to four (4) hours. To
- 48 -
be qualified to bump, the employee must not require the necessary surface or underground orientation. Entry-level jobs in this situation include:
• Labourer	• U/G Belt
Construction II
•	Helper
•	Mechanic IV
•	HD Mechanic IV
Warehouse II Warehouse Dispatch Buildings Repair II
An entry-level job is one that all employees are considered to be qualified to hold.
- 49 -
ii)	Temporary Layoffof2_l Days .or More The employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, has held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records and can demonstrate the ability to safely perform the work through the task observation process after a one-shift familiarization period only. If required, the employee will be given the necessary surface or underground orientation. Entry-level jobs in this situation include:
• Labourer	• FRP II
• Helper	• U/G Belt
Construction II
•	Incline Helper • Buildings Repair II
•	Mechanic IV • Warehouse II
• HD Mechanic
Warehouse Dispatch
IV
• Loadout III
An entry-level job is one that all employees are considered to be qualified to hold.
h)	During periods of temporary shutdown, an employee who does not exercise bumping rights when first eligible to do so will be placed on layoff. They will then have one opportunity to be placed back on the recall list but only after the final work list for the temporary shutdown has been posted, at
- 50 -
which time they will be eligible for recall to any new job opportunities for which they are qualified.
i)	When a displacement of any employee takes place because of layoff or reclassification and the displacement results in a change of shifts, the affected employee shall not be eligible for overtime rates on their days of rest under their previous schedule unless they work in excess of their previously scheduled regular hours in that week. The employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work they assume, and if required to work on those days, they shall be paid at overtime rates.
j)	An employee receiving notice of layoff or reclassification and not exercising the employee's rights or accepting another job as provided herein shall be placed on layoff.
C)	Downsizing
1) A downsizing of the operations shall occur when an employee or employees are permanently removed or transferred from their regular jobs or shift in such a way that no employee is permanently laid off.
- 51 -
An employee first affected by downsizing shall receive two (2) weeks' written notice in advance of the downsizing. In the event of notice being less, Article 14.07 will apply.
- 52 -
2)	Downsizing Procedure
a)	Downsizing will be made on the basis of seniority. The most junior employee(s) in the classification within the department affected will be given written notice of downsizing or reclassification.
b)	Affected employees will have two (2) options to choose from.
Option 1
A downsized employee may exercise their bumping rights as follows:
i) Those employees must indicate within two (2) working days that they wish to bump. The Company will provide affected employees with bumping options. Those employees will then have up to two (2) working days to displace a junior employee in any classification and/or crew for which they have maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work. Should they bump someone who is not the most junior, the Company will downsize the most junior employee in that classification on that crew. No employee will be displaced from their current position unless they are the most
- 53 -
junior employee in that classification on that crew. This procedure will continue until the most junior employees in the classifications concerned are downsized.
ii)	Qualified shall mean the employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, has held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records.
iii)	Departments are as follows:
•	K1	Mine	•	Inflow Control
•	K1	Surface	•	Lab
•	K2 Mine	•	Shaft
•	K2 Surface	•	Administration (includes
General Clerks and Warehouses)
iv)	When displacement of any employee takes place because of downsizing or reclassification and the displacement results in a change of shifts, the affected employee shall not be eligible for overtime rates on their days of rest under their previous schedule unless they work in excess of their previously scheduled regular hours in the first seven-day period. The employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work they assume, and if required to work on
- 54 -
these days, they shall be paid at overtime rates.
v)	The Company will grant a period of familiarization or retraining of up to six (6) regular shifts worked for the employee to show that they have maintained the necessary qualifications of the job. This familiarization period can be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties.
vi)	During downsizing, the following jobs will be considered to be entry-level jobs. An entry-level job is one that all employees are considered to be qualified to hold.
• Labourer	• FRP II
• Helper	• U/G Belt
Construction II
•	Incline Helper • Buildings Repair II
•	Mechanic IV	• Warehouse II
• HD Mechanic
Warehouse Dispatch
IV
• Loadout III
Option 2
A downsized employee may choose rate retention and retain their regular rate of pay from their permanent classification and department from which they are being displaced.
- 55 -
i)	An employee choosing rate retention agrees to accept any position offered by the Company. At the Company’s discretion, and if available, more than one position from which to choose may be offered to more senior employees.
ii)	An employee on rate retention who is successful on a job bid will have their retained rate red circled until:
•	the rate of their job exceeds their retained rate or
•	they are awarded a second job bid.
3)	Recalls
a)	Downsized employees and employees who have been removed from their former jobs through bumping will be placed on a recall list with their names, former jobs and locations. Employees must be recalled and must accept recall to their former permanent classification and department.
b)	An employee who was reclassified may defer recall to their former permanent classification and department until they become the junior employee to be recalled. At that time, they must return to their former permanent classification and department.
- 56 -
c)	Recall rights will be satisfied when the employee returns to their former permanent classification and department.
d)	Recalls will be a “one step” process with affected employees only being offered recall when a vacancy becomes available in their former permanent classification and department as determined by the Company’s locator code at the time of downsizing but employees may not be recalled to their actual former shift.
e)	The employee’s name will be deleted from the recall list when they are the successful bidder to a permanent job posting.
- 57 -
D)	Unplanned Layoffs
1)	Where conditions beyond the Company's control develop a temporary shortage of work not exceeding six (6) consecutive calendar days, the Company may lay off employees without being required to apply the displacement by seniority provisions or the recall provisions of this Collective Agreement.
2)	Oversupply of inventory, for any reason, shall not be considered a condition beyond the control of the Company as it pertains to this section.
3)	The above shall only be applicable where the number of employees involved is more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the location affected and the layoff period does not exceed six (6) consecutive calendar days.
For the purposes of this section, the locations shall be:
K1 Surface	K1 Underground
K2 Surface	K2 Underground
4)	An employee who would have been laid off due to a temporary work shortage in accordance with this clause and is subsequently kept at work must accept the work assigned or be placed on temporary layoff.
- 58 -
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE
Definition
11.01	A grievance shall be defined as a dispute as to the application or interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
Procedure
11.02	Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in the manner stated below.
Step 1 - An employee who feels they have a grievance as defined above shall continue their assigned duties. Before an employee actually files a grievance in writing, a meeting must be held with their supervisor to discuss the situation. The meeting must involve the grievor, the shop steward and the chief shop steward from the respective area and the Company’s grievance team representative from the respective area. The objective of the meeting will be to gather information and attempt to resolve the issue.
Step 2 - Should the employee wish to submit a
grievance under this procedure after a Step 1 discussion has taken place, a written grievance relating to the complaint shall be prepared and presented to the employee's immediate supervisor by their shop steward. All grievances to be processed shall set forth the
- 59 -
essential facts of the complaint, with reference to how the employee feels aggrieved and what redress is required. The written grievance shall form the basis of the complaint through all the steps of the grievance procedure and arbitration procedure.
The grievance shall be submitted to the employee’s supervisor in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days from the day of the Step 1 meeting. Within the grievor’s next five (5) scheduled working days, the Company will give a written response to the aggrieved employee’s shop steward.
Where the grievance as written is a proper grievance and where it fully outlines and explains the grievance, the Company in a written reply shall, where practical and warranted under the circumstances, explain or give reasons for the supervisor's concurrence or nonconcurrence of the grievance.
Step 3 - If settlement is not reached at Step 2, the written grievance may, in a period not exceeding ten (10) calendar days of the completion of Step 2, be referred by the Union to the Manager, Human Resources or designated representative. A third-step grievance meeting shall be held at a time to be agreed upon by both Parties to discuss all
- 60 -
pending third-step grievances. The Company's final answer at Step 3 will be given in a period not exceeding seven (7) calendar days of the meeting. An additional meeting may be scheduled, if required, by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Group Grievance
11.03	If a grievance as defined in 11.01 above involves a group or groups of employees, the grievance procedure will apply and commence at Step 1.
Union Grievance
11.04	Any grievance that concerns the Union as a whole must be submitted by at least two members of the Union’s Executive within eighteen (18) calendar days of the occurrence. The grievance will proceed immediately to Step 3.
Suspension or Discharge
11.05	An employee who is being suspended or discharged shall have their shop steward and a designate of the Union Executive in attendance at the meeting.
If an employee believes they have been suspended or discharged without just and sufficient cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure in a period not exceeding six (6) calendar days after written notice of suspension or discharge has been sent
- 61 -
by registered mail to the employee's last known mailing address or after written notice of suspension or discharge has been personally given to the employee.
Remedy
11.06	The remedy for resolving a grievance may consist of any redress appropriate to the circumstances.
Referral to Arbitraition
11.07	If settlement is not reached at third step, the grievance may be referred to arbitration as set forth in Article 12. The Union shall provide written notice to the Company of its intent to seek arbitration. Notification must be made in a period not exceeding forty-five (45) calendar days after the completion of Step 3. If notice is not given during the forty-five (45) calendar day period, the grievance shall be deemed settled on the basis of the Company's answer at Step 3.
Time Limits
11.08	If the Company representatives do not take the necessary action to process the grievance or provide answers within the time limits specified for any step, the grievance shall be automatically considered referred to the next higher step, except that arbitration shall only be invoked upon the giving of proper notice as provided in 11.07.
- 62 -
If the grievance is not processed by the Union within the time limits provided in the various steps, the grievance is considered settled on the basis of the Company's last answer.
The time limits of Step 2 and Step 3 may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties.
General
11.09	a) Meetings on grievances shall take place during
regular working hours without loss of pay, provided the meetings take place during the employee's scheduled working hours.
b)	The Company shall supply to the Union a copy of any written disciplinary action taken against an employee.
c)	When an employee is discharged, the appropriate shop steward for the area and a designate of the Union Executive may, upon receiving permission from their supervisor(s), leave their duties to investigate the matter. Permission will not be unreasonably denied. Management reserves the right to establish the time and time limits to perform this duty.
d)	Upon receiving permission from the supervisor concerned, an employee with the appropriate shop steward of the Union may submit and/or process a grievance during working hours, provided there is no
- 63 -
interruption in the work program. Permission will not be unreasonably denied.
e)	When a meeting is held for the purpose of
presenting a written warning, the employee who is receiving the discipline shall have a shop steward present.
ARTICLE 12 - ARBITRATION
Arbitrable Issues
12.01	The arbitration procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements set out in Article 11.
- 64 -
Arbitration
12.02	Within seven (7) calendar days of the date of mailing notice of intent to seek arbitration, the Union shall meet with the Company to select by lot an arbitrator from the following:
Francine Chad-Smith Robert Pelton Bill Campbell
If the arbitrator selected by lot is unable to serve, then the next arbitrator whose name was drawn will be the arbitrator selected and so on until one of the arbitrators is able to serve.
12.03	After the arbitrator has been chosen, the arbitrator shall meet and hear the evidence of both Parties as soon as possible. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties and upon any employee affected by it.
Costs
12.04	The Parties will equally share the costs incurred by the arbitrator.
Witnesses
12.05	Each Party shall be responsible for the costs of its witnesses in accordance with the arrangement it has made with its witnesses.
- 65 -
One Issue
12.06	The arbitrator shall not deal with more than one (1) grievance without the mutual consent of the Parties.
Power
12.07	The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The arbitrator may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to them and their decision must be based solely on the interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
12.08	The arbitrator shall render a decision in writing to the Parties no later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made to the arbitrator on the matter by the Parties.
ARTICLE 13 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
13.01	The Union, its agents and each employee agree that there will be no strikes, slowdowns or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
- 66 -
Definition of Workday
14.01	A workday shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of an employee's regular scheduled shift.
Definition of Workweek
14.02	The workweek shall be the period commencing at midnight on Saturday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday.
Definition of Shift
14.03	A shift shall be defined as a period of time within a workday, and these periods of time shall be referred to as day shift, afternoon shift, night shift and may be rotating or nonrotating in nature.
Hours of Work
14.04	a) For those employees scheduled to work an eight- (8)
hour workday, the basic workday shall be eight (8) hours per day and the basic workweek shall be forty (40) hours of work per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each.
b)	For those employees scheduled to work a ten- (10) hour workday, the basic workday shall be ten (10) hours per shift and the basic workweek shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
- 67 -
c)	For those employees scheduled to work a twelve-(12) hour workday, the basic workday shall be twelve (12) hours per shift and the basic workweek shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
The Parties recognize that continuous shift operations may require variations to the five- (5) day week and the number of days worked shall not exceed ten (10) days in any two-week period.
An employee's normal days of rest will be consecutive unless changed by mutual agreement in specific instances by the Parties.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
14.05	It is understood by the Parties that flexibility is required in the starting time of shifts for production purposes. However, it is agreed that starting times shall not vary more than one (1) hour from the normal starting times. Any change in shift starting times outside of that permitted in this section will be allowed only by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Shift Schedules and Changes in Shift Schedules
14.06	The Company will develop and post shift schedules at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the effective day of the schedules.
- 68 -
Notations on the posting shall include location and shift times.
The Company will give employees twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of any change in the employee's shift schedule.
If less than twenty-four (24) hours’ notice is given, the employee(s) affected by the change will be paid two (2) times their regular straight-time rate for all hours worked on the first shift of the changed schedule.
This provision is not applicable when a callout runs into the employee's regular scheduled shift. This will be governed by the callout pay provisions.
A change in location does not constitute a change in shift schedules; however, in the event of a change in location, the Company agrees to transport the affected employees on company time to and from the new location on the first day of the change only.
The Company will not change shift schedules for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime.
14.07	a) In the event the Company changes an employee's shift schedule, then during the first week of this change the employee's days of rest under their previous schedule will be observed for overtime payment.
- 69 -
b)	Where a crew is affected by a shift change, they will not be entitled to work on their previous schedule’s days of rest in the first week of the change except when requested by the employee(s) to make up lost pay.
c)	This provision is only applicable during the first week of the new shift schedule. It does not apply if a change of shifts is a result of any employee changing status due to promotion, preferential shifts or jobs or when an employee returns to their original shift schedule after a temporary transfer.
d)	This provision shall not be applicable when due to breakdown of equipment or reasons unforeseen to management cause a shutdown of normal operations and when management offers the affected employees other work rather than invoke the layoff procedure.
Shift Starting Times
14.08	a) The normal shift hours for those employees working an eight- (8) hour day shall be:
7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Employees will be allowed a period not exceeding twenty (20) minutes each day to eat their lunch.
The lunch period shall be included as paid time and
- 70 -
shall be scheduled as near as possible to the middle of the shift.
b) The normal shift hours for those employees working a twelve- (12) hour workday shall be:
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Employees working a twelve- (12) hour shift will be allowed two separate periods not exceeding twenty (20) minutes each to eat their lunch. The lunch period shall be included as paid time.
Overtime Pay
14.09	a) An employee will be paid two (2) times their regular
straight-time hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of:
i)	Employees working an eight- (8) hour shift, for work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one workday.
ii)	Employees working a ten- (10) hour shift, for work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in any one workday.
iii)	Employees working a twelve- (12) hour shift, for work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours in any one workday.
14.10	An employee will be paid two (2) times their regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for hours worked:
a)	on designated holidays,
- 71 -
b)	on scheduled days of rest and
c)	as provided for in 14.07.
The above will not apply where an employee is called out to work and works continuously into the beginning of their next scheduled shift. This will be governed by the callout provisions.
Pyramiding
14.11	Payment of overtime work shall be made as in 14.09 or 14.10, whichever gives the employee the greatest pay. There shall be no duplication of weekly and daily overtime nor pyramiding of overtime on overtime.
Overtime Work
14.12	The Company will offer overtime as far in advance as possible. All overtime is voluntary except as noted below.
Employees may be required to work overtime in an emergency situation.
Shift employees regularly scheduled to work a statutory holiday will be required to work when the Company elects to operate on those days.
Shift employees regularly scheduled to work an eight-(8) hour shift on a maintenance shutdown day will be required to work for twelve (12) hours when the Company elects to operate on those days, provided twenty-four (24) hours’ notice is given.
- 72 -
Overtime that is not of an emergency nature will be offered to the employees on the shift who normally perform the work. If the employees on the shift decline the overtime, it will be offered to other qualified employees within the department.
Overtime Meals
14.13	If overtime work is expected to be more than two (2) hours in duration, the employee(s) affected will be supplied an overtime meal at their regular quitting time, if practical, and approximately every four (4) hours of work thereafter.
14.14	In the case of unscheduled overtime, the Company will supply transportation from the plant site to the employee's home where they have no other means of transportation available or if requested by the employee.
When a carpool driver is required to work unscheduled overtime, the Company shall supply the members of the carpool who are not required to work overtime with transportation to their homes if there is no other means of transportation available or if requested by any member of the carpool.
Overtime Distribution
14.15	a) Mine employees in the classification of Extensible
Belt Operator, Scoop Tram Operator, Loader Operator and Shuttlecar Operator will be considered
- 73 -
as one classification for the purpose of overtime allocation.
b)	Overtime will be distributed among the employees from the department who occupy the classification that normally performs the work.
c)	If those employees who are first entitled to the overtime are not available or decline the overtime, then qualified employees in the next lower line of progression will be asked to work the overtime. If these employees decline, then any qualified employee within the department will be asked to work, based upon the balance of overtime.
d)	Overtime that occurs because the job carries over the regular shift will first be offered to the employees who worked on the job. If they decline, then any qualified employee within the department will be asked to work, based upon the balance of overtime.
e)	If the Company errs and an employee from the wrong classification works overtime, the Company will allow the overlooked employee to work the missed time at overtime rates at a time convenient to the employee, unless the time chosen is totally impractical to the Company.
f)	This article does not assume that each employee sharing overtime within a particular area and shift will, at any given time, have worked the same
- 74 -
number of overtime hours but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep overtime as nearly in balance as is practicable.
Lists
14.16	Up -to-date lists showing how overtime has been allocated within the particular group in the area on the shift shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted. If an employee refuses the opportunity of working an overtime assignment, it will be considered as an overtime opportunity worked and so recorded. The recording of overtime worked shall be done utilizing a “moving twelve-month time frame” with the thirteenth month dropping off as a new month is added.
The Company will furnish to the Union a copy of the overtime list as posted.
Maintenance of Balance of Overtime
14.17	If a balance of the overtime hours worked among a group which normally shares overtime work is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result an employee’(s’) case is proven, then the off-balance overtime condition shall be identified and the imbalance corrected as soon as practical until a fair balance in the overtime distribution is re-established.
- 75 -
Callout
14.18	If an employee who has left the company premises is called out to work outside their regular hours, they shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay at two (2) times their regular straight-time rate. Employees called out shall not be required to perform routine work after they have completed the work for which they were originally called out, except that they may be required to perform other emergency work consistent with their skills and arising during the period of the callout.
14.19	The above callout provision will not apply to an employee who is called out to work and does work continuously into the beginning of their scheduled shift. In this case, they will be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at two (2) times their regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for all hours worked prior to their regular shift and will be permitted to work to the end of their regular shift. Employees on such a callout, in order to receive the two- (2) hour minimum pay, must report for work within a reasonable time period.
Reporting Pay
14.20	If an employee reports for work after having been scheduled or notified to and has not been previously notified in advance of their reporting time not to report, they will be given a day's work or, if work is not available, they shall receive a regular day's pay at straight time in lieu thereof. An employee who has no phone or an incorrect phone number on file with the
- 76 -
Company will be considered to have been given proper notice under this provision when they report to work.
If the employee's regular job is not available, they shall perform duties as assigned for the period referred to above.
Shift Relief
14.21	No employee assigned to a rotating shift or continuous operation shift shall leave at the end of the shift until their relief reports, unless released by their supervisor.
General (All Employees)
14.22	a) i) An employee who worked half their rest hours
or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of their next shift shall, at the request of the employee, be given the shift off without
pay.
ii)	In the event an employee on a callout as per Articles 14.18/14.19 works half their rest hours or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of the shift and they do not have at least eight (8) hours’ rest between the completion of the overtime worked and the start of their next scheduled shift, they shall have the starting time of the next shift adjusted to provide for eight (8) hours’ rest, after which they will receive a normal day’s pay.
iii)	For those employees on a callout as provided in Articles 14.18 and 14.19, the provisions of this
- 77 -
section (Article 14.22) shall only apply to those who are called out and actually work for more than four (4) consecutive hours of overtime and who do not receive eight (8) hours’ rest from the end of the overtime callout to the start of their next scheduled shift.
iv)	In the event an employee is required to return to work for one (1) hour or less after receiving eight (8) hours’ rest as referred to above, they shall be allowed to work the period of one (1) hour or less at straight-time rates at the beginning of their next scheduled shift.
b) Day shift employees who are called out to work between the hours of midnight and 5 a.m. and who do not receive eight (8) hours’ rest prior to the start of their next shift will be allowed to remain at rest for eight (8) hours. Employees will then be required to work the remainder of the next scheduled shift; and if they complete the shift, they will be paid for the full shift.
Should the callout require the employee to work up to the start of their next regular shift, they will be permitted to remain at work at straight-time rates until they have accumulated the balance of hours normally worked on a regular shift (i.e., 8, 10 or 12 hours). The employee will then be allowed to go home but will be paid at straight-time rates for the remainder of their regular shift.
- 78 -
14.23	An employee required by the Company to maintain certification of their trade papers, tickets or licenses shall be allowed time as required. The costs associated with certification will be paid by the Company. The employee will be reimbursed for any time lost during a day they would otherwise have worked. The Company will provide transportation if required.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES AND SHIFT PREMIUMS
Wage Scale
15.01	a) The wage scale for the job classification is set forth in Appendix A and the rates will be effective commencing at 12:01 a.m. on the date indicated in Appendix A.
b)	Employees shall receive a premium of One Dollar ($1.00) per hour while blasting, provided they are licensed to do so. This premium shall be applicable only for the period while actually performing blasting but in no case shall the premium be paid for less than a one- (1) hour period.
c)	A premium of Two Dollars ($2.00) per hour for all hours worked shall be paid to any employee during their tenure as a lead hand. A lead hand, in addition to performing the functions of their classification, will make job-related decisions in conjunction with the supervisor in order to ensure the completion of
- 79 -
assignments. Lead hands will only act in this capacity over CEP Local 892 members.
15.02	An employee working during the afternoon shift (3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.) or during the night shift (11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.) shall receive a shift premium of 3.50 percent per hour based on the journeyman rate of
pay.
ARTICLE 16 - NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
16.01	If the Company should combine job classifications, change job classifications and/or establish new job classifications, the Company shall develop appropriate wage rates for the combined, changed or new job classifications in relation to jobs, job classifications and wage rates then in effect and will put the rates into effect. The Company will notify the Union, in writing, fifteen (15) days prior to the rates being placed into effect and, if requested, will meet with the Union to discuss said rate(s). The Company will also supply the Union with copies ofjob qualifications and requirements.
16.02	If the Union disagrees with the rate or rates so established after the rates have been in effect for thirty (30) working days, a grievance may be filed within fourteen (14) days thereafter in the third step of the grievance procedure, Article 11.02.
- 80 -
16.03	If the matter above is processed to arbitration under
Article 12, the arbitrator shall, in determining the rate(s), do so in relationship to the established jobs, job classifications and wage rates as shown in Appendix A.
ARTICLE 17 - HOLIDAYS
Designated Holidays
17.01	The following holidays when not worked by an
employee shall be paid provided they are an active employee. Active employee shall include: at work, on vacation, on temporary layoff or collecting company-paid sick benefits. Employees collecting WCB or LTD benefits are not eligible for statutory holiday pay.
- 81 -
New Year's Day
Heritage Day (Third Monday - February)
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Holiday Pay
17.02	An employee eligible for holiday pay under the provisions of this article shall receive a normal scheduled day’s (8, 10 or 12 hours) pay at their regular straight-time rate for all designated holidays listed in Article 17.01. If an eligible employee is required to work on any above-mentioned holidays, they shall be paid two (2) times their regular straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on the designated holiday in addition to the normal scheduled day’s (8, 10 or 12 hours) straight-time pay.
17.03	a) When a designated holiday falls on an employee's
regular day(s) of rest, their next regular scheduled workday(s) shall be paid at two (2) times their regular straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on those day(s) or they may be given an additional
- 82 -
day(s) of rest immediately following the designated holiday(s).
b) During a temporary layoff, the “additional day(s) of rest immediately following the designated holiday(s)” would be the first workday(s) immediately following the designated holiday(s) on the affected employee’s schedule if they had not been laid off. If these days occur within the confines of the temporary layoff, the affected employee will return to work after the layoff on regular time on their first scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 18 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
Please refer to the Letter of Understanding regarding Article 18 in the back of this Agreement.
18.01	An employee with one (1) year or more of continuous service but less than six (6) years of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to one hundred and twenty (120) working hours of annual vacation.
For every additional year of continuous service after five (5) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the tenth (10th) year.
18.02	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service but less than sixteen (16) years of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to one
- 83 -
hundred and sixty (160) working hours of annual vacation.
18.03	For every additional year of continuous service after fifteen (15) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the twentieth (20th) year.
An employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to two hundred (200) working hours of annual vacation.
For every additional year of continuous service after thirty (30) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the thirty-fifth (35th) year.
An employee with thirty-five (35) years or more of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to two hundred and forty (240) working hours of annual vacation.
18.04	An employee must meet the requirements of completed service (anniversary date) in order to qualify for payment per 18.01, 18.02 and 18.03.
18.05	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service will receive at the time of their vacation a vacation bonus of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00). The employee will be eligible for the bonus
- 84 -
if their anniversary date falls at any time during that calendar year.
18.06	Effective January 1, 2002, the vacation period shall extend from January 1 to December 31. Vacation earned in one year and vacation earned in the next year may not be taken consecutively unless the Company approves the employee's request. It is understood that in scheduling the vacation full consideration of operating requirements and the employee's service will be given.
18.07	Effective January 1, 2002, vacation pay will be calculated based on total compensation, which includes base pay, overtime pay, statutory holiday pay, shift differential, vacation pay, special time off with pay, short-term disability, blasting premiums, temporary supervisor premiums, lead hand premiums and CMA premiums. Total compensation does not include LTD benefits, Company’s ISAP contributions or WCB benefits.
Effective January 1,2002, vacation pay will be based on the following percentages:
Service in Years	Vacation Pay Percentage
0 to 5	6.0%
6	6.4%
7	6.8%
8	7.2%
9	7.6%
- 85 -
10 to 15	8.0%
16	8.4%
17	8.8%
18	9.2%
19	9.6%
20 to 30	10.0%
31	10.4%
32	10.8%
33	11.2%
34	11.6%
35 or more	12.0%
18.08	New employees who have less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation entitlement based on ten (10) hours’ vacation for each month of employment.
18.09	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be carried over to the following year unless by mutual agreement of the Parties.
18.10	No employee may continue to work and draw vacation pay in lieu of taking a vacation unless by mutual agreement of the Parties.
18.11	At any time after January 15, upon fourteen (14) days’ notice in writing by an employee, the Company shall issue to the employee vacation pay to which they are entitled in accordance with the terms of this Article; but in any case, vacation pay shall be issued to employees prior to leaving on vacation.
- 86 -
18.12	When a designated holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, they will not be permitted or required to use vacation on the designated holiday or the day in lieu.
18.13	If an employee is confined to a hospital due to unforeseen circumstances during their vacation, they may receive any unused sick pay benefits for each scheduled working day of confinement in accordance with the provisions of Article 20.
The Company will allow the employee to take returned days of vacation at a later time, but in no case shall the vacation period exceed the provisions under Article 18.
Employees who are on vacation and attend a funeral of their immediate family on their normal workday will be handled as per Article 19.10e).
Vacation Shutdown
18.14	A vacation shutdown period can be designated by the
Company provided each vacation shutdown period falls during the school summer vacation period.
During the designated period, employees not required to work by the Company will be required to take vacation.
The Company will notify employees of a pending vacation shutdown no later than May 1 in order for employees to plan their vacation. The Company will advise by posting no later than May 15 the crews that
- 87 -
will not be affected by the shutdown and the employees that will be required to work during the vacation shutdown. Exceptions for unforeseen situations will be discussed between the Parties.
The summer vacation shutdown will be for a period of one (1) or two (2) weeks, and the Company may extend the vacation shutdown to a maximum of one (1) additional week for a total of three (3) weeks. During the third week of the vacation shutdown, employees will have the option of taking vacation or unpaid leave.
Employees will be required to take eighty (80) hours of vacation during the vacation shutdown before they are eligible to take unpaid leave. The eighty (80) hours will be reduced by any statutory holidays and time that an employee works.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Personal Leave
19.01	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay. This leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will consider when deciding to grant or refuse a request for leave:
a)	Whether the leave will interfere with the business and operations requirements of the Company.
b)	Whether a qualified replacement is available to replace the employee during the leave.
- 88 -
c)	Whether denial of the leave would cause undue hardship to the employee.
19.02	An employee who requests a leave of absence shall request the leave in writing at least one (1) week in advance of the leave unless there was no possibility that they had prior knowledge of the necessity of the leave.
Sick Leave of Absence
19.03	The provisions of this sick leave of absence section do not affect sick leave benefits specified elsewhere in this Agreement.
19.04	Employees shall be granted a sick leave of absence without pay provided:
a)	The leave is for personal illness or injury and the employee is actually physically unable to report for or do their regular work.
b)	The leave shall be for a maximum period of thirty-six (36) months if the employee has ten (10) or more years of seniority. If an employee has less than ten (10) years of seniority, the leave shall be for a maximum of twenty-four (24) calendar months or a period equal to their seniority, whichever is lesser; however, for this purpose, every employee is considered to have a minimum of one (1) year's seniority. The period referred to above may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties.
- 89 -
19.05	In all cases of sick leave, the employee(s) shall, prior to returning to work and upon a request of the Company, submit to a medical examination by a qualified practitioner at the Company's expense to ensure that they have the required health qualifications.
Union Leave of Absence
19.06	The Company shall grant a Union leave of absence as authorized in writing by the Local or National Union without pay provided:
a)	The absence will not interfere with the business and operational requirements of the Company.
b)	A qualified replacement is available at the time of the leave.
c)	The Union requests the leave, in writing, at least one (1) week in advance of the leave, unless there was no possibility that the Union had prior knowledge of the necessity for the leave.
The total of the accumulated leaves may not exceed two hundred (200) days per year, excluding the following leave requests, which will be granted without restriction:
i)	Saskatchewan Federation of
Labour Convention (yearly) ..... 5	employees
ii)	Canadian Labour Congress
Convention (biyearly) .......... 2	employees
iii)	CEP National Convention
(biyearly) ..................... 6	employees
- 90 -
iv)	CEP Western Regional
Convention (biyearly) .......... 6	employees
v)	CEP Area Council
Convention (semiannual) ........ 6	employees
vi)	Health & Safety Convention
(yearly) ....................... 5	employees
vii)	Potash Workers Council
(quarterly) .................... 6	employees
No more than two (2) employees per crew will be granted leaves at any one time. Consideration will be given for special circumstances that may require extensions.
19.07	No more than seven (7) employees shall be absent for more than seven (7) calendar days at any one time provided the leave has been granted as per Article 19.06. Consideration will be given for special circumstances that may require extensions.
Extended Leave for Union Business
19.08	An extended leave of absence, without pay but with maintenance and accumulation of seniority up to one (1) year, shall be granted to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time designated by the Union for the conducting of full-time union business on behalf of Local 892 or for the CEP. Leave shall be for not less than one (1) month nor more than one (1) year unless extended by mutual agreement of the Parties for up to another one- (1) year period. Not more than one (1)
- 91 -
employee from any one (1) classification shall be allowed leave at any one time.
Jury Leave and Witness Leave
19.09	When an employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty or witness duty, they shall be paid the difference between the daily amount received for jury or witness services and their regular hourly rate of pay if they otherwise would have been scheduled to work and do not work.
If the employee is not needed for jury or witness duty for all the hours of the missed shift, they will return to work as soon as reasonably possible. Hours the employee could reasonably have worked but did not work will be deducted from their pay. Compensation shall be payable only if the employee presents a written statement from the appropriate court official showing the date and time served and the amount of payment received on each date.
Bereavement Leave
19.10	a) In the case of the death of a member of the
immediate family of an employee, the Company, upon notification in advance, will grant a maximum of four (4) days’ paid bereavement leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. Consideration will be given for situations where the funeral is not concurrent with the death. Funeral will include cremation and
- 92 -
memorial services. Paid leave will not be granted in instances when the employee otherwise eligible does not attend the funeral.
In the event the funeral of a member of the immediate family of an employee is held at a distance in excess of five hundred (500) kilometers from their residence or where reason justifiable to the Company is presented, the employee's bereavement leave will be extended through the second day after the day of the funeral subject to the four- (4) day maximum paid bereavement leave.
b)	An employee may request and will be granted up to an additional fourteen (14) days’ leave, without pay, providing the request is made in writing.
c)	In the event an employee is required to be an active pallbearer at the funeral of another company employee, the Company will grant the necessary time off and they will receive their normal day's pay, excluding any premiums, for the regular scheduled time absent on their shift.
d)	For the purposes of bereavement leave, "immediate family" shall include the employee's spouse, children, mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law, brother and sister-in-law, son and daughter-in-law and grandparents and grandchildren of the employee or spouse, foster child, foster parent, legal ward or legal
- 93 -
guardian, if the relationship has been legally established. Common-law status shall be recognized if the employee has notified the Company of the common-law status prior to the bereavement.
e)	Employees who are on vacation and who attend a funeral of a member of their immediate family on their normal workday will have one normal day of vacation reinstated upon their return. Employees who are off work due to injury or illness or other leaves of absence will not receive bereavement leave. Employees who are off work due to a statutory holiday will not receive bereavement leave on that same day.
Maternity. Adoption and Paternity Leave
19.11	Leave of absence for maternity, adoption or paternity leave will be granted as per the Labour Standards Act.
Educational Leave of Absence
19.12	Employees may request a leave of absence to further their education for the sole purpose of advancement with the Company by attending full-time classes of instruction. Pre-employment type instruction is not eligible for leave under this section.
Subject to the above, the Company will give consideration to the request conditional on the following:
- the employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
- 94 -
-	the leave will not interfere with the business requirements of the Company;
-	there is a qualified replacement for the affected employee;
-	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance with all details of the instruction course;
-	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company;
-	not more than one (1) leave is given at K1 and one (1) at K2 operations during any one time.
If granted by the Company, leaves will require that the affected employee attend each session of the course. If the employee fails to attend each session of the course, they will be terminated unless they have a legitmate reason for missing the sessions.
General
19.13	When an employee returns to work following any leave of absence, the Company will reinstate them in their former job if the former job is still in existence and unchanged in content, provided they are still qualified to perform the work. If the job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the employee may displace the junior employee in a job grade which is equal to or below their former job grade or the junior employee in a job previously held and for which they are qualified.
- 95 -
19.14	For leaves of absence of one (1) year or less, all seniority is maintained and accumulated. For leaves of absence exceeding one year, seniority will be maintained but not accumulated.
19.15	An employee who becomes a candidate or is elected to public office shall receive a leave of absence without loss of seniority in accordance with Section 80 - Labour Standards Act.
- 96 -
ARTICLE 20 - SPECIAL TIME OFF WITH PAY
Please refer to the Letter of Understanding regarding Article 20 in the back of this Agreement.
20.01	Under special circumstances, an employee will be
granted time off with pay up to a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours [sixty (60) hours for those on a compressed workweek] per year. This shall be prorated during the first year of employment. Employees will accumulate unused days each calendar year. It is understood that for accumulation purposes, should an employee’s job change or the compressed workweek be discontinued, they have accumulated sixty (60) hours during the calendar year. There will be no payout of accumulated days except for the following:
- 97 -
Situation	Applies to Situation of	Effective	Maximum Paid
Illness	Employee	Second day	Accumulated sick days
Nonoccupational accident or hospitalization of employee (includes day surgery)	Employee	First day	Accumulated sick days
Illness or injury of spouse or dependent child causing hospital confinement as directed by a physician	Spouse or dependent child	Second day	Two days’ pay (see “serious” if it exceeds three days of absence)
Illness or injury of spouse causing bed confinement as directed by a physician	Spouse	Second day	Two days’ pay (see “serious” if it exceeds three days of absence)
Birth of a child	Spouse	First day	Two days/instance
Dental	Employee	First hour	16 hours/year
Optical	Employee	First hour	8 hours/year
Critical	Spouse, child, mother, father, sister or brother	Second day	Accumulated sick days
Serious	Spouse or dependent child	First day	Accumulated sick days after vacation bank
- 98 -
exhausted
Definitions:
Critical - Illnesses or injuries that are life threatening if not treated immediately as verified by the attending physician.
- 99 -
Serious - Illnesses or injuries that are verified as serious and the presence of the employee is considered necessary by the attending physician.
20.02	If an employee leaves work because of illness during the first half of their shift, that day will be counted in calculating their waiting period.
20.03	When an employee has been absent for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled workdays, they will be compensated for four (4) hours’ pay on the first day of absence if working a twelve- (12) hour day or two (2) hours if working a ten- (10) hour day.
20.04	In order to receive this pay, the employee will provide the Company with a medical certificate or other proof of entitlement as may be required by the Company.
20.05	When an employee is absent under this Article and a designated holiday occurs, they shall be paid a normal scheduled day’s (8, 10 or 12 hours) pay at their regular straight-time rate and payment shall not result in a reduction of any of the days off as described in 20.01, provided the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.01.
20.06	Employee(s) will not be entitled to the benefits when absent from work due to a statutory holiday, leave of absence or layoff or for those days which they would have been scheduled as regular days off. Sick pay
- 100 -
entitlement for employees who are on vacation will be dealt with as per Article 18.13.
- 101 -
ARTICLE 21 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	During the lifetime of the Agreement, the Group Insurance Plan as described in the "Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan" will be maintained except as amended hereafter.
It is understood that disability benefits are payable only after an employee has exhausted the employee's sick pay benefits as provided in Article 20.
The only exception is that a 5&2 employee may reserve the last forty (40) hours of accumulated paid sick leave to be used at a later time. A shift employee may reserve the last forty-eight (48) hours of accumulated paid sick leave to be used at a later time.
21.02	Regarding short-term disability, please refer to the Letter of Understanding regarding Article 20 in the back of this Agreement.
a)	Short-Term Disability
i)	Premiums to be fully paid by the Company.
ii)	If your disability results from a nonoccupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled workday you are unable to report for work up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
- 102 -
iii)	If your disability results from a nonoccupational illness, income benefits will be payable from the fourth (4th) day after the first scheduled workday you were unable to report to work up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
iv)	Benefit level - seventy percent (70%) of normal earnings per week.
b)	Long-Term Disability
i)	From February 1, 2001, to January 31, 2002, fifty percent (50%) of the premiums paid by the Company and fifty percent (50%) paid by the employees.
ii)	Effective February 1, 2002, sixty percent (60%) of the premiums paid by the Company and forty percent (40%) paid by the employees.
iii)	Benefits - seventy percent (70%) of normal earnings, including fifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan benefits, per month.
iv)	Long-term disability benefits shall be fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
c)	General
- 103 -
Eligibility for entrance into the above plans shall be provided for in the applicable benefit plan policy. None of the above benefits will be reduced as a result of the employee holding private insurance.
All benefits under this Article shall be based on the job title rate of the employee at the time of commencement of receipt of any of the benefits.
The Company agrees to distribute a copy of the group insurance booklet to all employees.
d)	Dental Plan
A dental insurance plan will be established covering employees and their spouse, where applicable, with the employee paying twenty percent (20%) of the dental bill and the Plan paying eighty percent (80%) of the dental bill.
The Company will pay the full cost of the Plan.
The Dental Plan will not have a maximum limit and will include orthodontia.
The Dental Plan will include unmarried, dependent children to age twenty-three (23) if the child is a full-time student at an accredited school and remains a dependent.
Dependent children referred to above shall be eligible for basic dental coverage paying eighty percent (80%) of the dental bill.
- 104 -
Dependent children referred to above shall be eligible for defined major services including orthodontia benefits and shall be payable at fifty percent (50%) of normal and customary charges under the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
To be eligible for payment of a dental bill, an employee's charges as submitted to the Company for payment must conform with the regulations of the Plan as outlined and the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
- 105 -
e)	Vision Care
As part of the Group Benefits Program, each employee, spouse and dependent child will be eligible for vision care in the amount of Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per person, including eye examinations, during any consecutive twenty-four (24) month period.
f)	Medical Plan
The Medical Plan will provide coverage for the employee, spouse and eligible dependent children as described in the “Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan.”
g)	Company Benefit Level
Effective February 1, 1995, the benefit levels provided by the Company will be frozen in such a way that the Company will not assume any additional Medicare costs that may flow to employees as a result of any government off-loading of future costs of Medicare.
General
21.03	In the event an employee who has been injured on the job and who has subsequently received a medical certificate stating that they are fit for work, the Company will make a special effort to offer them employment within their ability for jobs that have
- 106 -
become available. The time limit for consideration under this clause is subject to Article 19.04 b).
21.04	Tools and clothing shall be defined in Exhibit 1.
21.05	The Company agrees to offer assistance to Accounting employees who desire to continue their education towards a Certified Management Accountant or Certified General Accountant designation. Employees in Accounting who enroll in a correspondence course of study as offered in the above provisions will be eligible for reimbursement of one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of yearly tuition, registration, examination fees and required course books.
To receive the reimbursement of the costs, the employee must pass the yearly examination.
Accounting employees who have been enrolled in and have completed certain levels of the C.M.A. or C.G.A. correspondence courses shall be paid a premium rate in addition to their regular rate of pay for all straight-time hours paid as follows:
a)	After successful completion of the first year, $0.50 per hour.
b)	After successful completion of the second year, $1.00 per hour.
c)	After successful completion of the third year, $1.50 per hour.
d)	After successful completion of the fourth year, $2.00 per hour.
- 107 -
e)	After attainment of C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree, $2.50 per hour.
To be eligible for these premiums, employees must submit official transcripts of marks from C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree.
It is understood that the premium rate will only be paid if the employee retains employment as an Accounting employee in the Accounting Group.
ARTICLE 22 - PENSIONS
22.01	During this Agreement, the retirement benefits as described in the Company's pamphlet entitled "Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan" will be maintained.
22.02	Effective January 31, 2004, the Pension Plan Summary shall include a monthly pension of Fifty-Two Dollars ($52.00) per month per year of service.
22.03	The monthly pension will be in addition to any monies a retiree may receive from C.P.P. and Old Age Benefits.
22.04	Effective January 1, 1996, an employee will be entitled to full, vested retirement benefits after two (2) years of seniority or when their age plus total years of continuous service total at least forty-five (45).
- 108 -
22.05	While the normal retirement for all employees is age sixty-five (65), all eligible employees after reaching the age of sixty-one (61) shall be entitled to early retirement with no reduction in benefits.
22.06	Credited service for the calculation of retirement benefits shall include all employment time with IMC Potash Esterhazy.
22.07	In addition to the normal survivor protection of the pension determined by personal selection at the time of retirement, the IMC Esterhazy Canada Limited Partnership Retirement Plan offers spousal protection in the event of the death of an employee before the employee's pension starts.
22.08	If you retire early, your pension will be reduced by four percent (4%) for each year by which your pension starting date precedes your sixty-first (61st) birthday.
ARTICLE 23 - NOTICES
23.01	Any notice to either Party shall be addressed as follows:
To the Company:
IMC Potash Esterhazy
Attention - Human Resources Manager
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
SOA OXO
- 109 -
To the Union:
Local 892, Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union of Canada (CEP) Attention - Unit Chairperson P.O. Box 1509 Esterhazy, Saskatchewan SOA OXO
- 110 -
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Preamble
24.01	The Parties, in recognizing the importance of an active program to promote safety and health in working conditions and practice, have agreed as follows:
24.02	In matters pertaining to safety and occupational health, the Saskatchewan Occupational Health & Safety Act, 1993 and the Occupational Health & Safety Regulations, 1996 shall be the basic guide in the development of and implementation of a safety and occupational health program.
24.03	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of employment.
24.04	The Union agrees that careful observance of safe working practices and safety rules is a primary duty of all employees. The Company agrees that there will be uniform enforcement of the rules among employees in scope and these rules shall be enforced without discrimination.
24.05	For the continued protection of its employees, the Company retains its right to require any employee to submit to a physical examination at the Company's expense by a company-designated physician at any time or from time to time to determine the fitness of the
- 111 -
employee. The Company has the right to utilize the report of the physical examination to aid it in determining whether the employee can perform their duties in a safe and satisfactory manner.
24.06	Safety and health problems will be resolved as quickly as practicable.
24.07	Workers have a duty to participate in activities that improve health and safety. They must follow health and safety policies, plans and procedures that are lawfully established by the employer.
Safety and Health Committees
24.08	There shall be five (5) Safety and Health Committees with union representation as follows:
a)	K1 and K2 Underground Operations - two (2) employees from K1 and two (2) employees from K2.
b)	K1 and K2 Surface Operations - two (2) employees from K1 and two (2) employees from K2.
c)	Inflow Control Operations - two (2) employees.
The number of company representatives on these Committees may be equal to the number of union representatives, but in no case shall the number exceed the number of union representatives.
The Parties shall select their members on each Committee and the persons designated as cochairpersons of each Committee. There shall be two
- 112 -
(2) cochairpersons for each of the Committees (one Company/one Union). Chairpersonship of each Committee shall alternate on a meeting basis.
When one cochairperson is acting as chairperson, the other will act as secretary. Each Party may select alternate members for each Committee who may be called to act in the absence of regular Committee members.
24.09	The purpose of the joint Safety and Health Committees shall be:
a)	to consider and review safety and health conditions and complaints and accidents referred to it by employees;
b)	to participate in the identification of safety hazards;
c)	to prepare advisory recommendations;
d)	to maintain records in connection with the receipt and disposition of employee complaints in reference to safety and health matters.
24.10	Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing of the names of its appointees and alternates to the respective Safety and Health Committees. The Parties shall not recognize members of any Committee unless notice in writing has been given by an authorized official of the other Party.
24.11	There shall be established, by mutual agreement, a set day and time on a bimonthly basis for each Committee to meet and review matters referred to them. All
- 113 -
Committee meetings shall be scheduled during regular working hours. An employee shall not suffer loss of regular straight-time pay for participating in these meetings or other activity referred to in Accident and Occupational Health Officer Investigations. Prior to leaving their jobs to attend safety and health matters, Committee members must obtain permission from their supervisor. Permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
24.12	Either cochairperson may call a special meeting of their Committee to deal with urgent concerns, imminent dangers to health or safety, investigations of accidents or dangerous occurrences or refusals to work pursuant to Section 23 of the Act.
24.13	Minutes of each Committee meeting signed by both cochairpersons shall be distributed to their Committee members and posted on bulletin boards within one (1) week after any meeting.
Procedure
24.14	An employee who believes a health and safety concern exists shall report the concern to their immediate supervisor. If the employee is not satisfied with the supervisor’s decision, they shall forward the matter to an OH&S Committee representative.
- 114 -
Right to Participate
24.15	The right to participate applies to every employee and employees have the right to:
•	Ask management for information about health and safety issues.
•	Report health and safety concerns to management.
•	Report unsolved concerns to the Committee or a representative.
•	Discuss concerns at meetings.
•	Appeal decisions of occupational health officers.
Accidents
24.16	The Company will notify the employee OH&S cochair or designate as soon as possible following incidents requiring notification to the Chief Mine Inspector. Accidents involving serious injury will be investigated by both cochairpersons of the Committee for the area involved with a written report submitted to the Committee.
24.17	If an occupational health officer requests to be accompanied on an investigation of the operation, the cochairperson(s) of the Committee for the area involved shall accompany the occupational health officer.
Refusal
24.18	An employee who refuses to work in an area, as provided for in Section 23 of the Occupational Health
- 115 -
and Safety Act, 1993, shall notify their supervisor immediately.
ARTICLE 25 - CONTRACTING
25.01	So far as practicable with the work force available, normal maintenance, repair and production work which has been done regularly by the Company's own employees will continue to be done by these employees.
25.02	New construction, installation or modification of equipment, major repairs, major maintenance, major overhaul work or other work not regularly done by the Company's own employees may be done by outside contractors.
This clause is not intended to restrict the Company to let contracts when it feels it necessary, economical or expedient to do so, such as not having the necessary equipment, supervision or employees immediately available with the necessary skills or when peaks of work would require a temporary increase of the Company's forces with subsequent layoff of those forces.
25.03	If it becomes necessary to contract out work as provided for above, the Company agrees to give a written notification of the reasons for contracting out to a designated representative of the Union prior to the
- 116 -
work being performed. If time does not permit, the Company shall notify a Union official and follow with a written notice. In the notification, the Company will give the name of the contractor, the approximate number of personnel involved, the approximate duration and the job to be performed. So far as practicable, at the request of either Party, contract work and the availability of employees to do that work will be discussed.
25.04	The Company will not cause an employee to be laid off, demoted, terminated or transferred by bringing in outside contractors to perform normal maintenance repair or production work on the plant premises. It is not the intent of the Company to replace the normal work force with contractors.
25.05	The Union is to receive Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) per quarter as payment for on-site contract workers. In addition, during periods of temporary layoffs and vacation shutdown, the following calculation will be used to determine additional monies paid to the Union.
The formula will be one (1) hour’s pay per contractor employee per month, pay to be one (1) hour at the IMC Potash Esterhazy Journeyman hourly rate. Contractor hours are to be accumulated and divided by one hundred and seventy-four (174) hours to determine the number of full-time equivalent positions. Long-term contractors are excluded.
- 117 -
ARTICLE 26 - WORK BY SUPERVISORS
26.01	It is recognized that the duties of a supervisor are of a supervisory nature. Accordingly, the supervisors shall not perform work performed by the employees covered by this Agreement except:
a)	In emergencies for protection of company property and/or the safety and health of employees.
b)	In the direct instruction and direct training of employees.
c)	Work of a research and development nature.
ARTICLE 27 - BULLETIN BOARDS
27.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards in appropriate places readily accessible to employees. Bulletin boxes supplied by the Union will be affixed in agreed-upon locations so that Union bulletins may be distributed.
27.02	Only bulletins authorized by the Local 892 Executive will be posted or distributed.
27.03	The Parties have a responsibility to ensure that notices posted or distributed shall not be inflammatory or political.
27.04	The posting or distribution by employees of notices, pamphlets, advertising or political matters will not be sanctioned.
- 118 -
ARTICLE 28 - LEGALITY OF PROVISIONS
28.01	This Agreement shall at all times conform with all
applicable laws of the Province of Saskatchewan and/or the Dominion of Canada. If any section or part of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid due to a change in law, the remaining provisions shall be given full force and effect as completely as if the part held invalid had not been included therein.
ARTICLE 29 - COMPLETE AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement contains the complete understanding between the Parties for the term of this contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendments or waivers affecting the terms of this Agreement shall only be discussed by mutual agreement of the Parties. Any agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of discussions shall become effective upon being reduced to writing and signed by the Parties.
ARTICLE 30 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties from the 1st day of February, 2001, and shall remain in effect through the 31st day of January, 2004, and from year to year thereafter, but either Party may, not less than
- 119 -
thirty (30) days or not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date, give notice in writing to the other Party to terminate or negotiate revisions to this Agreement.
30.02	At the first meeting for commencement of negotiations, both Parties shall submit their proposals in writing.
30.03	Negotiations are to commence within thirty (30) days' notice for a revision of this Agreement or for a new Agreement.
ARTICLE 31 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
31.01	In recognition of the spirit and intent of Section 43 of the Trade Union Act, the Parties will provide through the format of this Agreement an orderly procedure to deal with the effect of a technological change within the meaning of the Act. If as a result of a technological change within the meaning of the Act job classifications are changed, job classifications are combined and/or new job classifications are established, they will be dealt with under the provisions of Article 16.
Interpretation of "significant numbers" in the Trade Union Act shall mean one (1) or more persons in all cases.
31.02	Procedures for the aforementioned are:
- 120 -
a)	Notification
The Company will notify the Union of a technological change at least ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the change is to be effected and notice shall be in writing and state:
i)	the nature of the technological change,
ii)	the date the Company proposed to effect the technological change and
iii)	the names, seniority dates and classifications of the employees primarily affected.
b)	Employee Rights
An employee displaced as a result of a technological change will exercise layoff rights under Article 10.
c)	Cooperation With Human Resources Development Canada
i)	Upon request, the Company will furnish to Human Resources Development Canada the laid-off employee's skills inventory record and other information necessary to assist them in relocating the displaced employee to another job with another company.
ii)	Reductions in the work force as a result of production requirements solely are not subject to this Article and Section 43 of the Trade Union Act.
- 121 -
Computers
31.03	It is recognized that the use of computers in the
workplace will continue to grow. It is inevitable that some restructuring of jobs and job descriptions will occur under Article 16. It is not the intention of the Company to make changes associated with computerization which would have as their purpose the replacement of in-scope employees with out-of-scope employees. It is also understood that the use of computers from time to time by out-of-scope employees does not constitute the performing of work in the exclusive domain of in-scope employees.
This Agreement shall not have any effect on out-ofscope employees who use computers in the normal course of their job to do work that is normally not done by in-scope employees.
Employee(s) whose jobs are permanently affected by computerization shall be recognized under this Article.
- 122 -
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 17th day of December, 2001.
On behalf of:	On behalf of:
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892	IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
Gord Steininger, Staff Rep	Don Hood, General Manager
Shannon Reitenbach	Brian Warren, VP, HR
Bryan Glazer	Randy Abdai
Lawrence Hozan	Dwaine Bourgette
Brian Ingjaldson	Brian Gerhardt
Ed Raffey	Marshall Hamilton
Ron Roussin	Keiran Killick
	Oliver Pask
- 123 -
EXHIBIT 1
TOOLS AND CLOTHING
1) Tools
a)	The Company will issue to employees at no cost all tools as required in the opinion of the Company for the performance of work by the employees. Each employee upon being issued tools shall acknowledge receipt of the tools by signing for them.
b)	Tools worn out or defective will be maintained or replaced by the Company.
c)	Tools lost in the line of duty or stolen as determined by the supervisor will be replaced by the Company. Repeated claims by any one employee for replacement of tools will be deemed evidence of negligence and, in these cases, replacement may be denied.
d)	The cost of any tools not returned in good condition, normal wear excepted, upon request of the Company or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the employee.
e)	Any tools not returned shall be paid for by the employee at their reasonable depreciated value and shall become the property of the employee.
f)	Depreciation shall be equal to forty percent (40%) at the end of one (1) year and ten percent (10%) at the end of the second year, but in no event shall a tool have a
- 124 -
depreciated value of less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value.
2) Clothing
The Company will supply protective apparel as deemed
necessary to employees on the following basis:
a)	Slickers: Shaftsperson and Cage Tender K1 - Other employees requiring slickers from time to time will be allowed to use these through their supervisor upon request at no cost to the employee.
b)	Welder's Sleeves and Welder's Gloves: Supplied to welders and those required to weld on an exchange basis at no cost to the employee.
c)	Prescription Glasses: No more than one (1) pair each year on an exchange basis. If an employee damages their prescription glasses while at work through no negligence on their part and providing repair or replacement of prescription glasses is not covered by Worker's Compensation, then the Company will repair or replace them. Prescription glasses shall be regular company issue. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any costs relating in any way to eye examinations (covered under Article 21.02 e)). The cost of prescription glasses shall be paid by the Company.
- 125 -
d)	Hard Hats. Liners. Suspensions. Goggles. Welder's Hoods: Will be supplied, as deemed necessary by the Company at no cost to the employee.
e)	Parkas: Employees requiring parkas from time to time will be allowed to use these through their supervisor upon request at no cost to the employee.
f)	Gloves: Employees will be issued gloves on an exchange basis at no cost to the employee.
g)	Boots: During each calendar year, the Company will supply:
i)	two (2) pairs of safety boots or four (4) pairs of rubber boots or
ii)	one (1) pair of safety boots and two (2) pairs of rubber boots
upon completion of the employee's probationary period to employees requiring boots. Boots must be exchanged after initial issue and must be worn out prior to reissuing a new pair. Selection shall be limited to those styles carried in the company warehouse stock. Employees changing from rubber boots to leather safety boots during the year will be deducted for the cost of the original rubber boots.
h)	Snowsuits: The Company will maintain a limited supply of snowsuits that will be available through an employee's supervisor in cases of short-term use in emergency situations in extreme weather. The snowsuits must be returned to the supervisor
- 126 -
immediately after the specific period of use by the employee.
i)	The above articles of safety apparel or equipment will only be replaced by the Company upon normal wear and tear through normal usage on company premises. The depreciated cost of any of the above articles not returned upon request of the Company or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the employee.
APPENDIX A
Percent Increase				2.76%	2.91%	2.8%
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.
Classification - Mine	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/01	1/02	1/03
Mine Technician I Miner Operator	6110	17	25.51	26.21	26.97	27.73
Alpine Miner Operator	6120					
Hoist Operator	6130					
Mine Technician II		16	24.67	25.35	26.09	26.82
Shaftsperson I	6220					
Mine Technician IIA		13	22.56	23.18	23.85	24.52
Shaftsperson II	6410					
Mine Technician III Extensible Belt Operator	6310	12	21.99	22.60	23.26	23.91
Loader Operator	6320					
Shuttle Car Operator	6330					
Scoop Tram Operator	6340					
Cage Tender	6360					
Mine Technician IV		8	20.21	20.77	21.37	21.97
Mine Operator III	6510					
- 127 -
Percent Increase				2.76%	2.91%	2.8%
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.
Classification - Mill	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/01	1/02	1/03
Mill Technician IA		16F	25.51	26.21	26.97	27.73
Central Control Operator K1	7000					
Central Control/Boiler Operator	7010					
Central Control Operator K2	7020					
Mill Technician I		15	24.16	24.83	25.55	26.27
U/G Water Pump Operator	7110					
XLR Operator K2	7120					
XLR Operator K1	7130					
Loadout Operator I	7140					
HM/Flotation Operator	7150					
U/G Water Control Operator	7160					
Refinery Operator I	7170					
Mill Technician IIA		13	22.56	23.18	23.85	24.52
Process Operator Area I	7520					
Process Operator Area II	7530					
Refinery Operator II	7540					
Mill Technician II		12	21.99	22.60	23.26	23.91
Compacting Operator	7210					
Reagent Operator	7250					
Loadout Operator II	7260					
Screening Operator K1	7270					
Screening Operator K2	7280					
Mill Technician III		10	21.09	21.67	22.30	22.92
Drying Operator	7320					
Compacting Operator	7330					
Reclaim Operator	7370					
Mill Technician IV		8	20.21	20.77	21.37	21.97
Loadout Operator III	7440					
128 -
Percent Increase				2.76%	2.91%	2.8%
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.
Classification - Maintenance	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/01	1/02	1/03
Maintenance Technician I		17D	25.78	26.49	27.26	28.02
Journeyman Electric Motor Rebuild	8000	---				
Boiler Operator 2nd Class						
with Refrigeration Papers	8010	---				
Journeyman Electrician	8020	---				
Journeyman Auto Mechanic	8030	---				
Journeyman Heavy Duty Repair	8040	---				
Journeyman Machinist	8050	---				
Journeyman Industrial Mechanic	8060	---				
Journeyman Welder	8070	---				
Journeyman Instrumentation	8080	---				
Pressure Welder with Certificate	8090	---				
Boiler Operator 2nd Class/						
Chief Engineer	8100	---				
Maintenance Technician IA		16	24.67	25.35	26.09	26.82
Boiler Operator 2nd Class	8120					
Ground Control Operator I	8130					
Maintenance Technician II		15	24.16	24.83	25.55	26.27
U/G Belt Construction IA	8190					
Surface Water Control I	8200					
Instrumentation I	8210					
Electrician I	8220					
Heavy Duty Mechanic I	8230					
Boiler Operator 3rd Class	8240					
Auto Mechanic I	8250					
Machinist I	8260					
Mechanic I	8270					
Welder I	8280					
Electric Motor Rebuild I	8290					
Maintenance Technician III		12	21.99	22.60	23.26	23.91
Tails Line Operator	8310					
U/G Belt Construction I	8320					
Heavy Duty Mechanic II	8330					
Ground Control Operator II	8340					
Mechanic II	8360					
Welder II	8370					
F.R.P. I	8380					
129 -
130 -
Percent Increase				2.76%	2.91%	2.8%
Classification -	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.
Office & Technical	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/01	1/02	1/03
Journeyman Mechanical Draftsperson	2010	36	25.78	26.49	27.26	28.02
Journeyman Electrical Draftsperson	2020					
Research Technician	2100	35	24.84	25.53	26.27	27.01
Metallurgical Technician	2110					
Rock Mechanic Technician	2120					
Mine Technician	2140					
Laboratory Technician	2150	34	24.16	24.83	25.55	26.27
Inventory Control	2130					
Mechanical Draftsperson I	2160					
Electrical Draftsperson I	2170					
Mine Technician II	2220	31	23.75	24.41	25.12	25.82
Surveyor I	2310					
Surface Water Control Technician	2330	33	22.37	22.99	23.66	24.32
Laboratory Operator I	2210					
Cost Accountant	2610					
Mechanical Draftsperson II	2230	32	21.99	22.60	23.26	23.91
Electrical Draftsperson II	2240					
Warehouse I	2510	30	21.68	22.28	22.93	23.57
Laboratory Operator II	2410	29	21.55	22.14	22.78	23.42
Mechanical Draftsperson III	2520	27	21.07	21.65	22.28	22.90
Electrical Draftsperson III	2530					
General Accounting Clerk	2720					
131
Percent Increase				2.76%	2.91%	2.8%
Classification -	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.
Office & Technical continued	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/01	1/02	1/03
Surveyor II	2810	26	19.91	20.46	21.06	21.65
Industrial Relations Clerk - MSDS	2730	25	19.87	20.42	21.01	21.60
Warehouse II	2750	24	19.81	20.36	20.95	21.54
Warehouse Dispatch	2770	-				
General Clerk	2710	23	19.56	20.10	20.68	21.26
Informations Systems Clerk I	2740	--	n/a	n/a		
Accounts Payable Clerk	2910	22	17.84	18.33	18.86	19.39
Informations Systems Clerk I	2920	--			n/a	n/a
Clerk Typist	2930	--				
Information Systems Clerk II	3010	21	16.73	17.19	17.69	18.19
132 -
APPENDIX B
MINE DEPARTMENT
Miner O Alpine Min	)perator er Operator
	
Extensible Belt Operator Loader Operator Shuttle Car Operator	
	
Mine O I	perator I
	
	
	
He Ope	ist rator
	
Ca Ten	ge
Incline
Helper
Shaftsperson
I
Shaftsperson
______II
Dated: 12/06/01
- 133 -
APPENDIX B
K1 MILL DEPARTMENT
Dated 12/06/01
- 134 -
APPENDIX B
K2 MILL DEPARTMENT
Dated 12/06/01
Tails Line Operator
135 -
136 -
APPENDIX B
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Labourer
Dated 12/06/01
APPENDIX B WATER RECOVERY
137 -
APPENDIX B OFFICE & TECHNICAL
Dated 10/24/01
138
APPENDIX C
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1)	Purpose
The purpose of the Program is to provide a means of training and developing tradespersons of the highest calibre for IMC Potash Esterhazy, further to provide environment and incentive that will assist employees to achieve their maximum potential.
The Program is recognized as requiring the active participation of the Company and the Union, the employee and various levels of government.
2)	Coverage
The Program will cover trades designated as necessary or advisable by the Company.
The number of apprentices required for each trade and number of apprentices at each level within each trade shall be determined by the Company. The Company will inform the Union of changes in the number of apprentices at each level of each trade. However, once an employee is accepted in the Program, they will be allowed to progress through the full apprenticeship subject to the provisions of this Program or the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
- 139 -
3)	General
a)	Standards for entry in the Program shall be determined by the Company in accordance with the provisions of Article 9. Employees who already possess a trade certificate in a job classification listed in Appendix A will not be considered for apprenticeship postings.
Any interviews or examinations in relation to an employee's entry into the Apprenticeship Program or interviews while in the Program will be done on company time with no loss of pay. Any preliminary tests conducted by the Company shall only be in relation to the employee's aptitude for their particular trade. The Union may have a representative to peruse the content of the type of tests used.
b)	The Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board shall determine at what level an applicant fits into the Apprenticeship Program and that is the level at which an applicant will be placed.
c)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall sign an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board.
d)	Employees in the Maintenance Department not participating in the Apprenticeship Program will not be denied promotion, laid off or terminated as a result of the Company posting for an opening in the Apprenticeship Program.
- 140 -
An employee bidding into the Apprenticeship Program in a trade currently being held by said employee shall retain their rate if it is higher until their apprenticeship rate surpasses it, at which time they shall progress to the higher rate.
In the event a maintenance employee enters into the Apprenticeship Program and is subsequently removed from the Program in accordance with this Agreement and their apprenticeship rate is higher than their rate prior to bidding, the employee will revert back to their old job title and applicable rate of pay.
e)	Employees accepted into the Program will enter into an apprenticeship probationary agreement with the Company for a period of six (6) months. This agreement will be registered with the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board. If at the end of the six- (6) month apprenticeship probationary period both the employee and the Company are satisfied to continue the agreement of apprenticeship, a contract or indenture will be made and registered with the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board.
The six- (6) month period shall start at the time the employee is transferred into the Program. However, the transfer must take place within thirty (30) calendar days after being awarded the job.
- 141 -
f)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall sign an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board, provided that where the terms of the contract provided by the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board differ from the terms set out in this Article, the terms of the Agreement shall govern.
- 142 -
g) Rates of Pay:
Apprentice 1 (B) ..	... 0 - 6 Months ... equivalent to Helper rate.
Apprentice 1 (A) ..	... 6 - 12 Months ... equivalent to Maintenance Tech. V rate.
Apprentice 2 ..	... 12 - 24 Months ... equivalent to Maintenance Tech. IV rate.
Apprentice 3 ..	... 24 - 36 Months ... equivalent to Maintenance Tech. III rate.
Apprentice 4 ..	... 36 - 48 Months ... equivalent to Maintenance Tech. II rate.
The basis of the pay schedules in g) is that after the introductory period (Apprentice 1 level) an apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having the	
required months of experience and after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board. In the event the employee attends school before their apprenticeship anniversary date and passes, they shall only receive the increased rate when they have the required time; and, conversely, if the employee attends school after their apprenticeship anniversary date, they
- 143 -
shall be paid retroactively to their anniversary date upon successfully completing school.
i)	The Company will schedule an approved leave of absence for an apprentice to go to the appropriate technical institute as approved by the Saskatchewan Provincial Apprenticeship Board.
j)	An apprentice who attends the required training course shall be entitled to receive from the Company an amount equal to the difference between what the apprentice would have received on a straight-time basis for each day they would normally have worked during this period if not attending the training course and what they receive from any provincial or federal governmental department or agency by way of a basic living allowance for each day that they are in attendance at the training school. If an apprentice is absent from training school on a day on which they are required to attend, they shall not be entitled to be paid under the Collective Agreement. "Living Away From Home" and "Travelling" allowances paid by the government will not be taken into consideration when calculating the amount of make-up pay to which the employee is entitled from IMC Potash Esterhazy.
If an apprentice has failed the required examinations at any one level and they repeat the level, they shall receive no pay difference from the Company for repeating that course level.
- 144 -
k)	An apprentice may be removed from the training program by the Company or upon request of the employee and have their apprenticeship contract cancelled at any time during the six- (6) month apprenticeship probationary period, and if they were a member of the Bargaining Unit prior to their entrance into the Apprenticeship Program, they shall be given rate retention and retain their regular rate of pay from their former permanent classification and department. The employee agrees to accept any position offered by the Company. At the Company’s discretion, and if available, more than one position from which to choose may be offered. The employee will be placed on the recall list and recalled as per Article 10.01 C) 3).
l)	An apprentice who has completed the apprenticeship probationary period may be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and the apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
i)	Just cause.
ii)	If an apprentice fails to take the training course when they are scheduled, provided that their failure to take the course is not due to a cause beyond their control.
iii)	If an apprentice fails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
In the event of an employee being removed from the Apprenticeship Program for any reason stated above, the employee shall be given rate retention at their level
- 145 -
as per g) in the Apprenticeship Program at the time of removal.
The employee agrees to accept any position offered by the Company. At the Company’s discretion, and if available, more than one position from which to choose may be offered. The employee will be placed on the recall list and recalled as per Article 10.01 C) 3).
m)	The employee will be paid the journeyman rate of pay when they successfully complete the apprenticeship and/or present their certificate to the Human Resources Department.
n)	For all employees enrolled in the Apprenticeship Program, the Company shall reimburse them once per session for driving their own automobile at the rate of thirty-five cents ($0.35) per kilometer to cover one round trip from Esterhazy to the appropriate apprenticeship school.
All articles of this Program shall be considered part of the Collective Agreement between IMC Potash Esterhazy and Local 892.
- 146 -
A G R E E M E N T between
IMC CANADA ESTERHAZY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan and
LOCAL 892 of
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
INDIVIDUAL SECURITY ACCOUNT PLAN
1.	Purpose
The Individual Security Account Plan is designed to assist employees of the Company during times of layoff to allow them to withdraw from their Individual Security Accounts a weekly amount that would supplement their Employment Insurance benefits. The Plan will also allow the employee to contribute to a tax-sheltered registered retirement savings plan all contributions over the minimum amount required in each Individual Security Account.
2.	Contributions
Each employee shall contribute Eighty Cents (800) for all hours paid (exclusive of overtime), and the Company shall match the contribution made by the employee. The Individual Security Account of each employee shall accumulate until a minimum of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500) is established. After each employee account reaches the $1,500 level, all contributions
- 147 -
to the fund shall be placed in a registered retirement savings plan for the employee on a tax-sheltered basis. Contributions from the employee will be by payroll deduction each pay period and will be matched by the Company on the same basis. No part of the Company's contribution under the Plan shall be recoverable by the Company.
Employees will be allowed to contribute amounts over and above the matched contributions.
3.	Trustee
a)	All contributions to each employee's Security Account will be paid to the Trustee. The Trustee will hold such contributions and interest earned thereon as a separate trust estate for the exclusive benefit of each employee.
b)	The Trustee may invest funds. Funds in the Individual Security Accounts may be commingled with each other and with those under any similar plan or plans and treated as a consolidated fund for investment purposes.
c)	The Trustee shall credit net earnings from such investments to the employee's Individual Security Account in proportion to the balance in their account from time to time as interest is allocated.
d)	The Trustee, or its duly authorized agent, shall manage and administer the Trust. The Trustee shall have the right to use the Company or any of its employees as its
- 148 -
agent. In addition to the powers and duties specified in the Plan, the Trustee shall have such powers and duties as may be provided in the Trust Agreement.
e)	As soon as is practicable after January 1 of each year, the Trustee shall furnish each employee with a statement of the balance in their Security Account as of December 31 of the preceding year.
4.	Cost of Administration
The Trustee shall be paid such reasonable compensation as shall from time to time be agreed upon by the Company and the Trustee. All expenses of the Trust, including reasonable legal fees and the compensation of the Trustee, and all taxes of any nature whatsoever, including interest and penalties assessed against or imposed upon the Trustee or the fund or the income thereof, shall be paid out of the interest earnings of the employees' Security Accounts and shall constitute a charge upon this Security Account.
5.	Benefits
a)	An employee shall be an "eligible employee" to receive payment from their Security Account for each week they are on layoff provided that the layoff is for a period of a minimum of seven (7) days in that week, due to their being laid off by the Company. Layoff does not include absences from work for disciplinary reasons, strikes, shutdowns, slowdowns, work stoppages, walkouts, lockouts or any other form of work stoppage
- 149 -
nor does it include any absences from work due to sickness, injury or leave of absence for any other reason.
b)	Requests for payments by eligible employees from the Individual Security Account shall be made to the Trustee, in writing, on the prescribed form. Each payment shall be in an amount of One Hundred Dollars ($100) for each week of benefit, unless the balance remaining in the employee's Individual Security Account is less than One Hundred Dollars ($100). The benefit of One Hundred Dollars ($100) shall constitute one week of supplementary benefit to Employment Insurance and the benefit shall be paid every second week.
c)	An employee shall be an "eligible employee" only if they are a full-time, active employee on the day prior to the layoff taking place or are otherwise entitled to receive Employment Insurance benefits (E.I.) due to disability insurance expiring during the term of their layoff period.
6.	Final Settlement of Security Accounts
All funds in an employee's Security Account shall be paid
within three (3) months:
a)	to the employee upon retirement,
b)	to the employee in the event of their employment being terminated or
c)	upon the employee's death, to the beneficiary named in the written designation filed with the Trustee prior to
- 150 -
payment or if no such designation is in effect, to the employee's estate.
Each employee may file with the Trustee a written designation in the form prescribed by the Trustee of the beneficiary to receive payment from their Security Account in the event of their death.
7.	Deductions
Deductions for purposes such as income tax, which must be made from an employee's weekly pay, shall be made from the amount paid by the Company and the employee at the source of contribution for each hour such funds are contributed to the Individual Security Account. However, if the Company at any time determines that by reason of any federal, provincial or municipal law or regulation the Company shall be required to make deductions from the contributions to the employee's Security Account, the Company shall have the right to make such deduction and pay only the balance to that Account. In the event an amount is withheld from a contribution to the employee's Security Account by reason of any such law or regulation, the Trustee shall credit the Account only with the balance remaining after that deduction.
8.	Registered Retirement Savings Plan
All amounts credited to a registered retirement savings plan shall be made in the name of the employee and such employee shall receive a statement of the amount in the registered retirement savings account as of December 31 of each year. The employee shall be entitled under the laws of the federal and provincial governments to tax shelter the
- 151 -
amount on the statement of their registered retirement savings plan for that current year.
9.	Miscellaneous
a)	Contributions made to the Security Account shall not be included in the base rates for the calculation of benefits and shall not be considered in computing premium pays, shift premiums or any other payment.
b)	No right to the amounts in an employee's Individual Security Account shall be subject in any manner to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or encumbrance of any kind and in any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber any such benefit, whether presently or thereafter payable. Any attempt or arrangement to do so shall be void.
c)	Any question concerning the administration of the Plan shall be settled exclusively by the Company.
d)	The Company, by payment of its contributions or amounts provided under this Plan, will be relieved of any further liability and benefits hereunder shall be payable only from the employees' Security Accounts.
e)	An employee shall mean an active, full-time employee of the Company who has completed their probationary period and who has attained seniority within the meaning of the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
- 152 -
The provisions of this Agreement do not apply to summer students or part-time employees.
f)	The Company shall mean IMC Esterhazy Canada Limited Partnership, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, Canada.
g)	The Union shall mean Local 892 of Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union.
h)	Employees who are off work during an approved union leave of absence shall have the combined or total contributions to their respective Accounts deducted from their paycheck during the term of such union leave of absence.
This Agreement shall not be renegotiated nor shall any of the provisions be amended without the mutual consent of the Union and Management during the period of this Agreement.
- 153 -
The period of this Agreement shall be for three (3) years from the date of signing and shall expire at midnight on the 31st day of January, 2004.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan this 13th day of December, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton Manager, Human Resources IMC Potash Esterhazy
Shannon Reitenbach
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
Union,
Local 892
- 154 -
ISAP PLAN AMENDMENT
The question has been raised that if an employee is on LTD and/or is not expected to ever return to work, then the affected employee should have the option of withdrawing all money from the ISAP sub plan.
Therefore, by agreement between the Company and Union, an employee may withdraw all ISAP funds subject to the following conditions:
1) The employee must be on the LTD Plan for a period of not less than twenty-four (24) months.
2) The employee submits a doctor's note stating the employee is not expected to ever return to work at IMC Potash.
This amendment will apply to any employee who has no "earned income" for the periods stated above, such as being on LTD.
This amendment does not apply to any employee on short-term disability.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 13th of December, 2001.
and/or
Marshall Hamilton Manager, Human Resources IMCPotash Esterhazy
Shannon Reitenbach
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
Union,
Local 892
- 155 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
9.08	e) Appointments
The Parties agree on a process to allow a designated representative of the Union to participate in the selection of the “most qualified” bidder under Article 9.08 e). Ultimately, the decision rests with management.
The intent of this agreement is to involve the Union in the process with the goal of making decisions that are more clearly understood.
This Letter of Understanding may be terminated by either Party giving the other 30 calendar days’ written notice.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 17th day of May, 2001.
- 156 -
Marshall Hamilton Manager, Human Resources IMC Potash Esterhazy	Shannon Reitenbach Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union, Local 892
- 157 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
DECLINING JOBS
Further to Article 9.11 of the Collective Agreement, if a successful bidder wishes to decline the job at any time during the first 10 working days after being placed in the job, they will be returned to their former job.
Employees who decline the job within the 10-working-day period will be deemed to not have held the job.
Employees who decline the job will not be affected by Article 9.09 of the Collective Agreement.
If a successful bidder declines the job as stated above, the Company will award the job to the next senior qualified bidder on the original posting.
This Letter of Understanding may be terminated by either Party giving the other 30 calendar days’ written notice.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 17th day of May, 2001.
- 158 -
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
PROTECTED POSITIONS
During temporary layoffs, the Inflow Control Department will maintain four (4) protected positions as Shift Mechanics. These positions will be filled by the four (4) senior Journeyman/Mechanic I in the Inflow Control Department at the time.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 7th day of August, 2001.
- 159 -
Marshall Hamilton Manager, Human Resources IMC Potash Esterhazy
Shannon Reitenbach
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
Union,
Local 892
- 160 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
RULES OF CONDUCT/STANDARDS OF DISCIPLINE
With reference to the Rules of Conduct and Standards of Discipline, the Parties agree that Clause 2 (e) shall be amended as follows:
e) i) Each violation of a minor offence will be carried on an employee's record for a period of eight (8) months, after which period the offence shall not be considered for future disciplinary purposes.
ii)	Each violation of a major offence will be carried on an employee's record for a period of twelve (12) months, after which period the offence shall not be considered for further disciplinary purposes.
iii)	Each violation of an intolerable offence will be carried on an employee's record for a period of eighteen (18) months, after which period the offence shall not be considered for future disciplinary purposes.
The above shall in no way restrict the right of the Company to discharge any employee at any time for just cause.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 12th day of September,
2001.
- 161 -
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
90-DAY QUALIFYING PERIOD
The Parties agree that when an employee is the successful bidder to a job posting as per Article 9.08(e), the following job classifications will require ninety (90) days in order to be deemed qualified:
•	Rock Mechanics Technician
•	Surface Water Control Technician
•	Cost Accountant
•	General Accounting Clerk
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 12th day of
September, 2001.
- 162 -
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
WORKWEEK GUARANTEE
If a day employee is scheduled to temporarily work night shift and is then changed back to day shift due to unforeseen circumstances in such a way that they miss a shift during that workweek, then they will be paid one (1) day’s pay at straighttime rates for the missed shift.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 12th day of
September, 2001.
- 163 -
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
10-HOUR SHIFTS
The Parties agree that some employees of the Company may change to a ten- (10) hour day shift workday, 4 shifts per week to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week. Requests will be handled on a “by department” basis.
The normal hours of work shall be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday to Thursday or Tuesday to Friday inclusive. Shift schedules for each group participating in the ten- (10) hour shift program will be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union prior to their implementation. Any other change of shift will fall under Article 14.07.
For employees working ten- (10) hour shifts, shift premiums will be paid as per Article 15 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement for hours worked outside the normal hours of an eight- (8) hour day shift.
It is further agreed that affected employees will accumulate unused sick pay and/or be granted time off for illness at a rate of five (5) ten- (10) hour days per calendar year as per Article 20.01. As per Article 21.01, a ten- (10) hour
- 164 -
worker may reserve the last forty (40) hours of accumulated paid sick leave to be used at a later date.
As per Article 14.22 b), this callout provision will apply to a total of 10 hours worked.
This Letter will remain in effect for the balance of the terms of the current Collective Agreement.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 13th day of December, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
RE: SPLIT VACATION SHUTDOWN - K1/K2
When production conditions change in order to meet market requirements, the Company, after discussions with the Union, will have the option of splitting the vacation shutdown periods in such a way that K1 will take a different vacation shutdown period than K2.
Vacation shutdowns will be taken as per Article 18.14.
It is understood, that in splitting vacation shutdown periods, both K1 and K2 will take equal vacation time off. One will not be treated differently from the other except that the vacation shutdown dates will be different. The Company will alternate
- 165 -
which site is shut down first from one year to the next whenever possible.
There will be no bumping or temporary transfer of employees allowed during split vacation periods.
The Parties agree to meet in advance of any split vacation shutdown period to discuss how the split vacation shutdown can be accomplished with a minimum of disruption.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 21st day of September, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
ARTICLE 20 - SPECIAL TIME OFF WITH PAY
20.01	Under special circumstances, an employee will be
granted time off with pay up to a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours [sixty (60) hours for those on a compressed workweek] per year. This shall be prorated during the first year of employment. Employees will accumulate unused days each calendar year. It is understood that for accumulation purposes, should an employee’s job change or the compressed workweek be
- 166 -
discontinued, they have accumulated sixty (60) hours during the calendar year. There will be no payout of accumulated days except for the following:
Situation	Applies to Situation of	Effective	Maximum Paid
Illness, nonoccupational accident or hospitalization of employee (includes day surgery)	Employee	First day	Accumulated sick days
Illness or injury of spouse or dependent child causing hospital or bed confinement as directed by a physician	Spouse or dependent child	First day	Two days’ pay (see “serious” if it exceeds two days of absence)
Birth of a child	Spouse	First day	Two days/instance
Dental	Employee	First hour	16 hours/year
Optical	Employee	First hour	8 hours/year
Critical	Spouse, child, mother, father, sister or brother	First day	Accumulated sick days
- 167 -
Serious	Spouse or	First day	Accumulated
	dependent child		sick days after
			vacation bank
			exhausted
Definitions:
Critical - Illnesses or injuries that are life threatening if not treated immediately as verified by the attending phy sician.
Serious - Illnesses or injuries that are verified as serious and the presence of the employee is considered necessary by the attending physician.
20.02	In order to receive this pay, the employee will provide the Company with a medical certificate or other proof of entitlement as may be required by the Company.
20.03	When an employee is absent under this Article and a designated holiday occurs, they shall be paid a normal scheduled day’s (8, 10 or 12 hours) pay at their regular straight-time rate and payment shall not result in a reduction of any of the days off as described in 20.01 of the Collective Agreement, provided the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.01 of the Collective Agreement.
20.04	Employee(s) will not be entitled to these benefits when absent from work due to a statutory holiday, leave of absence or layoff or for those days which they would have been scheduled as regular days off. Sick pay entitlement for employees who are on vacation will be
- 168 -
dealt with as per Article 18.13 of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 21.02 a) - SHORT-TERM DISABILITY
If your disability is a result of a nonoccupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled workday you are unable to report for work up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
If your disability is a result of a nonoccupational illness, income benefits will be payable after a three- (3) day waiting period up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
Short-term disability income benefits will remain subject to Article 21.02 a) of the Collective Agreement.
This letter will remain in effect for one year following the date of ratification. It can be extended for the duration of the Agreement if mutually agreed by both Parties. In the event the Parties do not mutually agree to extend this Letter of Understanding, Article 20 from the Collective Agreement will apply.
- 169 -
Dated at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 14th day of November, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton Manager, Human Resources IMC Potash Esterhazy
Shannon Reitenbach
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
Union,
Local 892
- 170 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
Anyone who retires between February 1, 2001, and January 31, 2004, will receive Fifty-Two Dollars ($52.00) per month per year of service less any actuarial reductions that may be applicable as described in Article 22 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 15th day of November, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
- 171 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
RE: ANNUAL VACATIONS - 2001 ONLY
Vacations will be calculated on a prorated basis (between June 1, 2001, and December 31, 2001) as follows:
Article 18 - Annual Vacations
18.01	An employee with one (1) year or more of continuous service but less than six (6) years of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to one hundred and twenty (120) working hours of annual vacation.
For every additional year of continuous service after five (5) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the tenth (10th) year.
18.02	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service but less than sixteen (16) years of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to one hundred and sixty (160) working hours of annual vacation.
- 172 -
18.03	For every additional year of continuous service after fifteen (15) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the twentieth (20th) year.
An employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service will be eligible on their anniversary date to two hundred (200) working hours of annual vacation.
18.04	An employee must meet the requirements of completed service (anniversary date) in order to qualify for payment per 18.01, 18.02 and 18.03.
18.05	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service will receive at the time of their vacation a vacation bonus of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00). The employee will be eligible for the bonus if their anniversary date falls at any time during that calendar year.
18.06	Any vacation earned from June 1, 2001, to December 31, 2001, and in the prior vacation period must be used by December 31, 2002. In scheduling this vacation, full consideration of operating requirements and the employee's service will be given.
18.07	On a prorated basis, an employee who is eligible for vacation as provided in this Letter shall receive forty (40) times their straight-time hourly rate of pay for each week of vacation entitlement and/or eight (8) times their
- 173 -
straight-time hourly rate of pay for each day of entitlement.
18.08	The straight-time hourly rate shall be the permanent
straight-time hourly rate being paid to the employee as of December 31,2001.
18.09	a) To be eligible to receive full vacation pay for the
vacation specified in this Article, the employee must have been on company-paid benefits or wages for a minimum of 600 hours during the period from June 1,2001, through December 31, 2001.
b) New employees who have less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay based on one and one-quarter (1%) days’ pay for each month of employment provided they worked at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the hours each month.
c)
Employees who have been on company-paid benefits or wages for less than 600 hours in the vacation year June 1, 2001, through December 31, 2001, or who terminate or are terminated during this period and who have been on company-paid benefits or wages for less than 600 hours shall be paid prorated vacation pay based on the following formula: Number of hours divided by 600 times the number of hours of vacation eligibility.
i.e.: -600 x 120 hours (1-5 years of service)
= 100 hours x
7
- 174 -
= 58.3 hours
This agreement will expire December 31, 2001.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 15th day of November, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton	Shannon Reitenbach
Manager, Human Resources	Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
IMC Potash Esterhazy	Union,
Local 892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
IMC ESTERHAZY CANADA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
TEMPORARY LABOUR POOL
1)	The Company shall establish a labour pool comprised of temporary employees who will be used to cover absences due to vacations, sickness, maternity leave, union leave, education leave, jury duty, training or to increase manpower levels on the labour crew when required.
2)	Temporary employees will accumulate seniority within their group based on paid hours, which includes vacation hours and sick hours. If hired to a full-time position, their seniority will be calculated and carried forward. Seniority accumulated while working as a temporary employee will not be
- 175 -
considered as pensionable service. However, the time carried forward will be considered as pensionable service if and when they are hired as full-time employees.
3)	The senior temporary employee will have the right to be asked first to work the available hours of work to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
4)	Temporary employees will, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union and will pay union dues as stipulated by the Union.
5)	Temporary employees will be paid the established rate of pay for the job they occupy and will be entitled to receive benefits as per the specific agreement between the Parties.
6)	Temporary employees will not be employed during periods of vacation shutdown or any period of layoff.
7)	Temporary employees will only work on the surface labour crews. Any exception will only be allowed if the Parties jointly agree.
8)	The normal procedure for filling a temporary vacancy under ninety (90) days above the level of labourer will be to move the employee next in the flow of progression to fill the vacancy. After this procedure has exhausted itself, the vacancies left to be filled will be at the labourer level. These vacancies will then be filled from the temporary labour pool.
9)	The temporary labour pool will not exceed twelve (12) in number.
10)	The probationary period for employees hired for the
temporary labour pool shall be a total of 480 hours either
- 176 -
spent working on the temporary labour pool or a combination of time spent on the temporary labour pool and time spent as a regular hourly employee. Probationary temporary labour pool employees may be terminated for lesser cause as per Article 9.03 of the Collective Agreement.
11)	Employment on the temporary labour pool does not
guarantee full-time employment when the Company hires full-time employees. Any accumulated benefits while on the temporary labour pool (e.g., vacation time) may be paid out or carried over as requested if the employment becomes permanent.
BENEFITS
1)	Vacation will be accumulated at the rate of one and one-quarter (1%) days for every one hundred and seventy-four (174) hours worked. The current year’s vacation allocation is to be used up by December 31 of that year.
2)	Temporary employees will be allowed to accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (H) day paid sick leave for every one hundred and seventy-four (174) hours worked.
3)	Temporary employees will be permitted to take maternity or parental leave as per the Collective Agreement or the law. While on this leave, seniority ranking will be maintained.
4)	Temporary employees will be provided with all other benefits as per Article 21 of the Collective Agreement when they are hired onto the temporary labour pool.
5)	Temporary employees will be entitled to funeral leave for scheduled shifts only.
6)	This Letter of Understanding may be terminated by either Party giving the other ninety (90) calendar days’ written
- 177 -
notice. This agreement may only be terminated on February 1 of any year.
Dated at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 15th day of November, 2001.
Marshall Hamilton Manager, Human Resources IMC Potash Esterhazy
Shannon Reitenbach
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers
Union,
Local 892
- 178 -
DEFINITIONS
1.	Classification
Job title as defined in Appendix “A.”
2.	Critical
Illnesses or injuries that are life threatening if not treated immediately as verified by the attending physician.
3.	Department
•	K1 Mine
•	K1 Surface
•	K2 Mine
•	K2 Surface
•	Inflow Control
•	Lab
•	Shaft
•	Administration (includes General Clerks and Warehouses)
4.	Grievance
A grievance shall be defined as a dispute as to the application or interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
5.	"Normally.performs .the work”, -.overtime, work will be assigned in .the following order:
•	the person performing the job on that given day
•	the person who regularly performs the work
•	any other qualified employee from the department concerned
- 179 -
any qualified employee
- 180 -
6.	.Qualified - qualified shall mean:
a)	Temporary. LayoffofLess T.ha.n.2.1 Days
The employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records and can demonstrate the ability to safely perform the work through the task observation process and a familiarization period which may take up to 4 hours. To be qualified to bump, the employee must not require the necessary surface or underground orientation. Entry -level jobs in this situation include:
•	Labourer
•	Helper
•	Mechanic IV
•	HD Mechanic IV
•	U/G Belt Construction II
•	Warehouse II
•	Warehouse Dispatch
•	Building Repair II
An entry-level job is one that all employees are considered to be qualified to hold.
b)	Temporary.Layoff of21 Days. orMore
The employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records and can demonstrate the ability to safely perform the work through the task observation process after a one-shift familiarization period only. If required, the employee will be given
- 181 -
the necessary surface or underground orientation. Entry-level jobs in this situation include:
- 182 -
•	Labourer
•	Helper
•	Mechanic IV
•	HD Mechanic IV
•	U/G Belt Construction II
•	Warehouse II
•	Warehouse Dispatch
•	Incline Helper
•	Loadout III
•	FRP II
•	Building Repair II
An entry-level job is one that all employees are considered to be qualified to hold.
c)	Permanent. Layoff
The employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records.
d)	Downsizing
The employee has either held the job previously through the bid procedure or job progression, held a job in the same classification or is deemed qualified according to company records.
e)	Job. bids
The employee meets all of the “must haves” outlined on the job description.
f)	Temp.or.arx .assignments
- 183 -
The employee has the ability to safely perform the work.
- 184 -
7.	Seniority
Seniority shall be defined as an employee’s period of continuous service with the Company since their last date of hire.
8.	Serious
Illnesses or injuries that are verified as serious and the presence of the employee is considered necessary by the attending physician.
9.	Shift
A shift shall be defined as a period of time within a workday, and these periods of time shall be referred to hereafter as day shift, afternoon shift, night shift and may be rotating or nonrotating in nature.
10.	Temporary. Assignment
Temporary assignments for a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days may occur for the purpose of expediting production or for maintenance.
11.	TemEO.ra.ry.Yacancies.
Temporary vacancies that are caused by an employee being absent from work may last beyond ninety (90) calendar days.
12.	Total Compensation
Total compensation includes base pay, overtime pay, statutory holiday pay, shift differential, vacation pay, special time off with pay, short-term disability, blasting premiums, temporary supervisor premiums, lead hand
- 185 -
premiums and CMA premiums. Total compensation does not include LTD benefits, Company’s ISAP contributions or WCB benefits.
Vacation pay will be based on the following percentages:
Service in Years	Vacation Pay Percentage ,
0 to 5	6.0%
6	6.4%
7	6.8%
8	7.2%
9	7.6%
10 to 15	8.0%
16	8.4%
17	8.8%
18	9.2%
19	9.6%
20 to 30	10.0%
31	10.4%
32	10.8%
33	11.2%
34	11.6%
35 or more	12.0%
13. Workday
A workday shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of an employee’s regular scheduled shift.
- 186 -
14. Workweek
The workweek shall be the period commencing at midnight on Saturday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday.
- 187 -