Government Gouvernement of Canada du Canada
Beachvilime Limited General Manager P.O. Box 190 Ingersoll Ont.
N5C3K5
Beachvilime Limited Ingersoll Ont.
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of
Canada
3264
January 18, 2002 File:	24709
heavy equipment operators
Terminating:	March 31, 2002
Workplace Information Directorate has a library of collective agreements that fall within federal and provincial jurisdictions. This library is an invaluable source of reference in industrial relations. We also offer this reference service based on new technologies (Internet). With regards to your organization, the collective agreement detailed above corresponds to the most recent according to our flies.
It would be greatly appreciated if you could send us a copy of the above collective agreement (preferably on diskette or by e-mail to the following address: 'wid-dimt-lib@hrdc-drhc.gc.ca' ) as well as any related documents (such as retirement or medical insurance plans) to which the agreement refers.
In its Federal Plan for Gender Equality (1995), the government of Canada commited itself “to ensuring that all future legislation and policies include, where appropriate, an analysis of the potential for different impacts on women and men." In accordance, we are requesting to the extent possible, a gender breakdown of the employees covered.
Your co-operation will help the Woi# collective bargaining field.
Yours sincerely,
Collection of Agreements Unit Telephone: 1-800-567-6866 or (819) 997-0252
Please complete this part and forward with copy of collective agreement to: Workplace Information Directorate Collection of Agreements Unit Labour Branch
Human resources Development Canada Hull, Quebec
K1A0J2	'
kplace Information Directorate maintain its services in the
v l_ I / 9 9 (j>
\A,x«_A-\ ^ ONA	Q rO	lA
- OO Tc,	v-o
v-w A Vv o	vO V~\	vnJ '’A.TfsV
vw Q (O y~iA	rA i
Y\ <o«	•
CL.

File:
24709
Number of employees covered by the agreement.
/ ! I
Males I I l Females
Canada
Do 2^1 (o<C)