AGREEMENT
between
CONNORS DRILLING and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7288
Effective:	January 1, 1987 to
December 31, 1988
fcHS 3 0 1988
HS03
1
2
2
2
3
4
5
5
7
11
11
12
13
14
14
14
15
INDEX
Definition and Recognition...........
Term of Agreement....................
Management ..........................
No Discrimination....................
Shifts and Working Hours ............
Overtime ............................
Safety Devices ......................
Statutory Holidays ..................
Grievance & Arbiration Procedure ....
Group Insurance Plan.................
Leave of Absence for Union Business.
Wages ...............................
Annual Vacation......................
Bulletin Boards .....................
Union Security ......................
Union Membership ....................
Townsite: Northern Allowance.........
Promotions. Transfers. Lay-offs and Rehiring ........................
ARTICLE 1
This Agreement made this	day of
1988.
Between
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA , LOCAL 7288 Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada (hereinafter called "the Union”)
party of the first part
and
CONNORS DRILLING
(hereinafter called "the Company")
party of the second part
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Company and the Union to promote and maintain harmonious industrial relations between the Company and its employees.
Now, therefore, this agreement witnesseth that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
DEFINITION AND RECOGNITION
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for those employees of the Company in the Northwest Territories working as diamond drill runners, diamond drill helpers, excluding shop employees, camp staff, office staff, foremen and persons above the rank of foreman. The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agency for the said employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
2
ARTICLE 2 -	TERM OF AGREEMENT
2.01
2.02
This Agreement shall remain in effect for twenty-four (24) months from its effective date, the 1st day of January 1987 to December 31, 198T.
Either party may, within a period of three (3) months immediately preceding December 31,
1988, by notice in writing, require the other party to commence collective bargaining.
ARTTCLF, .3_____MANAGEMENT
3.00
3.01
3.02
3.03
ARTICLE
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and vary from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by employees, providing the rules and regulations are not in conflict with the provisions of the agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement shall oblige the Company to continue to carry on operations which it may from time to time decide to discontinue, the Company to notify the Union within twenty-four (24) hours of its receiving notice of cancellation or discontinuance of any underground operation.
The Company reserves the right to hire, discipline, demote or discharge employees for proper cause.
The selection of the working bosses and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the decision of the Company.
DTSC.RTMTNATTON
4.00	The Company and the Union agree that there
shall be no intimidation or discrimination because of membership or non-membership in the Union, or because of race, creed, colour, national origin or political beliefs.
3
ARTICLE 5_-------SHIFTS and working	HOURS
5.00	Hours of Work
The operations of the Company shall be deemed to fall into two (2) categories, namely Underground and Surface operations
Underaround:	In all underground operations,
eight (8) hours work from collar to collar shall constitute a day's working shift.
Surface:	In all surface operations, eight (8)
hours work at the drill site shall constitute a day’s working shift.
5.01	Four Hours' Pay
Any employee who reports for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report will be guaranteed four (4) hour's pay at his regular hourly rate.
Also, an employee who commences work and is laid off before completing four (4) hour's work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate.
5.02	Temporary Change of Or.cunation
An employee shall not refuse to perform work which is outside his classification, but for any such work, he shall be paid a higher rate of pay if the work he performs is of a higher classification than his normal work and shall not, in any event, be paid a lower hourly rate than his standard classification.
5.03	Shift Differential
A premium of fifty (50) cents per hour shall be paid to all employees who are working a shift other than the normal day shift.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate, the expression "regular day shift” shall have the meaning attributed to it in accordance with the Company's present practice.
4
The Company will pay the above mentioned shift premium as a separate allowance based on the hours worked for those shifts other than the normal day shift.
ARTICLE fi -	OVERTIME
6.00	In al underground operations, all work
performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one, twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the basic rate.
6.01	In all surface operations, all work performed
in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2 ) times the basic rate (except when an employee works over eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period due to regular change of shifts).
(a)	One and one -half (1 1/2) times the basic rate will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday or Sunday regardless of the hours worked or days worked previous to Saturday or Sunday, if such days are scheduled overtime days.
6.02	In the case of an employee kept underground
after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which he has no control, such time shall be considered as hours worked (straight time) if the period exceeds thirty (30) minutes provided that such time shall not
be considered as time worked if the cause is beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 7 7.00
ARTTOT,F R 8.00
- 5
SAFETY DEVICES
Goggles and any other safety equipment considered necessary by the company to protect employees from injury shall be supplied by the Company. The Company to pay one-half (1/2)the cost of underground boots, hard hats and gloves for underground workers, The Company agrees to pay the cost of slickers for those employees working underground who require slickers, providing that when a new set of slickers is required, the employee may be required to produce the set which is being discarded. Second or later issues will not be supplied otherwise than through reasonable wear and tear. The Company to supply at no cost to the employee, degree rule, crescent wrench and 9/16 wrench. Old or worn tools to be turned in for replacement.
Provide, that where solutions are used, the Company will furnish slicker pants and rubber gloves, if these are required in the discretion of the foreman.
The Company and the employees shall co-operate in matters pertaining to safety.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Work Performed nn a St-at-ntnry Holiday
Should an employee be required to work on any of the following days, namely:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Miner’s Day (2nd Monday in June)
Dominion Day First Monday in August Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
6
he shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2 ) times his applicable hourly rate.
In addition to the above-named holidays, each employee shall be entitled to two (2) floating statutory holidays during each calendar year that he is in the Company's employ, which shall be taken at a. time which is suitable to both the Company and the employee. To qualify for the floating statutory holidays, an employee must have at least sixty (60)days service with the Company immediately prior to the holiday. In the event that an employee has applied for a floating statutory holiday at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the calendar year and no mutually suitable date has been established before the end of the year, he shall receive a day's pay in lieu thereof.
8.01	Qualification for Statutory Holiday (not
worked)
Except as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on one (1) of the statutory holidays referred to above, shall be paid his applicable hourly rate for eight (8)hours for the day;
(a)	while on vacation
(b)	on approved leave of absence, including leave on Union business;
(c)	while absent through sickness or accident provided that the employee has a Doctor’s certificate to that effect, and
death in the immediate family (immediate family shall mean:spouse, father, mother, son and daughter).
8.02
8.03
ARTICLE 9 9.00
9.01
- 7
An employee shall not be paid for the statutory holiday in Section 8.01 if he is absent from work on his last regularly scheduled shift before, or his first regularly scheduled shift after such holiday, or if he has been assigned or scheduled to work and does not work on such holiday.
An employee who qualifies for both the statutory holiday pay (expressed in Sections 8.01 and 8.02) and for pay for performing work on a statutory holiday, shall be entitled to a total of two and one half (2 1/21 times his applicable rate of pay for eight (8) hours of the day. VIZ: Eight (8) hours straight time pay for qualified statutory holiday plus one and one-half (1 1/2) times his applicable rate actually worked on the statutory holiday but works the statutory holiday, he shall then be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his hourly rate of pay only.
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
£amplaint.
Employees may discuss any complaint with shift bosses or foremen so that it may be settled as quickly as possible. However, should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee or employees concerning the interpretation or violation of this Agreement, the parties shall endeavour to settle such differences without undue delay in the following manner:
Grievance - Stage One
The employee concerned, in person and if he desires, with his shop steward in attendance, shall try to settle the difference with his immediate boss. If the employee has reasonable access to a steward, the grievance shall be taken up with the immediate boss, not more than five (5) days after it has arisen, but if there is no steward reasonably available to the employee, then the grievance shall be raised at the first reasonable opportunity.
9.02
9.03
9.04
8
Grievance - Stage Two
The Union or the employee concerned, accompanied by his steward, if an employee desires, may submit the dispute to the Yellowknife Manager of the Company and the submission and the decision at this Stage will be in writing.
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance within five (5)days, the matter may be referred to arbitration within twenty-one (21) additional days as herein provided.
Difference between Company and Union
If a difference arises between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement or the discharge of an employee, then the matter may be taken up between the union and the management of the company at Stage Two.
Failing satisfactory agreement, either party may notify the other in writing within twenty-one (21) days that it desires to refer the matter to arbitration and an arbitrator shall then be selected as set forth below and the difference shall be submitted in writing to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator's decision shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out and shall be final and binding upon the parties.
Stpgp thrp.p - Prnr.prinrp for FpFFling Pi .qpnFp.q
Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days after the dispute was submitted under Stage Two, the Union may, upon giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the company of their intention, refer the dispute to arbitration. Within ten (10) days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one Arbitrator from the following panel of Arbitrators:
1.	Gordon Carter
2.	G. Hawko
9
The selection of the Arbitrator shall commence with the next name on the panel following the name of the Arbitrator who last served the parties in the previous arbitration. If an Arbitrator is unable to serve, then the next Arbitrator on the panel shall be selected, etc., until an Arbitrator indicates his availability to act. If an Arbitrator on the panel is permanently unable to serve, then the parties shall jointly select a replacement.
If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an Arbitrator within ten (10) days, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of Canada upon request of either party.
The decision of the Arbitrator in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this agreement in any respect. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
The arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall, within a maximum of thirty (30)days following arbitration, render his decision.
A written record of the grievance presented at Stage Two and the decision of that Stage will be presented to the Arbitrator, and the Arbitrator's decision shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
When making his decision, the Arbitrator shall state whether the decision is retroactive and effective date thereof,but the decision shall not be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of this agreement and there shall be no award of costs of arbitration to either party.
10
9.05	Stewards
(a)	Stewards chosen by the Union must be
employees of the Company. The duties of the stewards shall be to receive, investigate and endeavour to settle grievances as outlined in this Article.
(t>) There shall be a grievance committee consisting of not more than five (5) stewards.
(c)	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the names of the Grievance Committee, and of any changes which may be made from time to time. The Company shall not be required to recognize the stewards of the grievance committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union, the names of the persons selected.
(d)	Authorized time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by stewards shall be considered as time worked, and payment shall be on the basis of straight time, under no condition shall overtime be paid. The time to be paid for shall be limited to five (5)
per month.
ARTICLE 10 10.00
10.01
ARTICLE 11 11.00
11
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
During the life of this agreement, the Company will maintain a sickness and accident policy providing for a $60,000 death benefit including a double indemnity provision for non-occupational accidental death. Weekly indemnity for a twenty-si:: (26) week period for injuries or sickness (arising from nonoccupational accidents) will be paid in accordance with the following schedule.
January 1, 1988 - $375.00 per week
payable from the first day for nonoccupational accident, payable from the payable from the fifth (5th) day for non-hospitalized sickness and payable from the first day if admitted to the hospital for sickness.
Employees must have worked thirty (30) shifts before he qualifies for coverage,
The cost of these benefits shall be paid 100% by the Company.
Dental Plan
The Company will provide, at Company expense Plan "A" Dental Plan which will provide for the payment of 100% of the basic services (i.e., extractions, fillings, cleaning, fluoride, x-rays, etc.) for employees and their dependents.
The Company will provide on a 50% cost share basis Plan "B" Dental Plan .
AVE OF ABSENCE FOR IIWTOW BUSINESS
Any employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union, necessitating leave of absence, upon proper application to the Company, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided it does not exceed a period of one (1) year.
12
11.01	Time spent as a delegate or representative of
the Union shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining vacation.
11.02	The Company shall not be required to grant the
privilege under this Article to more than one (1) person at the same time.
11.03	Section 11.01 and 11.02 shall not apply to
delegates actually attending a labour convention, labour arbitrations, labour contract negotiations or grievance matters set forth in this agreement.
11.04	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Company shall not be obliged to grant leave of absence to more than one (1) employee during any calendar year for the purpose of attending a labour convention.
ARTICLE 12 - WAGES
12.00	The scale of wages in effect during the life
of this Agreement for Underground and Surface Drillers shall be as follows:
August 1, 1987 - Underground & Surface
Driller - $15.20 per hour Helper - $13.00 per hour
March 1, 1988 Driller - $16.40 per hour
Helper - $14.10 per hour
13
ARTICLE 13 - ANNUAL VACATION
13.00
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
The vacation year will be from January 1st through December 31st of each year, inclusive. Eligibility for vacation time off and for pay will be determined by the employee's continuous service with the Company and his anniversary (hire) date.
Any employee on the payroll during the current vacation year, and who has the length of continuous service specified in the table below, shall be entitled to the corresponding vacation with pay:
Up to 12 months service 12 months but less than 18 months service -18 months but less than 24 months service -24 months to 10 years service 10 years & over service
Vacation pay will be calculated up to the day he leaves on vacation, and said pay will be based on total earnings. Vacation pay earned but not paid at the end of the vacation year will be paid to the employee at the end of the vacation year (December).
The Company will be the final judge of vacation time, but vacations will be granted as closely as practicable to the time requested by the employee. When requested by the employee, in writing and when practicable, one (1) week extra vacation will be granted without pay, provided it is taken along with his regular approved vacation. Vacations or the on-regular vacations and the one (1) week extra vacation is not accumulative.
All employees with one (1) year service or more shall be entitled to a premium of ten dollars ($10.00)per day in accordance with his vacation schedule, payable once a year.
1	week - 5%
2	weeks - 6%
3	weeks - 7%
3	weeks - 8%
4	weeks -10%
14
ARTICLE 14 ~ BULLETIN BOARDS
14.00	At the request of the Union, the Company will
provide a bulletin board in the Company office at Yellowknife for the posting of notices of Union meetings, social affairs and other Union notices of a non-controversial nature.
ARTTCT.E Ifi - I0N SECURITY
15.00	The Company shall, during the term of the
agreement, honour a written request by an employee for the deduction and remittance of dues, fees and assessments (excluding fines), payable to the Union if the order is substantially in the form set out in Schedule "A" hereto and is signed by the employee.
15.01	The Company shall remit to the Union monthly,
the sums so deducted together with a written statement showing the names of the employees from who the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
15.02	The Company shall not be obliged to deduct
and remit the said sums, unless it has on hand, wages which would otherwise be paid tot he employee.
15.03	As a condition of employment, the Company
shall deduct from all present and future employees, union dues as set by the United Steelworkers of America, and communicated to the Company in the form set out in Schedule "A" hereto.
ARTTCT.F. 16 - UNTON MEMBERSHIP
16.00	All present employees and all employees hired
after the effective date of this agreement, or thirty (30) days after their hire, whichever is later, shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become and remain members of the Union through December 31, 1988
15
16.01	Where the Union requests action by the Company
in respect to an employee who has failed to maintain membership in the Union in good standing, the Union shall furnish to the Company written proof of such failure to maintain membership.
ARTICLE 17 - TOWNSITE NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
17.00
For an employee who maintains a residence in the Yellowknife area, the following allowance will be paid:
(a)
(b)
All employees - $25.00 per shift worked. This Article shall not apply if an employee is being subsidized by the Company for the cost of room and board elsewhere.
Effective August li 1987 in lieu of the previous "Transportation" allowance, the Northern Living Allowance will be increased to:
$35.00 per shift worked for married
per shift worked for single employees.
ARTICLE 18 - PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS AND REHTRTNG
18.00	The Company recognizes the principal of
seniority in promotions. transfers. lay-offs and rehiring and in these matters. the following factors shall govern:
(a)	The length of continuous service with the Company;
(b)	Ability. knowledge. dependability. training. skill and efficiency of the employee to do the work.
Where a bona fide judgement of the Company, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, seniority shall govern.
16
The Company recognizes date of hire with predecessor. Company’s (seniority) for the purpose of calculating vacations and transportation allowance.
18.01	An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
(a) voluntarily quits;
(b) is justifiably discharged.
18.02	An employee is considered a probationary
employee for the first forty-five (45) days of his employment and shall not have seniority rights under this agreement and may be discharged by the Company at its discretion during that period. Notwithstanding the above, if the Company does discharge an employee during this probate period, the employee may, if he desires, be represented by the Union in presenting his case to the Company. If the Company confirms the discharge of the probationary employee, it shall not be a matter for grievance under this Agreement.
18.03	If the Company sees fit to continue the
employment of a probationary employee after the end of forty-five (45) days of service, his name shall be placed on the seniority list as of the beginning of such forty-five (45) days continuous service.
18.04	The Company expressly reserves the right to
employ technically trained men and students in reasonable numbers from time to time and to transfer and promote them as the Company may see fit, providing that no employe shall be laid off or discharged to make place for a student, or in the case of employees already laid off, refuse rehire.
17
18.05	A person originally rehired by the Company to
exercise a special trade or skill or to participate in a particular assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or particular assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary.
18.06	This agreement shall not deprive the Company
of the right to select its employees or to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
18.07	When practicable, having regard to the time
when a job is to be filled, the Company will post jobs available so that employees may have the opportunity of applying for the job and a copy of the posting will be sent to the Union.
18.08	For the sake of clarity, it is understood that
the Company does not recognize departmental seniority.
16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union set their hands this //^ day of ’xr^s^y'	19
ON BEHALF OF CONNORS DRILLING
ON BEHALF OF
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA. LOCAL 7288. thereof. in Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
General Manager
Mike Geravelis,
Staff Representative
G. Greening