COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
IMC CANADA EMPLOYEES
Working Together - Safely And In Harmony With The Environment
Joint Statement between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
ENERGY & CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
HARASSMENT (Personal or Sexual)
The Company and Union agree that each employee has a fundamental right to work in any area of the Company's operations in such a way as to be free from any form of harassment, either personal or sexual.
Any employee who feels that harassment has occurred, is invited to report any incident immediately to any Company or Union rep resentative.
All inquiries or incidents re harassment will be treated in the strictest of confidence.
There will be no adverse consequences to any individual as a result dr submitting or filing a sincere complaint regarding personal & sexual harassment.
Dated at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan,this 21st day of January, 1992.
On Behalf Of	On Behalf Of
IMC Canada	ECWU, Local 892
AGREEMENT
Between
ENERGY CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION
LOCAL 892
and -
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL
CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
February 1, 1992 to
January 31, 1995
m
ARTICLE ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30 EXHIBIT I APPENDIX "A" APPENDIX “B" APPENDIX "C"
- INDEX
SUBJECT
Purpose........
Discrimination.
Scope
PAGE .. 7 . . 7 . . 7
Management Rights........................ 8
Union Recognition........................ 9
Union Security........................... 9
Union Dues.............................. 10
Union Committees........................ 10
Seniority................................ 13
Technological Change.................... 28
Grievance............................... 29
Arbitration............................. 32
No Strike • No Lockout................... 34
Hours of Work and Overtime.............. 34
Wages and Shift Premiums................. 40
New or Changed Jobs...................... 41
Holidays................................. 41
Annual Vacation......................... 43
Leave of Absence......................... 46
Special Time Off With Pay................ 51
Employee Benefits ....................... 53
Pensions................................. 56
Notices.................................. 57
Safety and Health........................ 58
Contracting.............................. 61
Work By Supervisors...................... 62
Bulletin Boards.......................... 62
Legality Of Provisions................... 62
Complete Agreement....................... 63
Duration of Agreement.................... 63
Tools and Clothing....................... 65
Wage Rates............................... 67
Lines of Progression..................... 74
Apprenticeship Program.................. 80
Individual Security Account Plan ........ 84
3
THIS AGREEMENT effective the 1st day of February, 1992 is by and between International Mineralsand Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan (hereinafter referred to as the Company), and Local892 of Energy& Chemical Workers Union, CLC, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
5
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiationson all matterspertainingto Employer-Employee relations, including rates of pay, hours of work, and all other working conditions, the Parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the Employees covered by this Agreement and to provide proceduresfor the prompt and equitable settlement of disputes and grievances of such Employees
ARTICLE 2
DISCRIMINATION
2.01	a) There shall be no discrimination by either the Company or the Union by reason of age, sex, creed, color, nationality, religion, political affiliation, ethnic background or Union activity as permitted by this Agreement or the Law.
b)	In all cases where the Agreement refers to a person, the references shall be of both genders (male and female).
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE
3.01	This Agreement shall apply to all Employees employed by International Minerals and Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, except all Managers, Superintendents, Captains, Foremen, Supervisors, Engineers, Chief Metallurgists, Purchasing Agents, Senior Accountants, Senior Cost Accountants, Senior Traffic Analysts, Paymaster, Confidential Secretaries, Planners, Senior Key Punch Operators, Security Guards, Buyers, Janitorial personnel for administrational offices at K1 and K2 to a maximum of five (5) persons, and persons having and regularly exercising authority to employ and/or discharge Employees and persons regularly acting on behalf of Management in a confidential capacity.
Dry personnel at K1 and K2 shall be recognized as in scope, if the Company determines that they do not desire a subcontractor for such services.
7
3.02	The law, the certification andthe provisionsofthis Agreement are the source of rights of the Union and any Employee covered by this Agreement. The Parties herein agree that the relations between them shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement and the Law.
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Management of the plant and the direction of the working forces are vested solely and exclusively in the Company.
4.02	The rights retained by Management include:
1)	The planning, control and direction of plant operations.
2)	The scheduling of work.
3)	The control and regulation of all equipment and other property of the Company.
4)	The determination of production standards.
5)	The determination of the quality of the work to be produced.
6)	The determination of the quantity of the work to be produced in the operations.
7)	The determination of the products to be manufactured.
8)	The location or relocation of plants.
9)	The closing down of plants or any parts hereof.
10)	The work to be assigned to each plant.
11)	The determination of whether and to what extent the work required in the Company's business shall be performed by Employees covered by this Agreement.
12)	The methods, processes and means of manufacturing.
13)	The determination and establishment of any new or improved production methods or facilities.
14)	The determination of the skills required to run the operations.
15)	The assignment of Employees to perform work.
16)	The retirementof Employeeswithin the terms of the Retirement Income Program described in Article 22 of this Agreement.
17)	The determination of ability of Employees as it relates to job performance.
18)	The establishment and enforcement of reasonable rulesof conduct.
19)	To maintain discipline and efficiency.
20)	The right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge or discipline for just cause, transfer, and lay <£ Employees.
8
21)	The appointmentand removalof Lead handsor Charge hands. A premium of 25 cents per hour for all hours worked shall be paidto any Employeeduring the Employee'stenure as a Lead hand or Charge Hand. A Lead Hand or Charge Hand, in addition to performingthe functions of the Employee's classification, will makejob-related decisions in conjunction with the Supervisor in order to ensure the completion of assignments.
4.03	It is further agreed by the Company and the Union that the enumeration of sole and exclusive Management rights listed above shall not be deemed to exclude other rights not enumerated herein, and that the Company retains the sole and exclusive right to manage the business.
4.04	The company agreesthat in the exercise of the Management rights it will not violate any of the terms of this Agreement or the Law.
ARTICLE 5
UNION RECOGNITION
5.01	The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the Employees defined in Article 3, Scope, and agrees to negotiate in good faith matters of collective bargaining including the establishment of a grievance procedure, hours of work, rates of pay, and working conditions.
6.01	Every Employeewho is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain membership in the Union as a condition of employment, and every new Employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after the commencement of employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union. and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of employment, providedthat any Employee in the appropriate Bargaining Unit who is not requiredto maintain membership or apply for and maintain membership in the Union shall, as a condition of employment. tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly requiredto be paid by the members of the Union.
ARTICLE 6
UNION SECURITY
9
ARTICLE 7 UNION DUES
7.01	Duringthe lifetimeof this Agreement the Company is hereby authorizedand agrees to deductfrom each Employee'sfirst pay each month uniform membership dues for the current month, uniform initiation fees and assessments, and shall forward such deductions to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union or other properlydesignated official within ten (10) days after the date the deduction is made. A list of names and classifications of all Employees for and in behalf of whom such deductions have been made will accompany such remittance. Such statement shall include the names of all additions to and deletions from the Bargaining Unit.
7.02	The Union assumes full responsibilityfor the dispositionofthe monies so deducted once they have been turned over to the certified Secretary Treasurer or other properly designatedofficial of the Union.
7.03	It is understood and agreed that the Company's obligation is limited to remittingto the Unionthe sum or sums from wages actually earned. It is further understood and agreed that Union dues will be deducted provided an Employee has been paid a minimum of five (5) days in the applicable deduction period.
7.04	The Union agrees to indemnifythe Company and save it harmless from any and all claims which may be made against it, for the amount of dues and initiation fees and assessments deducted from the wages of Employees under this Article.
7.05	The Company will includethe total of Union dues deducted from an Employee's earnings on the T4 slip each year.
ARTICLE 8 UNION COMMITTEES
8.01	The Company agrees to recognize certain Employees as designated by the Union, as members of mutually agreed committees, for the purpose of dealing with matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee.
Third Step Grievance Committee
8.02	The Company will recognize a Third Step Grievance Committee of the Union which shall consist of a maximum of six (6) persons selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as Chairman.
10
8.03	Third step Grievance meetings shall be conducted at a mutually agreeable time with the understandingthat normal plant operations will not be affected unreasonably.
8.04	The Company agrees that the Union Third Step Grievance Committee membersshall not suffer loss of regular, straight lime pay as a result of attending Third Step Grievance meetings.
Negotiating Committee
8.05	The Companyshall recognizea NegotiatingCommitteecfthe Union, which shallconsist Of a maximumof six (6) Employeessefected by the Union, one of whom shall act as Chairperson. The Negotiating Committee referred to above shall consist of the local Union President and the Unit Chairperson or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism, or because either or both positions are held by nonemployees of the Company. In addition, the Committee shall have representation as follows:
a)	One (1) Employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) Employeefrom the K1 underground operations.
c)	One (1) Employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One (1) Employee from the K2 underground operations.
8.00 The company agreesto gay..the merobars of the Negotiating Committee of the Local Union as designated in Section8.05 above for scheduled time lost up to a maximum of eight (8) hours pay at the Employee'sstraighttime rate of pay tor each day of negotiations with the Company. The above Is limitedto those negotiatingsessions prior to work stoppage or the appointment of a Conciliation Officer or Board, provided such Conciliation Officer or Board is mutually requested by the Union and the Company, or is solely requested by the Union.
Subject to the limitations referredto above, the membersof the Negotiating Committee, who otherwise are required to work on shift, shall have their shift schedules amended to allow them to work on a regular Monday through Friday day shift schedule, it practical.
It is understood and agreed that the overtime requirementsoutlined in Article 14.07 will not be applicable if a shift schedule is amended for this purpose.
11
8.07	The company shall recognize the Union-Management Committee consisting of six (6) Employees selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as Chairperson for the purpose of meeting with the Company for discussionon matters of mutual interest. Such meetings shall be held at the request of either party, at mutually agree able times, but not more frequently than once a month, unless by mutual agreementofthe parties. Mutuallyagreed decisions reached at such meetings shall be drafted by the Company, approved and signed by both parties.
The Union-Management Committee referred to above shall consist of the local Union Presidentand UnitChairpersonor their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism, or because either or both positions are held by nonemployees of the Company. In addition, the committee shall have representation as follows:
a)	One (1) Employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) Employee from the K1 underground operations.
c)	One (1) Employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One (1) Employeefrom the K2 underground operations.
8.08	The Union members of the Union-ManagementCommittee shall not suffer loss of regular, straight time pay as a result of attending Union-Management Committee meetings.
Steward Structure
8.09	The Union may, from time to time, designate stewards and alternate stewards, provided that at no time may the Union have more than forty-five (45) stewards and more than forty-five (45) alternate stewards. The alternate steward shall function as a steward on those occasions, when the regular steward is absent, provided that the alternate steward has advisedthe alternate Steward'sSupervisor that the regular steward is absent and the alternate steward is assuming the regular Steward's duties.
8.10	The Union will furnish a written list to the Director of Industrial Relations or designated representative, showing the names of the Executive, the Stewards and the alternate Stewards, and will keep the list current in writing. Only Union members whose names appear on this list will be recognized by the Company.
12
General
8.11	No person shall solicit membership in the Unionor in any other labour organization, or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization, or engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement and by the laws of this province.
8.12	All persons selected by the Union to act on any committee set forth in this Agreement shall be regular full time Employees of the Company.
8.13	The Union may have the assistance ofa representativeofthe National Union and/or an authorized agent of the local Union present at any meeting with the Company, of the Committees set forth in this Article.
Article 9 SENIORITY
Definition of Seniority
9.01 Seniority shall be defined as an Employee's period of contin-uousservice with the Company since the Employee's last date of hire.
Definition of Qualifications
9.02	Qualificationsof an Employeeshall be defined as ability, skills, experience, physical fitness and job performance. ,	„ ..	^
Probationary Period	t- ” “ '	'
9.03	An Employee shall begin to accumulate seniority as soon as the Employee has completed the Employee's probationary period, at which time the Employee's seniority shall be made retroactive to the Employee's last date of hire. All new Employees shall be considered probationary untilthey havecompleteda periodoffour hundred and eighty (4e.C>j3ouis.^oxke<l
A former non-probationary Employee who is rehired shall be considered probationary until the Employee has completed a period of two hundred and forty (240) hours worked.
The terms of the Agreement shall apply to all probationary Employees excepting that such probationaryEmployees may be terminated without cause, without recourseto the grievance procedureand without requiring advance notice or payment in lieu thereof.
13
Exceptfor Life Insurance andA. D. & D. inthe amount of thirty thousand ($30,000) dollars, Probationary Employeesshall not be eligible to receive benefits under the benefit plans referred to in Articles 20 and 21 until the first day after such Employee completes the Employee's probationary period.
Loss of Seniority and Employment Rights
9.04 An Employee’sseniority and employment rightsshall be considered lost by reason of:
1)	Dismissal for just cause.
2)	Voluntary resignation.
3)	Failure to report for work on recall from layoff within seven (7) days of being notified in writing by double registered mail at the Employee's last known address of the requirement to report for permanent employment.
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
If the time requirements cannot be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement bythe Union andCom-pany.
Retirements accordance with the terms of Article 22 - Pension Plan.
If an Employee is absent for three (3) consecutive scheduled work days without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence.
For those Employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, layoff for a period of thirtv-six (36) continuous months; or for Employees with less than tenpiu? years or seniority, layoffsfor a period equal to the Employee's seniority or twenty-four (24) months, whichever is the lesser. Seniority shall be maintained but not accumulated during this period. This period may be extended by the mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
Permanent discontinuance of plant operations.
For those employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, sickleavefor a period of thirty-six (36)consecutive months; for those Employees with less than ten (10) years of seniority, for a period equal to twenty-four (24) months of the Employee's seniority, whichever isthe lesser, providedevery Employeewill be considered to have a minimum of one (1) year’s seniority. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
14
9) If an Employeedoes not return to work within three (3) consecutive scheduled working days without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence after the expiry of a Leave of Absence granted under Article 19, except as is provided in 9.04 (8) immediately above.
Transfer From the Bargaining Unit
9.05	a) An Employee transferred to a position out-of-scope shall maintain and accumulate seniority for a period of six (6) months from the date of such transfer. During the six (6) month period, the Company may return such Employee to to the Employee's former in-scope position. Such Employee shall also have the right to return to the Employee'sformer in-scope position within the time limits. At the end of the six (6) month period such Employee shall lose seniority rights within the Bargaining Unit.
If during the six (6) month period, the Employee returns to an inscope position, the Employee shall pay back dues for the period the Employee was out-of-scope. Promotionsto positions out-of-scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
b)	Employees in-scope may be temporarily transferred out-of-scope to replace supervisors who are absent. During such periods, the affected Employee will be required to submit Union Dues and will retain all seniority rights. If a temporary supervisor is required due to an absence, the Company will notify the crew of workers for the area involved.
Not more than four percent (4%) of the total number of in-scope Employees will be designated as temporary supervisors at any one time. It is understood that names of temporary supervisors may change from time to time as may be deemed necessary by the Company. The Company shall notify the Union as soon as possible after a change in names is made.
Within sixty (60) days of signing the Agreement, the Company shall furnish the Union with a list of names of temporary supervisors. It is understood that at any one time this list shall not exceed a total of four percent (4%) of the in-scope Employees of the Company. Seniority lists
9.06	a) Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on designated bulletin boards every three (3)months. Any errors in the posted seniority list shall be brought to the attention of the Union and the Company through the Grievance Procedure. The sole remedy thereof shall consist of a correction to the seniority lists.
15
b)	Each month the Company shall forwardto the Uniona current copy of the seniority lists published in alphabetical order, and in order of seniority by classification.
Job Posting and Bidding
9.07	This section will be applicable when:
a)	A newjob is established.
b)	No promotion is possible in the line of progression since no qualified Employees are in the line of progression.
c)	There is a break in the line of progression.
d)	A permanentvacancy occurs inthe apprenticeship plan as d e scribed in Appendix C.
e)	A permanent day shift vacancy occurs.
f)	A permanentvacancy occurs for all positions not designated as lines of progression jobs as outlined in Appendix B.
g)	For all positions on “Floating Maintenance Crew.”
h)	Helper's position in the Maintenance Department	)
i)	The position of Cagetender.	J '
9.08	a) When the Company determinesthe need to fill a permanent job vacancy as described in Article 9.07, a notice of ajob being available for bidding shall be posted on designated bulletin boards for a period of six (6raay5Tan3' a copy of each job posting shall be forthwith supplied to the Union.
b)	An employee eligible to bidfor ajob shall file an application for such job with the IndustrialRelations Department during the period of such posting.
c)	Upon the request of an Employee who is absent from the plant for the duration of the posting, a Shop Steward may file a bid on behalf of the Employee.
d)	All job postings shall set forth the job title, the rate of pay, the job requirements, the normal location and shift of the job, the number of vacancies, the normal hours of work per shift, whether the job is rotatingshift, multi shift or single shift, and it will define the shift schedule as 5-2, 10-3, 5-3, or any other variation.
The purpose of describing the terms or conditions of the job is for information only, to those Employees who bid on the job. It is understood that any terms or conditions of the posted job are subject to change as may be deemed necessary by the Company to maintain an efficient operation.
16
e)	Among applicants whose qualifications meetthe job require ments, s^niorjly^ajLheJbe-deterjraning factor. If there are no applicants whose qualifications meet the job requirements, the Company may elect to fill the vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit, or from among the applicants whose qualifications do not meet the job requirements.
Where there are no qualified applicants for a vacancy and the Company intends to fill the position from the applicants, the most senior applicant possessing the best combination of academic education, experience, specific skills and merit shall be appointed.
The above in no way reduces the established job requirements or qualifications for the job.
If the Company does not fill the vacancy from outside or from within the Bargaining Unit and the vacancy continues to exist, the Company shall repost the vacancy within ninety (90) calendar days of the original posting closing date.
If the Company fills a vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit, they shall forward to the Union the name of the person hired, and the job posting filled.
f)	The name of the successful applicant and all other bidders shall be posted on the designated bulletin boards, with a copy to the Union, within ten (10) days after the closing date of the posting. The successful applicant shall fill the vacancy as soon as practicable. The interpretation of the word "practicable" shall include but not be limited to locating a suitable replacement for the successful applicant.
If the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after the selection, the successful applicant shall receive the rate of the new job commencing on the 31st day, providing the new rate is higher.
Where the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after the selection by the Company, such Employee shall be notified in writing by the Company as to the reason why the transfer was not made.
g)	It is the intention of the Company to transfer the successful applicant within thirty (30) days after the award of any job bid is posted, except it is understoodand agreed that such transfer may be delayed by the Company in cases where; an economic hiring freeze is in ef-
17
feet, there are no bidders or no qualified bidders for the job which the Employee would be leaving vacant. or there are no Employees available to fill the job vacated by the Employee.
9.09	In relationto Article 9.08, the following conditions shall apply:
a)	Except for entering a bid on an apprenticeship posting, or entering a bid for a higher rated job. the successful applicant to any job bid shall not be eligible to bid for another job if such bid is within:
—	six (6) months from the time the successful applicant was awardedthe last job through the posting procedure if it was the successful applicant's first job award:
—	twelve (12) monthsfrom the time the successful applicant was awarded the last job through the posting procedure if it was the successful applicant's second or subsequent job award.
b)	A person hired from outside the Bargaining Unitwill not be permanently assigned to fill a day shift vacancy, if an Employee with seniority and the qualifications has been awarded the vacancy.
c)	In specific instances, any of the above may be waived by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Promotions
9.10	a) The normal progression of promotion will be within the linesof progression within the departmentthroughthe classifications as listed in Appendix B; subject to Article 9.07.
b) If a permanent job vacancy occurs:	\y
1)	The senior Employee in the next lower job classification in line of progressionto the vacant job who has the qualifications to fill the vacancy will be promoted into the job vacancy. If such senior E m ployee accepts the promotion and is subsequently disqualified, the Employee will be returned to the Employee's former job.
2)	In the event of the above, the next senior qualified Employee in that classification will be offered the promotional opportunity.
3)	Ifafter following this procedure, the vacancy is not filled from the next lower classification, then the job will be posted for bid as provided for under the posting and bidding procedure in the Article.
4)	The Company shall, within ten (10) days of promoting an Employee as provided above, post the name of such Employee and the position in which the Employee has been promoted to, on the designated bulletin boards, and a copy of such posting shall be forthwith furnished to the Union.
Time limits for Grievances arising from such promotions shall start from the date of the posting;
18
General Conditions for Promotions and Job Bids
9.11	a) An employee transferred pursuant to a bid to a lateral or lower job classification shall be considered qualified in the new job classification at any time up to a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days, plus one (1) day of each day such Employee was absent from work on a regular scheduled work day, and minus one (1) day for each foil extra shift such Employee worked overtime.
b)	After an Employeehasaccumulatively worked upto a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days as referred to in (a) above on the higher grade level job to which the Employee has been promoted or for which the Employee has bid and been accepted, the Employee will be deemed qualified and the Employee's rate of pay for those hours worked on such job will be made retroactive to the date the Employee started on the job.
c)	If an Employee fails to qualify at any time during the said period, the Company will return the Employee to the Employee's former job.
d)	There shall be no trial period for the successful applicant of a lateral bid within the classification, as the Employee is already deemed qualified.
Temporary Vacancies and Temporary Assignments
9.12	a) Temporary vacancies which are caused by an Employee being absent from work may last beyondforty-five (45) calendar days.
b)	Temporary assignments for a period not exceeding forty-five (45) calendar days may occur for the purpose of expediting production or for maintenance.
c)	Wiere such temporary vacanciesor temporary assignments are filled through the Posting procedure, training or experience acquired during the filling of the temporary vacancy or temporary assignment shall be used in determining qualificationsfor permanent vacancies.
9.13	Nofwithstandingthe provision of Article 9.16, atemporary assignment or temporary vacancy under forty-five (45) calendar days may be filled without recourseto the posting and bidding procedure, with an Employee within the department on the shift concerned.
If it is impracticalto fill the vacancy with an Employee within the department on the shift concerned, then such temporary vacancy may be filled from either a different department on the shift concerned or from within the department on another shift, provided the junior qualified Employee from the department or shift concerned is assigned.
19
Insofar as practical, the normal procedure will be to temporarily assign an Employee from the next lowerjob inthe line of job progression in the department concerned to fill temporary vacancies so that opportunity is afforded an Employee for on-the-job training. Training acquired during temporary assignments shall not be used to determine qualifications for permanent vacancies.
9.14	Temporary vacancies or temporary assignments filled in the above manner shall be limited to that specific temporary condition only. If the vacancy becomes permanent, it shall be subject to other sections of this Article whichever are applicable.
9.15	An Employee who is temporarily transferred to another job in accordance with the above in which the rate of pay is different from that in effect in the Employee's regular job, shall be (said as follows:
a)	If the rate of pay for the job to which the Employee is temporarily transferred is less than the Employee's regular pay fof the job from which the Employee has been temporarily transferred, the Employee shall during each temporary transfer receive the Employee's own higher rate of pay.
b)	If the rate of pay for the job to which the Employee is transferred is higher than the Employee's regular rate of pay, the Employee shall receivethe higher rate of pay for all hours worked on the higher rated job, provided the transfer is for more than sixty (60) consecutive minutes.
9.16	No employee shall be transferred from the Employee'sjob exceptinthe event of atemporary vacancy as defined in Article 9.12, or in the event of the Company being unable to fill a permanent vacancy under Article9.07 in which case the foil owing procedure shall apply:
1)	The Company may elect to temporarily promote an Employee following the lines of progression as outlined in Article 9.10 or:
2)	The Company may temporarily transfer the junior competent Employee in the same department to fill the vacancy.
Layoffs
9.17	In the event of a layoff, the Company and Union will meet prior to the layoff to discuss the reasons for the layoff and to work out proceduresfor the layoff on the basis of seniority and qualifications. A) Temporary Layoffs (Shutdown of Operations)
1)	A temporary layoff is defined as one whereby Employee(s) are laid off and/or reclassified for a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days. This could include a total or partial shutdown of operations.
20
2)	Affected Employees will receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu of notice. Notice will indicate the shutdown date and reopening date of the temporary layoffs (shutdowns) as follows:
a)	If the shutdown is for a period of two (2) weeks or less -two (2) weeks' notice;
b)	If the shutdown is for a period of three (3) weeks or more than two (2) weeks - three (3) weeks' notice;
c)	Ifthe shutdown isfor a period of more than three (3) weeks but less than ninety f90) da vs - four {41 weeks' notice.
3)	Onlythose Employeeswno are displaced from their normaljob, location, shift or scheduled hours of work will be allowed to exercise
'bumoino rights.	"Z/£
4)	The partiesagreethat no Employeeshall displace another Employee solely for the purpose of gaining overtime while other Employees are on layoff.
5)	A displaced Employee may use seniority rights to regain, as closely as reasonably possible, the number of hours cf work the Employee would normally have worked had the shutdown not taken place.
6)	The Company will continue all normal benefits for all Employees on temporary layoff.
B)	Permanent Layoffs
1) A permanent layoff is defined as one whereby an Employee or Employees are laid off for an indefinite period of time when the Company reducesthe numberof Employeesemployed by the Com-
pany.	cr ~ /
Employees affected by a layoff ^bejald,gffjnj;avgrse order of Company seniority.	•- - -	-	^
An Employee subject to a layoff shall receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu, as follows:
a)	One (l) weeks' notice if the Employee's period of employment is one (1) year or less.
b)	Two (2) weeks' notice if the Employee's period of employment is one (1) year or less than three (3) years.
c)	Four (4) weeks' notice if the Employee's period of employment is three (3) years or less than five (5) years.
d)	Six (6) weeks' notice if the Employee's period of employment is five (5) years or less than ten (10) years.
21
<<LEight (8) weeks’ notice i> the Employee's period of employment is ten(TOTyearsor more. “*	,	.
2)	Severance Pay	" •' f'
An Employee placed on layoff will have the option to:	^
a)	Remain on layoff with recall rights; or
b)	Elect to take severance pay as follows: ^
Employees who are permanently laid off shall be paid severance/^ pay ± the rate Of on# £l)W#«S£§_pa¥ per full year of service upTo a maximum of nine (9) wee^satthe Employee’s rate of pay at the time of layoff.^
Upon acceptance of severance pay, an Employee's seniority and employment rights will be terminated.
An Employee must choose to select this option within ninety (90) calendar days from the date of actual layoff or this option to select severance pay is withdrawn.
Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the parties from exploring other considerations affecting permanently laid off Employees.
C)	Layoff Procedure	V_/
1)	Layoffs will be made on the basis of seniority. The most junior Employee(s) in the classification within the department and location affected will be given written notice of layoff or reclassification.
2)	The Company shall, after giving notice to any Employee, cte termine whether, in accordance with the Employee's seniority and qualifications, the Employee can displace a junior Employee.
3)	If such displacement is apparent, the Company shall place the laid off or reclassifiedEmployee in such job and at the same time layoff or reclassify the junior Employee being displaced. This pro cedure will continue until all laid off or reclassified Employees displace junior Employees.
4)	If an Employee is not satisfied with the reclassification, the Employee may, within two (2) working days, exercise the Employee's seniorityto displace ajunior Employee in any classificationfci' which the Employee has maintainedthe necessary qualificationsto perform the work.
5)	Qualified shall mean:
a)	A job in the same classification; or
b)	A job previously held through the bid procedure; or
22
c)	A job previously held through job progression; or
d)	A job for which the Employee is deemed qualified according to Company records.
6)	a) When exercising bumping rights during a Temporary Shutdown or when Downsizingoccurs, the laidoff or displaced Employee can use seniority to bump a junior Employee in any of the departments and subgroups listed below.
b) When exercising bumping rights during a Permanent layoff or when a total department is shut down for an indefinite period of time, the laid off or displaced Employee may bump the junior Employee in another subgroup within the Employee'sown department or the junior employee in a lower classification the Employee'sshift. Failing this option, the laid off or displaced Employee must then use seniority rights to bump the junior Employee in the equivalent department and job classification at the opposite mine or mill, if the Employee's seniority allows the Employee to do so.
If the laid off or displaced Employee cannot hold in that equivalent department and job classification at the opposite mine or mill, the Employee may then use his seniority to bump the junior Employee in any department and subgroup classification listed below.
In all cases the most junior Employee in the department. subgroup and classification will be the one who will be displaced.
7) Department and subgroups shall be defined as follows:
Departments			
K1 Surface	K2 Surface | K1 Underground		K2 Underground
	Subgroups		
Mill Mice. Floating Utilities Production Shift Office & Technical	Shop Mill Mtce. Floating Utilities Production Shift Office & Technical	Mine Mtce. Shaft Floating Production Shift	Mine Mtce. Water Shaft Floating Production Shift
8) The Company will grant a period of familiarization or retraining of upto 48 hours worked for the Employee to show the Employee has maintained the necessary qualifications of the job.
23
9) It is understood and agreedthat the procedureoutlined above for layoffs is better than the provisions of the Law.
o;Recalls	Q ~~f
1)	An Employee being recalled to work after a layoff shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff provided the Employee has the necessary qualificationsto perform the work for which the Employee has been recalled.
2)	Notice of recall shall be given either personally or by double registered mail to the Employee's last known address. It will be the responsibilityof the Employee to notify the Company of any change of address.
3)	An employee may refuse a recall if the employment being offered is of short term duration, that is, eighty-nine (89) calendar days or less, without losing the Employee's rights to recall to permanent employment. The Company will have the right to recall the next senior qualified Employee to cover the work requirements during the above-mentioned period.
The prerogative of refusal of a recall to work by an Employee, as permitted above, does not apply in cases where the partial or total operations of the Company is shutdown and subsequently reopened.
4)	Any recall shall be deemed permanent unless otherwise stated.
5)	An Employee who is offered a recall to a job other than to the job held at the time of permanent layoff, will have the option to refuse the recall. If the Employeedoes refuse the recall, the Employee shall not be recalled again until the job the Employee held at the time of layoff is available. Employees electing this option may, at a later date, have one opportunity to elect to be placed back on the general recall list. in which case the Employee will be recalled to a job as vacancies occur in accordance with the Employee's seniority and qualifications.
6)	Duringperiods <f temporary shutdown, an Employeewho does not exercise bu mping rightswhen first eligible to do so will be placed on layoff. The Employee will then have one opportunity to be placed back on the recall list but only after the final work list for the temporary shutdown has been posted, at which time the Employee will be eligible for recall to any new job opportunities for which the Employee is qualified.
24
7)	Laid off Employees and Employees who have been removed from their former jobs through bumping, will be placed on a recall list with their names, former jobs and locations entered. Employees must be recalled and Employees must accept recall to their former jobs and departments, as closely as possible, in the reverse order of layoff.
8)	An Employee who was laid off or reclassified may defer recall to that Employee's:
a)	former permanent classification; or
b)	former permanent classification and department; until such time as that Employee becomes the junior Employee to be recalled. At that time, the Employee must return to the former permanent classification.
Recall rights will be satisfied when the Employee returnsto the former permanent classification and department.
9)	Job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement will not apply to those classifications where Employees are waiting to be recalled.
E)
ular shift after reporting for work that day.
25 An Employee receiving notice of layoff or reclassification and not exercising the Employee's rights or accepting anotherjob as provided herein, shall be placed on layoff.
3)	When displacement by an Employee takes place because of layoff or reclassification, and such displacement results in change of shifts, such affected Employee shall not be eligible for overtime premiums on the Employee'sdays of rest under the Employee'spre-vious schedule, unless such Employee works in excess of the Employee's previously scheduled regular hours in such week. Such Employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work the Employee assumes, and if required to work on such days, the Employee shall be paid at overtime rates.
4)	The Union Steward may present a bid on behalf of a laid off Employee.
5)	It is agreed that general overtime during layoffs should be kept to a minimum. Overtime during a layoff should be of an unplanned or emergency nature, or for the purpose of completing a job.
25
General ./ju	f	®
) In no case shall an Employee be laid off for..any.£art.of-a-reg-
6)	The layoff notice provisionsprovided by this agreement shall not apply when a shutdown is caused by a catastrophe or other emergency situationsas referredto in Section F, Unplanned Layoffs,which are beyond the control of the Company, cr on days the plant is not operating due to a Statutory Holiday occurring.
F)	Unplanned Layoffs
1)	Where conditions beyond the Company's control develop a temporary shortage of work not exceeding six (6) consecutive calendar days, the Company may lay off Employeeswithout being required to apply the displacement by seniority provisions or the recall provisions of this Collective Agreement.
2)	Oversupply of inventory, for any reason, shall not be considered a condition beyond the control of the Company as it pertains to this section.
3)	The above shall only be applicable where the number of Employees involved is more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the location affected and the layoff period does not exceed six (6) consecutive calendar days.
For the purpose of this section, the locations shall be:
K1 Surface	K1 Underground
K2 Surface	K2 Underground
4)	• An Employee who would have been laid off due to a temporary work shortage in accordancewith this clause, and is subsequently kept at work, must accept the work assigned to the Employee or be placed on the temporary layoff.
G)	Downsizing
A downsizing of the operations shall occur when an Employee or Employees are permanently removed or transferred from their regular jobs or shift in such a way ttat no Employee is permanently laid off. An Employeefirst affected by downsizing shall receivetwo (2) weeks' written notice in advance of such downsizing. Inthe event of notice being less than that, Article 14.07 will apply.
Only those applicablelayoff, recall and general provisions of the Collective Agreement will apply to Employees affected by downsizing.
General
9.18	The Company agrees to supply to the Unionwithin ninety (90) days of the signing <f this Agreement, al job qualifications and requirements for jobs listed in Appendix A.
26
The qualifications and requirements as established by Management for each job listed in Appendix A shall be maintained, unless there is a significant change in the work content of the job
9.19	It is agreed that Employees awarded positions on the "Floating MaintenanceCrew" may be required by the Company to change locations andlor shifts from time to time as required to commence and complete projects However, insofar as practical it is agreed that the crew will normally work the hours of the day shift The Company further agrees that the Floating Maintenance Crew will not be used to replace or displace the regular established maintenancejobs andlor departments
9.20	As vacancies arise from time to time, Employees in the labour pool shall be appointed through promotion, by seniority, to shift positions on production at the location at which they work, provided such Employee has demonstrated the ability to perform such work. The provisions of Article 14.06 and Article 14.07 shall not apply to Employees changing to and from shift positions, providing such Employee is given at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of such change in shifts.
9.21	Employees who are students and are hired under the student summer employment policy of the Company shall be deemed to be temporary Employees. The employment of such personsshall commence not earlier than May 1st of each year, and such persons will be terminated not later than September 15th of each year. Employees who are hired as Co-operative Education Students shall be deemed to be temporary Employees. The employment of such persons shall commence and end to accommodate the Co-operative Education Students standard four month work term.
The Company will identify temporary Employees on the Union Dues check off lists.
Students hired as temporary Employeesshall not be eligiblefor any benefits outlined in Articles 19, 20 or 21, excepting dauses19.13 - funeral leaveand 21.04 -tools and clothing, which are to be returned upon termination. Prescription safety glasses may be retained by the temporary Employee upon termination of employment.
The Student rate of pay will be eighty percent (80%) of the normal rate of pay for the job the Student works at.
27
ARTICLE 10
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01	In recognition of the spirit and intent of the Technological Change Act of 1972, the Parties hereto are providing through the format of this Agreement an orderly procedureto deal with the effect of a technological change within the meaning of the Act. It has also been agreed between the Parties that if, as a result of a technological change within the meaning of the Act, job classifications are changed, job classifications are combined and/or new job classifications are established, such will be dealt with under the provisions of Article 16, "New or Changed Jobs”.
Interpretation^ “significant numbers” in the Technological Change Act shall mean one (1) or more persons in aH cases.
10.02	Proceduresfbr the aforementioned are:
1) Notification	^-2~ r /"i
The Company will notify the Union ofatechnologicalchange at least ninety (90) days prior to the date on which such change is to be effected and such notice shall be in writing and shall state:
a)	the nature of the technological change;
b)	the date upon which the Company proposed to effect the technological change, and;
c)	the names, seniority dates and classificationsofthe Employees primarily affected.
2)	Employee Rights	^
An employee displaced as a result of a technological change will exercise layoff rights under A rticle 9.17*rSeniority.
3) Co-operation With Canada Manpower	b
a)	Upon request, the Company will furnish to Canada Manpower the laid off Employee's skills inventory record and other information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced Employee in another job with another Company.
b)	Reduction in workforce occasioned through productionrequire-ments solely, are not subject matter of this Article and the Technological Change Act of 1972.
28
10.03	Computers
It is recognized that the use of computers in the offices and work places will continue to grow. It is inevitable that some restructuring of jobs and job descriptions will occur under Article 16. 1 is not the intention of the company to make changes associated with computerization which would have as their purpose the replacement of inscope employees with out-of-scope employees. It is also understood that the use of computers from time to time by out-of-scopeemploy-ees does not in and by itself constitute the performing of work in the exclusive domain of in-scope employees.
This agreement shall not have any effect on out-of-scope employees who use computers in the normal course of their job to do work that is normally not done by in-scope employees.
Employee(s) whose jobs are permanently affected by computerization shall be recognized under this article, Technological Change. ARTICLE 11 GRIEVANCE DEFINITION
11.01	A grievance shall be defined as a dispute as to the application or interpretation of the provisions cf this Agreement.
PROCEDURE
11.02	All grievancesto be processed hereunder when filed in writing shall set forth the essential facts of the complaint, with reference to how the Employee feels aggrieved and what redress is required. Such written grievance shall then form the basis cf the complaint through all the steps of the Grievance Procedure and Arbitration Procedure.
Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in the manner stated below.
Step 1 - An Employee who feels he/she has a grievance as defined above shall continue on the Employee'sassigned duties. Should the Employee wish to submit a grievance under this procedure. a written grievance relating to the complaint shall be prepared and presented to the Employee's immediate Supervisor through or with the Employee'sShop Steward. The grievance shall be submitted to this Supervisor in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the day of its occurence. The Supervisor shall in a period not exceeding five (5) calendar days following receipt of the Employee'ssubmission cf the grievance. give a written reply to the Employee concerning his grievance.
29
Where the grievance as written is a proper grievance, and where it fully outlines and explainsthe grievance, the Supervisor in his written reply shall, insofar as it is practical and warranted under the circumstances, explain or give reasons for the Supervisor's concurrence or nonconcurrence of the grievance.
Step 2	If a settlement is not reached atthe first step, the Employee,
through the Employee's Shop Steward, may in a period not exceeding five (5) calendar days of thejsompletion of Stepl presentthe written grievancetothe Department Head or designated representative. A meeting will be held in a period not exceeding five (5) calendar days of the time the grievance was presented to the Department Head. The Employee's Shop Steward shall be present <t the meeting. The Department Head shall reply to the grievance, in writing, in a period not exceeding seven (7) calendar days following the date on which the grievance was received by the Department Head.
Step 3 If settlement is not reached at the second step, the written grievance may, in a period not exceeding ten (10) calendar days of the completion of Step 2, be referred by the Union to the Director of Industrial Relationsor designated representative.
A monthly Third Step Grievance Meeting shall be held at atimeto beagreedupon by both Partiesto discuss all pending Third Step Grievances. An additional meeting may be scheduled, if required, by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Company'sfinal answer at Step 3 will be given in a period not exceeding seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
Group Grievance
11.03	If a grievance as defined in 11.01 above involves a group or groups of Employees, the Grievance procedure may be commenced at the step of the Grievance procedure involving the first designated official of the Company havingjurisdiction over the Employees affected or the subject matter concerned. Such grievance must be submitted in writing in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the occurrence of the grievance.
30
Union Grievance
11.04	If a grievance comes within 11.01 and concernsthe Union
as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of 11.02 - Step 1 or 11.03, two Union designated members of the executive of the Union who are Employees of the Company may, in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the occurrence of the grievance present a written grievance to the Company, which shall go directly into Step 3 of the Grievance procedure.
Suspension or Discharge
11.05	If a meeting is held for the purpose of suspension or discharge, the Employee who is being suspended or discharged shall have the Employee’s steward in attendance at such meeting. If an Employee believes that he/she has been discharged or suspended without just and sufficientcause, the matter shall be presented at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure in a period not exceeding six (6) calendar days after written notice of such suspension or discharge has been sent by registered mail to the Employee's last known address or after written notice of such suspension or discharge has been personally given to the Employee.
The remedy for adjusting a grievance, if it is determined that any is justified, may consist of reinstatement with or without back pay or with partial backpay, or may consist of pay or partial back payment without reinstatement, or may consist of any other redress appropriate to the circumstances.
Referral to Arbitration
11.06	If settlement is not reached at the Third Step, the grievance
may be referred to Arbitration as set forth in Article 12. The Union shall notify the Company of its intent to seek Arbitration by written notice served by registered mail, in a period not exceeding forty-five (45) calendar days, after the completion of Step 3. If such notice is not mailed in a period not exceeding the forty-five (45) calendar day period, the grievance shall be deemed settled on the basis of the Company’s answer at Step 3.
31
Time Limits
11.07	If the Company representatives do not take the necessary action to process the grievance, or provide answers within the time limits specifiedfor any step, the grievance shall be automaticallycon-sidered referredtothe next higher step, exceptthat Arbitration shall only be invoked uponthe giving of proper notice as providedi n 11.06 above.
Ifthe grievance is not processed by the Unionor the Employee within the time limits provided in the various steps, the grievance is considered settledonthe basisofthe Company’slastanswer. Time limits of Step 2 and Step 3 may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
General
11.08	a) It is agreed by the Company and the Union that meetings on grievances shall take place during regular working hours, without loss of pay, provided such meetings take place during the Employee’s scheduled working hours.
b)	The Union shall receive from the Company a copy of any written disciplinary action taken against an Employee.
c)	When an Employee is discharged, the appropriate Union Steward for the area may, upon receiving permission from the Steward’s Supervisor, leave his/her dutiesto investigate the matter. The Management reserves the right to establish the time and time limits to perform such duty.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
d)	Upon receiving permission from the foreman concerned, an Employee or the appropriate Steward of the Union may submit and/or process a grievance during working hours, provided only if there is no interruption in the work program.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
e)	At the request of the Employee, a Shop Steward from that Employee's area must be present at any meeting which is held for the purpose of issuing discipline.
ARTICLE 12 ARBITRATION Arbitrable Issues
12.01	The Arbitration Procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements set out in Article 11.
32
Arbitration
12.02 Within seven (7)calendar days of the date cf mailing notice of intent to seek Arbitration, the Union shall meet with the Company to select by lot an Arbitrator from the following panel
Elton Gritzfeld Dan Ish
If the Arbitrator so selected by lot is unable to serve then the next Arbitrator whose name was drawn will be the Arbitrator selected, and so on until one cf the Arbitrators on the panel is able to serve
12.03	After the Arbitrator has been chosen by the foregoing procedure, the Arbitrator shall meet and hear the evidence of both Parties. as soon as possible The decision cf the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties and upon any Employee affectedby it
costs
12.04	The Union and the Company will equally share the costs incurred by the Arbitrator.
Witnesses
12.05	Each patty shall be responsible for the costs of its witnesses in accordance with the arrangement it has made with its witnesses.
One Issue
12.06	The Arbitrator shall not deal with more than one (1) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
Power
12.07	The Arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms cf this Agreement. The Arbitrator may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator's decision must be based solely on the interpretation of the provisions cf this Agreement.
12.08	The Arbitrator shall render a decision in writing to the Parties not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made to the Arbitrator on the matter by the Parties.
33
ARTICLE 13
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
13.01	The Union. it's Agents. and each Employee agrees that there will be no strikes. slow downs or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout.
ARTICLE 14
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Definition of Workday
14.01	A workday shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of an Employee'sregular scheduled shift. Definition of Work Week
14.02	The work week shall be the period commencing at midnight on Saturday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday. Definition of Shift
14.03	A shift shall be defined as a period of time within a work day and these periods of time shall be referred to hereafter as day shift, afternoon shift, night shift, and may be rotating or non-rotating in na-
14.04	a) For those Employeesscheduledto an eight (8) hour work day, the basic work day shall be eight (8) hours per day, and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours of work per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each.”
b)	For those Employees scheduled to work a ten (10) hour work day, the basic work day shall be ten (10) hours per shift, and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
c)	Forthose Employeesscheduled to work a twelve (12) hour work day, the basic work day shall be twelve (12) hours per shift and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
The Company and the Union recognize that continuous shift operations may require variations to the five (5)day week and in such operations the number of day's work shall not exceed ten (10) days in any two week period.
An Employee's normal days of rest will be consecutive, unless changed by mutual agreement in specific instances bythe Company and the Union.
Nothingcontained herein shall be construedas a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
ture.
Hours of Work
34
14.05	It is understood by the Partiesthat flexibility is required in the starting time of shifts for production purposes. However, it is agreed that starting times shall not vary more than one (1) hour from the normal starting times. Any change in shift starting times outside of that permitted in this Section will be allowed only by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Shift Schedules and Changes in Shift Schedules
14.06	The Company will develop and post shift schedules at least seven (7)calendar days in advance of the effective day of such schedules.
Notations on the posting shall include location and shift times.
The Company will give Employees twenty-four (24) hours notice of any change in the Employee's shift schedule.
If less than twenty-four (24) hours notice is given, the Employee(s) affected by the change will be paid two (2) times the Employee's regular straight time rate for all hours worked on the first shift of such changed schedule.
This provision is not applicable when a call-out, runs into the Employee's regular scheduled shift. Such will be governed by the call-out pay provisions.
It is understoodand agreed that a change in location does not constitute a change in shift schedules, however, in the event of a change in location, the Company agrees to transport the affected Employees to and from the new location on the first day of such change only and on Company time.
It is agreed that the Company will not change shift schedules for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime.
14.07	1) In the event the Company changes an Employee's shift schedule, then during the first week of such change, the Employee's days of rest underthe Employee's previousschedule will be observed for overtime payment.
2)	This provision is only applicable during the first week of the new shift schedule and does not apply if a change of shifts is a result of any Employee changing status due to promotion, preferential shifts or jobs, or when an Employee returns to the Employee's original shift schedule after a temporary transfer.
3)	This provision shall not be applicable, when due to breakdown of equipment or reasons unforeseen to Management cause
a shutdown of normal operations, and when Management offers te— affected Employees other work ratherthan invoke the layoff procedure.
35
Shift Starting Times
14.08	a) The normal shift hours for those Employees working an eight (8) hour day shall be:
8:00 am. - 4:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m. - 12:00 midnight 12:00 midnight - 8:00 am
b) The normal shift hoursfor those Employeesworking aten (10) or twelve (12) hour work day shall be as scheduled and posted. It is understood and agreedthat Employeeswill be allowed a period not exceeding twenty (201) minutes each day to eat their lunch. The lunch period! shall belfKtuded as paidtShe, and sjaall be scheduled as near as possible to the middle of the shift. PiP
Overtime Pay
14.09	a) An Employee will be paid two (2) times the Employee's
regular straighttime hourly rate of pay for all w<	in ex-
i.	Employeesworking an eight (8) hoi . . k performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one work day.
ii.	Employeesworking a ten (10) hour shift, for work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in any one work day.
iii.	Employeesworking a twelve (12) hourshift, forworkper-formed in excess of twelve (12) hours in any one work day.
14.10	An Employee will be paid two (2) times the Employee’s, h
regular straight time hourly rate of pay for work perform®!:	« £ "
a)	For all work performed on designated holidays.—1
b)	Work performed on scheduled days of resW->
c)	For all work performed as providedfor in 14.07...—37^ ^
It is understood that the above will not apply where an Employee is called out to work and works continuously into the beginning of the Employee's next scheduled shift. Such will be governed by the Call-Out provisions.
Pyramiding
14.11	Paymentof overtime work shall be made as in 14.09 or as in 14.10 whichever givesthe Employeethe greatest pay. There shall be no duplication of weekly and daily overtime, nor pyramiding of overtime on overtime.
cess of
36
Overtime Work
14.12 The Company shall determine the need for overtime. The Company will make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. Where overtime is necessary, the Company shall make an effort to assign overtime so as to cause the least personal inconvenience to an Employee as reasonably practical under the circumstances.
Scheduled Overtime	Ll ~ y
14.13	The Company shall notifythe Employees scheduled to work such overtime two (2) days prior to such overtime being required. An Employee with a reasonable personalexcusewill be excused from working such sche'SuFed overtime, if a qualified replacerrtent is available. The Employee's Supervisor will attempt to obtain a replacement,
Unscheduled Overtime
14.14	The Company shall have the right to require that an Employee work overtime in an emergency situation unless such Employee has a reason that involves an extreme personal emergency that will prevent the Employee from working the required overtime. In such case, the required overtime work shall be assigned to another Employee on the shift, capable of performing the work.
14.15	Unscheduled overtime that is not of an emergency nature will be assignedto an Employee on the shift who normally performs such work. If the Employee so assigned has a reasonable personal excuse for not working the overtime, it will be assigned to other qualified Employees on the shift until an Employee is obtained to work the overtime. If in following this procedure, it is not possible to obtain the required number of Employees to work the overtime, then such work will be performed by assignment to the junior Employeeor Employees within that normal work group on the shift.
14.16	If overtime work Ts expected to be more than two (2) hours in duration, the Employee(s) affected will bejuj^edjr^yectiaie meal at the regular, quittingjime, if practical, and approximately every Jour (4).,hours of work thereafter""
14.17	In the case of unscheduled overtime, the Company will supply transportationfrom the plant site to such Employee's home where the Employee has no other means of transportation available.
Overtime Meals
37
When a car pool driver is required to work unscheduled overtime, the Company shall supply the members of the car pool who are not required to work overtime with transportation to their homes, if there is no other means of transportation available.
Overtime Distribution
14.18	Overtime work will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among Employees normally performing the work in the area on the shift who have the required skills and abilitiesto perform the work. It is understood that this Section does not assume that each Employee sharing overtime within a particular area and shift will at any given time have received the same number of overtime hours, but merely expressesthe policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is practicable under the circumstances.
Lists
14.19	Upto-date lists showing how overtime has been allocated within the particular group in the area on the shift shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted quarterly. If an Employee refuses the opportunity of working an overtime assignment, it will be considered as an overtime opportunity worked and so recorded. The Company will furnish to the Union a copy of the overtime list as posted on a quarterly basis.
Maintenance of Balance of Overtime
14.20	If a balance of the overtime hours worked among a group which normally shares overtime work is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result, an Employee(s) case is proven, then the off-balance overtime condition shall be identified and the imbalance corrected as soon as practical until a fair balance in the overtime distribution is reestablished.
V
is called
out to work outside such Employee’s regular hours, the Employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay attwo(2)Jimes the Employee’s regular straight time rate. Empfoyees'StrCailed out shall not be required to perform routine work, after the Employee has completed the work for which the Employee was originally called out, excepting that the Employee may be required to perform other emergency work consistent with the Employee's skills and arising during the period of the call-out.
38
Call-Out
14.21 Ifan Employee who has leftthe Company premises
14.22	The above call-out provision will not apply to an Employee who is called out to work and does work continuously into the beginning of the Employee's scheduled shift. In such case, the Employee will be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at two (2) times the Employee's regular straight time hourly rate of pay for all hours worked prior to the Employee’s regular shift and will be permitted to work to the end of the Employee’s regular shift. Employeeson such callout, in order to receive the two (2) hour minimum pay must report for work within a reasonable time period.
. ^
Reporting Pay	t	, ... ,t, .y'iT. ^
14.23	If an Employee reportsfor work afef'having been scheduled or notified to, and has not been previously notified in advance of the Employee’s reporting time not to report, the Employee will be given a day’s work or. if work is not available, the Employee shall ^eeWe a regular.day’s..pay._at.straight time in lieu thereof. An Em-ployee'who has no phone, or an incbrrect phone number on file with the Company will be considered to have been given proper notice, under this provision, when the Employee reports to work. It is understood that if the Employee'sregularjob is not available the Employee shall perform duties as assigned for the period referred to above.
Shift Relief
14.24	No Employee assigned to a rotating shift or continuous operation shift shall leave at the end of the shift until the Employee's relief reports, unless the Employee is released by the Employee's Supervisor.
General
14.25	1)An Employee who worked one-half the Employee's rest hours or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of the Employee's next shift shall, at the request of such Employee, be given such shift off from work without pay.
2)	In the event an Employee works one-half the Employee's rest hours or more in the rest period immediately precedingthe start of the shift, and the Employee does not have at least seven (7) hours' rest between the completion of the overtime worked and the start of the Employee's next scheduled shift, the Employee shall have the starting time of the next shift adjusted to provide for seven (7) hours' rest, after which the Employee will receive a normal day’s pay.
3)	For those Employees on a callout to work as provided in Articles14.21 and 14.22, the provisions of this section (Article 14.25) shall only apply to those Employees who are called out to work and
39
actually work for more than five (5)consecutive hours of overtime on the call-out and who do not receive seven (7) hours' rest from the end of the overtimecall-outto the start of their next scheduled shift.
4)	In the event an Employee is requiredto return to work for one (1) hour or less after receiving seven (7) hours' rest as referred to above, the Employee shall be allowed to work the period of one (1) hour or less at straighttime rates atthe beginning of the Employee’s next scheduled shift.
14.26	An Employee requested by the Company to renew certification of the Employee’s trade papers shall be allowedtime off from work for such purposes. Such Employee will be reimbursedfor any time lost during a day the Employee would otherwise have worked. ARTICLE 15
WAGES AND SHIFT PREMIUMS Wage Scale
15.01	a) The wage scale for the job classification is set forth in Ap-
pendix “A’ andthe rateswill be effective commencingat 12.01 a.m. on the date indicated in Appendix “A”.	_P—/
b) Employees shall receive a prenwuimof sewenty-five cents ($0.75) per hourwhile blasting, providedthey are licensedto do so. This premium shad be applicable only for the period while actually performing blasting but in no case shall thepremium be paid for less than a one (1) hour period.
15.02	a) An Employee working duringthe afternoon shift shall receive a shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per Ipotjrp&f*
(4:00 p.m. - 12:00 midnight).
b) Effective February 1, 1993 an Employee wopffg during the afternoon drift shall receive a drift premium of seventy cent per hour
(4:00 p.m. - 12:00 midnight).
15.03 a) An Employee working duringthe night shift shall receive a shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour	/
(12:00 midnight - 8:00 a.m.).	~
b) Effective February 1, 1993 an Employee working during-'7 the night shift shall receive a shift premium of seventy cents (§QJ£)— per hour
(12:00 midnight - 8:00 a.m.).
40
ARTICLE 16
NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
16.01	If the Company should combine job classifications, change job classificationsand/or establish new job classifications,the Company shall develop appropriate wage rates for the combined, changed or new job classifications in relation to jobs, job classifications and wage rates then in effect hereunder and will put such rates into effect. The Company will notify the Union, in writing, fifteen (15) days prior to such rates being placed into effect and, if requested, will meet with the Union to discuss said rate(s). The Company will also supply the Union with copies of job qualificationsand requirements.
16.02	If the Union disagrees with the rate or rates'so established after such rates have been in effect for thirty (30) working days a grievance may be filed within fourteen (14) days thereafter in the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure, Article 11.02.
16.03	If the matter above is processed to Arbitration under Article 12, the Arbitrator shall in determining the rate(s), do so in relation-shipto the established jobs, job classification and wage rates as shown in Appendix A.
ARTICLE 17 HOLIDAYS
Designated Holidays 17.01 New Year's Day
Heritage Day (Third Monday - February) Good Friday
Dominion Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Victoria Day
41
Qualifications
17.02	The above named Holidays, when not worked by an Employee, shall be paid as hereinafter, providedthe Employee must be in active employment and currently working when the Holiday occurs. The term "active employment” and "currentlyworking" shall mean an Employee who has not been absent for more than five (5) consecutive scheduled work days immediately preceding the Holiday.
Holiday Pay
17.03	An Employee eligible for Holiday pay under the Provisions of the Article shall receive eight (8) hours straight time pay at the Employee's regular straighttime rateforall designated Holidayslisted in Article 17.01. If an eligible Employee is required to work on any above-mentioned Holidays, the Employee shall be paid two (21 times the Employee's regular straight time hnurlvratpfnr all hours worked to a maximum of eight (81 hours on the desjgnatefj Holiday in addition to eight (8) hours straight time pay.
17.04	When a designated Holiday falls at any time during an Employee's annual vacation, the Employee shall be paid in accordance with 18.13.
17.05	An Employee who is scheduled to work on a Holiday and fails to report for such work will not be entitled to Holiday pay as set forth inthefirst paragraph of this section, excepfff the Employee is legitimately absent.	\y
17.06	When a designated Holiday falls on an Employee's regular day(s) of rest, the Employee's next regular scheduled work day(s) shall be pak£aHwo~(g) times the Employee's regular straight time hourly rateforall hours worked to a maximumof eight(8) hourson such day(s), or the Employee may be given an additional day(s) of rest to a maximum of eight (8) hours immediately following the designated Holiday(s).
17.07	For Employees whose regular scheduled work day is twelve (121 hours, the following shall apply:
a)	When a designated Holiday falls on a regular scheduled work day and the Employee works that day, the Employee will receive eight(8) hours, straight time pay, plusthefirst eight(8) hoursworked will be paid at doubetime rates and the next four (4) hours will be £ straight time rates. Any succeeding hoursworked will be at doubletime rates.
42
b)	When a designated Holiday falls on the Employee's regular scheduled days ofthe Employee will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if the Employee satisfiesthe eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02. If the Employee works the next regular shift, the Employee will receive doubletime rates for the first eight (8) hours and the next four (4) hours will be at straight time, if the Employee satisfiesthe eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime.
c)	When a designated Holiday falls on an Employee's regular scheduled work day and the Employee is given the day off, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if the Employee satisfiesthe eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02.
17.08	For Employees whose regular scheduled work day is ten (10) hours, the following shall apply:
a)	When a designated Holiday falls on a regular scheduled work day and the Employee works that day, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, plus the first eight (8) hours worked will be paid at doubletime rates and the next two (2) hours will be at straight time rates. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime rates.
b)	When a designated Holiday fells on the Employee’s regular scheduled days off, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if the Employee satisfies the eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02. If the Employeeworks the next regularshift, the Employee will receive doubletime rates for the first eight (8) hours and the next two (2) hours will be at straight time pay, if the Employee satisifies the eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime rates.
c)	When a designated Holiday fells on an Employee's regular scheduled work day and the Employee is given the day off, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, ifthe Employee satisfiesthe eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02.
ARTICLE 18
ANNUAL VACATIONS
7
18.01	An Employee with one (1) year or more continuous service, but less than six (6Jyears of continuous service, will be eligible on the Employee's anniversary date to one hundred and twenty (120U working hours of annual vacation. For every additional year of continuous service after.fiyeJS]_years, an additional eight, (SLworking hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the tenth (10th) year.	r) , s? ^ |
f Wntinuo
18.02	An Employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous ser-
vice, but less than twenty (20) years of continuous service, will be eligible, on the Employee's anniversary date, to one hundred and sixty (160) working hours of annual vacation./ 6?	^\J I
18.03	For every additional year of continuous •Service after_fifteen ! (15) years an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be ' added to the total annual vacation up to theJvr©ntieUi420th) year.-./ An Employee with twenty (20) years or more'of continuous service ^ will be eligible, on the Employee's anniversary date, to two hundred (200) working hours of annual vacation. ^ (5? 'QCT'
18.04	An Employee mustmeetthe requirementsof completed ser-
vice (anniversary date) in order to qualify for payment per 18,01, 18.02, and 18.03.	I
18.05	An Employee with ten (10) years or more ofcominuous service will receive at the time of the Employee’s vacation a vacation bonusof one hundred andfifty dollars (8150.001. The Employee will be eligible for the above mentioned boriuS Ifihe Employee’s anniversary date falls at any time during that calendar year.
18.06	The vacation period shall extend from June 1stto May31st of the following year. Vacation earned in one anniversary year and vacation earned in the next anniversary year may not be taken consecutively unless the Company approves the Employee's request for such. It is understood that in scheduling the vacation, full con-siderationof operating requirementsand the Employee's service will be given.
18.07	An Employee who is eligible for full vacation as provided in this Article shall receive forty (40) times the Employee's straight time hourly rate of pay for each week of vacation entitlement, and/or eight (8) times the Employee's straight time hourly rate of pay for each day of entitlement.
18.08	The straighttime hourly rate shall be the permanent straight time hourly rate being paidtothe Employeeasof May 31st of each year.
18,09	a) To be eligible to receive full vacation pay for the vacation specified inthis Article, the Employee must have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours duringthe preceding year June Istthrough May 31st.
b) New Employeeswho have less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay based on one and one quarter (1 1/4) days pay for each month of employment, provided the Employee worked at least seventy-fivepercent (75%) of the hours each month.
44
c)	Employees who work less than 1,500 hours in the vacation year June Istthrough May 31st, or Employees who terminate or are terminated in the vacation year June Istthrough May 31st and who work less than 1,500 hours, shall be paid pro-rated vacation pay based on the following formula: Number of hours worked divided by 1,500, times the number of hours of vacation eligibility, i.e.: 1,200 x 128 hours = 102.4 hours
18.10	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be carried over to the following year.
18.11	No Employee may continue to work and draw vacation pay in lieu of taking a vacation, unless by mutual agreement by the Union and the Company.
18.12	At anytime after June 15, upon 14 days notice in writing by an Employee, the Company shall issue to such Employee vacation pay, to which the Employee is entitled, in accordance with the terms of this Article, but in any case, vacation pay shall be issued to Employees prior to leaving on Vacation.
18.13	Should a designated Holiday fall at any time during an Employee'sannual vacation period, such Employee may be granted an additional eight (8) hours off work with pay immediately following the Employee's vacation period in lieu of the designated Holiday. Should the Employee not be granted the additional day off with pay [eight (8) hours] in lieu of the designated Holiday. the Employee will receive overtime pay for the first eight (8) hours worked after the Employee'svacation period, or the Employee may choose to bank eight (8) hours for use at a later time.
18.14	If an Employee is confined to a hospital due to unforeseen circumstances during the Employee'svacation. such Employee may receive any unused sick pay benefits for each day of confinement, in accordance with the provisions of Article 20.
The Company will arrange to allow such Employee to take extra days of vacation at a later time equal to the number of days the Employee received benefits while confined, but in no case shall the vacation period exceed the provisions under Article 18 - Annual Vacations. Vacation Shutdown
18.15	A vacation shutdown period can be designated by the Company. provided each vacation shutdown period tails during the School Summer Vacation Period.
1,500
45
During such designated period, Employees not requiredto work by the Company will be required to take their vacation.
The Company will notify employeesof a pending vacation shutdown by no laterthan May 1 in orderfor Employeesto plantheir vacation as far in advance as possible.
The vacation shutdown will be for a period of two (2) weeks, but the Company may extend the vacation shutdown to a maximum of one (1) additional week for a total of three (3)weeks.
During the third week of the vacation shutdown, the Employee will have the option of either remaining on vacation or taking unpaid leave.
19.01	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will consider, when deciding to grant or refuse a request for such leave:
a)	Whether such leave will interfere with the business and operations requirements of the Company.
b)	Whether a qualifiedreplacementisavailableto replacethe Employee during the leave.
c)	Whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the Employee.
19.02	An Employee who requests a leave of Absence shall request such leave in writing at least one (1) week in advance of such leave unlessthere was no possibility ttatthe Employee had such prior knowledge of the necessity of the leave.
Sick Leave of Absence
19.03	The provisions of this sick leave of absence section do not affect sick leave benefits specified elsewhere in this Agreement.
19.04	Employees shall be granted a sick leave of absence, without pay, provided:
a)	The leave is for personal illness or injury and the Employee is actually physically unableto report for or do the Employee's regular work.
ARTICLE 19 LEAVE QF ABSENCE Personal Leave
46
b)	The leave shall be for a maximum period of thirty-six (36) months if the Employee has ten (10) or more years of seniority. If an Employee has less than ten (10) years of seniority, the leave shall be for a maximum of twenty-four (24) calendar months,or a period equal to the Employee's seniority, whichever is lesser; however, for this purpose, every Employee is considered to have a minimum of one (1) year’s seniority. The period referred to above may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
19.05	In all cases of sick leave, the Employee(S) shall, prior to returning to work and upon a request of the Company, submit to a medical examination by a qualified practitioner at the Company's expense to ensure that the Employee then has the required health qualifications.
19.06	Should the Employee return to work following the leave of absence, the Company will reinstate the Employee in the Employee's former job, if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content, provided the Employee is still qualified to perform the work. If the job has been abolished or its content substantially changed. the Employee may displace the junior Employee in a job grade which is equal or below the Employee's former job grade or the junior Employee on a job previously held and for which the Employee had qualified.
Union Leave of Absence
19.07	The Company shall grant a Union Leave of Absence as authorized in writing by the local or national Union without pay provided
a)	The absence will not interfere with the business and operational requirement of the Company
b)	A qualified replacement is available at the time of the leave
c)	The Union requests the leave in writing at least one (1) week in advance of such leave unless there was no possibilitythatthe Union
" had such prior knowledge of the necessity for the leave
It isfuther agreed that no more than two (2) Employees shall be absent for more than thirty (30) calendar days at any one time provided that the leave has been granted pursuant to paragraph 19 07 The total of the accumulated leaves may not exceed two hundred (200) days per year Consideration will be given for special circumstances which may require extensions
47
19.08 It is further agreed that no more than Seven (7JEmployeesshall be absent for more than seven (7) calendar days at any one time provided that the leave has been granted pursuant to paragraph 19.07. Consideration will be givenfbr special circumstances which may require extensions.
Extended Leave for Union Business
19.09	An extended Leave of Absence, without pay but with maintenance, and accumulation of seniority up to ope-(4j year, sh'aTbe--—.,,v
granted to a maximum of two (2) Employeesat any one time, designated by the Union for the conducting of full time Union business on behalf of Local 892 or for E.C.W.U. Said leave shall be for not less than (1) month, nor more than one (1) year unless extended by mutal agreement by the Parties for up to another one (1) year period. Not more than one (1) Employee from any one (1) classification shall be allowed such leave at any one time.
19.10	Should the Employee return to work following the Leave cf Absence, the Company will reinstate the Employee in the Employee's former job if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content provided the Employee is still qualified to perform the work. If the job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the Employee may displace the junior Employee in a job grade which is equal or below the Employee's former job grade or the junior Employee on a job previously held and for which the Employee had qualified.
19.11	Vtfrien an Employeeis summonedto and reports for jury duty or Crown VWness duty, the Employee shall be paid the difference between the daily amount received for jury services or Crown \M-ness service performedon a day that the Employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work and does not work 19 12 Such compensation shall be payable only if the Employee presents a written statement from the appropriate Court Official showing the date and time served and the amount of Da vment receive^ & on each date
19.13 a) Inthe case of the death ofamembercf the immediatefam-ily of an Employee, the Company, upon notification in advance, will grant a maximum of four (4) days paid funeral leave to be taken b e tween the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral
Jury Leave and Crown Witness Leave
Funeral Leave
48
It is understoodthat such paid leave will not be granted in instances when the Employee otherwise eligible does not attend the funeral. In the event the funeral of a member of the immediate family of an Employee is held at a distance in excess of five hundred (500) miles from the Employee's residence, or where reason justifiable to the Company is presented, such Employee's funeral leave will be extended through the second day afterthe day of the funeral subject, ^rowever, to fie four (4) day maximum paid funeral leave.
b)	An Employee may request and will be granted up to an additional fourteen (14) days leave, without pay, providing such request is made in writing.
c)	In the event an Employee is requiredto be an active pallbearer at the funeral of another Company Employee, the Company will grant the necessary time off and the Employee will receive the Employee's normal day's pay, excluding any premiums, for the regular-scheduled time absent on the Employee's shift.
Immediate Family
19.14	For the purposes of funeral leave, ’’immediate family” shall include the Employee's spouse, children, mother, father, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law, brother and sister-in-law and grandparents and grandchildren of the Employee or spouse; foster child, foster parent, legal ward or legal guardian, if the relationship has been legally established for a minimum period of twelve (12) months. Common-law status shall be recognizedif the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the Employee has notified the Company of the common-law status prior to the bereavement. Rates of Pay
19.15	The Employee will not be entitled to funeral leave pay for any day falling within the four-day leave of absence which is not a scheduled work day for the Employee, or when the Employee is absent from work due to vacation, holiday, injury, illness or leave of absence.
For each day of the four-day leave of absence for which the Employee is eligible to receive pay, the Employee shall be paid a nor. mal day's pay at straight time at the rate of the Employee's assigned job classification.	.	_
Maternity Pay
19.16	A maternity leave of absence shall be granted an Employee, without pay, but With maintananna and an^i if-pi ilalinn aaninrity for
a maximum period of six (6) months.’ftn extension may be granted by mutual agreement of the Parties.
49
19.17	Should the Employee return to work following the Leave of
Absence, the Company will reinstate the Employee in her former job, if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content, provided the Employee is still qualified to perform the work. Ifthe job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the Employee may displace thejunior Employee in ajob grade which is equal or below herformerjob grade orthejunior Employee on ajob previouslyhelc^ and for which she had qualified.	F
General
19.18	On all Leaves of Absence, all seniority is maintained and ac-
cumulatedfor a period of one (1) year only. For Leaves of Absence during a second or successive years, seniority shall only be maintained but not accumulated.	4
19.19	An Employeewho becomes a candidate or iselectedto Public Office, shall receive a leave of absence without loss of seniority in accordance with Section 80 - Labour Standards Act.
Educational Leave of Absence	LA
19.20	An Employee may request a leaVeoi absence to further the Employee's educationforthe sole purpose of advancementwith the Company, by attending full time classes of instruction. Preemployment type instruction is not eligible for leave under this section.
Subject to the above, the Company will give consideration to such request conditional on the following:
-	the Employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
-	the leave will not interfere with the business requirements of the Company;
-	there is a qualified replacement for the affected Employee;
-	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance, with all details of the instruction course;
-	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9)months unless extended by the Company:
-	not more than one (1) leave is given at K1 and one (1) at K2 operations during any one time.
Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will requirethat the affected Employee actually attends each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness. If the Employee fails to attend each session of the course for reasons other than illness the Employee will be terminated as an Employee of the Company.
50
Should the Employee return to work following a leave of absence as referred to above, the Company will reinstate the Employee in the Employee'sformerjob, if thejob is still in existence and unchanged in content, providedthe Employee is still qualifiedfo performthe work. Such Employee will be required to pass a required medical upon return from such leave.
ARTICLE20	7^- 0
SPECIAL TIME OFF WITH PAY
20.01	a) Underspecialcircumstances.an Employeewill be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of six (6), eight (8) hour days pe^calendar year. Employeeswill accumulate unused days each calendar year. No pay out of accumulated days shall be made except when an Employee is required to be absent as provided hereinafter.
b)	For Employees working a compressed work week on a twelve (12) hour day schedule, under special circumstances, an Employee will be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of five (5) days per calendar year. Employees will accumulate unused hours each calendaryear. No pay out cf accumulated hoursshall be made except when an Employee is requiredto beabsentasprovidedhere-inafter.
A is understood that for accumulation purposes, should an Employee's job changeorthe compressed work week be discontinued,the Employee has accumulated five (5), twelve (12) hour days or sixty (60) hours.
c)	After completing their probationary period, new Employees shall be entitledto pro-rated special time off with pay during their first year of employment.
20.02	Special time off with pay may be taken for:	^
\ fa) illncgg nr npn.nnnnpatinnal accident of the Employee;
b) illness of the spouse or child of an Employeeif such illnesscau-ses hospital confinement or bed confinement of the spouse if so directed by a doctor. Illness shall be interpretedto includepregnancy-related illness and delivery of a child. In the event cf the birth of a child to the spouse of the Employee, such Employee may take time off with pay for the first day and to a maximum of two (2) days. Common-law status as defined in Article 19.14 will be recognized for the purpose of this section.
51
When an Employees requiredto attend a member of the Employee's immediate family due to the critical nature of their illness or injury. The spouse, child, mother, father, sister and brother shall be recognized as immediate family;
c)	dental appointments of the Employee;
d)	appointmentsto see an eye specialist or optometrist for examination.
20.03	Pay will commence on the second consecutive work day of absence except:
a)	If the Employee is hospitalized, or is off work due to an accident, it will become effective on the Employee's first work day,
b)	For required dental appointments of the Employee only, it will become effective on the Employee's first work day. An Employee shall be limited to sixteen (16) hours per calendar year. For required eye examination appointment of the Employee only, it will become effective on the Employee's first work day. An Employee shall be limited to eight (8) hours per calendar year.
c)	In the case of Article 20,02 (b) above, pay will be limited to a maximum of two (2) consecutive work days on any one instance, except when an Employee is required to attend a member of the Employee's immediate family due to the critical nature of their illness or injury, as substantiated by the Employee and accepted by the Company, then during such period the two day limitation will be extended to a period sufficient for the purpose, but in no case longer than the total number of accumulated days held by the Employee under Article 20.01. The paid benefit shall commence on the second day of absence of the Employee.
d)	If an Employee leaves work because of illness during the first half of the Employee's shift, that day will be counted in calculating the Employee’s waiting period.
e)	When an Employee has been absent as provided herein for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled work days, the Employee will be compensatedfor four (4) hours pay on the first day of absence if working a twelve (12) hour day, or two (2) hours if working a ten (10) hour day.
20.04	In order to receive such pay, the Employee will provide the Company with a medical certificate or other proof of entitlement, as may be required by the Company.
52
20.05	When an Employee is absent under this Article and a designated Holiday occurs, the Employee shall only be paid eight (8) hours at the Employee’s regularstraighttime rate and such paymentshall not result in a reductionof any of the days off as described in 20.01 above, provided the Employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
20.06	Employee(s) will not be entitled to the benefits:
a)	Underthis Article during any periodswhen an Employeeis absent from work due to vacation, holiday, leave of absence, or layoff
b)	Employee(s) will be eligiblefor pay for only those daysfor which the Employee would have otherwise been scheduled for work.
ARTICLE 21
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	During the lifetime of the Agreement, the Group Insurance Plan as described in the “Benefits Handbookfor Hourly Employees atEsterhazy, Saskatchewan” will be maintainedexceptasamended hereafter.
It is understood that disability benefits are payable only after an Employee hasexhaustedthe Employee’ssick pay benefitsas provided in Article 20, Special Time Off With Pay;" "
The only exception is that a 5 & 2 Employee may reserve the last 40 hours of accumulated paid sick leave to beusedata later time. A shift Employee may reservethe last 48 hours of accumulated paid sick leave to be used at a later time.
21.02	The amended benefits are effective February 1, 1992, and are as follows:
A)	Short Term Disability 7 C

1)	Premiums to be JuiJyqagiid by the Company.
2)	If your disability resultsfrom a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day you are unable to reportfor work, up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period O disability.
3)	If your disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable from the fourth (4th) day after the first scheduled work day you were unable to report to work, up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
53
4)	Effective February 1, 1992 benefits for the above mentioned periods of disability will be sixty-five percQDt-(6Sa^ of normal earnings to a maximum of four hundred and seventy-five dollars ($475.00) per week.
5)	Effective February 1, 1993 benefits for the above-mentioned periodsof disability will be seventy percent (?0%)_of normal earnings to a maximum of five hundred dollars (f5QMflD) per week
6)	Effective February 1, 1994 benefits tofthe abovementioned
periodsof disability will be seventy percent(70% of normal earnings to a maximumof five hundred and twenty-five dollars ($525.00) per week	~—
-/.-Oft- 0*5 0
B)	Long Term Disability A ^ y ^
1)	Fifty percent(50%) of the premiumspaid by the Comparand fifty percent (50%) paid by the Employees. 7 £T
2)	Benefits - Effective February 1, 1992 - sixty-five percent (65%) of normal earnings, includingfifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan Benefits, to a maximum of two thousand, three hundred and fifty dollars ($2,350.00) per month. Effective February 1, 1993 seventy percent(70%) of annual earnings, includingfifty percent(50%) of Canada Pension Plan Benefitsto a maximum of two thousand, four hundred dollars ($2,400.00) per month. Effective February 1, 1994 - seventy percent(70%) of annual earnings, includingfifty per-cent(50%) of Canada Pension Plan Benefits, to a maximum of two thousand, five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per month.
3)	It is understood and agreed that the Long Term Disability Benefit shall be fixed ± the level of benefits the Employee was eligible for ± the time of disability, exceptfor employees covered by the Current London Life policy, who will be eligible to the benefits provided in B. 2. above.
C)	General
Eligibility for entrance into the above plans shall be as provided for in the applicable benefit plan policy. None of the above benefits will be reduced as a result of the Employee holding private insurance. All benefits under this Article shall be based on the job title rate of the Employee at thetime of commencement of receipt of any of the benefits. The Company agreesto distribute a copy of the Group Insurance Booklet to all Employees.
54
D)	Dental Plan
A Dental Insurance Plan will be established covering an Employee and spouse, where applicable, with the Employee pay ingtwenty percent (20%) of the dental bill and the Plan paying eighty percent(80°/o)
of the dental billy	T
The Company wl^pa\/Jhe full cost of the plan. . '0 * •
The Dental Plan will not have a maximum limit, and will include Orthodontia.	/ 1 - r
The dental plan will include unmarried, dependent children to age nineteen (19) or age twenty-three (23) if the child is a full-time student at an accredited school and remains dependent.
The dependent children referredto above, when coverage by a provincial dental plan ceases because of age, shall be eligible for basic dental coverage paying eighty percent (80%) of the dental bill. The dependent children referredto above shall be eligible for defined major services including orthodontia benefits and shall be payable at fifty percent (50%) of normal and customary charges under the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
To be eligible for payment of a Dental bill, an Employee's charges as submitted to the Company for payment must conform with the regulations of the Plan as outlined, and the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
.... r .
E)	Vision Care	V T > ' ••V,/’
As part of the Group Benefit sjj’rogram, each employee, spouse and dependent child wiiTbe eligible for vision care in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per person during any consecutivetwenty-four (24) month period.
General	' Is
21.03	In the event an Employee who has been injured on the job and who has subsequently receiveda Medical Certificatestatingthat the Employee is fit for work, the Company will makea special effort to offer employmentto such Employee within the. EmpJoyjrgJjyability for jobs that have become available. The time limit for such consideration under this clause is subject to Article 19.04(b) of the Collective BargainingAgreement.
21.04	Tools and clothing shall be defined in Exhibitl.
55
f
21.05	The Company agrees to offer assistance to office Employees who desire to continue their education towards a Certified Management Accountant or CertifiedGeneralAccountant designation. Those Employees currently employed in the general administration office of the Company, who enroll in a correspondence course of study Offered in the above provisionswill be eligible for the following. Reimbursementof 90% of the cost of yearly tuition, registration examination fees.
b) Reimbursementof 90% of the cost of course required books.
To receive the reimbursement of the costs referred to above, the Employee must pass the yearly examination.
Office Employees who have been enrolled in and have completed certainlevelsoftheC.M.A. orC.G.A. CorrespondenceCoursesshall be paid a premium rate in addition to their regular rate of pay for all hours worked as follows:
a)	After successful completion of the first year $0.25 per hour.
b)	Aftersuccessfulcompletionofthesecondyear$0.50 perhour.
c)	After successful completion of the third year $0,75 per hour.
d)	After successful completion of the fourth year $1.00 per hour.
e)	After attainment of C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree $1.50 per hour.
To be eligible for the above-mentioned premium, Employees must submit official transcripts of marksfrom C.M.A., C.G.A. orB. Commerce Degree.
It is understood that the premium rate will only be paid if the Employee retains employment as an Office Employee in the Administration Department.	r f n	^
ARTICLE 22 PENSIONS /
A.
22.01	During the life of this Agreement, the Retirement Benefits as described inthe Company's pamphletentitled "Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employeesat Esterhazy Saskatchewan"^ be maintained.
22.02	a)EffectiveFebruaryl, 1992,the PensionPlanSummaryshall
include a monthly pension of thirty-one dollars ($31.00) per month times years of service.	*
b) Effective Februaryl, 1993 the PensionPlanSummaryshall include a monthly pension of thirty-two dollars ($32.00) per month
c)	Effective February 1,1994 the Pension Plan Summary shall include a monthly pension of thirty-four dollars ($34.00) per month times years of service.
22.03	The monthly pension as determined above will be in addition to any moniesa retiree may receive from C.P.P. and Old Age tten^fits.,
22.04	An Employee will be entitled to full vested Retirement Sem'
efits after ten (10) years of seniority, or when the Employee’s age plus total years of continuous service reach a sum of at least forty,-five (45).	-j&f i
22.05	While the normal retirementfor all employeesisage §ixty-five (65). all eligible employees after reaching the age of sj^tyTwo (62) shall be entitled to eariy retirementwith no reduction in benSfltsr ~
22.06	Creditedserviceforthecalculationof RetirementBengj|g ghall include all employmenttime with IMC Canada. ^
22.07	In addition to the normal survivor protection oFthStyrefision determined by personal selections at the time of retirement, the IMC Canada Retirement Plan offers spousal protection in the event of the death of an Employee before the Employee's pension starts.
22.08	Effective February 1, 1994 if you retire early, your pension will then be reduced by four percent (4%) for each year by which your pension starting date proceeds your sixty-second (62) birthday.
ARTICLE 23
NOTICES
23.01	Any notices required to be made to one party or the other shall be addressed as follows:
-	To the Company:
International Minerals& Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited
Attention - Industrial Relations Manager Esterhazy, Saskatchewan S0A 0X0
-	To the Union:
Local 892, Energy & Chemical Workers Union
Attention - Unit Chairman
P.O. Box 1509
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
S0A 0X0
57
ARTICLE 24
SAFETY AND HEALTH Preamble
24.01	The Parties, in recognizingthe importance of an active program to promote safety and health in working conditions and practice, have agreed as follows:
24.02	In matters pertainingto Safely and Occupational Health, the Saskatchewan Occupational Health & Safety Act shall be the basic guide in the development of and implementationof a Safety and Occupational Health Program.
24.03	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its Employees during the hours of employment.
24.04	The Union agrees that careful observance of safe working practices and safety rules is a primary duty of all Employees. The Company agrees/tethere will be uniform enforcementof such rules among Employees in scope and said rules shall be enforced without discrimination among said Employees.
24.05	Forthe continued protection of its Employees,the Company retains its right to require any Employee to submit to a physical examination ±. the Company's expense by a Company designated physician at any time or from time to time to determine the fitness of such Employee. The Company has the right to utilize the report of the physical examination to aid it in determining whether the Employee can performthe Employee'sduties in a safe and satisfactory manner.
24.06	The parties agree that safety and health problemsbe resolved as quickly as practicable.
24.07	It shall be every Employee’sresponsibility,whether in or out of scope, to encourage the use of and to follow the establishedsafety procedures.
Safety and Health Committees
24.08	There shall be established four (4) Safety and Health Committees with Union representation as follows:
a)	K1 andK2 UndergroundOperations-two (2) Employeesfrom K1 and two (2) Employeesfrom K2.
b)	K1 and K2 Surface Operations • two (2) Employeesfrom K1 and two (2) Employeesfrom K2.
58
The number of Company representatives on the above committees may be equal to the number of Union Representatives, but in no case shall the number exceed the number of Union representatives. The Parties shall select their members on each Committee and the persons designated as co-chairpersons of each Committee. There shall be two (2) co-chairpersons for each underground operation. Chairpersonship of each Committeeshall altemateon a meeting basis. When one co-chairperson is acting as Chairperson, the other will act as Secretary. Each Party may select alternate members for each committee who may be called to act in the absence of regular Committee members.
24.09	The purpose of the joint Safety and Health Committees shall be:
a)	to consider and review safety and health conditions and complaints and accidents referred to it by Employees;
b)	to participate in the identification of safety hazards;
c)	to prepare advisory recommendationsthereto;
d)	to maintain records in connection with the receipt and disposition of Employeecomplaints in reference to Safety and Health matters.
24.10	Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing of the names
of its appointees and alternates to the respective Safety and Health Committees. The Parties shall not recognize members of any committee unless notice in writing has been given by an authorized official of the other party.	_	2-
24.11	There shall be established, by mutual agreement, a set day and time on a bi-monthly basis for each Committee to meet and review matters referredtothem. All Committee meetingsshall be scheduled during regular working hours. An Employee shall not suffer loss of regular, straight-time pay for participating in sucfTmeetings, or other activity referred to hereafter in Accident and Occupational Health Officer Investigations.Prior to leaving theirjobs to attend Safety and Health matters, Committee members must obtain permission from their Supervisor.
24.12	Special meetings will be held upon request of either the Company or the Union when a serious accident or fatality occurs.
24.13	Minutes of each Committee meeting signed by both cochairpersons, shall be distributed to respective Committee members and posted on bulletin boards within one (1) week after any meeting.
59
Procedure
24.14	An Employee who believes a matter exists which falls under the jurisdiction of a Safety and Health Committee shall submit the matter in writing to the Employee's immediate Supervisor. The Supervisor will respond in writing to the Employee within five (5) calendar days. If the Employee is dissatisfied with the Supervisor's answer, the Employee will then notify a co-chairperson of the Committee for Employee's area of the matter. The matter will then be placed on the agendafor consideration atthe nextfollowing meeting of the Committee for the area involved. Forthe purpose of this Article, a Steward shall be considered an Employee.
24.15	Unresolved matters referred to under 24.14 above shall be discussed at the next Committee meeting for the area concerned, following its submission to a co-chairperson of such Committee. At such meeting, recommendationsshall berendered(ifany)asto what should be done with the matter. The matter shall then be taken up <t the next meeting of the Committee and the Company shall advise the Committee of what action it has or proposed to take, if any, on the matter. If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved at this point in the procedure, the matter shall be referred to the President, General Manager of the operation for review and decision.
24.16	If the President, General Manager's decision is unsatisfactory or not given in a reasonable time, the matter may then be referred by a cochairperson of the Committeeto an Occupational Health officer for review and/or recommendation.
24.17	It is agreed that reasonable amount of time as used herein is defined as the amount of time needed to analyze and evaluate the matter.
Accidents	l
24.18	Accidents involvinaSerious injury may be investigated by both co-chairpersons of the Committee for the area invdivedTwifh a written report submitted to such Committee.
24.19	If an Occupational Health Officer requests that the official be accompanied on a investigation of the operation, the cochairperson of the Committeeforthe area involvedshall accompany the Occupational Health Officer.
60
Refusal
24.20	An Employee who refuses to work in an area, as provided for in Section 26 of the Occupational Health and Safely Act, shall notify the Employee's supervisor immediately.
ARTICLE 25 CONTRACTING
25.01	So far as practicable with the work force available, normal maintenance, repair and productionwork which has been done regularly by the Company's own Employees will continue to be done by such Employees.
25.02	New construction, installation or modification of equipment, major repairs, major maintenance, major overhaul work or other work not regularly done by the Company'sown Employees may be done by outside contractors.
This clause is not intended to restrict the Company to let contracts when it feels it necessary, economical, or expedient to do so, such as not having the necessary equipment, supervision or Employees immediately available with the necessary skills, or when peaks of work would require a temporary increase of the Company's forces with subsequent layoff of such forces.	_
' - /
25.03	If it becomes necessaryto contract out work as provided for above, the Company agrees to give a written notification of the reasons for such contracting out to a designated representative of the Union prior to the work being performed. If time does not permit, the Company shall notify a Union official and follow with a written notice. In the notification,the Company will givethe name of the contractor, the approximate number of personnel involved, the approximate duration and the job to be performed.
25.04	The Company will not cause an Employee to be laid off, demoted, terminated or transferred by bringing in outside contractors to perform normal maintenance repair or production work on the plant premises.
61
ARTICLE 26
WORK BY SUPERVISORS
26.01	It is recognized that the duties of a Supervisor are of a supervisory nature. Accordingly, the Supervisors shall not perform work such as that performed by the Employees covered by this Agreement except:
a)	In emergenciesfor protectionof Company property and/or the safety and health of Employees.
b)	In the direct instruction and direct training of Employees.
c)	Work of a research and development nature.
ARTICLE 27
BULLETIN BOARDS
27.01	The Company will provide the Union bulletin boards in ap-propriateplaceswhere Employeeswill be able to see and readthem. Bulletin boxes supplied by the Unionwill be affixed in agreed upon locations so that Union bulletins may be distributed.
27.02	Only bulletins authorized by the Local 892 Executive will be posted or distributed. Signed copiescrf the bulletinwill beforwarded to the Director of Industrial Relations as proof of responsibility of the content before posting or distribution by the Union.
27.03	The Union agrees that said notices to be posted or distributed shall not be inflammatory or political.
27.04	The Company and Union agree that the posting or distribution by Employees of notices, pamphlets, advertising or political matters will not be sanctioned.
ARTICLE 28
LEGALITY OF PROVISIONS
28.01	This Agreement shall at all times conform with all applicable laws of the Province of Saskatchewan, and/or the Dominionof Canada. If any section or part of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid due to a change in law, the remaining provisions shall be given full force and effect as completely as if the part held invalid had not been included therein.
62
ARTICLE 29
COMPLETE AGREEMENT
29.01	It is agreed thatthisAgreementcontainsthe complete understanding between the Parties for the term of this Contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendmentsorwaiversaffectingthe terms of this Agreement shall only be discussed by mutual agreement of both Parties. Any Agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of such discussion shall become effective upon being reduced to writing and signed by both Parties.
ARTICLE 30
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties from the 1st day of February,1992 and shall remaininforce and effect through the31st day of January, 1995, and from year to year thereafter, but either Party may, not lessthan thirty (30) days or more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date hereof, give notice in writing to the other Party to terminate or negotiate revisions to this Agreement.
30.02	At the first meeting for commencement of negotiations, both Parties shall submit, one to the other, in writing, their proposals.
30.03	Negotiations are to commence within thirty (30) days' notice for a revision of this Agreement or for a new Agreement.
63
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan this 21st day of, April, 1992
On behalf of:
LOCAL 892, ENERGY & OBVIICAL WORKERS UNION, C.L.C.
jfU-4 (LztJ
Randy Beltel J
A;. • n >

Wayne^ijeVfer Gerird Kri stotf //


On behalf of:
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & OBVIC CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED

Dave/feel 1 arid
^“Bruce Mixon //Deannette Geiowitz J L'aWrence^z^aS^’/^
(Lw—------------
Cel Josetrhson aKRi
National Representative
Energy & Chemical Workers Union
Tom Davies
/ft df-
Don Hood
JimDaviT/
j " tLv'T''——*’'*■—' Glenn Nicol
rL jyJj.rJj
Terry uabriel
Jerome Bema
jL
Brai
<y
Denny Roese On behalf of:
IMC Fertilizer, Inc.
64
EXHIBIT 1
TOOLS AND CLOTHING A) Tools
1)	The Company will issue to Employees at no cost all tools as required in the opinion of the Company for the performanceof work by the Employees. Each Employee upon being issued tools shall acknowledge receipt of such tools by signing for them.
2)	Tools worn out or defective will be maintained or replaced by the Company.
3)	Tools lost in the line of duty or stolen as determined by the Supervisor will be replaced by the Company. Repeated claims by any one Employee for replacement of tools will be deemed evidence of negligence and, in such cases, replacement may be denied.
4)	The cost of any tools not returned in good condition, normal wear excepted, upon request of the Company or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the Employee.
5)	Any tools not returnedshall be paidfor by the Employee at their reasonable depreciated value and shall become the property of the Employee.
6)	Depreciationshall be equal to forty percent (40%) at the end of one (1) year and ten percent (10%) at the end of the second year, but in no event shall a tool have a depreciated value of less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value.
B) Clothing
The Company will supply protective apparel as deemed necessary to Employees on the following basis:
1)	Slickers: Shaftperson and Cage Tender K1 - Other Employees requiring slickersfrom time to time will be allowed to use such, through their Supervisor upon request - no cost to the Employee.
2)	Welder's Sleeves and Welder's Gloves: Supplied to Welders and those requiredto weld on exchange basis. No cost to Employee.
3)	PrescriptionGlasses: No more than one (1) pair each year on an exchange basis. If an Employee damages the Employee's prescription glasses while at work through no negligence on the Employee’s part and providing repair or replacement of such prescription glasses are not covered by Worker’s Compensation, then
65
the Company will repair or replace such prescription glasses. Such prescription glasses shall be regular Company issue. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any costs relating in any way to eye examinations. The cost of prescription glasses shall be paid by the Company.
4)	Hard Hats, Liners, Suspensions, Goggles, Welder's Hoods: Will be supplied, as deemed necessary by the Company, ± no cost to Employees.
5)	Parkas: Employees requiring parkas from time to time will be allowed to use such through their Supervisor upon request - at no cost to the Employee.
6)	Gloves: Employees will be issued gloves on an exchange basis, at no cost to the Employee.
7)	Boots: During each calendar year, the Company will supply:
a)	two (2) pairs of safety boots or four (4) pairs of rubber
boots,
or;
b)	one (1) pair of safety boots and two (2) pairs of rubber boots; upon completion of the Employee's probation periodto those Employees requiring such. Boots must be exchanged after initial issue and must be worn out prior to reissuing a new pair. Selection shall be limited to those styles carried in the Company warehouse stock. Employees changingfrom rubber bootsto leather safety boots, during the year, will be deducted for the cost of the original rubber boots.
8)	The above articles of safety apparel or equipment will only be replaced by the Company, upon normal wear and tear by the Employee, through normal usage on the Company premises. The depreciated cost of any of the above articles, not returned upon request of the Company, or upon termination of employment, shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the Employee.
9)	Snow Suits: The Company will maintain a limited supply of snow suits, which will be available through an Employee's Supervisor, in cases of short term use i n emergency situations in extreme weather. The snow suits must be returnedto the supervisor immediately after the specific period of use by the Employee.
66
Mine Department
Previous
Rate
Mine Technician I Mine Operator . Alpine Miner Operator
Mine Technician II '>1	Hoist Operator
Shaftsperson I
Mine Technician II A
Shaftsperson II
Mine Technician III Extensible Belt Operator Loader Operator Shuttle Car Operator Scoop Tram Operator Cage Tender
19.81
19.13
17.50
17.06
APPENDIX “A’
Feb.
01/92
20.60
19.90
18.20
17.74
Feb.
01/93
Feb.
01/94
Aug.
01/94
Pay
Grade
Job
Code
21.32	22.07	22.18	17
6110
6120
20.60	21.32	21.43	16
6210
6220
18.84	19.50	19.60	13
6410
18.36	19.00	19.10	12
6310
6320
6330
6340
6360
Mill Department
Mill Technician IA	19.51
Central Control Operator Central Control/Boiler Operator Mill Technician I	18.75
U/G Water Pump Operator XLR Operator I Loadout Operator I HM/Floatation Operator I Mill Technician II A	17,50
Area I Refinery Operator K1 Process Operator K2
Mill Technician II	17.06
XLR Operator II Loadout Operator II Screening Operator K1 Screening Operator K2 Area II Refinery Operator K1 Mill Technician III	16,37
Drying Operator K1 Compacting Operator KCL Loadout Operator Reclaim Operator
Mill Technician IV	15,67
Crusher Operator Loadout Operator III Reagent Mixer
20.60
19.50
18.20
17.74
17.02
16,30
21.32	22.07	22.18	16F	7000 7010
20.18	20.89	20.99	15	7110 7130 7140 7150
18.84	19.50	19.60	13	7510 7520
18.36	19.00	19.10	12	7230 7260 7270 7280 7290
17.62	18.24	18.33	10	7320 7330 7350 7370
16.87	17.46	17.55	08	7410 7440 7450
Maintenance Department
Maintenance Technician I Boiler Operator 2nd Class with Refrigeration Papers Journeyman Electrician Journeyman Auto Mechanic Journeyman Heavy Duty Repair Journeyman Machinist Journeyman Industrial Mechanic
Journeyman V\felder Journeyman Instrumentation Pressure V\felder with Certificate
Previous
Rate_____
19.96
Maintenance Technician IA Boiler Operator 2nd Class Ground Control Operator I
19.13
APPENDIX "A'
Feb.	Feb.	Feb.	Aug.	Pay	Job
01/22_____21/93 ____01/24	01/94	Grade	Codn.
20.80	21.53	22.28	22.39	17D
8010
8020
8030
8040
8050
8060
8070
8080
8090
19.90	20.60	21.32	21.43	16
8120
8130
Maintenance T echnician II Surface Water Control I Instrumentation I Electrician I
Heavy Duty Mechanic I Auto Mechanic"! Machinist I Mechanic I Welder I
Electric Motor Rebuild I
3
MaintenanceTechnicianlll Electric Motor Rebuild II Electrician II U/G Belt Construction I Heavy Duty Mechanic II Ground Control Operator II Machinist II Mechanic II Welder II F.R.P. I
Instrumentation II Auto Mechanic I
18.75
17.06
19.50
20,18
20.89
20.99
15
8200
8210
8220
8230
8250
8260
8270
8280
8290
17.74	18.36	19.00	19.10	12
8300
8310
8320
8330
8340
8350
8360
8370
8380
8390
16.37
MaintenanceTechnician IV Machinist III Repair I F.R.P. II
Instrumentation III Electrician III U/G Belt Construction II Buildings Repair I Heavy Duty Repair I
MaintenanceTechnician V Repair II
Buildings Repair II Heavy Duty Repair II
General
Helper
Labourer
Office and Technical Journeyman Mechanical Draftsperson Journeyman Electrical Draftsperson
15.67
Previous
Rate
19.96
19.96
8420
8430
8440
8450
8460
84/0
8480
8490
8510
8520
8530
Job
Code
9030
9040
2010
2020
17.62
18.24
18.33
10
16.87	17.46	17.55	08
Feb	Feb	Aug	Ray
01/93	01/94	01/94	Grade
15.29	15.83	15.91	06
13.99	14.48	14-55		03
			
21.53	22.28	22.39	36
21.53
22.28
22.39
36
Metallurgical Technician	19.27	20.04
Mine Technician	19.27	20.04
Laboratory Technician	19.27	20.04
Inventory Controf	18.75	19.50
Mechanical Draftsperson 1	18.75	19.50
Electrical Draftsperson 1	18.75	19.50
Laboratory Operator 1	17.36	18.05
Mine Technician II	17.36	18.05
Rock Mechanic Analyst	16.92	18.06
Surface Water Control Technician	16.92	18.06
Mechanical Draftsperson II	17,06	17.74
Electrical Draftsperson II	17.06	17.74
Surveyor 1	16,92	17.60
Warehouse 1	16.84	17.51
Laboratory Operator II	16.72	17.39
Cost Accountant	16.42	17.08
Mechanical Draftsperson III	16.35	17,00
Electrical Draftsperson III	16,35	17.00
Surveyor II	15,45	16.07
General Accounting Clerk	15,41	16.03
Warehouseman II	15.37	15.98
Warehouse Dispatch	15.37	15.98
General Clerk	14.73	15.58
20.74	21,47	21.58	35	2110
20.74	21.47	21.58	35	2140
20.74	21.47	21.58	35	2150
20.18	20.89	20.99	34	2130
20.18	20.89	20.99	34	2160
20.18	20.89	20,99	34	2170
18.68	19.33	19.43	33	2210
18,68	19.33	19.43	33	2220
18.69	19.34	19,44	33	2320
18.69	19.34	19.44	33	2330
18.36	19.00	19.10	32	2230
18.36	19.00	19.10	32	2240
18.22	18.86	18.95	31	2310
18.12	18.75	18.84	30	2510
18.00	18.63	18.72	29	2410
17.68	18.30	18.39	28	2610
17.60	18.22	18.31	27	2520
17.60	18.22	18.31	27	2530
16.63	17.21	17.30	26	2810
16.59	17.17	17.26	25	2720
16.54	17 12	17.21	24	2750
16.54	17.12	17.21	24	2770
16.13	16.69	16.77	23	2710
Accounts Payable Clerk Keypunch Operator I
13.52	14.06
13.52	14.06
14.55	15.06
14.55	15.06
15.14	22
15.14	22
2910
2920
Keypunch Operator II Clerk Typist
12.99	13.51
12.99	13,51
13.98	14.47
13.98	14.47
14.54	21
14.54	21
3010
3020
APPENDIX B
MINE DEPARTMENT
HIKER OPERATOR M.PINE HIRER OPR
HOIST
OPERATOR
f SHAFTSPERSON !
:	i :
l-............I
EITERSIHE REIT OPERATOR IOAOER OPERATOR SHUTTLE CAR OPERATOR SCOOPTRRR OPERATOR
CA6E
TERSER
INCLINE
HELPER
HELPER
74
APPENDIX B
K1 MILL DEPARTMENT
Profrmiflft Mt
75
APPENDIX B
K2 MILL DEPARTMENT
76
APPENDIX B
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
77
I HM-AffTMtiCt PMitlOAl
APPENDIX B WATER RECOVERY
78
APPENDIX B OFFICE & TECHNICAL
79
APPENDIX C
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
A)	Purpose
The purpose of the program is to provide a means of training and developingtradesman of the highest calibre for I.M.C. further, to provide environment and incentive which will assist Employeesto achieve their maximum potential.
The program is recognized as requiring the active participation of the Company and the Union, the Employee, and various levels of Government.
B)	Coverage
The program will cover trades designatedas necessaryor advisable by the Company.
The number of apprentices required for each trade and number of apprenticesat each level within each trade shall be determinedfrom time to time by the Company, The Company will inform the Union of changes in the number of apprentices at each level of each trade. However, once an Employee is accepted in the plan, the Employee will be allowed to progress through the full apprenticeship subject to the provisions of this program or the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
C)	General
1)	Standards for entry in the program shall be determined by the Company in accordance with the provisionsof Article 9, Seniority.
Any interviews or examinations in relation to an Employee's entry into the Apprenticeship Program or interviews while in the Program will be done on Company time with no loss of pay. Any preliminary tests conducted by the Company shall only be in relation to the Employee's aptitude for the Employee's particulartrade. The Union may have a representative to peruse the content of the type of tests used.
2)	The Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour shall determine at what level an applicant fits intothe Apprenticeship Program and that is the level at which an applicant will be placed
3)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall execute an apprenticeship contract i n the form provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour.
80
4)	No Employee in the MaintenanceDepartment not participating in the Apprenticeship Program will be denied promotion, laid off, or terminated as a result of the Company posting for an opening in the Apprenticeship Program.
An Employee bidding into the Apprenticeship Program in a trade currently being held by said Employee shall retain the Employee's rate if it is higher until the Employee's apprenticeship rate surpasses it, at which time the Employee shall progress to the higher rate. Inthe event a maintenanceEmployee enters into the Apprenticeship Program and is subsequently removed from the Plan in accordance with this Agreement and the Employee'sapprenticeship rate is higher than the Employee's rate prior to bidding, the Employee will revert back to the Employee's old job title and applicable rate of pay.
5)	Employees accepted into the Program will enter into a preliminary agreement of apprenticeship with the Company for a period of three (3) months. Such agreement will be registered with the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch. If, at the end of the aforementioned three (3) months preliminary period both the Employee and the Company are satisfiedto continue the agreement of apprenticeship, a contract or indenture will be made and registered with the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch.
The three (3) month period shall start at the time the Employee is transferred into the Program.However, such transfer musttake place within thirty (30) calendar days after being awarded the job.
6)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall execute an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Departmentof Labour, provided that where the terms of the contract provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour differ from the terms set out in this Article, the terms of the Agreement shall govern.
7)	Rates of Pay:
Apprentice 4: (B) 0 - 6 Months - equivalent to Helper rate.
Apprentice 4: (A) 6 - 12 Months- equivalentto Maintenance
Tech. V rate.
Apprentice3:12-24 Months- equivalentto MaintenanceTech.
IV rate.
Apprentice 2: 24-36 Months- equivalentto MaintenanceTech.
Ill rate.
Apprentice 1:36-48 Months- equivalentto MaintenanceTech.
II rate.
81
8)	The basis of the pay schedules in (7)s that after the introductory period (Apprenticed level) an apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having the required months of experience and after having successfully completedthe course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch. In the event the Employee attends school before the Employee's apprenticeship anniversary date and passes, the Employeeshall only receive the increased rate when the Employee has the requiredtime and conversely if the Employee attends school after the Employee’s apprenticeship anniversary date, the Employeedial be paid retroactivelyto the Employee’s anniversary date upon successfully completing school.
9)	The Company will schedule an approved Leave of Absence for an apprentice to go to the appropilate technical institute as approved by the Apprentice Branch.
10)	An apprentice who attends the required training course shall be entitled to receive from the Company an amount equal to the difference between what the apprentice would have received on a straight time basis for each day the apprentice would normally have worked during this period if not attending the training course and what the apprentice receives from any provincial or federal government department or agency by way of a basic living allowance for each day that the apprentice is in attendance ± the training school, provided, however, that if an apprentice is absent from training school on a day on which the apprentice is requiredto attend, then in such case the apprentice shall not be entitled to be paid under the Collective Agreement. “Living Away From Home” and “Travelling” allowances paid by the Government will not betaken into consideration when calculating the amount of make-up pay to which the Employee is entitled from I.M.C.
Notwithstanding the above, where an apprentice has failed the required examinations ± any one level and the apprentice repeats same, the apprentice shall receive no pay difference from the Company for repeating such course, at that level.
11)	An apprentice may be removed from the training program by the Company or upon request of the Employeeandthe Employee’s apprenticeship contract cancelled £. any time during the three (3) months preliminary period and if the apprentice was prior to the apprentice's entrance into the Apprenticeship Program, a member of the Bargaining Unit, the Employee shall be returned to the job classification that the Employee was in priortothe Employee’s entry in the Apprenticeship Program.
82
12)	An apprenticewho has completed the probationary period may be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and the apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
a)	Just cause;
b)	If an apprentice fails to take the training course when the apprentice is scheduledto take same, provided that the apprentice's failure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond the apprentice's control;
c)	If an apprentice fails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
In the event of an Employee being removed from the Apprenticeship Program, the Employee will be returned to the job classification the Employee was in prior to the time of the Employee's entry into the Apprenticeship Program.
13)	Progressionto Journeyman status shall take place and the Employee will be paid the Journeyman rate of pay when the Employee successfully completes the apprenticeship and/or presents the Employee's certificate to the Industrial Relations Department of the Company.
14)	For all Employees enrolled in the Apprenticeship Program, the Company shall reimburse an Employee for driving the Employee's own automobile at the rate of twelve cents ($0.12) per kilometer to cover one round trip from Esterhazy to the appropriate apprenticeship school on the basis of once per session.
All Articles of this plan shall be considered as part of the collective Agreement between I.M.C. and Local 892.
83
AGREEMENT
Between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS CHEMICAL CORPORATION (Canada) LIMITED Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
And
LOCAL 892 Of
ENERGY & CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
INDIVIDUAL SECURITY ACCOUNT PLAN PURPOSE
The Individual Security Account Plan is designed to assist Employees of the Company during times of layoff, to allow them to withdraw from the IndividualSecurity Accounts, a weekly amount which would supplement their Unemployment Insurance benefits. The Plan will also allow the Employee to contribute to a tax-sheltered Registered Retirement Savings Plan, all contributions over the minimum amount required in each Individual Security Account.
CONTRIBUTIONS
Effective February!, 1991 each Employeeshallcontributean amount afthirty-fivecents(35*) and effective Februaryl, 1993 each Employee shall contribute an amount of forty cents (40*) and effective February 1, 1994 each Employee shall contribute forty-five cents (45*) for each regularly scheduled hour worked (exclusiveof overtime), and the Company shall match the contribution made by the Employee. The IndividualSecurity Account of each Employee shall accumulate until a minimum of one thousand, five hundred($1,500) is established. After each Employee account reaches the $1,500 level, all contributions to the fund shall be placed in a Registered Retirement Savings Plan for the Employee on a tax-sheltered basis,
84
Contributions from the Employee will be by payroll deduction each pay period, and will be matched by the Company on the same basis. No part of the Company's contribution under the Plan shall be recoverable by the Company.
Employees will be allowed to contribute amounts over and above the matched contributions.
TRUSTEE
a)	All contributionsto each Employee'sSecurity Account will be paid to the Trustee. The Trustee will hold such contributions and interest earned thereon as a separate trust estate for the exclusive benefit of each Employee.
b)	The Trustee may invest funds. Funds in the Individual Security Accounts may be co-mingled with each other and with those under any similar plan or plans, and treated as a consolidated fund for investment purposes.
c)	The Trustee shall credit net earnings from such investments to the Employee's Individual Security Accounts in proportionto the balance in his account from time to time as interest is allocated.
d)	The Trustee, or its duly authorized agent, shall manage and administer the Trust. The Trustee shall have the rightto use the Company or any of its Employeesas its agent. In additionto the powers and duties specified in the Plan, the Trustee shall have such powers and duties as may be provided in the Trust Agreement.
e)	As soon as is practicableafter January 1 st of each year, the Trustee shall furnish each Employee with a statement of the balance in his Security Account as of December31st of the precedingyear.
COST OF ADMINISTRATION
The Trustee shall be paid such reasonable compensation as shall from time to time be agreed upon by the Company and the Trustee. All expenses of the Trust, including reasonable legal fees and the compensation of the Trustee, and all taxes of any nature whatsoever including interest and penalties assessed against or imposed upon the Trustee or the fund or the income thereof, shall be paid out of the interest earnings of the Employee'sSecurity Accounts and shall constitute a charge upon this Security Account.
BENEFITS
a)	An Employee shall be an "eligible Employee" to receive payment from his Security Account for each week he is on layoff, provided that the layoff is for a period of a minimum of seven (7) days in that week, due to his being laid off by the Company.
85
Layoff does not include absences from work for disciplinary reasons, strikes, shutdowns, slowdowns, work stoppages, walkouts, lockouts or any other form of work stoppage, nor does it include any absences from work due to sickness, injury or leave of absence for any other reason.
b)	Requestsfor payments by eligible Employeesffom the Individual Security Account shall be made to the Trustee, in writing, on the prescribed form. Each payment shall be in an amount of one hundred dollars ($100) for each week of benefit, unless the balance remaining in the Employee's Individual Security Account is less than one hundred dollars ($100).
The benefit of one hundred dollars ($100) shall constitute one week of supplementary benefit to Unemployment Insurance and the benefit shall be paid every second week
c)	An Employee shall be an “eligible Employee” only if he is a full time active Employee on the day priortothe layoff taking place, or is otherwise entitledto receiveUnemployment Insurance benefits (U.I.C.) due to disability insurance expiring duringtheterm of his layoff period.
FINAL SETTLEMENT OF SECURITY ACCOUNTS
All funds in a Employee's Security Account shall be paid within three (3)months: a) to the Employee upon retirement, b) to the Employee in the event of his employment being terminated, c) upon the Employee'sdeath, to the beneficiary named in the written designation filed with the Trustee prior to payment or if no such designation is in effect, to the Employee's estate. Each Employee may file with the Trustee a written designation in the form prescribed by the Trustee, of the beneficiary to receive payment from his Security Account in the event of his death.
DEDUCTIONS
Deductionsfor purposes such as income tax, which must be made from an Employee's weekly pay, shall be made from the amount paid by the Company and the Employee at the source of contribution for each hour such funds are contributed to the Individual Security Account. However, if the Company at any time determines that by reason of any federal, provincial or municipal law or regulation the Company shall be required to make deductions from the contributionsto the Employee's Security Account, the Company shall have the right to make such deduction and pay only the balance
86
to that Account. In the event an amount is withheld from a contribution to the Employee's Security Account by reason of any such law or regulation, the Trustee shall credit the Account only with the balance remaining after that deduction.
REGISTERED RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN All amounts credited to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan shall be made in the name of the Employee and such Employee shall receive a statement of the amount in the Registered Retirement Sav-ingsAccountasof December31st of each year. The Employeeshall be entitled under the laws of the federal, provincial governments to tax shelter the amount on the statement of his Registered Retirement Savings Plan for that current year.
MISCELLANEOUS
a)	Contributions made to the Security Account shall not be included in the base rates for the calculation of benefits and shall not be considered in computing premium pays, shift premiums, or any other payment.
b)	No right to the amounts in an Employee's Individual Security Account shall be subject in any manner to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, or encumbrance of any kind and in any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise encumber any such benefit, whether presently or thereafter payable. Any attempt or arrangement to do so shall be void.
c)	Any question concerning the administration of the Plan shall be settled exclusively by the Company.
d)	The Company, by payment of its contributions or amounts provided under this Plan, will be relieved of any further liability and benefits hereunder shall be payable only from the Employees' Security Accounts.
e)	The reference of the person being he or his in the male gender shall be understood to include and mean she or hers in the female gender.
f)	An Employee shall mean an active full time employee of the Company, who has completed his probation period and who has attained seniority within the meaning of the provisions of the collective agreement. The provisions of this Agreement do not apply to summer students or part time Employees.
g)	The Company shall mean International Minerals&Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, Canada.
a7
h)	The Union shall mean Local 892 of Energy &Chemical Workers Union.
i)	Employees who are d work during an approved Union Leave of Absence shall have the combined or total contributionsto their respectiveAccounts deductedfrom their pay cheque during the term of such Union Leave of Absence.
This Agreement shall not be renegotiated, nor shall any of the provisions be amendedwithoutthe mutal consent of the Union and Management during the periodofthis Agreement. The periodof this Agreement shall be for three (3) years from the date of signing and shall expire at midnight on the 31st day of January, 1995.
Dated at Esterhazy, Saskatchewanthis 13th day of February, 1992. On Behalfof ECWU, Local 892:	On Behalf of IMC Canada
88
ISAP PLAN AMENDMENT
An employment on LTD for more than a full calendar year earns interest income from the money invested in the sub plan ($1,500). Interest earned gets rolled over to an RRSP annually. In most cases an employee on LTD is not eligible to roll over money into an RRSP because money earned on LTD is not considered to be “earned income.”
The question has been raised that, if an employee is on LTD and/or is not expected to ever return to work, then the affected employee should have the option of withdrawing all money from the ISAP sub plan.
Therefore, by agreement belweenthe Company and Union, an employee may withdraw al ISAP funds subjectto the following conditions:
1)	The employee must be on the LTD plan for a period of not less than twenty-four months.
and/or
2)	The employee submits a doctor’s note stating the employee is not expected to ever return to work at IMC Canada.
This amendment will apply to any employee who has no “earned income” for the periods stated above, such as being on LTD.
This amendment does not apply to any employee on Short Term Disability.
Dated at Esterhazy, Saskatchewanthis 13th day of February, 1992. On Behalf of ECWU, Local892:	On Behalf of IMC Canada:
89
Calendar - 1992	
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F $
JANUARY 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	JULY 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FEBRUARY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29	AUGUST 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
MARCH 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	SEPTEMBER 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
APRIL 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	OCTOBER 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
MAY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	NOVEMBER 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 27 28 29 30
JUNE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	DECEMBER 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
	
Calendar - 1993
S M T W T F JANUARY
3	4
10 11 17	10
24	25
5	6	7	8
12	13	14	15
19	20	21	22
26	27	28	29
1
7	8
14	15
21 22 28
FEBRUARY
2	3	4	5
9	10	11	12
16	17	18	19
23	24	25	26
1
7	8
14	15
21 22 28	29
MARCH
2	3	4	5
9	10	11	12
16	17	18	19
23	24	25	26
30	31
APRIL
1
4	5
11 12 18	19
25	26
2
6	7	8	9
13	14	15	16
20	21	22	23
27	28	29	30
MAY
2
9
16
23	24
30	31
4	5	6	7
11	12	13	14
18	19	20	21
25	26	27	28
6	7
13	14
20 21 27	28
JUNE
1
2	3	4
8	9	10	11
15	16	17	18
22	23	24	25
29	30
2
9
16
23
30
13
20
27
6
13
20
27
3
10
17
24
15
22
29
5
12
19
26
S M T W T F S
JULY
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
AUGUST
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
OCTOBER
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31________________________
NOVEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30
DECEMBER
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
Calendar -1994
S M T W T F $
JANUARY
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	26	29
30	31
FEBRUARY
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	26	26
27	28
MARCH
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
APRIL
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
JUNE
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
S M T W T F S
JULY
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
AUGUST
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
OCTOBER
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31___________________
NOVEMBER
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30
DECEMBER
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Calendar -1995
$ M T W T F S
S M
T W T F 8
-----------m-------------
»
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31
15
22
29
JANUARY
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30	31
FEBRUARY
12	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28
AUGUST
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
5
12
19
26
MARCH
2	3	4
9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
3	4	5	6
10	11	12	13
1 2 8	9
15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
APRIL
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
OCTOBER
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31
7
14
21
28
MAY
1	2	3
8	9	10
15	id	17
4	5	6
11	12	13
18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31
NOVEMBER
1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30
4
11
18
25
JUNE
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27
29	30
DECEMBER
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
"Ufe ewe iteopotMatbCe aid aetmdabh (et oun ao^eiy aid Hie »alely e| oikm"
SAFETY FIRST
%
•	AT WORK
•	AT HOME
"Wofee £wij Day A Saie Day"
A good philosophy to encourage you and your family to practice
safely 24 hours a day.