AGREEMENT
between
CONNORS DRILLING LTD
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7286
Effective:
January 1,	1994 to
December 31, 1995
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1 1
12
I 3
14
15
16
17
18
1
2
2
2
3
4
5
5
7
1 1
1 1
12
13
14
14
14
15
15
INDEX
Def i n i + i on a n d Recognition....
Term of Agreement.....................
Management............................
No Discrimination.....................
Shifts and Working Hours..............
Overtime..............................
Safety Devices........................
Statutory Holidays....................
Grievance A Arbitration Procedure. .
Group Insurance Plan..................
Leave of Absence for Union Business-
Wages. ...............................
A n n u a I VacatI on.................
Bulletin Boards.......................
Union Security........................
Union Membership......................
Townsl+e Northern Allowance. .	.	.	.
Promotions, T ra n s I e r $ , L a y - 0 f f s A E e h i r i a g
ARTICLE 1
This Agreement made this 3 day of February, 1994.
Between
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA; LOCAL 72 8 8 Yellowknife, In the Northwest Territories, Canada (hereinafter called "the Union”)
party of the first part
and
CONNORS DRILLING LTD.
(hereinafter called ”+he Company")
party of the second part
WHEREAS It is the desire of the Company and the Union to promote and maintain harmonious Industrial relations between the Company and its employees.
Now, therefore, this agreement witnesses that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
DEFINITION AND RECOGNITION
The company agrees to recognize and bargain with the Union as the e x c I u s i v e bar g a I n I ng agency for those emp I oyees of the Company in the Northwest Territories working as diamond drll I runners, diamond drill helpers, excluding shop employees, camp staff, office staff, foremen and persons above the rank of foreman. The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agency for the said employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2
TERM OF AGREEMENT
2
2.01
2.02
ARTICLE 3 3.00
3.01
3.02
3 e03 3.04
ARTICLE 4
.This Agreement shall remainin' effect for twenty- four (24) months from Its effective date, the 1st day of January 1994 to December 31 , 1995.
Either party may, within a period of three (3) months Immediately preceding December 31, 19 9 4 •, by notice In writing, require the other party to commence col I active bargaining.
MANAGEMENT
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage Its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and vary from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by emp I oyees, providing the rules and regulations are not in conf I tctwith the provisions of the agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement shall ob I I g e t h e Company continue to carry on operations which it may from time to time decide to discontinue, the Company to notifythe Union within twenty-four (24) hours of Its receiving notice of cancellation or discontinuance of any underground operation.
The Company reserves the right to hire, discipline, demote or discharge employees for proper cause.
The selection of the working bosses and al I other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the decision of the Company.
The Company will furnish monthly to the Union a list showing new hires (including home addresses), transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, recalls and terminations of emp I oymen t dur l ng t h e previous m 0 nt h and the effective dates. Copies of these lists will be forwarded to the Union by the 15th day of the following month.
DISCRIMINATION
4.00	The company and the Union agree that there
shall be no Intimidati0n 0 r discrimination because of membership or non-membership In the Union, or because of race, creed, colour, national origin or pol 111 ca I bell of s .
ARTICLE 5 5.00
5.01
5.02
5.03
3 -
SHIFTS AND WORK I NG HOURS
Hours of Work
The operations of the Company shal I be deemed to fall Into two (2) categories, namely Underground and Surface operations.
Underground:	In al I underground opera-l-lons,
eight (8) hours work from collar to collar shall constitute a day's working shift.
Surface:	In all surface operations, eight- (8 )
hours 'work at the drill site shall constitute a day's working shift.
Four Hours' Pav
Any employee who reports for work on his regul ar sh I ft and was not told in advance not to report wl I I be guaranteed four (4) hour's pay at his regul ar hour I y rate.
Also, an employee who commences work and Is laid off before completing four (4)hour's work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate.
Temporary Change of Occupation
Anemp loyee shal I not refuse to perform work which Is outside his classification, but for any such work, he shall be paid a higher rate of pay if the work he performs Is of a higher c I ass I f 1 c at I on t h a n his norma! work and shall not, in any event, be paid a lower hourly rate than his standard classification.
Shift Differential
A premium of fifty (50) cents per hour shall be paid to all employees who are working a shi ft other than the normal day shi ft.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate, the expression "regular day shift" shall have the meaning attributed to it In accordance with the Company's present practice.
ARTICLE 6 6.00
6.01
6.02
4
The Company wll I pay the above mentioned shift premium as a separate allowance based on the hours worked for those shifts other than the norm-al day sh I ft.
OVERTIME
In al I underground operations, all work performed In excess of eight (8) hours In any one, twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/21 times the basic rate.
In all surface operations, all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours In any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate (except when an employee works over eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24)hour period due to regular change of shifts).
(a)	One and one-half (1 1/21 times the
basic rate will be paid for all work per formed on a Saturday or Sunday regardless of the hours worked or days worked previous to Saturday or Sunday, if such days are scheduled overtime days.
In the case of an employee kept underground after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which he has no control, such time shal I be considered as hours worked ( s t r a i g h t t i m e ) I f the per lod exceeds thirty (30) minutes provided that such time shal I not be considered as time worked if the cause is beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 7
SAFETY DEVICES
7.00
ARTICLE 8 8.00
5
Goggles and any other safety equipment considered necessary by the company to protect employees from Injury shall be supplied by the Company. The Company to pay one-half (1/2) the cost of underground boots, hard hats and q loves for underground workers. The Company agrees to pay the cost of slickers for those employees working underground who require slickers, providing that when a new set of slickers is required, the employee may be requ I rod to produce the set which is being discarded. Second or later Issues will not be supp I Led otherwise than through reasonable wear and tear. The Company to supply at no cost to the employee, degree rule, crescent wrench and 9/16 wrench. Old or worn tools to be turned in for replacement.
Provide, that where solutions are used, the Company wll I furnish slicker pants and rubber gloves, if these are required in the discretion of the foreman.
The Company and the employees shal I co-operate in matters pertaining to safety.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Work Performed on a Statutory Holiday
I d an employee be required to work on any of the following days, namely:
New year* 1s Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Miner's Day (2nd Monday in June)
Dom In ion Day
First Monday in August
Labour Day
Thanksg iv Ing Day
Remembrance Day
Chr i s+mas Day
Boxing Day
6
he shal I be paid for work so performed at the rate of one and one-half (I 1/2) times his applicable hourly rate.
In 'add it Ion to the above-named hoi Idays, each employee shall be entitled to two (2) floating statutory hoi Idays during each calendar year that he Is In the Company's employ, ’Which shall be taken at a time which is suitable to both the Company and the employee. To qualify for the floating statutory holidays, an employee must have at least sixty (60) days service with the Company immediately prior to the holiday. In the event that an employee has applied for a f I oa 11 ng s t a t u t o ry holiday at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the calendar year and no mutually suitable date has been established before the end of the year, he shal I receive a day's pay In lieu thereof.
8.01	Qualification for Statutory Holiday (not
worked)
E-xcept as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on one (1 ) of the statutory hoi I days referred to above, shal I be paid his applicable hourly rate for eight <83 hours for the day;
(a)	while on vacation
(b)	on approved leave of absence, including leave on Union business;
(c)	whlla absent through sickness or accident provided that the employee.has a Doctor's certl f I cate to that effect, and
(c) death in the Immed I ate f a m i I y (Immediate family shall mean: spouse, father, mother, son and daughter ) .
7
8.02	An employee shall not be paldfor the statutory holiday in Section 8.01 if he Is
. absent from work on his last regularly scheduled shift before, or hlsfirst regularly scheduled shlftafter such holiday, or if he has been assigned or scheduled to work and does not work on such hoi Iday.
8.03	An employee who qua I I f I es fo r both t h e
statutory holiday pay (expressed in Sections 8.01 and 8.02) and for pay for performing work on a statutory holiday, shall be entitled to a total of two and one half (2 1/21 times his applicable rate of pay for eight (8) hours of the day. VIZ:	Eight (8) hours straight time
pay for qualified statutory hoi Iday plus one and one-half (1 1/21 times his applicable rate actual ly worked on the statutory hoi Iday b u t works the statutory holiday, he shall then be paid one and one-half (1 1/21 times his hourly rate of pay only.
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE	AND ARBITRATION	PROCEDURE
9.00	Complaint
Employees may discuss any complaint with shift bosses or foremen so that It may be settled as quickly as possible. However, should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee or employees concerning the interpretation or violation of this Agreement, the parties shal I endeavour to settle such differences without undue delay In the .foI lowing manner:
9.01	Grievance	- Stage One
The employee concerned, in person and if he desires, with his shop steward in attendance, shall try to settle the difference with his Immediate boss. If the employee has reasonab I e access to a steward, the grievance shall be taken up with the Immediate boss, not more than five (5) days after It has arisen, but iif there is no steward reasonably aval I able to the employee, then the grievance shall be	raised at	the	first	reasonable
opportunity.
8 -
9.02	Grievance - Stage Two
The Union or the employee concerned, accompanied by his steward, if an employee desires, may submit the dispute to the Ye I lowknlfe Manager of the Company and the submission and the decision at this Stage will be in writing.
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance within five (5) days, the matter may be referred to arbitration within tw enty-one ( 2 1 ) addi t i on a I days as herein provIded .
9.03	Difference between Company and Union
If a difference arises between the Union and the Company concerning th.e interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement or the discharge of an employee, then the matter may be taken up between the union and the management of the company at Stage Two.
Fa I I Ing satisfactory agreement, either party may notlfythe other in writing within twenty-one (21 ) days that it desires to refer the matter to arbitration and an arbitrator shal I then be selected as ‘set forth below and the difference shall be submitted in writing to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator’s decision shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out and shall be final and binding upon the partjes.
9.04	Stage three - Procedure for Settling Disputes
Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7 ) days after the dispute was submitted under Stage Two, the Union may, upon giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the company of their intention, refer the dispute to arbitration. Within ten (10) days following rece.lpt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one Arbitrator from the fol lowing panel of arbitrators:
1 . Gordon Carter 2.	6. Hawko
9
The selection of the Arbitrator shall commence with the next name on the panel following the name of the Arbitrator who last' served the parties in the previous arbitration. if an Arbitrator is unable to serve, then the next Arbitrator on the panel shall be selected, etc., until an Arbitrator indicates his availabfl ityto act. if an Arbitrator on the panel is permanently unable to serve, then the parties shall jointly select a replacement. if the parties cannot mutually agree upon an Arbitrator within ten (iO) days, the appointment shal I be made by the Minister of Labour:of Canada upon request of either party.
The decision of the Arbitrator is respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this agreement in any respect. The parties shal I bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
The arb ii-rat-or shal I hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall, within a maximum of thirty (30) d a y s following arbitration, render his decision.
A written record of the grievance presented at Stage Two and the decision of that Stage wll I be presented to the Arbitrator, and the Arbitrator's decision shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
When making his decision, the 'Arbitrator shall state whether the decision is retroactive and effective date thereof, but the decision shall not be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of this agreement and there shal I be no award of costs ;of arbItratlon t o either party.
1 0 -
9.05	Stewards
(a)	Stewards chosen by the Union must be emp loyees of the Company. The duties of the stewards shall be to receive, investigate and endeavour to settle grievances as outlined in this Article.
(b)	There shal I be a grievance committee consisting of not more than five (5) stewards.
(c)	The Union agrees to notl fy the Company in wr itl ng of the names of the stewards and the names of the Grievance Committee, and of any changes which may be made from time to time. The Company shal I not be required to recognize the stewards of the grievance committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union, the names of the persons selected.
(d)	Authorized time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by stewards shall be considered as time worked, and payment shall be on the basis of straight time, under no condition shall overtime be paid. The time to be paid for shall be limited to five (5) hours per month.
ARTICLE 10 - 'GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
10.00
10.01
ARTICLE 1 1 11.00
11 -
During the I ife of this agreement, the Company wl i I maintain a sickness and accident policy providing for a $ 60 , 000 death benefit including a double indemnity provision for n o n-o c c u p at i o n a I accidental death. Weekly indemnity for a twenty- six (26) week period for injuries or sickness (arising from non-occupational accidents) w M I be paid in accordance with the following schedule.
January 1 , 1994 - $450.00 per week
payable from the first day for non-occupational accident, payabl e from the fifth ;(5 + h) day for non-hospital ized sickness and payable from the first day if admitted to the hospital for sickness.
Employees must have worked thirty (30) shifts before he qual if les for coverage,
The cost of these benefltsshal I be paid 100$ by the Company.
Dental Pi an
The Company wi I | prov Ide, at Company expense Plan "A" Dental Plan which will provide for the payment of 100$of the basic services (le., extractions, f i I I ings, cleaning, f I uorlde, x-rays, etc.) for employees and their dependents.
The Company wl | | provide on a 50$ cost share basic Plan "B" Dental Plan.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
Any empl oyee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union, necessitating leave of absence, upon proper app I Ica+lon to the Company, shal I be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided it does not exceed a period of one (1 ) year.
1 t .01
11.02 1 1 .03
11.04
ARTICLE
-12-
Time spent as a delegate or representative of the Union shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining vacation.
The Company shal I not be required to grant the privilege ;under this Article to more than one (1) person at the same time.
Section 11.01 and 11.02 shal I not apply to delegates actual lyattending a labour convention, labour arbitrations, labour contract negotiations or grievance matters set forth in thl s agreement.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Company shall not be obi Iged to grant leave of absence to more than one (1) employee during any calendar year for the purpose of attending a I abour convention.
12 - \AAGES
The scale of wages in effect during the life of this Agreement for Underground and Surface Drillers shall be as follows:
January 1 > 1994	- Underground 4 Surface
Driller -$18.25 per hour Helper -$15.75 per hour
ARTICLE
13.00
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13 -
1 3 - ANNUALVACAT I ON
The vacation year wl I I be from January 1st through December 31st of each year, inclusive. Eligibility for vacation time ‘off and for pay will be determined by the employee’s continuous service with the Company and his anniversary (hire) date.
Any employee on the payrol I during the current vacation year, and who has the length of continuous service specified in the table below, shal I be entitled to the corresponding vacation with pay:
Up to 12 months service
12 months but less than 10
months service -
18 months but less than 24
months service -
24 months to 10 years service
10 years 4 over service
1	week -	5%
2	weeks - 6%
3	weeks - 1%
3	weeks - 8 %
4	weeks - )0t
Vacation pay will be calculated up to the day he leaves on vacation, and said pay will be based on total earnings. Vacation pay earned but not paid at the end of the vacation year wl I I be paid to the employee at the end of the vacation year (December).
The Company wlllbe the final judge of vacation time, but vacations wit I be granted as closely as practicable to the time requested by the employee. When requested by the employee, in writing and when practicable, one ( 1 ) week extra vacation wl I Ibe granted without pay, provided it is taken along with hi s regu I ar approved vacation,. Vacations or the on-regular vacations and the one (1) week extra vacation is not accumulative.
Ail employees with one (1 ) year service or more shall be entitled to a premium of ten dollars ($10.00) per day in accordance with his vacation schedule, payable once a year.
1 4 -
ARTICLE 14 - BULLET IN BOARDS
14.00
ARTICLE 15 -
At the request of the Union, the Company wl I I provide a bulletin board in the Company off Ice at Yellowknife for the posting of notices of Union meetings, social affairs and other Union notices of a non-controversial nature.
UNION SECURITY
15.00
15.01
15.02
15.03
ART 1 CLE -16.00
The Company shall, during the term of the agreement, honora written request by an employee for the deduction and remittance of dues, fees and assessments (excluding fines), payable to the Union Ifthe order is substantially in the form set out In Schedule MA" hereto and is signed by the employee.
The Company shall remit to the Union monthly, the sums so deducted together with a written statement showing the names of the employees from who the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
The Company shall not be obliged to deduct and remit the saidsums, unless It has on hand, wages which would otherwise be paid to the employee.
As a condition of employment, the Company shall deduct from ail present and future employees, uniondues as set by the United Steelworkers of America, and communicated to the Company In the form set out in Schedule "A" hereto .
UNION MEMBERSHIP
Ail present employees and ail employees hired after the effective date of this agreement, or thirty <30)days after the Ir hire, w h i c h e v e r is later, shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become and remain members of the Union.
15 -
16.01	Where the Union requests action by the Company
in respect to an employee who has failed to maintain membership in the Union in good standing, the Union shall furnish to the Company written proof of such failure to maintain membership.
ARTICLE 17 -	TOWNS I TE NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
17.00	For an employee who maintains a residence in
the Yel lowknlfe area, the fol lowing al lowance will be paid:
Effective January 1, 1990 the Northern living a I lowance will be:
$35.00 per sh I ft worked for marr led employees $30.00 per shift worked for single employees
ARTICLE 18 - TRANSPORTAT ION
The Company has the right to deduct transportation expenses from an employees payroll if that employee does not fullflll his contract duration. Contract duration will be either project completion or 21 shifts for one way costs and 42 shlftsfor return costs. Five shifts wll I be consl dared adequate not ice of an employees desire to leave a project.
ARTICLE 19 - PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS AND REHIRING
19.00	The Company recogn ! zes the principal 'Of
seniority in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and .rehiring and in these matters, the fol lowing factors shal I govern:
The length of continuous service with the Company
(b) Ability, knowledge, dependability, training, skill and efficiency of the emp loyee to do the work.
Where a bona fide Judgement of the Company, factor (b)is to al I intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, seniority shall govern.
-16-
The Company recogn t zes date of hire with predecessor Company’s (senior Ity) for the purpose of calculating vacations and transportation al lowance.
19.01	An employee shal I lose ail seniority if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits;
(b)	i’s justifiably discharged.
19.02	An employee is considered a probationary employee for the first forty-five (45) days of his employment and shall not have seniority rights under this agreement and may be discharged by the Company at its discretion during that period. Notwithstanding the above, if the Company does discharge an employee during this probate period, the employee may, if he desires, be represented by the Union In presenting his case to the Company, if the Company confirms the discharge of the probationary employee, it shal I not be a matter for grievance under this Agreement.
19.03	if the Company sees fit to continue the employment of a probationary employee after the end of forty-five (45) days of service, his name shall be placed on the seniority I I si as of the beginning of such forty-five (45) days continuous serv Ice.
19.04	The Company expressly reserves the right to employ technically trained men and students in reasonable numbers from time to time and to transfer and promote them as the Company may see fit, providing that no employee shall be laid off or discharged to make place for a student, or in the case of employees al ready laid off, refuse rehire.
-17-
19.05	A person originally rehired by the Company to exercise a special trade or ski I I or to participate in a particular assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or particular assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary.
19.06	Th 1 s agreement sha I I not deprive the Company of the right to select its employees or to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
19.07	When practicable, having regard to the time when a job Is to be fl I led, the Company will post jobs available so that employees may have the opportunity of applying for the job and a copy of the posting wi I I be sent to the Union.
19.08	For the sake of clarity, it is understood that the Company does not recogn Ize departmental seniority.
18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union, set their hands this o f
ON BEHALF OF	ON BEHALF OF
CONNORS DRILLING LTD.	UN I TED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL
7288. thereof, in Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada.