A G R E E M E N T
Between
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION
LOCAL 892
- and -
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL (CANADA) GLOBAL LIMITED
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
February 1, 1995 to
January 31, 1998
00245 (05)
- 2 -
7
7
7
8
10
10
10
12
16
29
47
53
54
55
66
67
68
71
75
82
85
91
92
93
98
99
99
100
I N D E X
ARTICLE________SUBJECT PAGE
Purpose Human Rights Scope
Management Rights Union Recognition Union Security Union Dues Union Committees Seniority Layoffs Grievance Arbitration
No Strike - No Lockout Hours of Work and Overtime Wages and Shift Premiums New or Changed Jobs Holidays
Annual Vacations Leave of Absence Special Time Off With Pay Employee Benefits Pensions Notices
Safety and Health Contracting
I N D E X
ARTICLE__________SUBJECT PAGE
Work by Supervisors Bulletin Boards Legality of Provisions
Article 29	Complete Agreement	100
Article 30	Duration of Agreement	101
Article 31	Technological Change	101
Exhibit 1	Tools and Clothing	105
Appendix A	Wages Rates	108
Appendix B	Lines of Progression	113
Appendix C	Apprenticeship Program	119
	Individual Security Account Plan	125
- 4 -
THIS AGREEMENT effective the 1st day of February, 1995, is by and between International Minerals and Chemical (Canada) Global Limited, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and Local 892 of Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union, CLC, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
- 5 -
- 6 -
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertaining to employer-employee relations, including rates of pay, hours of work, and all other working conditions, the Parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the employees covered by this Agreement and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of disputes and grievances of such employees.
ARTICLE 2 - HUMAN RIGHTS
2.01	a) There shall be no discrimination by either the Company or the Union by reason of age, sex, creed, color, nationality, religion, political affiliation, ethnic background, alternate lifestyles or Union activity as permitted by this Agreement or the Law.
b) In all cases where the Agreement refers to a person, the references shall be of both genders (male and female).
ARTICLE 3 - SCOPE
3.01	This Agreement shall apply to all employees employed by International Minerals and Chemical (Canada) Global Limited at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, except all managers, superintendents, captains, foremen, supervisors, engineers, chief metallurgists, purchasing agents, senior accountants, senior cost accountants, senior traffic analysts, paymaster, confidential
- 7 -
secretaries, planners, senior keypunch operators, security guards, buyers, janitorial personnel for administrational offices at K1 and K2 to a maximum of five (5) persons and persons having and regularly exercising authority to employ and/or discharge employees and persons regularly acting on behalf of management in a confidential capacity.
Dry personnel at K1 and K2 shall be recognized as in scope, if the Company determines that they do not desire a sub-contractor for such services.
3.02	The law, the certification and the provisions of this Agreement are the source of rights of the Union and any employee covered by this Agreement. The Parties herein agree that the relations between them shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement and the Law.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The management of the plant and the direction of the working forces are vested solely and exclusively in the Company.
4.02	The rights retained by management include:
1)The planning, control and direction of plant operations.
2)	The scheduling of work.
3)	The control and regulation of all equipment and other property of the Company.
4)	The determination of production standards.
5)	The determination of the quality of the work to be produced.
6)	The determination of the quantity of the work to be produced in the operations.
7The determination of the products to be manufactured.
8)	The location or relocation of plants.
9)	The closing down of plants or any parts hereof.
10)	The work to be assigned to each plant.
11)	The determination of whether and to what extent
- 8 -
the work required in the Company's business shall be performed by employees covered by this Agreement.
12)	The methods, processes and means of manufacturing.
13)	The determination and establishment of any new or improved production methods or facilities.
14)	The determination of the skills required to run the operations.
15)	The assignment of employees to perform work.
16)	The retirement of employees within the terms of the Retirement Income Program described in Article 22 of this Agreement.
17)	The determination of ability of employees as it relates to job performance.
18)	The establishment and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct.
19)	To maintain discipline and efficiency.
20)	The right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge or discipline for just cause, transfer, and lay off employees.
21)	The appointment and removal of lead hands or charge hands.
4.03	It is further agreed by the Company and the Union that the enumeration of sole and exclusive management rights listed above shall not be deemed to exclude other rights not enumerated herein and that the Company retains the sole and exclusive right to manage the business.
4.04	The Company agrees that in the exercise of the management rights it will not violate any of the terms of this Agreement or the Law.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION RECOGNITION
5.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the employees defined in Article 3, Scope, and agrees to negotiate in good faith matters of collective bargaining including the
- 9 -
establishment of a grievance procedure, hours of work, rates of pay and working conditions.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SECURITY
6.01	Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain membership in the Union as a condition of employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after the commencement of employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of employment, provided that any employee in the appropriate Bargaining Unit who is not required to maintain membership or apply for and maintain membership in the Union shall, as a condition of employment, tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly required to be paid by the members of the Union.
ARTICLE 7 - UNION DUES
7.01	During the lifetime of this Agreement the Company is
- 10 -
hereby authorized and agrees to deduct from each employee's first pay each month uniform membership dues for the current month, uniform initiation fees and assessments and shall forward such deductions to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union or other properly designated official within ten (10) days after the date the deduction is made. A list of names and classifications of all employees for and in behalf of whom such deductions have been made will accompany such remittance. Such statement shall include the names of all additions to and deletions from the Bargaining Unit.
7.02	The Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the monies so deducted once they have been turned over to the certified Secretary Treasurer or other properly designated official of the Union.
7.03	It is understood and agreed that the Company's obligation is limited to remitting to the Union the sum or sums from wages actually earned. It is further understood and agreed that Union dues will be deducted provided an employee has been paid a minimum of five (5) days in the applicable deduction period.
7.04	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless from any and all claims which may be made against it for the amount of dues and initiation fees and assessments deducted from the wages of employees under this article.
7.05	The Company will include the total of union dues deducted from an employee's earnings on the T4 slip each year.
- 11 -
ARTICLE 8 - UNION COMMITTEES
8.01	The Company agrees to recognize certain employees as designated by the Union, as members of mutually agreed committees, for the purpose of dealing with matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee.
Third-Step Grievance Committee
8.02	The Company will recognize a Third-Step Grievance Committee of the Union which shall consist of a maximum of six (6) persons selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as chairperson.
8.03	Third-step grievance meetings shall be conducted at a mutually agreeable time with the understanding that normal plant operations will not be affected unreasonably.
8.04	The Company agrees that the Union Third-Step Grievance Committee members shall not suffer loss of regular, straight-time pay as a result of attending third-step grievance meetings.
Negotiating Committee
8.05	The Company shall recognize a Negotiating Committee of the Union, which shall consist of a maximum of six (6) employees selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as chairperson. The Negotiating Committee referred to above shall consist of the local Union President and the Unit Chairperson or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism or because either or both positions are held by non-employees of the Company. In addition, the Committee shall have representation as
- 12 -
follows:
a)	One (1) employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) employee from the K1 underground operations.
c)	One (1) employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One (1) employee from the K2 underground operations.
8.06	The Company agrees to pay the members of the Negotiating Committee of the Local Union as designated in Section 8.05 above for scheduled time lost up to a maximum of eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's straight-time rate of pay for each day of negotiations with the Company. The above is limited to those negotiating sessions prior to work stoppage or the appointment of a conciliation officer or board, provided such conciliation officer or board is mutually requested by the Union and the Company or is solely requested by the Union.
Subject to the limitations referred to above, the members of the Negotiating Committee, who otherwise are required to work on shift, shall have their shift schedules amended to allow them to work on a regular Monday through Friday day shift schedule, if practical.
It is understood and agreed that the overtime requirements outlined in Article 14.07 will not be applicable if a shift schedule is amended for this purpose.
Union-Management Committee
8.07	The Company shall recognize the Union-Management Committee consisting of six (6) employees selected by the Union, one of whom shall act as chairperson for the
- 13 -
purpose of meeting with the Company for discussion on matters of mutual interest. Such meetings shall be held at the request of either party at mutually agreeable times but not more frequently than once a month unless by mutual agreement of the parties. Mutually agreed decisions reached at such meetings shall be drafted by the Company, approved and signed by both Parties.
The Union-Management Committee referred to above shall consist of the local Union President and Unit Chairperson or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism or because either or both positions are held by non-employees of the Company. In addition, the Committee shall have representation as follows:
a)	One (1) employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One	(1)	employee	from	the	K1	underground
operations.
c)	One (1) employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One	(1)	employee	from	the	K2	underground
operations.
8.08	The Union members of the Union-Management Committee shall not suffer loss of regular, straight-time pay as a result of attending Union-Management Committee meetings.
Steward Structure
8.09	The Union may, from time to time, designate stewards and alternate stewards provided that at no time may the Union have more than forty-five (45) stewards and more than forty-five (45) alternate stewards. The alternate steward shall function as a steward on those occasions when the regular steward is absent, provided that the alternate steward has advised the alternate steward's
- 14 -
supervisor that the regular steward is absent and the alternate steward is assuming the regular steward's duties.
8.10	The Union will furnish a written list to the Industrial Relations Manager or designated representative showing the names of the Executive, the stewards and the alternate stewards and will keep the list current in writing. Only Union members whose names appear on this list will be recognized by the Company.
General
8.11	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization or engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement and by the laws of this province.
8.12	All persons selected by the Union to act on any committee set forth in this Agreement shall be regular full-time employees of the Company.
8.13	The Union may have the assistance of a representative of the National Union and/or an authorized agent of the local Union present at any meeting with the Company of the committees set forth in this article.
- 15 -
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY
Definition of Seniority
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as an employee's period of continuous service with the Company since the employee's last date of hire.
Definition of Qualifications
9.02	Qualifications of an employee shall be defined as ability, skills, experience, physical fitness and job performance.
Probationary Period
9.03	An employee shall begin to accumulate seniority as soon as the employee has completed the probationary period, at which time the employee's seniority shall be made retroactive to the employee's last date of hire. All new employees shall be considered probationary until they have completed a period of four hundred and eighty (480) hours worked.
A former non-probationary employee who is rehired shall be considered probationary until the employee has completed a period of two hundred and forty (240) hours worked.
The terms of the Agreement shall apply to all probationary employees excepting that such probationary employees may be terminated for lesser cause. Lesser cause shall mean that, in the Company's opinion, the probationary employee's job performance or suitability to the job is unsatisfactory.
Probationary employees shall be eligible to receive benefits under the benefit plans referred to in Articles 20 and 21.
Loss of Seniority and Employment Rights
9.04	An employee's seniority and employment rights shall be - 16 -
considered lost by reason of:
1)	Dismissal for just cause.
2)	Voluntary resignation.
3)	Failure to report for work on recall from layoff within seven (7) days of being notified in writing by double registered mail at the employee's last known address of the requirement to report for permanent employment.
If the time requirements cannot be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement by the Union and Company.
4)	Retirement in accordance with the terms of Article 22, “Pensions.”
5)	If an employee is absent for three (3) consecutive scheduled work days without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence.
6)	Permanent discontinuance of plant operations.
7)	For those employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, sick leave for a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months; for those employees with less
- 17 -
than ten (10) years of seniority, for a period equal to twenty-four (24) months of the employee's seniority, whichever is the lesser, provided every employee will be considered to have a minimum of one (1) year's seniority. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
8)	If an employee does not return to work within three (3) consecutive scheduled working days without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence after the expiry of a leave of absence granted under Article 19, except as is provided in 9.04 (7) immediately above.
Transfer From the Bargaining Unit
9.05	a) An employee transferred to a position out-of-scope shall maintain and accumulate seniority for a period of six (6) months from the date of such transfer. During the six- (6) month period, the Company may return such employee to the employee's former in-scope position. Such employee shall also have the right to return to the employee's former in-scope position within the time limits. At the end of the six-(6) month period such employee shall lose seniority rights within the Bargaining Unit.
If during the six- (6) month period the employee returns to an in-scope position, the employee shall pay back dues for the period the employee was out-of-scope. Promotions to positions out-of-scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
b)	Employees in-scope may be temporarily transferred out-of-scope to replace supervisors who are absent. During such periods, the affected employee will be
- 18 -
required to submit union dues and will retain all seniority rights.
If a temporary supervisor is required due to an absence, the Company will notify the crew of workers for the area involved.
Not more than thirty-five (35) of the total number of in-scope employees will be designated as temporary supervisors at any one time. It is understood that names of temporary supervisors may change from time to time as may be deemed necessary by the Company. The Company shall notify the Union as soon as possible after a change in names is made.
Within sixty (60) days of signing the Agreement, the Company shall furnish the Union with a list of names of temporary supervisors. It is understood that at any one time this list shall not exceed a total of thirty-five (35) of the in-scope employees of the Company.
Seniority Lists
9.06	a) Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on designated bulletin boards every three (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority list shall be brought to the attention of the Union and the Company through the grievance procedure. The sole remedy thereof shall consist of a correction to the seniority lists.
b)	Each month the Company shall forward to the Union a current copy of the seniority lists published in alphabetical order and in order of seniority by classification.
- 19 -
Job Posting and Bidding
9.07
9.08
This section will be applicable when:
a)	A new job is established.
b)	No promotion is possible in the line of progression since no qualified employees are in the line of progression.
c)	There is a break in the line of progression.
d)	A permanent vacancy occurs in the apprenticeship plan as described in Appendix C.
e)	A permanent day shift vacancy occurs.
f)	A permanent vacancy occurs for all positions not designated as lines of progression jobs as outlined in Appendix B.
g)	For all positions on "Floating Maintenance Crew."
a)	When the Company determines the need to fill a permanent job vacancy as described in Article 9.07, a notice of a job being available for bidding shall be posted on designated bulletin boards for a period of six (6) days and a copy of each job posting shall be forthwith supplied to the Union.
b)	An employee eligible to bid for a job shall file an application for such job with the Industrial Relations Department during the period of such posting.
c)	Upon the request of an employee who is absent from the plant for the duration of the posting, a shop steward may file a bid on behalf of the employee.
d)	All job postings shall set forth the job title, the rate of pay, the job requirements, the normal location and shift of the job, the number of vacancies, the normal hours of work per shift, whether the job is
- 20 -
rotating shift, multi shift or single shift and it will define the shift schedule as 5-2, 10-4, 4-4 or any other variation.
The purpose of describing the terms or conditions of the job is for information only to those employees who bid on the job. It is understood that any terms or conditions of the posted job are subject to change as may be deemed necessary by the Company to maintain an efficient operation.
e)	Among applicants whose qualifications meet the job requirements, seniority shall be the determining factor. If there are no applicants whose qualifications meet the job requirements, the Company may elect to fill the vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit or from among the applicants whose qualifications do not meet the job requirements.
Where there are no qualified applicants for a vacancy and the Company intends to fill the position from the applicants, the most senior applicant possessing the best combination of academic education, experience, specific skills and merit shall be appointed.
The above in no way reduces the established job requirements or qualifications for the job.
If the Company does not fill the vacancy from outside or from within the Bargaining Unit and the vacancy continues to exist, the Company shall repost the vacancy within ninety (90) calendar days of the original posting closing date.
If the Company fills a vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit, they shall forward to the Union the name of the person hired and the job posting filled.
f)	The name of the successful applicant and all other bidders shall be posted on the designated bulletin boards, with a copy to the Union, within ten (10)
- 21 -
days after the closing date of the posting. The successful applicant shall fill the vacancy as soon as practicable. The interpretation of the word "practicable" shall include but not be limited to locating a suitable replacement for the successful applicant.
If the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after the selection, the successful applicant shall receive the rate of the new job commencing on the 31st day, providing the new rate is higher.
Where the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after the selection by the Company, such employee shall be notified in writing by the Company as to the reason why the transfer was not made.
g)	It is the intention of the Company to transfer the successful applicant within thirty (30) days after the award of any job bid is posted, except it is understood and agreed that such transfer may be delayed by the Company in cases where:	an
economic hiring freeze is in effect, there are no bidders or no qualified bidders for the job which the employee would be leaving vacant, or there are no employees available to fill the job vacated by the employee.
9.09	In relation to Article 9.08, the following conditions shall apply:
a)	Except for entering a bid on an apprenticeship posting or entering a bid for a higher rated job, the successful applicant to any job bid shall not be eligible to bid for another job if such bid is within:
-	six (6) months from the time the successful applicant was awarded the last job through the posting procedure if it was the successful applicant's first job award;
-	twelve (12) months from the time the successful
- 22 -
applicant was awarded the last job through the posting procedure if it was the successful applicant's second or subsequent job award.
b)	A person hired from outside the Bargaining Unit will not be permanently assigned to fill a day shift vacancy if an employee with seniority and the qualifications has been awarded the vacancy.
c)	In specific instances, any of the above may be waived by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Promotions
9.10	a) The normal progression of promotion will be within the lines of progression within the department through the classifications as listed in Appendix B subject to Article 9.07.
b) If a permanent job vacancy occurs:
1)	The senior employee in the next lower job classification in line of progression to the vacant job who has the qualifications to fill the vacancy
- 23 -
will be promoted into the job vacancy. If such senior employee
accepts the promotion and is subsequently disqualified, the employee will be returned to the employee's former job.
2)	In the event of the above, the next senior qualified employee in that classification will be offered the promotional opportunity.
3)	If after following this procedure, the vacancy is not filled from the next lower classification, then the job will be posted for bid as provided for under the posting and bidding procedure in the article.
4)	The Company shall, within ten (10) days of promoting an employee as provided above, post the name of such employee and the position in which the employee has been promoted to on the designated bulletin boards and a copy of such posting shall be forthwith furnished to the Union.
Time limits for grievances arising from such promotions shall start from the date of the posting.
General Conditions for Promotions and Job Bids
9.11	a) An employee transferred pursuant to a bid to a lateral or lower job classification shall be considered qualified in the new job classification at any time up to a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days plus one (1) day for each day such employee was absent from work on a regular scheduled work day and
- 24 -
minus one (1) day for each full extra shift such employee worked overtime.
b)	After an employee has accumulatively worked up to a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days as referred to in a) above on the higher grade level job to which the employee has been promoted or for which the employee has bid and been accepted, the employee will be deemed qualified and the employee's rate of pay for those hours worked on such job will be made retroactive to the date the employee started on the job.
c)	If an employee fails to qualify at any time during the said period, the Company will return the employee to the employee's former job.
d)	There shall be no trial period for the successful applicant of a lateral bid within the classification as the employee is already deemed qualified.
Temporary Vacancies and Temporary Assignments
9.12	a) Temporary vacancies which are caused by an employee being absent from work may last beyond ninety (90) calendar days.
b)	Temporary assignments for a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days may occur for the purpose of expediting production or for maintenance.
c)	Where such temporary vacancies or temporary
assignments	are filled through the posting
procedure, training or experience acquired during the filling of the temporary vacancy or temporary assignment	shall be	used in determining
qualifications for permanent vacancies.
9.13	Notwithstanding the provision of Article 9.16, a temporary assignment or temporary vacancy under ninety (90) calendar days may be filled without recourse to the posting and bidding procedure with an employee within the department on the shift concerned.
- 25 -
If it is impractical to fill the vacancy with an employee within the department on the shift concerned, then such temporary vacancy may be filled from either a different department on the shift concerned or from within the department on another shift, provided the junior qualified employee from the department or shift concerned is assigned.
Insofar as practical, the normal procedure will be to temporarily assign an employee from the next lower job in the line of job progression in the department concerned to fill temporary vacancies so that opportunity is afforded an employee for on-the-job training.
Training acquired during temporary assignments shall not be used to determine qualifications for permanent vacancies.
9.14	Temporary vacancies or temporary assignments filled in the above manner shall be limited to that specific temporary condition only. If the vacancy becomes permanent, it shall be subject to other sections of this article whichever are applicable.
9.15	An employee who is temporarily transferred to another job in accordance with the above in which the rate of pay is different from that in effect in the employee's regular job shall be paid as follows:
a)	If the rate of pay for the job to which the employee is temporarily transferred is less than the employee's regular pay for the job from which the employee has been temporarily transferred, the employee shall during each temporary transfer receive the employee's own higher rate of pay.
b)	If the rate of pay for the job to which the employee is transferred is higher than the employee's regular rate of pay, the employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for all hours worked on the higher rated job provided the transfer is for more than sixty (60)
- 26 -
consecutive minutes.
9.16
9.17
General
9.18
No employee shall be transferred from the employee's job except in the event of a temporary vacancy as defined in Article 9.12 or in the event of the Company being unable to fill a permanent vacancy under Article 9.07, in which case the following procedure shall apply:
1)	The Company may elect to temporarily promote an employee following the lines of progression as outlined in Article 9.10, or
2)	The Company may temporarily transfer the junior competent employee in the same department to fill the vacancy.
It is agreed between the Parties that when an employee in a Trades I classification replaces an employee in a Journeyman classification under the provisions of Article 9.13, then the junior qualified Trades I employee shall be assigned but shall not receive the journeyman rate of pay.
The Company agrees to supply to the Union within ninety
- 27 -
(90) days of the signing of this Agreement all job qualifications and requirements for jobs listed in Appendix A.
The qualifications and requirements as established by management for each job listed in Appendix A shall be maintained unless there is a significant change in the work content of the job.
9.19	It is agreed that employees awarded positions on the "Floating Maintenance Crew" may be required by the Company to change locations and/or shifts from time to time as required to commence and complete projects. However, insofar as practical, it is agreed that the crew will normally work the hours of the day shift. The Company further agrees that the “Floating Maintenance Crew” will not be used to replace or displace the regular established maintenance jobs and/or departments.
9.20	a) As vacancies arise from time to time, employees on
the labour crew shall be appointed through promotion, by seniority, to shift positions on production at the location at which they work, provided such employee has demonstrated the ability to perform such work.
b)	The provisions of Article 14.06 and Article 14.07 shall not apply to employees changing to and from shift positions, providing such employee is given at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice of such change in shifts.
c)	When temporary vacancies under ninety (90) days occur due to the absence of a helper, the normal procedure will be to assign a labourer to fill the helper temporary vacancy.
Student Employment
9.21	Employees who are students and are hired under the student summer employment policy of the Company shall be deemed to be temporary employees. The employment of such persons shall commence not
- 28 -
earlier than May 1 of each year, and such persons will be terminated not later than September 15 of each year.
Employees who are hired as Co-operative Education students shall be deemed to be temporary employees. The employment of such persons shall commence and end to accommodate the Co-Operative Education students standard four-month work term.
The Company will identify temporary employees on the union dues check-off lists.
Students hired as temporary employees shall not be eligible for any benefits outlined in Articles 19, 20 or 21 excepting clauses 19.13 - “Funeral Leave” and 21.04 -“Tools and Clothing,” which are to be returned upon termination. Prescription safety glasses may be retained by the temporary employee upon termination of employment.
The student rate of pay will be eighty percent (80%) of the normal rate of pay for the job the student works at.
ARTICLE 10 - LAYOFFS
10.01 Layoffs may occur in the following ways:
(A)	permanent reduction of the work force
(B)	temporary layoff (temporary shutdown of operations)
(C)	downsizing
(D)	unplanned layoffs
In the event of a layoff, the Company and Union will meet prior to the layoff to discuss the reasons for the layoff and to work out procedures for the layoff on the basis of seniority and qualifications.
General
1)	In no case shall an employee be laid off for any part of a regular shift after reporting for work that day.
2)	It is agreed that general overtime during layoffs
- 29 -
should be kept to a minimum. Overtime during a layoff should be of an unplanned or emergency nature or for the purpose of completing a job.
3)	Job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement will not apply to those classifications where employees are waiting to be recalled.
4)	The union steward may present a bid on behalf of a laid-off employee.
5)	The layoff notice provisions provided by this Agreement shall not apply when a shutdown is caused by a catastrophe or other emergency situations as referred to in Section D, “Unplanned Layoffs,” which are beyond the control of the Company or on days the plant is not operating due to a statutory holiday occurring.
A) Permanent Layoffs
1)	A permanent layoff is defined as one whereby an employee or employees are laid off for an indefinite period of time when the Company reduces the number of employees employed by the Company.
Employees affected by a layoff will be laid off in reverse order of Company seniority.
An employee subject to a layoff shall receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu as follows:
- one (1) week's written notice for each year of employment or portion of a year of employment to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks' notice.
2)	If You Are Laid Off
An employee who is permanently laid off from the Company will be severed from the
- 30 -
Company rolls but will retain the following
rights:
(a)	A permanently laid-off employee's employment and seniority rights shall be considered lost by reason of:
(i)	For those employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, layoff for a period of thirty-six (36) continuous months or
(ii)	For employees with less than ten (10) years of seniority, layoff for a period equal to the employee's seniority or twenty-four (24) months, whichever is the lesser.
(iii)	Seniority shall be maintained but not accumulated during this period.
(iv)	This period may be extended by the mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
(b)	The laid-off employee shall be able to use seniority accumulated up to the point of layoff to bid on any job posting.
A shop steward may submit a bid on behalf of a laid-off employee.
It will be the laid-off employee's responsibility to know what job bids have been posted.
(c)	Job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement will not apply to those classifications where employees are waiting to be recalled.
(d)	Previously accumulated sick days which the employee had banked prior to permanent layoff will be reinstated upon recall.
- 31 -
(e)	Previously accumulated vacation entitlements to which the employee was entitled prior to permanent layoff will be reinstated upon recall.
(f)	In the event of a permanent layoff, coverage under the dental plan and the short-term and long-term disability plans ends on the last day of work. Coverage under other plans normally ends on the last day of the month following the month in which an employee is laid off.
- 32 -
3)	Severance Pay
An employee placed on layoff will have the option to:
a)	remain on layoff with recall rights or
b)	elect to take severance pay as follows:
Employees who are permanently laid off shall be paid severance pay at the rate of one (1) week's pay per full year of employment or portion of a year of employment to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks' pay at the employee's rate of pay at the time of layoff.
Upon acceptance of severance pay, an employee's seniority and employment rights will be terminated.
An employee must choose to select this option within one (1) year from the date of actual layoff or this option to select severance pay is withdrawn.
Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Parties from exploring other considerations affecting permanently laid-off employees.
4)	Layoff Procedure
1)	Layoffs will be made on the basis of seniority. The most junior employee(s) in the classification within the department and subgroup affected will be given written notice of layoff or reclassification.
2)	The Company shall, after giving notice
to any employee, determine whether, in accordance with the employee's seniority	and	qualifications, the
employee	can displace a junior
- 33 -
employee.
3)	If such displacement is apparent, the Company shall place the laid-off or reclassified employee in such job and at the same time lay off or reclassify the junior employee being displaced. This procedure will continue until all laid-off or reclassified employees displace junior employees.
4)	If an employee is not satisfied with the reclassification, the employee may, within two (2) working days, exercise the employee's seniority to displace a junior employee in any classification for which the employee has maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work.
5)	When exercising bumping rights during a permanent layoff, the laid-off or displaced employee may bump the junior employee in another subgroup within the employee's own department or the junior employee in a lower classification on the employee's shift.
Failing this option, the laid-off or displaced employee must then use seniority rights to bump the junior
- 34 -
employee in the equivalent department and job classification at the opposite mine or mill, if the employee's seniority allows the employee to do so.
If the laid-off or displaced employee cannot hold in that equivalent department and job classification at the opposite mine or mill, the employee may then use seniority to bump the junior employee in any department and subgroup classification listed below.
6)	Department and subgroups shall be defined as follows:
DEPARTMENTS			
K1 Surface	K2 Surface	K1 Underground	K2 Underground
Subgroups			
Mill Mtce.	Shop	Mine Mtce.	Mine Mtce.
Floatinq	Mill Mtce.	Shaft	Water
Utilities	Floating	Floating	Shaft
Production	Utilities	Production	Floating
Shift	Production	Shift	Production
Office & Tech.	Shift		Shift
	Office & Tech.		
7)	Qualified shall mean:
a)	A job in the same classification or
b)	A job previously held through the bid procedure or
c)	A job previously held through job progression or
d)	A job for which the employee is deemed qualified according to Company records.
8)	An employee receiving notice of layoff or reclassification and not exercising the employee's rights or accepting another job as provided herein shall be placed on layoff.
- 35 -
9)	When displacement by an employee takes place because of layoff or reclassification and such displacement results in a change of shifts, such affected employee shall not be eligible for overtime rates on the employee's days of rest under the employee's previous schedule unless such employee works in excess of the employee's previously scheduled regular hours in such week. Such employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work the employee assumes, and if required to work on such days, the employee shall be paid at overtime rates.
10)	The Company will grant a period of
familiarization or retraining of up to forty-eight (48) hours worked for the employee to show that the employee has	maintained	the necessary
qualifications of the job.
11)	During permanent layoffs only, the
following jobs will be considered to be entry level jobs. An entry level job is one	which all	employees are
considered to be qualified to hold.
- 36 -
The entry level jobs are as follows:
•	Labourer	•	Reagent Mixer
•	Helper	•	FRP II
•	Incline	•	U/G Belt
	Helper		Construction II
•	Mechanic IV	•	Building Repair II Warehouse II
•	HD	•	
	Mechanic IV		
•	Loadout III	•	Warehouse
			Dispatch
5)	Recalls
1)	Laid-off employees and employees who have been removed from their former jobs through bumping will be placed on a recall list with their names, former jobs and locations entered. Employees must be recalled and employees must accept recall to their former jobs and departments, as closely as possible, in the reverse order of layoff.
2)	An employee being recalled to work after a layoff shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work for which the employee has been recalled.
3)	Notice of recall shall be given either personally or by double registered mail to the employee's last known address. It will be the responsibility of the employee to notify the Company of any change of address.
4)	An employee may refuse a recall if the employment being offered is of short-
- 37 -
term duration, that is, eighty-nine (89) calendar days or less, without losing the employee's rights to recall to permanent employment. The Company will have the right to recall the next senior qualified employee to cover the work requirements	during	the
above-mentioned period.
The prerogative of refusal of a recall to work by an employee, as permitted above, does not apply in cases where the partial or total operations of the Company is shut down and subsequently reopened.
5)	Any recall shall be deemed permanent unless otherwise stated.
6)	An employee who is offered a recall to a job other than to the job held at the time of permanent layoff will have the option to refuse the recall. If the employee does refuse the recall, the employee shall not be recalled again until the job the employee held at the time of layoff is available. Employees electing this option may, at a later date, have one opportunity to elect to be placed back on the general recall list, in which case the employee will be recalled to a job as vacancies occur in accordance with the employee's seniority and qualifications.
7)	An employee who was laid off or reclassified may defer recall to that employee's:
- 38 -
a)	former permanent classification or
b)	former permanent classification and department
until such time as that employee becomes the junior employee to be recalled. At that time, the employee must return to the former permanent classification.
Recall rights will be satisfied when the employee returns to the former permanent classification and department.
Excluding day shift jobs, employees who have been recalled to their former permanent classifications will have the option to accept the new department as their permanent department. Once this option has been selected, the employee's name will then be removed from the recall list.
The employee's name will be deleted from the recall list when the employee is the successful bidder to a permanent job posting.
B) Temporary Layoffs (Shutdown of
Operations)
1)	Temporary Layoffs
1)	A temporary layoff is defined as one
- 39 -
whereby employee(s) are laid off and/or reclassified for a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days. This could include a total or partial shutdown of operations.
2)	Affected employees will receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu of notice. Notice will indicate the shutdown date and reopening date of the temporary layoffs (shutdowns) as follows:
a)	If the shutdown is for a period of two (2) weeks or less - two (2) weeks' notice;
b)	If the shutdown is for a period of three (3) weeks or more than two (2) weeks - three (3) weeks' notice;
c)	If the shutdown is for a period of more than three (3) weeks but less than ninety (90) days - four (4) weeks' notice.
3)	The Company will continue all normal benefits for all employees on temporary layoff.
2)	Layoff Procedure
1)	Only those employees who are displaced from their normal job, location, shift or scheduled hours of work will be allowed to exercise bumping rights.
2)	The Parties agree that no employee shall displace another employee solely for the purpose of gaining overtime while other employees are on layoff.
- 40 -
3)	A displaced employee may use seniority rights to regain, as closely as reasonably possible, the number of hours of work the employee would normally have worked had the shutdown not taken place.
4)	When exercising bumping rights during a temporary shutdown, the laid-off or displaced employee can use seniority to bump a junior employee.
5)	In accordance with an employee's seniority and qualifications, the Company shall determine whether an employee can displace a junior employee. If such displacement is apparent, the Company shall reclassify the employee to a job for which the employee is qualified.
6)	If an employee is not satisfied with the reclassification, the employee may, within two (2) working days, exercise the employee's seniority to displace a junior employee in any classification for which the employee has maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work.
- 41 -
7)	Qualified shall mean:
a)	A job in the same classification or
b)	A job previously held through the bid procedure or
c)	A job previously held through job progression or
d)	A job for which the employee is deemed qualified according to Company records.
8)	During periods of temporary shutdown, an employee who does not exercise bumping rights when first eligible to do so will be placed on layoff. The employee will then have one opportunity to be placed back on the recall list but only after the final work list for the temporary shutdown has been posted, at which time the employee will be eligible for recall to any new job opportunities for which the employee is qualified.
9)	An employee receiving notice of layoff or reclassification and not exercising the employee's rights or accepting another job as provided herein shall be placed on layoff.
C)	Downsizing
1)	A downsizing of the operations shall occur when an employee or employees are permanently removed or transferred from their regular jobs or shift in such a way that no employee is permanently laid off.
An employee first affected by downsizing shall receive two (2) weeks' written notice in advance of such downsizing. In the event of notice being less than that, Article 14.07 will apply.
- 42 -
2)	Downsizing Procedure
1)	Downsizing will be made on the basis of seniority. The most junior employee(s) in the classification within the department and subgroup affected will be given written notice of downsizing or reclassification.
2)	The Company shall, after giving notice to any employee, determine whether, in accordance with the employee's seniority and qualifications, the employee can displace a junior employee.
3)	If such displacement is apparent, the Company shall place the downsized or reclassified employee in such job and at the same time downsize or reclassify the junior employee being displaced. This procedure will continue until all downsized or reclassified employees displace junior employees.
4)	If an employee is not satisfied with the reclassification, the employee may, within two (2) working days, exercise the employee's seniority to displace a junior employee in any classification for which
- 43 -
the employee has maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work.
5)	Qualified shall mean:
a)	A job in the same classification or
b)	A job previously held through the bid procedure or
c)	A job previously held through job progression or
d)	A job for which the employee is deemed qualified according to Company records.
6)	When exercising bumping rights during downsizing, the displaced employee can use seniority to bump a junior employee in any of the departments and subgroups listed below.
7)	Department and subgroups shall be defined as follows:
DEPARTMENTS			
K1 Surface	K2 Surface	K1 Underground	K2 Underground
Subgroups			
Mill Mtce.	Shop	Mine Mtce.	Mine Mtce.
Floatinq	Mill Mtce.	Shaft	Water
Utilities	Floating	Floating	Shaft
Production	Utilities	Production	Floating
Shift	Production	Shift	Production
Office & Tech.	Shift		Shift
	Office & Tech.		
8)	When displacement by an employee takes place because of downsizing or reclassification and such displacement
- 44 -
results in a change of shifts, such affected employee shall not be eligible for overtime rates on the employee's days of rest under the employee's previous schedule unless such employee works in excess of the employee's previously scheduled regular hours in such week. Such employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work the employee assumes, and if required to work on such days, the employee shall be paid at overtime rates.
9)	The Company will grant a period of familiarization or retraining of up to forty-eight (48) hours worked for the employee to show that the employee has maintained the necessary qualifications of the job.
3)	Recalls
1)	Downsized employees and employees who have been removed from their former jobs through bumping will be placed on a recall list with their names, former jobs and locations entered. Employees must be recalled and employees must accept recall to their former jobs and departments, as closely as possible, in the reverse order of downsizing.
2)	An employee who was reclassified may defer recall to that employee's:
- 45 -
a)	former permanent classification or
b)	former permanent classification and department
until such time as that employee becomes the junior employee to be recalled. At that time, the employee must return to the former permanent classification.
Recall rights will be satisfied when the employee returns to the former permanent classification and department.
Excluding day shift jobs, employees who have been recalled to their former permanent classifications will have the option to accept the new department as their permanent department. Once this option has been selected, the employee's name will then be removed from the recall list.
The employee's name will be deleted from the recall list when the employee is the successful bidder to a permanent job posting.
D)	Unplanned Layoffs
1) Where conditions beyond the Company's control develop a temporary shortage of work not exceeding six (6) consecutive calendar days, the Company may lay off employees without being required to apply the
- 46 -
displacement by seniority provisions or the recall provisions of this Collective Agreement.
2)	Oversupply of inventory, for any reason, shall not be considered a condition beyond the control of the Company as it pertains to this section.
3)	The above shall only be applicable where the number of employees involved is more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the location affected and the layoff period does not exceed six (6) consecutive calendar days.
For the purposes of this section, the locations shall be:
4)	An employee who would have been laid off due to a temporary work shortage in accordance with this clause, and is subsequently kept at work, must accept the work assigned to the employee or be placed on the temporary layoff.
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE
Definition
11.01	A grievance shall be defined as a dispute as to the application or interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
K1 Surface K2 Surface
K1 Underground K2 Underground
- 47 -
Procedure
11.02	All grievances to be processed hereunder when filed in writing shall set forth the essential facts of the complaint, with reference to how the employee feels aggrieved and what redress is required. Such written grievance shall then form the basis of the complaint through all the steps of the grievance procedure and arbitration procedure.
Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in the manner stated below.
Step 1 - An employee who feels he/she has a grievance as defined above shall continue on the employee's assigned duties. Should the employee wish to submit a grievance under this procedure, a written grievance relating to the complaint shall be prepared and presented to the employee's immediate supervisor through or with the employee's shop steward. The grievance shall be submitted to this supervisor in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the day of its occurrence. The supervisor shall in a period not exceeding five (5) scheduled working days of the grievor following receipt of the employee's submission of the grievance give a written reply to the employee concerning the grievance.
Where the grievance as written is a proper grievance, and where it fully outlines and explains the grievance, the supervisor in a written reply shall, insofar as it is practical and warranted under the circumstances, explain or give reasons for the supervisor's
- 48 -
concurrence or non-concurrence of the grievance.
Step 2 - If a settlement is not reached at the first step, the employee, through the employee's shop steward, may in a period not exceeding five (5) scheduled working days of the grievor of the completion of Step 1 present the written grievance to the department head or designated representative. A meeting will be held in a period not exceeding five (5) scheduled working days of the grievor of the time the grievance was presented to the department head. The employee's shop steward shall be present at the meeting. The department head shall reply to the grievance, in writing, in a period not exceeding seven (7) scheduled working days of the grievor following the date on which the grievance was received by the department head.
Step 3 - If settlement is not reached at the second step, the written grievance may, in a period not exceeding ten (10) calendar days of the completion of Step 2, be referred by the Union to the Industrial Relations Manager or designated representative.
A monthly third-step grievance meeting shall be held at a time to be agreed upon by both Parties to discuss all pending third-step grievances. An additional meeting may be scheduled, if required, by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Company's final answer at Step 3 will be given in a period not exceeding seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
- 49 -
Group Grievance
11.03	If a grievance as defined in 11.01 above involves a group or groups of employees, the grievance procedure may be commenced at the step of the grievance procedure involving the first designated official of the Company having jurisdiction over the employees affected or the subject matter concerned. Such grievance must be submitted in writing in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the occurrence of the grievance.
Union Grievance
11.04	If a grievance comes within 11.01 and concerns the Union as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of 11.02 - “Step 1” or 11.03, two Union-designated members of the executive of the Union who are employees of the Company may, in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the occurrence of the grievance, present a written grievance to the Company which shall go directly into Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Suspension or Discharge
11.05	If a meeting is held for the purpose of suspension or discharge, the employee who is being suspended or discharged shall have the employee's steward in attendance at such meeting. If an employee believes that he/she has been discharged or suspended without just and sufficient cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure in a period not exceeding six (6) calendar days after written notice of such suspension or discharge has been sent by registered mail to the employee's last known address or after written notice of such suspension or discharge has been personally given to the employee.
The remedy for adjusting a grievance, if it is determined that any is justified, may consist of reinstatement with or without back pay or with partial back pay, or may
- 50 -
consist of pay or partial back payment without reinstatement, or may consist of any other redress appropriate to the circumstances.
Referral to Arbitration
11.06	If settlement is not reached at the third step, the grievance may be referred to arbitration as set forth in Article 12. The Union shall notify the Company of its intent to seek arbitration by written notice, served by registered mail, in a period not exceeding forty-five (45) calendar days after the completion of Step 3. If such notice is not mailed in a period not exceeding the forty-five (45) calendar day period, the grievance shall be deemed settled on the basis of the Company's answer at Step 3.
Time Limits
11.07	If the Company representatives do not take the necessary action to process the grievance or provide answers within the time limits specified for any step, the grievance shall be automatically considered referred to the next higher step, except that arbitration shall only be invoked upon the giving of proper notice as provided in
11.06	above.
If the grievance is not processed by the Union or the employee within the time limits provided in the various steps, the grievance is considered settled on the basis of the Company's last answer. Time limits of Step 2 and Step 3 may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
- 51 -
General
11.08	a) It is agreed by the Company and the Union that meetings on grievances shall take place during regular working hours, without loss of pay, provided such meetings take place during the employee's scheduled working hours.
b)	The Union shall receive from the Company a copy of any written disciplinary action taken against an employee.
c)	When an employee is discharged, the appropriate Union steward for the area may, upon receiving permission from the steward's supervisor, leave his/her duties to investigate the matter. The management reserves the right to establish the time and time limits to perform such duty.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
d)	Upon receiving permission from the supervisor concerned, an employee or the appropriate steward of the Union may submit and/or process a grievance during working hours, provided only if there is no interruption in the work program.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
e)	At the request of the employee, a shop steward from that employee's area must be present at any meeting which is held for the purpose of issuing discipline.
- 52 -
ARTICLE 12 - ARBITRATION
Arbitrable Issues
12.01	The arbitration procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements set out in Article 11.
Arbitration
12.02	Within seven (7) calendar days of the date of mailing notice of intent to seek arbitration, the Union shall meet with the Company to select by lot an arbitrator from the following panel:
Dan Ish Merv Chertkow
If the arbitrator so selected by lot is unable to serve, then the next arbitrator whose name was drawn will be the arbitrator selected, and so on until one of the arbitrators on the panel is able to serve.
12.03	After the arbitrator has been chosen by the foregoing procedure, the arbitrator shall meet and hear the evidence of both Parties as soon as possible. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties and upon any employee affected by it.
Costs
12.04	The Union and the Company will equally share the costs incurred by the arbitrator.
Witnesses
12.05	Each Party shall be responsible for the costs of its
- 53 -
witnesses in accordance with the arrangement it has made with its witnesses.
One Issue
12.06	The arbitrator shall not deal with more than one (1) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
Power
12.07	The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The arbitrator may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to the arbitrator and the arbitrator's decision must be based solely on the interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
12.08	The arbitrator shall render a decision in writing to the Parties not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made to the arbitrator on the matter by the Parties.
ARTICLE 13 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
13.01	The Union, its agents and each employee agree that there will be no strikes, slowdowns or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout.
- 54 -
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Definition of Workday
14.01	A workday shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of an employee's regular scheduled shift.
Definition of Work Week
14.02	The work week shall be the period commencing at midnight on Saturday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday.
Definition of Shift
14.03	A shift shall be defined as a period of time within a workday, and these periods of time shall be referred to hereafter as day shift, afternoon shift, night shift and may be rotating or non-rotating in nature.
Hours of Work
14.04	a) For those employees scheduled to an eight- (8) hour workday, the basic workday shall be eight (8) hours per day and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours of work per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each.
b)	For those employees scheduled to work a ten- (10) hour workday, the basic workday shall be ten (10) hours per shift and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
c)	For those employees scheduled to work a twelve-(12) hour workday, the basic workday shall be twelve
- 55 -
(12) hours per shift and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
The Company and the Union recognize that continuous shift operations may require variations to the five- (5) day week and in such operations the number of days worked shall not exceed ten (10) days in any two-week period.
An employee's normal days of rest will be consecutive unless changed by mutual agreement in specific instances by the Company and the Union.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
14.05	It is understood by the Parties that flexibility is required in the starting time of shifts for production purposes. However, it is agreed that starting times shall not vary more than one (1) hour from the normal starting times. Any change in shift starting times outside of that permitted in this section will be allowed only by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Shift Schedules and Changes in Shift Schedules
14.06	The Company will develop and post shift schedules at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the effective day of such schedules.
Notations on the posting shall include location and shift times.
The Company will give employees twenty-four (24) hours' notice of any change in the employee's shift schedule.
If less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice is given, the
- 56 -
employee(s) affected by the change will be paid two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time rate for all hours worked on the first shift of such changed schedule.
This provision is not applicable when a callout runs into the employee's regular scheduled shift. Such will be governed by the callout pay provisions.
It is understood and agreed that a change in location does not constitute a change in shift schedules; however, in the event of a change in location, the Company agrees to transport the affected employees to and from the new location on the first day of such change only and on company time.
It is agreed that the Company will not change shift schedules for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime.
14.07	1) In the event the Company changes an employee's
shift schedule, then during the first week of such change the employee's days of rest under the employee's previous schedule will be observed for overtime payment.
2)	This provision is only applicable during the first week of the new shift schedule and does not apply if a change of shifts is a result of any employee changing status due to promotion, preferential shifts or jobs or when an employee returns to the employee's original shift schedule after a temporary transfer.
3)	This provision shall not be applicable when due to breakdown of equipment or reasons unforeseen to management cause a shutdown of normal
- 57 -
operations and when management offers the affected employees other work rather than invoke the layoff procedure.
Shift Starting Times
14.08	a) The normal shift hours for those employees working an eight- (8) hour day shall be:
7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
It is understood and agreed that employees will be allowed a period not exceeding twenty (20) minutes each day to eat their lunch. The lunch period shall be included as paid time and shall be scheduled as near as possible to the middle of the shift.
b)	The normal shift hours for those employees working a twelve- (12) hour workday shall be:
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Employees working a twelve- (12) hour shift will be allowed two separate periods not exceeding twenty (20) minutes each to eat their lunch. The lunch period shall be included as paid time.
Overtime Pay
14.09	a) An employee will be paid two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for all work performed in excess of:
i.	Employees working an eight- (8) hour shift, for work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one workday.
ii.	Employees working a ten- (10) hour shift, for work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in
- 58 -
any one workday.
iii.	Employees working a twelve- (12) hour shift, for work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours in any one workday.
14.10	An employee will be paid two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for work performed:
a)	For all work performed on designated holidays.
b)	Work performed on scheduled days of rest.
c)	For all work performed as provided for in 14.07.
It is understood that the above will not apply where an employee is called out to work and works continuously into the beginning of the employee's next scheduled shift. Such will be governed by the callout provisions.
Pyramiding
14.11	Payment of overtime work shall be made as in 14.09 or as in 14.10, whichever gives the employee the greatest pay. There shall be no duplication of weekly and daily overtime nor pyramiding of overtime on overtime.
Overtime Work
14.12	The Company shall determine the need for overtime.
The Company will make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. Where overtime is necessary, the Company shall make an effort to assign overtime so as to cause the least personal inconvenience to an employee as reasonably practical under the circumstances.
Scheduled Overtime
14.13	The Company shall notify the employees scheduled to work such overtime two (2) days prior to such overtime
- 59 -
being required. An employee with a reasonable personal excuse will be excused from working such scheduled overtime if a qualified replacement is available. The employee's supervisor will attempt to obtain a replacement.
Unscheduled Overtime
14.14	The Company shall have the right to require that an employee work overtime in an emergency situation unless such employee has a reason that involves an extreme personal emergency that will prevent the employee from working the required overtime. In such case, the required overtime work shall be assigned to another employee on the shift capable of performing the work.
14.15	Unscheduled overtime that is not of an emergency nature will be assigned to an employee on the shift who normally performs such work. If the employee so assigned has a reasonable personal excuse for not working the overtime, it will be assigned to other qualified employees on the shift until an employee is obtained to work the overtime. If in following this procedure, it is not possible to obtain the required number of employees to work the overtime, then such work will be performed by assignment to the junior employee or employees within that normal work group on the shift.
Overtime Meals
14.16	If overtime work is expected to be more than two (2) hours in duration, the employee(s) affected will be supplied an overtime meal at the regular quitting time, if practical, and approximately every four (4) hours of work thereafter.
14.17	In the case of unscheduled overtime, the Company will supply transportation from the plant site to such employee's home where the employee has no other means of transportation available.
- 60 -
When a carpool driver is required to work unscheduled overtime, the Company shall supply the members of the carpool who are not required to work overtime with transportation to their homes if there is no other means of transportation available.
Overtime Distribution
14.18	a) Overtime work will first be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among the employees who occupy the classification that normally performs the work.
b)	If those employees who are first entitled to the overtime are not available or decline the opportunity for overtime, then qualified employees in the next lower line of progression will have the opportunity to work the overtime. If these employees decline or are not available for the overtime opportunity, then any qualified employee within the department will be offered the overtime opportunity.
c)	If the Company errs and does not offer the overtime opportunity to the employee within the classification who is first entitled to the opportunity (as per a) above), the Company will pay an amount at the employee's straight-time rate of pay equal to the number of hours of overtime the employee would have worked.
Every other situation regarding missed overtime opportunities will be handled under Article 14.20. In these situations, the employee will receive an
- 61 -
adjustment to the balance of overtime but the Company will not be required to pay for missed overtime.
d)	It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime within a particular area and shift will at any given time have received the same number of overtime hours, but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is practicable under the circumstances.
Lists
14.19	Up-to-date lists showing how overtime has been allocated within the particular group in the area on the shift shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted quarterly. If an employee refuses the opportunity of working an overtime assignment, it will be considered as an overtime opportunity worked and so recorded.
The Company will furnish to the Union a copy of the overtime list as posted on a quarterly basis.
Maintenance of Balance of Overtime
14.20	If a balance of the overtime hours worked among a group which normally shares overtime work is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and a grievance is filed and as a result an employee'(s') case is proven, then the off-balance overtime condition shall be identified and the imbalance corrected as soon as practical until a fair balance in the overtime distribution is re-established.
Callout
14.21	If an employee who has left the Company premises is
- 62 -
called out to work outside such employee's regular hours, the employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time rate. Employees so called out shall not be required to perform routine work after the employee has completed the work for which the employee was originally called out, excepting that the employee may be required to perform other emergency work consistent with the employee's skills and arising during the period of the callout.
14.22	The above callout provision will not apply to an employee who is called out to work and does work continuously into the beginning of the employee's scheduled shift. In such case, the employee will be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for all hours worked prior to the employee's regular shift and will be permitted to work to the end of the employee's regular shift. Employees on such callout, in order to receive the two (2) hour minimum pay, must report for work within a reasonable time period.
Reporting Pay
14.23	If an employee reports for work after having been scheduled or notified to and has not been previously notified in advance of the employee's reporting time not to report, the employee will be given a day's work or, if work is not available, the employee shall receive a regular day's pay at straight time in lieu thereof. An employee who has no phone or an incorrect phone number on file with the Company will be considered to have been given proper notice under this provision when the employee reports to work. It is understood that if the employee's regular job is not available the employee shall perform duties as assigned for the period referred to above.
Shift Relief
14.24	No employee assigned to a rotating shift or continuous - 63 -
operation shift shall leave at the end of the shift until the employee's relief reports, unless the employee is released by the employee's supervisor.
General
14.25
1)	An employee who worked one half the employee's rest hours or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of the employee's next shift shall, at the request of such employee, be given such shift off from work without pay.
2)	In the event an employee works one half the employee's rest hours or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of the shift and the employee does not have at least seven (7) hours' rest between the completion of the overtime worked and the start of the employee's next scheduled shift, the employee shall have the starting time of the next shift adjusted to provide for seven (7) hours' rest, after which the employee will receive a normal day's pay.
3)	For those employees on a callout to work as provided in Articles 14.21 and 14.22, the provisions of this section (Article 14.25) shall only apply to those employees who are called out to work and actually work for more than five (5) consecutive hours of overtime on the callout and who do not receive seven (7) hours' rest from the end of the overtime callout to the start of their next scheduled shift.
4)	In the event an employee is required to return to work for one (1) hour or less after receiving seven
- 64 -
(7) hours' rest as referred to above, the employee shall be allowed to work the period of one (1) hour or less at straight-time rates at the beginning of the employee's next scheduled shift.
5)	Day shift employees who are called out to work between the hours of midnight and 5 a.m. and
a)	who do not receive seven (7) hours' rest prior to the start of their next shift will be allowed to remain at rest for seven (7) hours. Employees will then be required to work the remainder of the next scheduled shift; and if the employee completes the shift, the employee will be paid for the full shift.
b)	Should the callout require the employee to work up to the start of the employee's next regular shift, the employee will be permitted to remain at work at straight-time rates until a total of eight (8) hours has been worked. The employee will then be allowed to go home but will be paid at straight-time rates for the remainder of the employee's regular shift.
14.26 An employee requested by the Company to renew certification of the employee's trade papers shall be allowed time off from work for such purposes. Such employee will be reimbursed for any time lost during a day the employee would otherwise have worked.
When an employee is requested by the Company to renew certification of specific trade skills such as pressure welding and CWB, the cost of the recertification will be paid by the Company.
- 65 -
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES AND SHIFT PREMIUMS
Wage Scale
15.01	a) The wage scale for the job classification is set forth
in Appendix "A" and the rates will be effective commencing at 12:01 a.m. on the date indicated in Appendix A.
b)	Employees shall receive a premium of seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour while blasting, provided they are licensed to do so. This premium shall be applicable only for the period while actually performing blasting but in no case shall the premium be paid for less than a one- (1) hour period.
c)	A premium of twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour for all hours worked shall be paid to any employee during the employee's tenure as a lead hand or charge hand. A lead hand or charge hand, in addition to performing the functions of the employee's classification, will make job-related decisions in conjunction with the supervisor in order to ensure the completion of assignments.
15.02	An employee working during the afternoon shift shall receive a shift premium of seventy cents ($0.70) per hour (3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.).
15.03	An employee working during the night shift shall receive a shift premium of seventy cents ($0.70) per hour (11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.).
- 66 -
ARTICLE 16 - NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
16.01	If the Company should combine job classifications, change job classifications and/or establish new job classifications, the Company shall develop appropriate wage rates for the combined, changed or new job classifications in relation to jobs, job classifications and wage rates then in effect hereunder and will put such rates into effect. The Company will notify the Union, in writing, fifteen (15) days prior to such rates being placed into effect and, if requested, will meet with the Union to discuss said rate(s). The Company will also supply the Union with copies of job qualifications and requirements.
16.02	If the Union disagrees with the rate or rates so established after such rates have been in effect for thirty (30) working days, a grievance may be filed within fourteen (14) days thereafter in the third step of the grievance procedure, Article 11.02.
16.03	If the matter above is processed to arbitration under Article 12, the arbitrator shall, in determining the rate(s), do so in relationship to the established jobs, job classifications and wage rates as shown in Appendix A.
- 67 -
ARTICLE 17 - HOLIDAYS
Designated Holidays
17.01	New Year's Day
Heritage Day (Third Monday - February)
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Qualifications
17.02	The above named holidays when not worked by an employee shall be paid as hereinafter, provided the employee must be in active employment and currently working when the holiday occurs. The term "active employment" and "currently working" shall mean an employee who has not been absent for more than five (5) consecutive scheduled workdays immediately preceding the holiday.
Holiday Pay
17.03	An employee eligible for holiday pay under the provisions of the article shall receive eight (8) hours' straight-time pay at the employee's regular straight-time rate for all designated holidays listed in Article 17.01. If an eligible employee is required to work on any above-mentioned holidays, the employee shall be paid two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate for all hours
- 68 -
worked to a maximum of eight (8) hours on the designated holiday in addition to eight (8) hours' straight-time pay.
17.04	When a designated holiday falls at any time during an employee's annual vacation, the employee shall be paid in accordance with 18.13.
17.05	An employee who is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to report for such work will not be entitled to holiday pay as set forth in the first paragraph of this section, except if the employee is legitimately absent.
17.06	When a designated holiday falls on an employee's regular day(s) of rest, the employee's next regular scheduled workday(s) shall be paid at two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked to a maximum of eight (8) hours on such day(s) or the employee may be given an additional day(s) of rest to a maximum of eight (8) hours immediately following the designated holiday(s).
17.07	For employees whose regular scheduled workday is twelve (12) hours, the following shall apply:
a)	When a designated holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works that day, the employee will receive eight (8) hours' straight-time pay plus the first eight (8) hours worked will be paid at double-time rates and the next four (4) hours will be at straight-time rates. Any succeeding hours worked will be at double-time rates. Effective February 1, 1996, all hours worked on a designated holiday will be paid at double-time rates.
b)	When a designated holiday falls on an employee's regular scheduled workday and the employee is given the day off, the employee will receive twelve (12) hours' straight-time pay if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
- 69 -
c)	When a designated holiday falls on the employee's regular scheduled day(s) off and the employee works the next regular shift, the employee will receive eight (8) hours' straight-time pay if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. The employee will receive double-time rates for the first eight (8) hours and the next four (4) hours will be at straight time if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. Any succeeding hours will be paid at double time.
d)	When a designated holiday falls on the employee's regular scheduled day(s) off and the employee is given the next regular shift off, the employee will receive twelve (12) hour's straight-time pay if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
17.08	For employees whose regular scheduled workday is ten
(10) hours, the following shall apply:
a)	When a designated holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works that day, the employee will receive eight (8) hours' straight-time pay plus the first eight (8) hours worked will be paid at double-time rates and the next two (2) hours will be at straight-time rates. Any succeeding hours worked will be at double-time rates.
b)	When a designated holiday falls on the employee's regular scheduled days off, the employee will receive eight (8) hours' straight-time pay if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. If the employee works the next regular shift, the employee will receive double-time rates for the first eight (8) hours and the next two (2) hours will be at straight-time pay if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. Any succeeding hours worked will be at double-time rates.
- 70 -
c)	When a designated holiday falls on an employee's regular scheduled workday and the employee is given the day off, the employee will receive eight (8) hours' straight-time pay if the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
ARTICLE 18 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
18.01	An employee with one (1) year or more of continuous service but less than six (6) years of continuous service will be eligible on the employee's anniversary date to one hundred and twenty (120) working hours of annual vacation. For every additional year of continuous service after five (5) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the tenth (10th) year.
18.02	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service but less than sixteen (16) years of continuous service will be eligible on the employee's anniversary date to one hundred and sixty (160) working hours of annual vacation.
18.03	For every additional year of continuous service after fifteen (15) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will be added to the total annual vacation up to the twentieth (20th) year.
An employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service will be eligible on the employee's anniversary date to two hundred (200) working hours of annual vacation.
18.04	An employee must meet the requirements of completed service (anniversary date) in order to qualify for payment per 18.01, 18.02 and 18.03.
18.05	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service will receive at the time of the employee's vacation a vacation bonus of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00). The employee will be eligible for the
- 71 -
18.06
18.07
18.08
18.09
above-mentioned bonus if the employee's anniversary date falls at any time during that calendar year.
The vacation period shall extend from July 1 to June 30 of the following year. Vacation earned in one anniversary year and vacation earned in the next anniversary year may not be taken consecutively unless the Company approves the employee's request for such. It is understood that in scheduling the vacation full consideration of operating requirements and the employee's service will be given.
An employee who is eligible for full vacation as provided in this article shall receive forty (40) times the employee's straight-time hourly rate of pay for each week of vacation entitlement and/or eight (8) times the employee's straight-time hourly rate of pay for each day of entitlement.
The straight-time hourly rate shall be the permanent straight-time hourly rate being paid to the employee as of May 31 of each year.
a)	To be eligible to receive full vacation pay for the vacation specified in this article, the employee must have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours during the preceding year June 1 through May 31.
b)	New employees who have less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay based on one and one-quarter (1%) days' pay for each month of employment provided the employee worked at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the hours each month.
c)	Employees who work less than 1,500 hours in the vacation year June 1 through May 31 or employees who terminate or are terminated in the vacation year June 1 through May 31 and who work less than 1,500 hours shall be paid pro-rated vacation pay based on the following formula: Number of hours worked divided by 1,500 times the number of hours
- 72 -
of vacation eligibility. i.e.:	1,200 x 128 hours = 102.4 hours
1,500
18.10	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be carried over to the following year.
18.11	No employee may continue to work and draw vacation pay in lieu of taking a vacation unless by mutual agreement by the Union and the Company.
18.12	At any time after June 15, upon fourteen (14) days' notice in writing by an employee, the Company shall issue to such employee vacation pay to which the
- 73 -
employee is entitled in accordance with the terms of this article;
but in any case, vacation pay shall be issued to employees prior to leaving on vacation.
18.13	Should a designated holiday fall at any time during an employee's annual vacation period, such employee may be granted an additional eight (8) hours off work with pay immediately following the employee's vacation period in lieu of the designated holiday. Should the employee not be granted the additional day off with pay [eight (8) hours] in lieu of the designated holiday, the employee will receive overtime pay for the first eight (8) hours worked after the employee's vacation period or the employee may choose to bank eight (8) hours for use at a later time.
18.14	If an employee is confined to a hospital due to unforeseen circumstances during the employee's vacation, such employee may receive any unused sick pay benefits for each day of confinement in accordance with the provisions of Article 20.
The Company will arrange to allow such employee to take extra days of vacation at a later time equal to the number of days the employee received benefits while confined, but in no case shall the vacation period exceed the provisions under Article 18 - Annual Vacations.
Vacation Shutdown
18.15	A vacation shutdown period can be designated by the Company provided each vacation shutdown period falls during the school summer vacation period.
During such designated period, employees not required to work by the Company will be required to take their vacation.
The Company will notify employees of a pending vacation shutdown by no later than May 1 in order for employees to plan their vacation as far in advance as
- 74 -
possible.
The vacation shutdown will be for a period of two (2) weeks, but the Company may extend the vacation shutdown to a maximum of one (1) additional week for a total of three (3) weeks.
During the third week of the vacation shutdown, the employee will have the option of either remaining on vacation or taking unpaid leave.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Personal Leave
19.01	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will consider when deciding to grant or refuse a request for such leave:
a)	Whether such leave will interfere with the business and operations requirements of the Company.
b)	Whether a qualified replacement is available to replace the employee during the leave.
c)	Whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the employee.
19.02	An employee who requests a leave of absence shall request such leave in writing at least one (1) week in advance of such leave unless there was no possibility that the employee had such prior knowledge of the necessity of the leave.
Sick Leave of Absence
19.03	The provisions of this sick leave of absence section do not affect sick leave benefits specified elsewhere in this Agreement.
19.04	Employees shall be granted a sick leave of absence, - 75 -
without pay, provided:
a)	The leave is for personal illness or injury and the employee is actually physically unable to report for or do the employee's regular work.
b)	The leave shall be for a maximum period of thirty-six (36) months if the employee has ten (10) or more years of seniority. If an employee has less than ten (10) years of seniority, the leave shall be for a maximum of twenty-four (24) calendar months or a period equal to the employee's seniority, whichever is lesser; however, for this purpose, every employee is considered to have a minimum of one (1) year's seniority. The period referred to above may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
19.05	In all cases of sick leave, the employee(s) shall, prior to returning to work and upon a request of the Company, submit to a medical examination by a qualified practitioner at the Company's expense to ensure that
- 76 -
the employee then has the required health qualifications.
Union Leave of Absence
19.06	The Company shall grant a Union leave of absence as authorized in writing by the local or national Union, without pay, provided:
a)	The absence will not interfere with the business and operational requirement of the Company.
b)	A qualified replacement is available at the time of the leave.
c)	The Union requests the leave, in writing, at least one (1) week in advance of such leave unless there was no possibility that the Union had such prior knowledge of the necessity for the leave.
It is further agreed that no more than two (2) employees shall be absent for more than thirty (30) calendar days at any one time, provided that the leave has been granted pursuant to Article 19.06. The total of the accumulated leaves may not exceed two hundred (200) days per year. Consideration will be given for special circumstances which may require extensions.
19.07	It is further agreed that no more than seven (7) employees shall be absent for more than seven (7) calendar days at any one time provided that the leave has been granted pursuant to paragraph 19.06. Consideration will be given for special circumstances which may require extensions.
- 77 -
Extended Leave for Union Business
19.08	An extended leave of absence, without pay but with maintenance and accumulation of seniority up to one (1) year, shall be granted to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time designated by the Union for the conducting of full-time union business on behalf of Local 892 or for CEP. Said leave shall be for not less than one (1) month nor more than one (1) year unless extended by mutual agreement by the Parties for up to another one (1) year period. Not more than one (1) employee from any one (1) classification shall be allowed such leave at any one time.
Jury Leave and Witness Leave
19.09	When an employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty or witness duty, the employee shall be paid the difference between the daily amount received for jury or witness services and the employee's regular hourly rate of pay if the employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work and does not work.
If the employee is not needed for jury or witness duty for all the hours of the missed shift, the employee will return to work as soon as reasonably possible. Hours the employee could reasonably have worked but did not work will be deducted from the employee's pay.
19.10	Such compensation shall be payable only if the employee presents a written statement from the appropriate court official showing the date and time served and the amount of payment received on each date.
- 78 -
Funeral Leave
19.11	a) In the case of the death of a member of the
immediate family of an employee, the Company, upon notification in advance, will grant a maximum of four (4) days' paid funeral leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. It is understood that such paid leave will not be granted in instances when the employee otherwise eligible does not attend the funeral.
Funeral shall mean a normal funeral service held within a normal time frame following the death of a member of the immediate family and will include cremation and memorial services.
In the event the funeral of a member of the immediate family of an employee is held at a distance in excess of five hundred (500) miles from the employee's residence or where reason justifiable to the Company is presented, such employee's funeral leave will be extended through the second day after the day of the funeral subject, however, to the four- (4) day maximum paid funeral leave.
b)	An employee may request and will be granted up to an additional fourteen (14) days' leave, without pay, providing such request is made in writing.
c)	In the event an employee is required to be an active pallbearer at the funeral of another Company employee, the Company will grant the necessary time off and the employee will receive the employee's normal day's pay, excluding any premiums, for the regular scheduled time absent on the employee's shift.
Immediate Family
19.12	For the purposes of funeral leave, "immediate family" shall include the employee's spouse, children, mother,
- 79 -
father, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law, brother and sister-in-law and grandparents and grandchildren of the employee or spouse; foster child, foster parent, legal ward or legal guardian, if the relationship has been legally established for a minimum period of twelve (12) months. Common-law status shall be recognized if the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the employee has notified the Company of the common-law status prior to the bereavement.
Rates of Pay
19.13	The employee will not be entitled to funeral leave pay for any day falling within the four-day leave of absence which is not a scheduled workday for the employee or when the employee is absent from work due to vacation, holiday, injury, illness or leave of absence.
For each day of the four-day leave of absence for which the employee is eligible to receive pay, the employee shall be paid a normal day's pay at straight time at the rate of the employee's assigned job classification.
Maternity Leave
19.14	A maternity leave of absence shall be granted an employee, without pay, but with maintenance and accumulation of seniority for a maximum period of six (6) months. An extension may be granted by mutual agreement of the Parties.
- 80 -
Educational Leave of Absence
19.15	An employee may request a leave of absence to further the employee's education for the sole purpose of advancement with the Company by attending full-time classes of instruction. Pre-employment type instruction is not eligible for leave under this section.
Subject to the above, the Company will give consideration to such request conditional on the following:
-	the employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
- the leave will not interfere with the business requirements of the Company;
-	there is a qualified replacement for the affected employee;
-	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance with all details of the instruction course;
-	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company;
-	not more than one (1) leave is given at K1 and one (1) at K2 operations during any one time.
Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will require that the affected employee actually attends each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness. If the employee fails to attend each session of the course for reasons other than illness, the employee will be terminated as an employee of the Company.
General
19.16	Should the employee return to work following any leave of absence, the Company will reinstate the employee in
- 81 -
their
19.17
19.18
20.01
former job if the former job is still in existence and unchanged in content provided the employee is still qualified to perform the work. If the job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the employee may displace the junior employee in a job grade which is equal to or below their former job grade or the junior employee in a job previously held and for which they are qualified.
On all leaves of absence, all seniority is maintained and accumulated for a period of one (1) year only. For leaves of absence during a second or successive years, seniority shall only be maintained but not accumulated.
An employee who becomes a candidate or is elected to public office shall receive a leave of absence without loss of seniority in accordance with Section 80 - Labour Standards Act.
ARTICLE 20 - SPECIAL TIME OFF WITH PAY
a)	Under special circumstances, an employee will be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of six (6), eight- (8) hour days per calendar year. Employees will accumulate unused days each calendar year. No payout of accumulated days shall be made except when an employee is required to be absent as provided hereinafter.
b)	For employees working a compressed work week on a twelve-(12) hour day schedule, under special circumstances an employee will be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of five (5) days per calendar year. Employees will accumulate unused hours each calendar year. No payout of
- 82 -
accumulated hours shall be made except when an employee is required to be absent as provided hereinafter.
It is understood that for accumulation purposes, should	an	employee's job change	or	the
compressed work week be discontinued, the employee has accumulated five (5), twelve- (12) hour days or sixty (60) hours.
c)	New employees shall be entitled to pro-rated special time off	with	pay	during their	first	year of
employment.
20.02	Special time off with pay may be taken for:
a)	Illness	or	non-occupational	accident	of	the
employee.
b)	Illness of the spouse or child of an employee if such
illness causes hospital confinement or bed confinement of the spouse if so directed by a doctor. Illness	shall be interpreted to include
pregnancy-related illness and delivery of a child. In the event of the birth of a child to the spouse of the employee, such employee may take time off with pay for the first day and to a maximum of two (2) days. Common-law status as defined in Article 19.12 will be recognized for the purpose of this section.
When an employee is required to attend a member of the employee's immediate family due to the critical nature of their illness or injury, the spouse, child, mother, father, sister and brother shall be recognized as immediate family.
- 83 -
c)	Dental appointments of the employee.
d)	Appointments to see an eye specialist or optometrist for examination.
20.03	a) Pay will commence on the employee's first workday:
1)	If the employee is hospitalized or admitted to a hospital, clinic or medical office for day surgery or is off work due to an accident.
2)	For required time off to attend dental appointments of the employee only. An employee shall be limited to sixteen (16) hours per calendar year.
3)	For required time off to attend eye examinations of the employee only. An employee shall be limited to eight (8) hours per calendar year.
b) Pay will commence on the employee's second day of absence in the case of Article 20.2 b) above. In this case, pay will be limited to two (2) consecutive workdays on any one instance except when an employee is required to attend a member of the employee's immediate family due to the critical nature of their illness or injury, as substantiated by the employee and accepted by the Company, then during such period the two-day limitation will be extended to a period sufficient for the purpose but in no case longer than the total number of accumulated days held by the employee under Article 20.01.
20.04	If an employee leaves work because of illness during the first half of the employee's shift, that day will be counted in calculating the employee's waiting period.
- 84 -
20.05	When an employee has been absent as provided herein for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled workdays, the employee will be compensated for four (4) hours' pay on the first day of absence if working a twelve- (12) hour day or two (2) hours if working a ten- (10) hour day.
20.06	In order to receive such pay, the employee will provide the Company with a medical certificate or other proof of entitlement as may be required by the Company.
20.07	When an employee is absent under this article and a designated holiday occurs, the employee shall only be paid eight (8) hours at the employee's regular straight-time rate and such payment shall not result in a reduction of any of the days off as described in 20.01 above, provided the employee satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
20.08	Employee(s) will not be entitled to the benefits:
a)	Under this article during any periods when an employee is absent from work due to vacation, holiday, leave of absence or layoff.
b)	Employee(s) will be eligible for pay for only those days for which the employee would have otherwise been scheduled for work.
ARTICLE 21 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	During the lifetime of the Agreement, the Group Insurance Plan as described in the "Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan" will be maintained except as amended hereafter.
It is understood that disability benefits are payable only after an employee has exhausted the employee's sick pay benefits as provided in Article 20 - Special Time Off With Pay.
The only exception is that a 5&2 employee may reserve
- 85 -
the last forty (40) hours of accumulated paid sick leave to be used at a later time. A shift employee may reserve the last forty-eight (48) hours of accumulated paid sick leave to be used at a later time.
21.02	The amended benefits are effective February 1, 1995, and are as follows:
A)	Short-Term Disability
1)	Premiums to be fully paid by the Company.
2)	If your disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled workday you are unable to report for work up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
3)	If your disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable from the fourth (4th) day after the first scheduled workday you were unable to report to work up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
4)	Effective February 1, 1995,	benefits	for	the
above mentioned periods of disability will be seventy percent (70%) of normal earnings to a maximum five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per week.
5)	Effective February 1, 1996,	benefits	for	the
above-mentioned periods of	disability	will	be
seventy percent (70%) of normal earnings to a maximum of five hundred and seventy-five dollars ($575.00) per week.
6)	Effective February 1, 1997,	benefits	for	the
above-mentioned periods of	disability	will	be
seventy percent (70%) of normal earnings to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per week.
- 86 -
B)	Long-Term Disability
1)	Fifty percent (50%) of the premiums paid by the Company and fifty percent (50%) paid by the employees.
2)	Benefits - Effective February 1, 1995 - seventy percent (70%) of normal earnings, including fifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan benefits, to a maximum of two thousand, six hundred dollars ($2,600.00) per month. Effective February 1, 1996, seventy percent (70%) of annual earnings, including fifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan benefits, to a maximum of two thousand, seven hundred dollars ($2,700.00) per month. Effective February 1, 1997, seventy percent (70%) of annual earnings, including fifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan benefits, to a maximum of two thousand, eight hundred dollars ($2,800.00) per month.
- 87 -
3)	It is understood and agreed that the long-term disability benefits shall be fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
C)	General
Eligibility for entrance into the above plans shall be as provided for in the applicable benefit plan policy. None of the above benefits will be reduced as a result of the employee holding private insurance. All benefits under this article shall be based on the job title rate of the employee at the time of commencement of receipt of any of the benefits. The Company agrees to distribute a copy of the group insurance booklet to all employees.
D)	Dental Plan
A dental insurance plan will be established covering an employee and spouse, where applicable, with the employee paying twenty percent (20%) of the dental bill and the Plan paying eighty percent (80%) of the dental bill.
The Company will pay the full cost of the plan.
The dental plan will not have a maximum limit and will include orthodontia.
The dental plan will include unmarried, dependent children to age twenty-three (23) if the child is a full-time student at an accredited school and remains dependent.
The dependent children referred to above shall be eligible for basic dental coverage paying eighty percent (80%) of the dental bill.
The dependent children referred to above shall be eligible for defined major services including orthodontia benefits and shall be payable at fifty
- 88 -
percent (50%) of normal and customary charges under the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
To be eligible for payment of a dental bill, an employee's charges as submitted to the Company for payment must conform with the regulations of the Plan as outlined, and the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
E)	Vision Care
As part of the Group Benefits Program, each employee, spouse and dependent child will be eligible for vision care in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per person during any consecutive twenty-four (24) month period. Effective February 1, 1996, each employee, spouse and dependent child will be eligible for vision care in the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per person, including eye examinations, during any consecutive twenty-four (24) month period.
F)	Company Benefit Level
Effective February 1, 1995, the benefit levels provided by the Company will be frozen in such a way that the Company will not assume any
- 89 -
additional Medicare costs that may flow to employees as a result of any government off-loading any future costs of Medicare.
General
21.03	In the event an employee who has been injured on the job and who has subsequently received a medical certificate stating that the employee is fit for work, the Company will make a special effort to offer employment to such employee within the employee's ability for jobs that have become available. The time limit for such consideration under this clause is subject to Article 19.04(b) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
21.04	Tools and clothing shall be defined in Exhibit I.
21.05	The Company agrees to offer assistance to Accounting employees who desire to continue their education towards a Certified Management Accountant or Certified General Accountant designation. Those employees currently employed in the Accounting Office of the Company who enroll in a correspondence course of study as offered in the above provisions will be eligible for the following:
a)	Reimbursement of 90 percent (90%) of the cost of yearly tuition, registration and examination fees.
b)	Reimbursement of 90 percent (90%) of the cost of course required books.
To receive the reimbursement of the costs referred to above, the employee must pass the yearly examination.
Accounting employees who have been enrolled in and have completed certain levels of the C.M.A. or C.G.A.
- 90 -
correspondence courses shall be paid a premium rate in addition to their regular rate of pay for all hours worked as follows:
a)	After successful completion of the first year $0.50 per hour.
b)	After successful completion of the second year $1.00 per hour.
c)	After successful completion of the third year $1.50 per hour.
d)	After successful completion of the fourth year $2.00 per hour.
e)	After attainment of C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree $2.50 per hour.
To be eligible for the above-mentioned premium, employees must submit official transcripts of marks from C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree.
It is understood that the premium rate will only be paid if the employee retains employment as an Accounting employee in the Accounting Office.
ARTICLE 22 - PENSIONS
22.01	During the life of this Agreement, the retirement benefits as described in the Company's pamphlet entitled "Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan" will be maintained.
22.02	Effective February 1, 1995, the Pension Plan Summary shall include a monthly pension of thirty-six dollars ($36.00) per month times years of service.
22.03	The monthly pension as determined above will be in addition to any monies a retiree may receive from C.P.P. and Old Age Benefits.
22.04	An employee will be entitled to full vested retirement benefits after ten (10) years of seniority or when the employee's age plus total years of continuous service reach a sum of at least forty-five (45).
- 91 -
Effective January 1, 1996, an employee will be entitled to full vested retirement benefits after two (2) years of seniority or when the employee's age plus total years of continuous service reach a sum of at least forty-five (45).
22.05	While the normal retirement for all employees is age sixty-five (65), all eligible employees after reaching the age of sixty-two (62) shall be entitled to early retirement with no reduction in benefits.
22.06	Credited service for the calculation of retirement benefits shall include all employment time with IMC Canada.
22.07	In addition to the normal survivor protection of the pension determined by personal selection at the time of retirement, the IMC Canada Retirement Plan offers spousal protection in the event of the death of an employee before the employee's pension starts.
22.08	Effective February 1, 1994, if you retire early, your pension will then be reduced by four percent (4%) for each year by which your pension starting date proceeds your sixty-second (62nd) birthday.
ARTICLE 23 - NOTICES
23.01	Any notices required to be made to one party or the other shall be addressed as follows:
To the Company:
IMC Canada
Attention - Industrial Relations Manager Esterhazy, Saskatchewan SOA OXO
To the Union:
Local 892, Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union of Canada (CEP)
Attention - Unit Chairperson
- 92 -
P.O. Box 1509 Esterhazy, Saskatchewan SOA OXO
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Preamble
24.01	The Parties, in recognizing the importance of an active program to promote safety and health in working conditions and practice, have agreed as follows:
24.02	In matters pertaining to Safety and Occupational Health, the Saskatchewan Occupational Health & Safety Act shall be the basic guide in the development of and implementation of a Safety and Occupational Health Program.
24.03	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of employment.
24.04	The Union agrees that careful observance of safe working practices and safety rules is a primary duty of
- 93 -
all employees. The Company agrees that there will be uniform enforcement of such rules among employees in scope and said rules shall be enforced without discrimination among said employees.
24.05	For the continued protection of its employees, the Company retains its right to require any employee to submit to a physical examination at the Company's expense by a Company designated physician at any time or from time to time to determine the fitness of such employee. The Company has the right to utilize the report of the physical examination to aid it in determining whether the employee can perform the employee's duties in a safe and satisfactory manner.
24.06	The Parties agree that safety and health problems be resolved as quickly as practicable.
24.07	It shall be every employee's responsibility, whether in or out of scope, to encourage the use of and to follow the established safety procedures.
Safety and Health Committees
24.08	There shall be established four (4) Safety and Health Committees with Union representation as follows:
a)	K1 and K2 Underground Operations - two (2) employees from K1 and two (2) employees from K2.
b)	K1 and K2 Surface Operations - two (2) employees from K1 and two (2) employees from K2.
The number of Company representatives on the above Committees may be equal to the number of Union
- 94 -
representatives, but in no case shall the number exceed the number of Union representatives.
The Parties shall select their members on each Committee and the persons designated as co-chairpersons of each Committee. There shall be two (2) co-chairpersons for each underground operation. Chairpersonship of each Committee shall alternate on a meeting basis.
When one co-chairperson is acting as chairperson, the other will act as secretary. Each Party may select alternate members for each Committee who may be called to act in the absence of regular Committee members.
24.09	The purpose of the joint Safety and Health Committees shall be:
a)	to consider and review safety and health conditions and complaints and accidents referred to it by employees;
b)	to participate in the identification of safety hazards;
c)	to prepare advisory recommendations thereto;
d)	to maintain records in connection with the receipt and disposition of employee complaints in reference to safety and health matters.
24.10	Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing of the names of its appointees and alternates to the respective Safety and Health Committees. The Parties shall not recognize members of any Committee unless
- 95 -
notice in writing has been given by an authorized official of the other Party.
24.11	There shall be established, by mutual agreement, a set day and time on a bimonthly basis for each Committee to meet and review matters referred to them. All Committee meetings shall be scheduled during regular working hours. An employee shall not suffer loss of regular, straight-time pay for participating in such meetings or other activity referred to hereafter in Accident and Occupational Health Officer Investigations. Prior to leaving their jobs to attend safety and health matters, Committee members must obtain permission from their supervisor.
24.12	Special meetings will be held upon request of either the Company or the Union when a serious accident or fatality occurs.
24.13	Minutes of each Committee meeting signed by both co-chairpersons shall be distributed to respective Committee members and posted on bulletin boards within one (1) week after any meeting.
Procedure
24.14	An employee who believes a matter exists which falls under the jurisdiction of a Safety and Health Committee shall submit the matter in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor. The supervisor will respond in writing to the employee within five (5) calendar days. If the employee is dissatisfied with the supervisor's answer, the employee will then notify a co-chairperson of the Committee for the employee's area of the matter. The matter will then be placed on the agenda for
- 96 -
consideration at the next following meeting of the Committee for the area involved. For the purpose of this article, a steward shall be considered an employee.
24.15	Unresolved matters referred to under 24.14 above shall be discussed at the next Committee meeting for the area concerned, following its submission to a co-chairperson of such Committee. At such meeting, recommendations shall be rendered (if any) as to what should be done with the matter. The matter shall then be taken up at the next meeting of the Committee and the Company shall advise the Committee of what action it has taken or proposes to take, if any, on the matter. If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved at this point in the procedure, the matter shall be referred to the President and Chief Executive Officer of the operation for review and decision.
24.16	If the President and Chief Executive Officer's decision is unsatisfactory or not given in a reasonable time, the matter may then be referred by a co-chairperson of the Committee to an Occupational Health officer for review and/or recommendation.
24.17	It is agreed that reasonable amount of time as used herein is defined as the amount of time needed to analyze and evaluate the matter.
Accidents
24.18	Accidents involving serious injury may be investigated by both co-chairpersons of the Committee for the area involved with a written report submitted to such Committee.
- 97 -
24.19	If an Occupational Health officer requests that the official be accompanied on a investigation of the operation, the co-chairperson of the Committee for the area involved shall accompany the Occupational Health officer.
Refusal
24.20	An employee who refuses to work in an area, as provided for in Section 23 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, shall notify the employee's supervisor immediately.
ARTICLE 25 - CONTRACTING
25.01	So far as practicable with the work force available, normal maintenance, repair and production work which has been done regularly by the Company's own employees will continue to be done by such employees.
25.02	New construction, installation or modification of equipment, major repairs, major maintenance, major overhaul work or other work not regularly done by the Company's own employees may be done by outside contractors.
This clause is not intended to restrict the Company to let contracts when it feels it necessary, economical, or expedient to do so, such as not having the necessary equipment, supervision or employees immediately available with the necessary skills or when peaks of work would require a temporary increase of the Company's forces with subsequent layoff of such forces.
- 98 -
25.03	If it becomes necessary to contract out work as provided for above, the Company agrees to give a written notification of the reasons for such contracting out to a designated representative of the Union prior to the work being performed. If time does not permit, the Company shall notify a Union official and follow with a written notice. In the notification, the Company will give the name of the contractor, the approximate number of personnel involved, the approximate duration and the job to be performed.
25.04	The Company will not cause an employee to be laid off, demoted, terminated or transferred by bringing in outside contractors to perform normal maintenance repair or production work on the plant premises.
ARTICLE 26 - WORK BY SUPERVISORS
26.01	It is recognized that the duties of a supervisor are of a supervisory nature. Accordingly, the supervisors shall not perform work such as that performed by the employees covered by this Agreement except:
a)	In emergencies for protection of Company property and/or the safety and health of employees.
b)	In the direct instruction and direct training of employees.
c)	Work of a research and development nature.
ARTICLE 27 - BULLETIN BOARDS
27.01	The Company will provide the Union bulletin boards in
- 99 -
appropriate places where employees will be able to see and read them. Bulletin boxes supplied by the Union will be affixed in agreed upon locations so that Union bulletins may be distributed.
27.02	Only bulletins authorized by the Local 892 Executive will be posted or distributed. Signed copies of the bulletin will be forwarded to the Industrial Relations Manager as proof of responsibility of the content before posting or distribution by the Union.
27.03	The Union agrees that said notices to be posted or distributed shall not be inflammatory or political.
27.04	The Company and Union agree that the posting or distribution by employees of notices, pamphlets, advertising or political matters will not be sanctioned.
ARTICLE 28 - LEGALITY OF PROVISIONS
28.01	This Agreement shall at all times conform with all applicable laws of the Province of Saskatchewan and/or the Dominion of Canada. If any section or part of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid due to a change in law, the remaining provisions shall be given full force and effect as completely as if the part held invalid had not been included therein.
ARTICLE 29 - COMPLETE AGREEMENT
29.01	It is agreed that this Agreement contains the complete understanding between the Parties for the term of this contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendments or waivers affecting the terms of this
Agreement shall only be discussed by mutual agreement of both Parties. Any agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of such discussion shall become effective upon being reduced to writing and signed by both Parties.
ARTICLE 30 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties from the 1st day of February, 1995, and shall remain in force and effect through the 31st day of January, 1998, and from year to year thereafter, but either Party may, not less than thirty (30) days or not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date hereof, give notice in writing to the other Party to terminate or negotiate revisions to this Agreement.
30.02	At the first meeting for commencement of negotiations, both Parties shall submit, one to the other, in writing, their proposals.
30.03	Negotiations are to commence within thirty (30) days' notice for a revision of this Agreement or for a new Agreement.
ARTICLE 31 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
31.01 In recognition of the spirit and intent of Section 43 of the Trade Union Act, the Parties hereto are providing through the format of this Agreement an orderly procedure to deal with the effect of a technological change within the meaning of the Act. It has also been agreed between the Parties that if, as a result of a technological change within the meaning of the Act, job
classifications are changed, job classifications are combined and/or new job classifications are established, such will be dealt with under the provisions of Article 16, “New or Changed Jobs.”
Interpretation of "significant numbers" in the Trade Union Act shall mean one (1) or more persons in all cases.
31.02	Procedures for the aforementioned are:
1)	Notification
The Company will notify the Union of a technological change at least ninety (90) days prior to the date on which such change is to be effected and such notice shall be in writing and shall state:
a)	the nature of the technological change,
b)	the date upon which the Company proposed to effect the technological change, and
c)	the names, seniority dates and classifications of the employees primarily affected.
2)	Employee Rights
An employee displaced as a result of a technological change will exercise layoff rights under Article 10, “Layoffs.”
3)	Cooperation With Canada Manpower
a) Upon request, the Company will furnish to Canada Manpower the laid-off employee's skills inventory record and other information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced employee in another job with another company.
b) Reductions in work force occasioned through production requirements solely are not subject matter of this article and Section 43 of the Trade Union Act.
Computers
31.03	It is recognized that the use of computers in the offices and work places will continue to grow. It is inevitable that some restructuring of jobs and job descriptions will occur under Article 16. It is not the intention of the Company to make changes associated with computerization which would have as their purpose the replacement of in-scope employees with out-of-scope employees. It is also understood that the use of computers from time to time by out-of-scope employees does not in and by itself constitute the performing of work in the exclusive domain of in-scope employees.
This Agreement shall not have any effect on out-of-scope employees who use computers in the normal course of their job to do work that is normally not done by in-scope employees.
Employee(s) whose jobs are permanently affected by computerization shall be recognized under this article, Technological Change.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 7th day of June, 1995.
On behalf of:	On behalf of:
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892, CLC	INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL (CANADA) GLOBAL LIMITED
Randy Beitel	Julian F. Kopchynski
Lawrence Hozjan	Tom Davies
Brian Ingjaldson	Don Hood
Eola Stevenson	Eric Beaumont
Randy Choptuik	Bill Boyer
Delmar Banga	Brad Nightingale
Jeannette Gelowitz	Denny Roese On behalf of IMC Global Inc.
Dan Valente, CEP Staff Rep
EXHIBIT 1
TOOLS AND CLOTHING
A) Tools
1)	The Company will issue to employees at no cost all tools as required in the opinion of the Company for the performance of work by the employees. Each employee upon being issued tools shall acknowledge receipt of such tools by signing for them.
2)	Tools worn out or defective will be maintained or replaced by the Company.
3)	Tools lost in the line of duty or stolen as determined by the supervisor will be replaced by the Company. Repeated claims by any one employee for replacement of tools will be deemed evidence of negligence and, in such cases, replacement may be denied.
4)	The cost of any tools not returned in good condition, normal wear excepted, upon request of the Company or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the employee.
5)	Any tools not returned shall be paid for by the employee at their reasonable depreciated value and shall become the property of the employee.
6)	Depreciation shall be equal to forty percent (40%) at the end of one (1) year and ten percent (10%) at the end of the second year, but in no event shall a tool have a depreciated value of less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value.
B) Clothing
The Company will supply protective apparel as deemed
necessary to employees on the following basis:
1)	Slickers:	Shaftperson and Cage Tender K1 - Other
employees requiring slickers from time to time will be allowed to use such, through their supervisor upon request - no cost to the employee.
2)	Welder's Sleeves and Welder's Gloves:	Supplied to
welders and those required to weld on exchange basis. No cost to employee.
3)	Prescription Glasses: No more than one (1) pair each year on an exchange basis. If an employee damages the employee's prescription glasses while at work through no negligence on the employee's part and providing repair or replacement of such prescription glasses is not covered by Worker's Compensation, then the Company will repair or replace such prescription glasses. Such prescription glasses shall be regular company issue. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any costs relating in any way to eye examinations (covered under Article 21.02 E), “Vision Care”). The cost of prescription glasses shall be paid by the Company.
4)	Hard Hats, Liners, Suspensions, Goggles, Welder's Hoods: Will be supplied, as deemed necessary by the Company, at no cost to employees.
5)	Parkas: Employees requiring parkas from time to time will be allowed to use such through their supervisor upon request - at no cost to the employee.
6)	Gloves:	Employees will be issued gloves on an
exchange basis at no cost to the employee.
7)	Boots:	During each calendar year, the Company will
supply:
a)	two (2) pairs of safety boots or four (4) pairs of rubber boots or
b)	one (1) pair of safety boots and two (2) pairs of rubber boots
upon completion of the employee's probationary period to those employees requiring such. Boots must be exchanged after initial issue and must be worn out prior to reissuing a new pair. Selection shall be limited to those styles carried in the Company warehouse stock. Employees changing from rubber boots to leather safety boots, during the year, will be deducted for the cost of the original rubber boots.
8)	The above articles of safety apparel or equipment will only be replaced by the Company upon normal wear and tear by the employee through normal usage on the Company premises. The depreciated cost of any of the above articles not returned upon request of the Company or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the employee.
9)	Snowsuits: The Company will maintain a limited supply of snowsuits which will be available through an employee's supervisor in cases of short-term use in emergency situations in extreme weather. The snowsuits must be returned to the supervisor immediately after the specific period of use by the employee.
APPENDIX "A'
Percent Increase				2%	2%	2%	
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.	
Mine Department	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/95	1/96	1/97	
Mine Technician I		17	22.18	22.62	23.07	23.53	
Miner Operator	6110	--					
Alpine Miner Operator	6120						
Mine Technician II		16	21.43	21.86	22.30	22.75	
Hoist Operator	6210	--					
Shaftsperson I	6220	--					
Mine Technician IIA		13	19.60	19.99	20.39	20.80	
Shaftsperson II	6410						
Mine Technician III		12	19.10	19.48	19.87	20.27	
Extensible Belt Operator	6310	--					
Loader Operator	6320	--					
Shuttle Car Operator	6330	--					
Scoop Tram Operator	6340	--					
Cage Tender	6360	--					
Percent Increase				2%	2%	2%	
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.	
Mill Department	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/95	1/96	1/97	
Mill Technician IA		16F	22.18	22.62	23.07	23.53	
Central Control Operator K1	7000	---					
Central Control/Boiler Operator	7010	-					
Central Control Operator K2	7020	---					
Mill Technician I		15	20.99	21.41	21.84	22.28	
U/G Water Pump Operator	7110	--					
XLR Operator K2	7120	--					
XLR Operator K1	7130	--					
Loadout Operator I	7140	--					
HM/Flotation Operator	7150	--					
U/G Water Control Operator	7160	--					
Mill Technician IIA		13	19.60	19.99	20.39	20.80	
Refinery Operator I	7510	--					
Process Operator Area I	7520	--					
Process Operator Area II	7530	--					
Mill Technician II		12	19.10	19.48	19.87	20.27	
Loadout Operator II	7260	--					
Screening Operator K1	7270	--					
Screening Operator K2	7280	--					
Refinery Operator II	7290	--					
Mill Technician III		10	18.33	18.70	19.07	19.45	
Drying Operator	7320	--					
Compacting Operator	7330	--					
Reclaim Operator	7370	--					
Mill Technician IV		8	17.55	17.90	18.26	18.63	
Loadout Operator III	7440	--					
Reagent Mixer	7450	--					
							
						
Percent Increase				2%	2%	2%
Maintenance Department	JOB CODE	PAY GRADE	Previous Rate	FEB. 1/95	FEB. 1/96	FEB. 1/97
Maintenance Technician I Boiler Operator 2nd Class		17D	22.39	22.84	23.30	23.77
with Refrigeration Papers	8010	—					
Journeyman Electrician	8020	—					
Journeyman Auto Mechanic	8030	-					
Journeyman Heavy Duty Repair	8040	-					
Journeyman Machinist	8050	-					
Journeyman Industrial Mechanic	8060	-					
Journeyman Welder	8070	-					
Journeyman Instrumentation	8080	-					
Pressure Welder with Certificate	8090	—					
Maintenance Technician IA		16	21.43	21.86	22.30	22.75	
Boiler Operator 2nd Class	8120	--					
Ground Control Operator I	8130	--					
Maintenance Technician II		15	20.99	21.41	21.84	22.28	
Surface Water Control I	8200	--					
Instrumentation I	8210	--					
Electrician I	8220	--					
Heavy Duty Mechanic I	8230	--					
Boiler Operator 3rd Class	8240	--					
Auto Mechanic I	8250	--					
Machinist I	8260	--					
Mechanic I	8270	--					
Welder I	8280	--					
Electric Motor Rebuild I	8290	--					
Maintenance Technician III		12	19.10	19.48	19.87	20.27	
U/G Belt Construction I	8320	--					
Heavy Duty Mechanic II	8330	--					
Ground Control Operator II	8340	--					
Mechanic II	8360	--					
Welder II	8370	--					
F.R.P. I	8380	--					
Percent Increase				2%	2%	2%	
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.	
Maintenance Depart. (cont'd)	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/95	1/96	1/97	
Maintenance Technician IV		10	18.33	18.70	19.07	19.45	
Mechanic III	8430	--					
F.R.P. II	8440	--					
U/G Belt Construction II	8470	--					
Buildings Repair I	8480	--					
Heavy Duty Mechanic III	8490	--					
Maintenance Technician V		8	17.55	17.90	18.26	18.63	
Mechanic IV	8510						
Buildings Repair II	8520	--					
Heavy Duty Mechanic IV	8530	--					
GENERAL							
Helper (G)	9010	6(G)	16.80	16.80	16.80	16.88	
Helper	9030	6	15.91	16.23	16.55	16.88	
Labourer (G)	9020	3(G)	15.57	15.57	15.57	15.57	
Labourer	9040	3	14.55	14.84	15.14	15.44	
							
Office & Technical						
Journeyman Mechanical Draftsperson	2010	36	22.39	22.84	23.30	23.77
Journeyman Electrical Draftsperson	2020	--				
Metallurgical Technician	2110	35	21.58	22.01	22.45	22.90
Mine Technician	2140	--				
Laboratory Technician	2150	--				
Inventory Control	2130	34	20.99	21.41	21.84	22.28
Mechanical Draftsperson I	2160	--				
Electrical Draftsperson I	2170	--				
Percent Increase				2%	2%	2%	
	JOB	PAY	Previous	FEB.	FEB.	FEB.	
Office & Technical (cont'd)	CODE	GRADE	Rate	1/95	1/96	1/97	
Rock Mechanic Analyst	2320	33	19.44	19.83	20.23	20.63	
Surface Water Control Technician	2330	--					
Laboratory Operator I	2210	--	19.43				
Mine Technician II	2220	--					
Cost Accountant	2610	--	18.39	19.32			
Mechanical Draftsperson II	2230	32	19.10	19.48	19.87	20.27	
Electrical Draftsperson II	2240	--					
Surveyor I	2310	31	18.95	19.33	19.72	20.11 |	
Warehouse I	2510	30	18.84	19.22	19.60	19.99 |	
Laboratory Operator II	2410	29	18.72	19.09	19.47	19.86 |	
Mechanical Draftsperson III	2520	27	18.31	18.68	19.05	19.43	
Electrical Draftsperson III	2530	--					
General Accounting Clerk	2720	--	17.26	18.17			
Surveyor II	2810	26	17.30	17.65	18.00	18.36 |	
Industrial Relations Clerk - MSDS	2730	25	17.26	17.61	17.96	18.32 |	
Warehouse II	2750	24	17.21	17.55	17.90	18.26	
Warehouse Dispatch	2770	--					
General Clerk	2710	23	16.77	17.34	17.69	18.04 |	
Accounts Payable Clerk	2910	22	15.14	15.81	16.13	16.45	
Keypunch Operator I	2920	--					
Clerk Typist	2930	--	14.54				
Keypunch Operator II	3010	21	14.54	14.83	15.13	15.43	
Switchboard Operator	3110	20	14.49	14.78	15.08	15.38	
APPENDIX B
K1 MILL DEPARTMENT
LABOURER
□ Progressions Jobs
APPENDIX B
K2 MILL DEPARTMENT
.ABOURER
|	| Progression Jobs
APPENDIX B
MINE DEPARTMENT
APPENDIX B WATER RECOVERY
APPENDIX C
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
A)	Purpose
The purpose of the Program is to provide a means of training and developing tradesperson of the highest calibre for IMC Canada, further to provide environment and incentive which will assist employees to achieve their maximum potential.
The Program is recognized as requiring the active participation of the Company and the Union, the employee and various levels of government.
B)	Coverage
The Program will cover trades designated as necessary or advisable by the Company.
The number of apprentices required for each trade and number of apprentices at each level within each trade shall be determined from time to time by the Company. The Company will inform the Union of changes in the number of apprentices at each level of each trade. However, once an employee is accepted in the Plan, the employee will be allowed to progress through the full apprenticeship subject to the provisions of this Program or the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
C)	General
1)	Standards for entry in the Program shall be determined by the Company in accordance with the provisions of Article 9, “Seniority.”
Any interviews or examinations in relation to an employee's entry into the Apprenticeship Program or interviews while in the Program will be done on Company time with no loss of pay. Any preliminary tests conducted by the Company shall only be in
relation to the employee's aptitude for the employee's particular trade. The Union may have a representative to peruse the content of the type of tests used.
2)	The Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour shall determine at what level an applicant fits into the Apprenticeship Program and that is the level at which an applicant will be placed.
3)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall execute an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour.
4)	No employee in the Maintenance Department not participating in the Apprenticeship Program will be denied promotion, laid off, or terminated as a result of the Company posting for an opening in the Apprenticeship Program.
An employee bidding into the Apprenticeship Program in a trade currently being held by said employee shall retain the employee's rate if it is higher until the employee's apprenticeship rate surpasses it, at which time the employee shall progress to the higher rate.
In the event a maintenance employee enters into the Apprenticeship Program and is subsequently removed from the Plan in accordance with this Agreement and the employee's apprenticeship rate is higher than the employee's rate prior to bidding, the employee will revert
back to the employee's old job title and applicable rate of pay.
5)	Employees accepted into the Program will enter into a preliminary agreement of apprenticeship with the Company for a period of three (3) months. Such agreement will be registered with the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch. If, at the end of the aforementioned three- (3) month preliminary period both the employee and the Company are satisfied to continue the agreement of apprenticeship, a contract or indenture will be made and registered with the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch.
The three- (3) month period shall start at the time the employee is transferred into the Program. However, such transfer must take place within thirty (30) calendar days after being awarded the job.
6)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall execute an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour, provided that where the terms of the contract provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour differ from the terms set out in this article, the terms of the Agreement shall govern.
7)	Rates of Pay:
Apprentice 4 (B)	..0 - 6 Months
..equivalent to Helper rate.
Apprentice 4 (A)	..6 - 12 Months
.. equivalent to Maintenance
Tech. V rate.
Apprentice 3		12 - 24 Months	
		 equivalent to Tech. IV rate.	Maintenance
Apprentice 2		24 - 36 Months	
		 equivalent to Tech. III rate.	Maintenance
Apprentice 1		36 - 48 Months	
		 equivalent to Tech. II rate.	Maintenance
8)	The basis of the pay schedules in (7) is that after the introductory period (Apprentice 4 level) an apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having the required months of experience and after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch. In the event the employee attends school before the employee's apprenticeship anniversary date and passes, the employee shall only receive the increased rate when the employee has the required time and conversely if the employee attends school after the employee's apprenticeship anniversary date, the employee shall be paid retroactively to the employee's anniversary date upon successfully completing school.
9)	The Company will schedule an approved leave of absence for an apprentice to go to the appropriate technical institute as approved by the Apprentice Branch.
10)	An apprentice who attends the required training course shall be entitled to receive from the Company an amount equal to the difference between what the apprentice would have received on a straight-time basis for each
day the apprentice would normally have worked during this period if not attending the training course and what the apprentice receives from any provincial or federal government department or agency by way of a basic living allowance for each day that the apprentice is in attendance at the training school, provided, however, that if an apprentice is absent from training school on a day on which the apprentice is required to attend, then in such case the apprentice shall not be entitled to be paid under the Collective Agreement. "Living Away From Home" and "Travelling" allowances paid by the government will not be taken into consideration when calculating the amount of make-up pay to which the employee is entitled from IMC Canada.
Notwithstanding the above, where an apprentice has failed the required examinations at any one level and the apprentice repeats same, the apprentice shall receive no pay difference from the Company for repeating such course at that level.
11)	An apprentice may be removed from the training program by the Company or upon request of the employee and the employee's apprenticeship contract cancelled at any time during the three- (3) month preliminary period, and if the apprentice was prior to the apprentice's entrance into the Apprenticeship Program a member of the bargaining unit, the employee shall be returned to the job classification that the employee was in prior to the employee's entry in the Apprenticeship Program.
12)	An apprentice who has completed the probationary period may be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and the apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
a)	Just cause.
b)	If an apprentice fails to take the training course when the apprentice is scheduled to take same, provided that the apprentice's failure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond the apprentice's control.
c)	If an apprentice fails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
In the event of an employee being removed from the Apprenticeship Program, the employee will be returned to the job classification the employee was in prior to the time of the employee's entry into the Apprenticeship Program.
13)	Progression to journeyman status shall take place and the employee will be paid the journeyman rate of pay when the employee successfully completes the apprenticeship and/or presents the employee's certificate to the Industrial Relations Department of the Company.
14)	For all employees enrolled in the Apprenticeship Program, the Company shall reimburse an employee for driving the employee's own automobile at the rate of twelve cents ($0.12) per kilometer to cover one round trip from Esterhazy to the appropriate apprenticeship school on the basis of once per session.
All articles of this Plan shall be considered as part of the Collective Agreement between IMC Canada and Local 892.
A G R E E M E N T between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL (CANADA) GLOBAL LIMITED Esterhazy, Saskatchewan and
LOCAL 892 of
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION
_____________Esterhazy, Saskatchewan______
INDIVIDUAL SECURITY ACCOUNT PLAN
Purpose
The Individual Security Account Plan is designed to assist employees of the Company during times of layoff to allow them to withdraw from their Individual Security Accounts a weekly amount which would supplement their Unemployment Insurance benefits. The Plan will also allow the employee to contribute to a tax-sheltered registered retirement savings plan all contributions over the minimum amount required in each Individual Security Account.
Contributions
Effective February 1,	1995, each employee shall
contribute an amount of seventy cents (700) and effective
February 1, 1996, each employee shall contribute an amount of seventy-five cents (750) and effective February 1, 1997, each employee shall contribute eighty cents (800) for all hours paid (exclusive of overtime), and the Company shall match the contribution made by the employee. The Individual Security Account of each employee shall accumulate until a minimum of one thousand, five hundred dollars ($1,500) is established. After each employee account reaches the $1,500 level, all contributions to the fund shall be placed in a registered retirement savings plan for the employee on a tax-sheltered basis.
Contributions from the employee will be by payroll deduction each pay period and will be matched by the Company on the same basis. No part of the Company's contribution under the Plan shall be recoverable by the Company.
Employees will be allowed to contribute amounts over and above the matched contributions.
Trustee
a)	All contributions to each employee's Security Account will be paid to the Trustee. The Trustee will hold such contributions and interest earned thereon as a separate trust estate for the exclusive benefit of each employee.
b)	The Trustee may invest funds. Funds in the Individual Security Accounts may be co-mingled with each other and with those under any similar plan or plans and treated as a consolidated fund for investment
purposes.
c) The Trustee shall credit net earnings from such investments to the employee's Individual Security Accounts in proportion to the balance in his account from time to time as interest is allocated.
d) The Trustee, or its duly authorized agent, shall manage and administer the Trust. The Trustee shall have the right to use the Company or any of its employees as its agent. In addition to the powers and duties specified in the Plan, the Trustee shall have such powers and duties as may be provided in the Trust Agreement.
e)	As soon as is practicable after January 1st of each year, the Trustee shall furnish each employee with a statement of the balance in his Security Account as of December 31st of the preceding year.
Cost of Administration
The Trustee shall be paid such reasonable compensation as shall from time to time be agreed upon by the Company and the Trustee. All expenses of the Trust, including reasonable legal fees and the compensation of the Trustee, and all taxes of any nature whatsoever including interest and penalties assessed against or imposed upon the Trustee or the fund or the income thereof shall be paid out of the interest earnings of the employees' Security Accounts and shall constitute a charge upon this Security Account.
Benefits
a)	An employee shall be an "eligible employee" to
receive
payment from his Security Account for each week he is on layoff provided that the layoff is for a period of a minimum of seven (7) days in that week, due to his being laid off by the Company. Layoff does not include absences from work for disciplinary reasons, strikes, shutdowns, slowdowns, work stoppages, walkouts, lockouts or any other form of work stoppage nor does it include any absences from work due to sickness, injury or leave of absence for any other reason.
b)	Requests for payments by eligible employees from the Individual Security Account shall be made to the Trustee, in writing, on the prescribed form. Each payment shall be in an amount of one hundred dollars ($100) for each week of benefit, unless the balance remaining in the employee's Individual Security Account is less than one hundred dollars ($100). The benefit of one hundred dollars ($100) shall constitute one week of supplementary benefit to Unemployment Insurance and the benefit shall be paid every second week.
c)	An employee shall be an "eligible employee" only if he is a full-time, active employee on the day prior to the layoff taking place or is otherwise entitled to receive Unemployment Insurance benefits (U.I.C.) due to disability insurance expiring during the term of his layoff period.
Final Settlement of Security Accounts
All funds in an employee's Security Account shall be paid within three (3) months:	a) to the employee upon
retirement, b) to the employee in the event of his employment being terminated or c) upon the employee's
death, to the beneficiary named in the written designation filed with the Trustee prior to payment or if no such designation is in effect, to the employee's estate. Each employee may file with the Trustee a written designation in the form prescribed by the Trustee of the beneficiary to receive payment from his Security Account in the event of his death.
Deductions
Deductions for purposes such as income tax, which must be made from an employee's weekly pay, shall be made from the amount paid by the Company and the employee at the source of contribution for each hour such funds are contributed to the Individual Security Account. However, if the Company at any time determines that by reason of any federal, provincial or municipal law or regulation the Company shall be required to make deductions from the contributions to the employee's Security Account, the Company shall have the right to make such deduction and pay only the balance to that Account. In the event an amount is withheld from a contribution to the employee's Security Account by reason of any such law or regulation, the Trustee shall credit the Account only with the balance remaining after that deduction.
Registered Retirement Savings Plan
All amounts credited to a registered retirement savings plan shall be made in the name of the employee and such employee shall receive a statement of the amount in the registered retirement savings account as of December 31st of each year. The employee shall be entitled under
the laws of the federal and provincial governments to tax shelter the amount on the statement of his registered retirement savings plan for that current year.
Miscellaneous
a)	Contributions made to the Security Account shall not be included in the base rates for the calculation of benefits and shall not be considered in computing premium pays, shift premiums, or any other payment.
b)	No right to the amounts in an employee's Individual Security Account shall be subject in any manner to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, or encumbrance of any kind and in any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise encumber any such benefit, whether presently or thereafter payable. Any attempt or arrangement to do so shall be void.
c)	Any question concerning the administration of the Plan shall be settled exclusively by the Company.
d)	The Company, by payment of its contributions or amounts provided under this Plan, will be relieved of any further liability and benefits hereunder shall be payable only from the employees' Security Accounts.
e)	The reference of the person being he or his in the male gender shall be understood to include and mean she or hers in the female gender.
f)	An employee shall mean an active, full-time employee of the Company who has completed his probationary period and who has attained seniority within the
meaning of the provisions of the Collective Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement do not apply to summer students or part-time employees.
g)	The Company shall mean International Minerals & Chemical (Canada) Global Limited, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, Canada.
h)	The Union shall mean Local 892 of Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union.
i)	Employees who are off work during an approved Union leave of absence shall have the combined or total contributions to their respective Accounts deducted from their paycheck during the term of such Union leave of absence.
This Agreement shall not be renegotiated nor shall any of the provisions be amended without the mutual consent of the Union and Management during the period of this Agreement. The period of this Agreement shall be for three (3) years from the date of signing and shall expire at midnight on the 31st day of January, 1998.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan this 7th day of June, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
ISAP PLAN AMENDMENT
An employee on LTD for more than a full calendar year earns interest income from the money invested in the sub plan ($1,500). Interest earned gets rolled over to an RRSP annually. In most cases an employee on LTD is not eligible to roll over money into an RRSP because money earned on LTD is not considered to be "earned income."
The question has been raised that, if an employee is on LTD and/or is not expected to ever return to work, then the affected employee should have the option of withdrawing all money from the ISAP sub plan.
Therefore, by agreement between the Company and Union, an employee may withdraw all ISAP funds subject to the following conditions:
1)	The employee must be on the LTD plan for a period of not less than twenty-four months.
and/or
2)	The employee submits a doctor's note stating the employee is not expected to ever return to work at IMC Canada.
This amendment will apply to any employee who has no "earned income" for the periods stated above, such as being on LTD.
This amendment does not apply to any employee on short-term disability.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 31st day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
892	CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
With reference to the Rules of Conduct and Standards of Discipline, the Parties agree that Clause 2 (e) shall be amended as follows:
e) i) Each violation of a minor offence will be carried on an employee's record for a period of eight (8) months, after which period the offence shall not be considered for future disciplinary purposes.
ii)	Each violation of a major offence will be carried on an employee's record for a period of twelve (12) months, after which period the offence shall not be considered for further disciplinary purposes.
iii)	Each violation of an intolerable offence will be carried on an employee's record for a period of eighteen (18) months, after which period the offence shall not be considered for future disciplinary purposes.
The above shall in no way restrict the right of the Company to discharge any employee at any time for just cause.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 11th day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
892	CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
With regard to Leaves of Absence for Union Conventions, the Parties agree as follows:
That Leaves of Absence for Union Conventions will be granted
without restrictions for the following on the formula set out below:
a)	Saskatchewan Federation of Labour Convention (yearly)
b)	Canadian Labour Congress Convention (bi-yearly)
c)	O.C.A.W. International Convention (bi-yearly)
d)	C.E.P. National Convention (yearly)
e)	C.E.P. Area Council Meeting (quarterly)
f)	Health and Safety Convention (yearly)
5 employees 3 employees 2 employees 8 employees 8 employees 5 employees
It is understood and agreed that not more than one (1) employee, per classification, will be on leave of absence at any one (1) time.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 11th day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
The Parties agree that when an employee is the successful bidder to a temporary job posting as per Article 9.08(e), the following job classifications will require ninety (90) days in order to be deemed qualified:
•	Rock Mechanics Analyst
•	Surface Water Control Technician
•	Cost Accountant
•	General Accounting Clerk
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 11th day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
UNION COMMITTEES
The Parties agree to the addition of one Union employee from the Water Department who will become a member of the following Union Committees:
Third Step Committee Union Management Committee OH&S Co-Chair Negotiating Committee
It is further agreed that should the Water Department cease to exist, then the Union Committee representative from this department will no longer be required.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 31st day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
CANADA
892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
In relation to the interpretation of Section 14.07 (1) of Article 14 and any other provision that may otherwise relate to the above, the Parties have agreed as follows:
Where an individual employee has been affected by a shift change, the employee shall be allowed to work on the previous week's days of rest. Where a crew is affected by a shift change, they will not be entitled to work on their previous week's days of rest.
This agreement shall in no way override the provisions of 14.07
(2).
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 31st day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
If a 5 & 2 employee is scheduled to temporarily work night shift and is then changed back to day shift due to unforeseen circumstances in such a way that the employee misses a shift during that work week, then the employee will be paid eight (8) hours' pay at straight-time rates for the missed shift.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 31st day of January, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
TEMPORARY LABOUR POOL
(1)	The Company shall establish a labour pool comprised of temporary employees who will be used to cover absences due to vacations, sickness, maternity leave, union leave, education leave, jury duty or training.
(2)	Temporary employees will form a separate group for the purposes of accumulating their own seniority which will be different from the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement. Seniority will be determined by the number of hours a temporary employee actually works. The temporary employee with the most hours worked will be the senior employee.
(3)	The senior temporary employee will have the right to be asked first to work the available hours of work to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
(4)	Temporary employees will, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union and will pay union dues calculated at 1.32 percent of each hour worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
- Page 2 -
(5)	Temporary employees will be paid the established rate of pay for the job which they occupy and will be entitled to receive certain prorated benefits as per the specific agreement between the parties.
(6)	Temporary employees will not be employed during periods of vacation shutdown or any period of layoff.
(7)	The normal procedure for filling a temporary vacancy under ninety (90) days above the level of labourer will be to move the employee next in the flow of progression to fill the vacancy. After this procedure has exhausted itself, the vacancies left to be filled will be at the labourer level. These vacancies will then be filled from the temporary employee labour pool.
(8)	The temporary labour pool will not exceed twelve (12) in number.
BENEFITS
(1)	During a temporary employee's probationary period (480 hours), the Company will provide life insurance and AD&D in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5000). After the probationary period has been completed, the amount of life insurance and AD&D will increase to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000).
(2)	Vacation will be accumulated at the rate of one and one-quarter (1%) days for every one hundred and seventy-four (174) hours worked.
(3)	Temporary employees will be allowed to accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (%) day paid sick leave for
Page 3 -
every one hundred and seventy-four (174) hours worked. Other than this sick leave accumulation, there will be no other sick leave entitlements.
(4)	Temporary employees will be permitted to take maternity or parental leave as per the Collective Agreement or the law. While on such leave, seniority will be maintained but not accumulated.
(5)	Temporary employees will be provided with prescription safety glasses which they may retain for personal use.
(6)	Temporary employees will be entitled to funeral leave for scheduled shifts only.
(7)	Temporary employees will only become entitled to medical and dental benefits upon completion of seven hundred and eighty (780) hours of work in one fiscal year. The employee must work a minimum of seven hundred and eighty (780) hours in the previous fiscal year in order to maintain eligibility for medical and dental benefits.
(8)	This Letter of Understanding may be terminated by either party giving the other ninety (90) calendar days' written notice to terminate this Letter.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 2nd day of February,
1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 892
RE: JOB EVALUATION/PAY EQUITY
The Parties agree to explore the possibilities of introducing job evaluation and pay equity programs into the Company's operations at Esterhazy.
The Parties will meet and discuss the concepts involved and, if there is mutual advantages to proceeding further, the Parties will agree on the most effective steps to be taken to proceed further.
If at any stage of the discussion the Union representatives or Company representatives decide not to proceed further, this letter of agreement will expire on receipt of written notice by either the Union or Company representatives.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 2nd day of February, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
RE: SPLIT VACATION SHUTDOWN - K1/K2
When production conditions change in order to meet market requirements, the Company, after discussions with the Union, will have the option of splitting the vacation shutdown periods in such a way that K1
will take a different vacation shutdown period than K2.
Vacation shutdowns will be taken as per Article 18.15.
It is understood, that in splitting vacation shutdown periods, both K1 and K2 will take equal vacation time off. One will not be treated differently from the other except that the vacation shutdown dates will be different.
There will be no bumping or temporary transfer of employees allowed during split vacation periods.
The Parties agree to meet in advance of any split vacation shutdown period to discuss how the split vacation shutdown can be accomplished with a minimum of disruption.
This Letter of Understanding may be terminated by either party giving written notice to the other, provided that this Letter of Understanding cannot be terminated until at least one completed split vacation period has occurred.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 3rd day of February, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
892	CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
PENSION COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to form a joint pension committee whose objective will be to meet during the term of the Agreement to
discuss pension-related issues.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 6th day of April, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL 892
ON BEHALF OF IMC CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
GRANDFATHERED EMPLOYEES
The grandfathered helper/labourer rates of pay have been frozen for the term of the 1995-1998 Collective Agreement.
The parties agree, that notwithstanding the helper/labourer rates of pay being frozen, certain named employees as agreed to between the Company and the Union will receive wage increases of 2 percent February 1, 1995; February 1, 1996; and February 1, 1997.
Should any of the named employees become successful bidders to any permanent posting, the provisions of this Agreement will no longer apply to that individual. Further, if the named employees are bumped out of their current helper classification, this Agreement will no longer apply to that individual.
The parties have agreed to the following named employees:
#4370	T. Wirl	Helper
#5302	R. Choptuik	Helper
#5349	M. Ulmer	Helper
#5411
D. Herperger
Helper
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 17th day of April, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
892	CANADA
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL (CANADA) GLOBAL LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
It is agreed and understood that any numbering and punctuation changes made in the Agreement are made for grammatical purposes only and do not change the purpose and/or intent of the Agreement.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 31st day of May, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
CANADA
892
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 892
HARASSMENT
(Personal or Sexual)
The Company and Union agree that each employee has a fundamental right to work in any area of the Company's operations in such a way as to be free from any form of harassment, either personal or sexual.
Any employee who feels that harassment has occurred is invited to report any incident immediately to any Company or Union representative. All inquiries or incidents re harassment will be treated in the strictest of confidence.
There will be no adverse consequences to any individual as a result of submitting or filing a sincere complaint regarding personal or sexual harassment.
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, this 1st day of March, 1995.
ON BEHALF OF CEP, LOCAL	ON BEHALF OF IMC
CANADA
892
SUBJECT
- INDEX -
(By Subject)
PAGE
Acting/Temporary Foremen ............
Annual Vacations ....................
Apprenticeship Program ..............
Arbitration .........................
Benefits (See also Benefits Handbook)
•	Dental ......................
•	Long-Term Disability ........
•	Pensions ....................
•	Reserving Sick Pay ..........
•	Short-Term Disability .......
•	Sick Pay ....................
•	Vision Care .................
Bulletin Boards .....................
Complete Agreement ..................
Contracting .........................
Designated Holidays .................
(Article 9.05 b)) ..................... 18
(Article 18) .......................... 71
(Appendix C) ............................. 119
(Article 12) .......................... 53
(Article 21.02 D)) .................... 88
(Article 21.02 B)) .................... 87
(Article 22) .......................... 91
(Article 21.01) ....................... 86
(Article 21.02 A)) .................... 86
(Article 20) .......................... 82
(Article 21.02 E)) .................... 89
(Article 27) .......................... 99
(Article 29) ............................. 100
(Article 25) .......................... 98
(Article 17) .......................... 68
Human Rights ............................ (Article 2) ..................... 7
Duration of Agreement ................... (Article 30) .................... 101
- i -
SUBJECT
PAGE
Employee Benefits .............
Grievance Procedure ...........
Holidays ......................
Hours of Work .................
•	Changes in Shift Schedules
•	Reporting Pay ............
•	Shift Relief .............
•	Shift Schedules ..........
•	Starting Times ...........
(Article 21) ............................. 85
(Article 11) ............................. 47
(Article 17) ............................. 68
(Article 14) ............................. 55
(Article 14.06 ........................... 56
Article 14.07) ........................... 57
(Article 14.23) .......................... 63
(Article 14.24) .......................... 64
(Article 14.06 ........................... 56
Article 14.07) ........................... 57
(Article 14.08) .......................... 58
Individual Security Account Plan
125
Job Posting and Bidding .....
•	Conditions ............
•	General ...............
•	Posting ...............
•	When Required .........
Layoffs .....................
•	Downsizing ............
•	General ...............
•	Notice (Permanent Layoff)
•	Notice (Temporary Layoff)
•	Permanent .............
•	Recalls ...............
•	Severance Pay .........
(Article 9) .............................. 16
(Article 9.09)	....................... 23
(Article 9.11)	....................... 24
(Article 9.08)	....................... 20
(Article 9.07)	....................... 20
(Article 10) ............................. 29
(Article 10.01	C)) ..................... 42
(Article 10.01) .......................... 30
(Article 10.01	A)1)) ................. 30
(Article 10.01	B)1)2)) ............... 40
(Article 10.01	A)) .................. 30
(Article 10.01	A)5)) ................. 37
(Article 10.01 A)3) ................... 33
Article 10.01 D)3)) ................... 47
- ii -
SUBJECT
PAGE
Layoffs (Continued)
•	Temporary ..
•	Unplanned ..
Leave of Absence
•	Educational .
•	Funeral ....
•	General .....
•	Jury ........
•	Maternity ...
•	Personal ....
•	Public Office
•	Sick ........
• Union
• Witness
Legality of Provisions
(Article 10.01 B)) ...................... 39
(Article 10.01 D)) ...................... 46
(Article 19) ............................ 75
(Article 19.15) ......................... 81
(Article 19.11 ............................. 79
Article 19.12 ............................. 80
Article 19.13) ............................ 80
(Article 19.16 .......................... 81
Article 19.17) .......................... 82
(Article 19.09 ........................ 78
Article 19.10) ......................... 78
(Article 19.14) ......................... 80
(Article 19.01 .......................... 75
Article 19.02) ............................ 76
(Article 19.18) ......................... 82
(Article 19.03 .......................... 76
Article 19.04 ............................. 76
Article 19.05) ......................... 76
(Article 19.06 .......................... 77
Article 19.07 ............................. 77
Article 19.08) ......................... 78
(Article 19.09 .......................... 78
Article 19.10) ............................ 78
(Article 28) .......................... 100
Letters of Understanding
•	5&2 Employees Temporary Night Shift ......................... 138
• Grandfathered Employees ....................................... 145
•	Harassment ..................................... See inside cover
•	ISAP Plan Amendment ......................................... 132
• Job Evaluation/Pay Equity ..................................... 142
- iii -
Letters of Understanding (Continued)
•	Numbering & Punctuation Changes .................................. 146
•	Pension Committee ................................................ 144
•	Rules of Conduct ................................................. 133
•	Shift Change - Individual vs Crew ................................ 137
•	Split Vacation Shutdown .......................................... 143
•	Temporary Job Postings ........................................... 135
•	Temporary Labour Pool ............................................ 139
•	Union Committees ................................................. 136
SUBJECT
PAGE
• Union Conventions ............................................... 134
Lines of Progression 			 (Appendix B) 			 113
Management Rights 			 (Article 4) 			 8
New or Changed Jobs 			 (Article 16) 			 67
No Strike - No Lockout 			 (Article 13) 			 54
Notices 			 (Article 23) 			 92
Overtime 			 (Article 14) 			 55
• Callout 			 (Article 14.21 			 62
	Article 14.22 			 63
	Article 14.25) 			 64
• Distribution 			 (Article 14.18 			 61
	Article 14.19 			 62
	Article 14.20) 			 62
• Meals 			 (Article 14.16) 			 60
• Pay 			 (Article 14.09 			 58
	Article 14.10)			 59
• Pyramiding 			 (Article 14.11) 			 59
• Scheduled 			 (Article 14.13) 			 59
• Transportation 			 (Article 14.17) 			 61
- iv -
SUBJECT
PAGE
Overtime (Continued) • Unscheduled 			 (Article 14.14 			 60
	Article 14.15) 			 60
Pensions 			 (Article 22) 			 91
Postings and Bidding 			 (Article 9.07 			 20
	Article 9.08 			 20
	Article 9.09 			 23
	Article 9.11) 			 24
Premiums 			 (Article 15) 			 66
• Blasting 			 (Article 15.01 b)) 			 66
• Lead Hand 			 (Article 15.01 c)) 			 66
• Shift 			 (Article 15.02 			 66
	Article 15.03) 			 66
Probationary Period 			 (Article 9.03) 			 16
Promotions 			 (Article 9.10 			 23
	Article 9.11) 			 24
Purpose 			 (Article 1) 			 7
Qualifications 			 (Article 9.02 			 16
	Article 10.01 A)4)7) 			 35
	Article 10.01 B)2)7) 			 42
	Article 10.01 C)2)5)) 			 44
Renewal of Certificates 			 (Article 14.26) 			 65
Safety & Health 			 (Article 24) 			 93
• Accidents 			 (Article 24.18 			 97
	Article 24.19) 			 98
- v -
SUBJECT
PAGE
Safety & Health (Continued)
• Accidents 			 (Article 24.12) 			 96
• Committees 			 (Article 24.08 			 94
	Article 24.09 			 95
	Article 24.10) 			 95
• Meetings 			 (Article 24.11 			 96
	Article 24.12 			 96
	Article 24.13) 			 96
• Preamble 			 (Article 24.01) 			 93
• Procedure 			 (Article 24.14 			 96
	Article 24.15 			 97
	Article 24.16 			 97
	Article 24.17) 			 97
• Refusal to Work 			 (Article 24.20) 		
• Responsibility 			 (Article 24.07) 			 94
Scope 			 (Article 3) 			 7
Seniority 			 (Article 9) 			 16
• Definition 			 (Article 9.01) 			 16
• Floating Maintenance Crew 			 (Article 9.19) 			 28
• General 			 (Article 9.18) 			 27
• Lists 			 (Article 9.06) 			 19
• Loss of 			 (Article 9.04) 			 17
• Probationary Period 			 (Article 9.03) 			 16
• Transferring of Labourers/Helpers 			 (Article 9.20) 			 28
Special Time Off With Pay 			 (Article 20) 			 82
• Accumulation 			 (Article 20.01) 			 82
• Commencement of Pay 			 (Article 20.03) 			 84
• Designated Holiday 			 (Article 20.07) 			 85
• Medical Proof 			 (Article 20.06) 			 85
98
- vi -
SUBJECT
PAGE
Special Time Off With Pay (Continued)
•	Not Entitled ...................... (Article 20.08)
•	Taken for ......................... (Article 20.02)
Statutory Holidays ..................... (Article 17) ..
Student Employment ..................... (Article 9.21) ..
Technological Change ................... (Article 31) ..
Temporary/Acting Foremen ............... (Article 9.05 b))
Temporary Labour Pool .................. (LOA) .........
Temporary Vacancies/Assignments ........ (Article 9.12 ...
Article 9.13 ....
Article 9.14 ....
Article 9.15 ....
Article 9.16) ..
Tools and Clothing ........................ (Exhibit 1) .....
Trades I/Journeyman ....................... (Article 9.17) ..
Transfer from Bargaining Unit ............. (Article 9.05 a))
Union Committees .......................... (Article 8) .....
Union Dues ................................ (Article 7) .....
Union Recognition ......................... (Article 5) .....
Union Security ............................ (Article 6) .....
- vii -
85
83
68
29
101
18
139
25
26
26
26
27
105
27
18
12
10
10
10
SUBJECT
PAGE
Vacations ................
Vacation Shutdown ........
Wage Rates ...............
Wages and Shift Premiums Work by Supervisors ......
(Article 18) .......................... 71
(Article 18.15) ....................... 74
(Appendix A) ........................ 108
(Article 15) .......................... 66
(Article 26) .......................... 99
- viii -