I ..	- AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CONNORS DRILLING LTD.
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7288
Effective: June 1, 2005 until May 31,2008
1
1
2
2
2
3
4
4
6
8
9
10
11
11
11
11
12
12
INDEX
Definition and Recognition
Term of Agreement
Management
No Discrimination
Shifts and Working Hours
Overtime
Safety Devices
Statutory Holidays
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure
Group Insurance Plan and Health Coverage
Leave of Absence for Union Business
Wages
Annual Vacation Bulletin Boards Union Security Union Membership Townsite Northern Allowance Transportation
Promotions, Transfers, Lay-offs & Rehiring
This Agreement made this 1st day of June, 2005
Between
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7288, Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada (hereinafter called “the Union”) party of the first part
And
CONNORS DRILLING LTD,
(hereinafter called “the Company”) party of the second part
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Company and the Union to promote and maintain harmonious industrial relations between the Company and its employees.
Now, therefore, this agreement witnesses that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1,00	The company agrees to recognize and bargain with the Union as the
exclusive bargaining agency for those employees of the Company in the Northwest Territories working as diamond drillers and driller’s helpers and excluding shop employees, camp staff, office staff, foremen and persons above the rank of foreman. The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agency for the said employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2 -TERM OF AGREEMENT
2.01	This agreement shall remain in effect from its effective date, the 1 st day of June, 2005 to May 31, 2008,
2.02	Either party may, within a period of three (3) months immediately preceding May 31, 2008, by notice in writing, advise the other party of its intention to commence collective bargaining.
Page 2
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENT
3.00	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and vary from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by employees, providing the rules and regulations are not in conflict with the provisions of the agreement.
3.01	Nothing in this Agreement shall oblige the Company continue to carry on operations which it may from time to time decide to discontinue.
3.02	The Company reserves the right to hire, discipline, demote or discharge employees for proper cause.
3.03	The selection of the working bosses and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the decision of the Company.
3.04	The Company will furnish monthly to the Union a list showing new hires (including home addresses), transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, recalls and terminations of employment during the previous month and the effective dates. Copies of these lists will be forwarded to the Union by the 15 th day of the following month.
ARTICLE 4 -	DISCRIMINATION
4.00	The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination because of membership or non-membership in the Union, or because of race, creed, colour, national origin or political beliefs.
ARTICLE 5 -	SHIFTS AND WORKING HOURS
5.00	Hours of Work The operations of the Company shall be deemed to fall into two (2) categories, namely Underground and Surface operations.
Underground: In all underground operations, eight (8) hours work from collar to collar shall constitute a day’s working shift.
Surface: In all surface operations, eight (8) hours work at the drill site shall constitute a day’s working shift.
5.01
5.02
5.03
ARTICLE 6 6.00
6.01
Four Hours Pay
Page 3
Any employee who reports for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report will be guaranteed four (4) hour’s pay at his regular hourly rate.
Also, an employee who commences work and is laid off before completing four (4) hour’s work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate.
Temporary Change of Occupation
An employee shall not refuse to perform work which is outside his classification, but for any such work, he shall be paid a higher rate of pay if the work he performs is of a higher classification than his normal work and shall not, in any event, be paid a lower hourly rate than his standard classification.
Shift Differential
A premium of fifty (50) cents per hour shall be paid to all employees who are working a shift other than the regular day shift.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate, the expression “regular day shift” shall have the meaning attributed to it in accordance with the Company’s present practice.
The Company will pay the above mentioned shift premium as a separate allowance based on the hours worked for those shifts other then the regular day shift.
OVERTIME
In all underground operations, all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any single twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for .atthe rate of one and one-half (l'/2) times the basic rate.
In all surface operations, all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (l1/,) times the basic rate (except when an employee works over eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period due to regular change of shifts).
6.02
ARTICLE 7 7.00
ARTICLE 8 8.00
Page 4
(a)	One and one-half (l'/2) times the basic rate will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday or Sunday regardless of the hours worked or days worked previous to Saturday or Sunday, if such days are scheduled overtime days.
In the case of an employee kept underground after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which he has no control, such time shall be considered as hours worked (straight time) if the period exceeds thirty (30) minutes provided that such time shall not be considered as time worked if the cause is beyond the control of the Company.
SAFETY DEVICES
Goggles and any other safety equipment considered necessary by the Company to protect employees from injury shall be supplied by the Company. The Company to pay one-half ('/2) the cost of underground boots, hard hats and gloves for underground workers. The Company agrees to pay the cost of slickers for those employees working underground who require slickers, providing that when a new set of slickers is required, the employee may be required to produce the set which is being discarded. Second or later issues will not be supplied otherwise than through reasonable wear and tear. The Company to supply at no cost to the employee one degree rule, one crescent wrench and one 9/,6” wrench, such tools to remain the property of the Company. Old or worn tools to be turned in for replacement.
The Company will furnish slicker pants and rubber gloves where drill fluid additives or similar solutions are used, if these are required at the discretion of the foreman.
The Company and the employees shall co-operate in matters pertaining to safety.
The Company shall have the right to dismiss for just cause any employee who refuses to wear safety protective equipment or who refuses to abide by the safety rules of the Company or the Company’s clients.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Work Performed on a Statutory Holiday
Should an employee be required to work on any of the following days, namely:
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Page 5
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Christmas Day	Boxing Day
Dominion Day	Aboriginal Day
First Monday in August
he shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of one and one half (l'/2) times his applicable hourly rate.
8.01	Qualification for Statutory Holiday (not worked)
Except as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on one (1) of the statutory holidays referred to above, shall be paid his applicable hourly rate for eight (8) hours for the day while:
(a)	on approved vacation
(b)	on approved leave of absence, including leave on Union business;
(c)	absent through sickness or accident provided that the employee has a Doctor's certificate to that effect, and
(d)	taking bereavement leave for death in the immediate family (immediate family shall mean: spouse, father, mother, son and daughter).
8.02	An employee shall not be paid for a statutory holiday named in Section 8.01 if
he is absent from work on his last regularly scheduled shift before, or his first regularly scheduled shift after such holiday, or if he has been assigned or scheduled to work and does not work on such holiday.
The employee shall be paid for statutory holidays if the qualifications noted in Article 8.01 and further provided that the employee has worked at least one (1) shift in the twenty-one (21) days prior to the holiday.
8.03	An employee who qualifies for both the statutory holiday pay (expressed in Sections 8,01 and 8.02) and for pay for performing work on a statutory holiday, shall be entitled to a total of two and one half (2'/2) times his applicable rate of pay for eight (8) hours of the day. VIZ: Eight (8) hours straight time pay for qualified statutory holiday plus one and one-half (11 !■>) times his applicable rate for all hours actually worked on the statutory holiday. If an employee does not meet the qualifications in Sections 8.01 and 8.02, but does work the statutory holiday, he shall then be paid one and one-half (IV) times his hourly rate of pay only.
ARTICLE 9 9.00
parties
9.01
9.02
9.03
Page 6
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Complaint
Employees may discuss any complaint with shift bosses or foremen so that it may be settled as quickly as possible. However, should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee or employees concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, the shall endeavour to settle such differences without undue delay in the following manner:
Grievance - Stave One
The employee concerned, in person and if he desires, with his shop steward in attendance, shall try to settle the difference with his immediate boss. If the employee has reasonable access to a steward, the grievance shall be taken up with the immediate boss, not more than five (5) days after it has arisen, but if there is no steward reasonably available to the employee, then the grievance shall be raised at the first reasonable opportunity.
Grievance - Stave Two
The Union or the employee concerned, accompanied by his steward, if an employee desires, may submit the dispute to the Yellowknife Manager of the Company and the submission and the decision at this Stage will be in writing.
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance within five (5) days, the matter may be referred to arbitration within twenty-one (21) additional days as herein provided.
Difference between Company and Union
If a difference arises between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement or the discharge of an employee, then the matter may be taken up between the union and the management of the company at Stage Two.
Failing satisfactory agreement, either party may notify the other in writing within twenty-one (21) days that it desires to refer the matter to arbitration and an arbitrator shall then be selected as set forth below and the difference shall be submitted in writing to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator's decision shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out and shall be final and binding upon the parties.
9.04
Page 7
Stage Three - Procedure for Settling Disputes
Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days after the dispute was submitted under Stage Two, the Union may, upon giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the company of their intention, refer the dispute to arbitration. Within ten (10) days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one Arbitrator from the following panel of arbitrators:
1.	Gordon Carter
2.	G. Hawko
The selection of the Arbitrator shall commence with the next name on the panel following the name of the Arbitrator who last served the parties in the previous arbitration. If an Arbitrator is unable to serve, then the next Arbitrator on the panel shall be selected, etc., until an Arbitrator indicates his availability to act. If an Arbitrator on the panel is permanently unable to serve, then the parties shall jointly select a replacement. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an Arbitrator within ten (10) days, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of Canada upon request of either party.
The decision of the Arbitrator with respect to an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this agreement in any respect. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
The arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall within a maximum of thirty (30) days following arbitration, render his decision.
A written record of the grievance presented at Stage Two and the decision of that Stage will be presented to the Arbitrator, and the Arbitrator’s decision shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
When making his decision, the Arbitrator shall state whether the decision is retroactive and effective date thereof, but the decision shall not be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of this agreement and there shall be no award of costs of arbitration to either party.
Saturdays, Sundays, and Statutory Holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each stage of the grievance procedure.
9.05
ARTICLE 10 10.00
Page 8
Stewards
(a)	Stewards chosen by the Union must be employees of the Company, The duties of the stewards shall be to receive, investigate and endeavour to settle grievances as outlined in this Article.
(b)	There shall be a grievance committee consisting of not more than five
(5) stewards.
c) The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the names of the Grievance Committee, and of any changes which may be made from time to time. The company shall not be required to recognize the stewards of the grievance committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union, the names of the persons selected.
(d) Authorized time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by stewards shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be on the basis of straight time, under no conditions shall overtime be paid. The time to be paid for shall be limited to five (5)hours per month.
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
During the life of this agreement, the Company will maintain a sickness and accident policy providing for a $60,000,00 death benefit including a double indemnity provision for non-occupational accidental death. Weekly indemnity for a twenty-six (26) week period for injuries or sickness (arising from non-occupational accidents) will be paid in accordance with the following schedule
from June 1, 2001 onward - $450,00 per week
payable from the first day for non-occupational accident, payable from the fifth (5th) day for non-hospitalized sickness and payable from the first day if admitted to the hospital for sickness. Employees must have worked thirty (30) shifts before he qualifies for coverage.
The cost of these benefits shall be paid 100% by the Company.
10.01
10.02
10.03
Page 9
Dental Plan
The Company will provide, at Company expense a Dental Plan which will provide for the payment of 100% of the basic services (ie. extractions, fillings, cleaning, fluoride, x-rays, etc.) for employees and their dependants.
The Company will provide on a 50% cost share basis coverage for a Dental Plan which will provide major services.
Casual employees (those with less than two weeks service) shall not be eligible.
Extended Health Care Benefit
The Company will provide, at Company expense, insurance coverage for eligible charges for Extended Health Benefits incurred by union employees as per the Group Insurance Plan maintained by the Company for non-union employees.
Casual employees (those with less than two weeks service) shall not be eligible.
Vision Benefit
The Company will provide, at Company expense, insurance coverage for eligible charges for Vision Benefits incurred by union employees as per the Group Insurance Plan maintained by the Company for non-union employees.
The Union and eligible employees shall be provided, upon request, with a copy of the pertinent excerpts from the booklet describing Eligible Charges, Ineligible Charges, Deductible Amounts, Co-insurance Amounts, and Lifetime Maximum Amount of such coverages. Further, the Company agrees to assist eligible employee claimants in submitting claims to the insurance carrier.
The insurance carrier or the coverages for the Extended Health and Vision Care have not been identified in detail in case the Company decides to change carriers or the extent of coverage at some future date. It is the intent, however, to provide union employees with identical coverage for these items as that provided to non-union employees of the Company.
Page 10
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
Any employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union, necessitating leave of absence, upon proper application to the Company, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided it does not exceed a period of one (1) year.
Time spent as a delegate or representative of the Union shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining vacation.
The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege, under this Article, to more than one (1) person at the same time.
Section 11,01 and 11.02 shall not apply to delegates actually attending a labour convention, labour arbitration’s, labour contract negotiations or grievance matters set forth in this agreement.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Company shall not be obliged to grant leave of absence to more than one (I) employee during any calendar year for the purpose of attending a labour convention.
ARTICLE 12 -	WAGES
12.00	The scale of wages in effect during the life of this Agreement for Underground and Surface Drillers shall be as follows:
June 1,2005	- Underground & Surface
Driller - $21.00 per hour Helper- $17.50 per hour Inexperienced helper - $15.25 per hour (an inexperienced helper position shall be defined as an employee who has less than 30 continuous days of helping experience)
ARTICLE 13 -	ANNUAL VACATION
13.00	The vacation year will be from January lstthrough December 3 lstof each year, inclusive, Eligibility for vacation time off and for pay will be determined by the employee’s continuous service with the Company and his anniversary (hire) date.
13.01	Any employee on the payroll during the current vacation year, and who has the length of continuous service specified in the table below, shall be entitled to the corresponding vacation with pay:
Up to 12 months service	1 week -	5%
11.00
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04
13.02
13.03
ARTICLE 14
14.00
ARTICLE 15
15.00
15.01
15.02
15.03
12 months but less than 18 months service	2 weeks	- 6%
		Page 11
18 months but less than 24 months service	3 weeks	- 7%
24 months to 10 years service	3 weeks	- 8%
10 years & over service	4 weeks	- 10%
Vacation pay will be calculated up to the day he leaves on vacation, and said pay will be based on total earnings. Vacation pay earned but not paid at the end of the vacation year will be paid to the employee at the end of the vacation year (December).
The Company will be the final judge of vacation time, but vacations will be granted as closely as practicable to the time requested by the employee. When requested by the employee, in writing and when practicable, one (1) week extra vacation may be granted without pay, provided it is taken along with his regular approved vacation. Vacations or the non-regular vacations and the one (1) week extra vacation are not accumulative.
BULLETIN BOARDS
At the request of the Union, the Company will provide a bulletin board in the Company office at Yellowknife for the posting of notices of Union meetings, social affairs and other Union notices of a non-controversial nature.
UNION SECURITY
The Company shall, during the term of the agreement, honor a written request by an employee for the deduction and remittance of dues, fees and assessments (excluding fines), payable to the Union if the order is substantially in the form set out in Schedule “A” hereto and is signed by the employee.
The Company shall remit to the Union monthly, the sums so deducted together with a written statement showing the names of the employees from who the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
The Company shall not be obliged to deduct and remit the said sums, unless it has on hand wages which would otherwise be paid to the employee.
As a condition of employment, the Company shall deduct from all present and future employees union dues as set by the United Steelworkers of America, and communicated to the Company in the form set out in Schedule “A” hereto.
ARTICLE 16 16.00
16.01
ARTICLE 17 17.00
ARTICLE 18 18.00
Page 12
UNION MEMBERSHIP
Ali present employees and all employees hired after the effective date of this agreement, or thirty (30) days after their hire, whichever is later, shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become and remain members of the Union through June 1, 2008.
Where the Union requests action by the Company in respect to an employee who has failed to maintain membership in the Union in good standing, the Union shall furnish to the Company written proof of such failure to maintain membership.
TOWNSITE NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
For an employee who maintains a permanent residence in the Yellowknife area, the following allowance will be paid:
Effective August 1,2000, the Northern Living Allowance (NLA) will be:
$37.00 per shift worked for married employees $32,00 per shift worked for single employees
The Northern Living Allowance shall not be payable where the Company or others are providing board and accommodation.
TRANSPORTATION
a)	The Company has the right to deduct transportation expenses and travel time from an employee’s payroll if that employee does not fulfill his contract duration. See Schedule “A” attached hereto and forming part of this agreement, for clarification.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Article 18(a) above, employees shall be paid traveling time at their regular rates for time spent travelling from Yellowknife to the job site and return to Yellowknife. No travel time shall be paid for travel to Yellowknife from home domicile and return from Yellowknife to home domicile.
c)	If an employee is required to drive or ride in a Company vehicle in order to travel from home domicile to a job site or return from a job site to home domicile, he shall be paid his regular rate for time so spent.
18.01
ARTICLE 19 19.00
Page 13
d)	Where an employee is required to travel from an accommodation location or a designated marshalling point to the drill site and return, he shall be paid at regular rates when the time so spent exceeds one (1) hour per shift.
e)	Where an employee incurs approved out-of-pocket expenses while travelling to and from Yellowknife or a designated marshalling point, the Company will reimburse the employee for such expenses provided receipts are submitted in a timely manner and in a form satisfactory to the Company.
Compassionate Leave or Sick Leave
Transportation, travel time and expenses shall be paid in accordance with
Schedule “A”, attached hereto, and forming part of this agreement. Valid
compassionate grounds are defined as follows:
a)	death in the immediate family. Immediate family to include children, parents, siblings, parents-in-law, and spouse designated as such upon hiring.
b)	birth of a child to the spouse of the employee.
The employee shall, upon request, furnish adequate proof (Birth
Certificate, Death Certificate, Doctor’s report, etc.) when making
application under Article 18.
PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS AND REHIRING
The Company recognizes the principle of seniority in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and rehiring and in these matters, the following factors shall govern:
(a)	The length of continuous service with the Company
(b)	Ability, knowledge, dependability, training, skill and efficiency of the employee to do the work
(c)	When rehiring, the Company shall make a reasonable effort to contact an employee at his last known address or telephone number. The Company shall have the option to pass over any employee who does not respond within two (2) days.
Where, in the sole judgment of the Company, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, seniority shall govern.
19.01
19.02
19.3
19.4
19.05
19.06
19.07
19.08
Page 14
An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits
(b)	isjustifiably discharged
(c)	is not employed by the Company for a period of four months prior to rehire
d) refuses to return to work when requested
An employee is considered a probationary employee for the first forty-five (45) days of his employment and shall not have seniority rights under this agreement and may be discharged by the Company at its discretion during that period. Notwithstanding the above, if the Company does discharge an employee during this probationary period, the employee may, if he desires, be represented by the Union in presenting his case to the Company. If the Company confirms the discharge of the probationary employee, it shall not be a matter for grievance under this Agreement.
If the Company sees fit to continue the employment of a probationary employee after the end of forty-five (45) days of continuous service, his name shall be placed on the seniority list as of the beginning of such forty-five (45) days continuous service.
The Company expressly reserves the right to employ technically trained workers and students in reasonable numbers from time to time and to transfer and promote them as the Company may see fit, providing that no employee shall be laid off or discharged to make place for a student, or in the case of employees already laid off, refuse rehire.
A person originally rehired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill or the participate in a particular assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or particular assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary.
This agreement shall not deprive the Company of the right to select its employees or to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
When practicable, having regard to the time when a job is to be filled, the Company will post jobs available so that employees may have the opportunity of applying for the job and a copy of the posting will be sent to the Union.
For the sake of clarity, it is understood that the Company does not recognize departmental seniority, (ie. Underground vs. Surface), and shall have the right to select prospective workers for each department according to the provisions of Articles 19,00 - 19.07
Page 15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union set their hands this 1st day of June, 2005.
ON BEHALF OF CONNORS DRILLING LTD
J,A. Hutton General Manager
ON BEHALF OF
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7288, Thereof, in Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
Staff Representative
SCHEDULE “A” - TERMINATION
Page SchAl
For the purposes of clarity, the following table shall be the formula for determining reimbursement under Article 18.00:
1.	An employee on thej ob for 21 days and project is not complete
2.	An employee on the j ob until project completion (if less than 21 days)
3.	an employee on the j ob who quits without notice or is discharged for cause
4.	an employee on thej ob between 22 and 42 days or project completion
5.	an employee on thej ob between 22 and 42 days, and who gives notice of intention to quit and who:
a)	works until a replacement arrives or
b)	works seven (7) additional shifts after giving notice whichever occurs sooner
Transportation Accommodation	Travel
and Meals	Time
IN	OUT	IN	OUT	IN	OUT
yes	no	yes	no	yes	no
yes	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes
no	no	no	no	no	no
yes	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes
yes	yes	yes	yes	yes	no
Compassionate or Sick Leave
For the purposes of clarity, the following table shall be the formula for determining reimbursement under Article 18,01:
Transportation Accommodation	Travel
and Meals	Time
IN OUT IN OUT IN OUT
1.	an employees who leaves for authentic compassionate ground as provided in
Article 18,01	yes Yes yes yes no
no
2,	an employees who leaves due to illness or non-compensable accident
3.	an employees who leaves due to a compensable injury
Page SchA 2
yes yes yes yes no no
to nearest medical services, then to point of hire. WCB rules to apply