COLLECTIVE
LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
LOCAL864, UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL, CIO, CLC
- AND-
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
Sept. 18/94- Sept. 18/98
00250 (05)
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10. 11. 12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20. 21. 22.
23.
24.
25.
26. 27.
DEFINITION...........
PURPOSE..............
RECOGNITION..........
CHECK-OFF............
UNION SECURITY.......
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS...
WAGES................
VACATIONS............
SOCIAL SECURITY......
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..
HOURS OF WORK........
HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS...
MANAGEMENT...........
....I
....2
....3
...,3
....4
...,6
....6
....7
....9
..10
..13
.19
..20
SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS......22
BEREAVEMENT......................25
PENSION..........................26
SENIORITY........................26
TRANSFERS........................33
ABSENTEEISM......................34
LEAVE OFABSENCE..................35
SICK LEAVE.......................36
SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANT CLOSURE...36
FLOATERS.........................37
EXTRAS...........................39
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE......42
GENERAL..........................£3
DURATION OF AGREEMENT........./4'44	.
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
SCHEDULE 'A- CHECK OFF DUES DEDUCTION AUTUORIZATION............46
SCHEDULE “B” - WAGE RATES..........47
SCHEDULE“C" - MEMO RE LUMP
SUM PAYMENTS.......................57
SCHEDULE“D" - MEMO RE DEPARTMENTAL REORGANIZATION.....................58
SCHEDULE “E” - MEMO RE VACANCIES
IN OVER STAFFED DEPARTMENTS........59
SCHEDULE “F” - MEMO RE POWERHOUSE...60
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
LOCAL 864, UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL, CIO, CLC
- and -
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED Its Successors or Assigns
ARTICLE 1- DEFINITIONS
1.01	It is agreed by the parties that, except where a
contrary intention appears, in this Agreemenit
(a)	Bargaining Unit- meansthe bargaining unit described in Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board Order No. 884, dated October 8, 1964 (all employees of the Company, but excludingfarm hands, buyers and salesmen, foremen and above that rank, office employees and those excluded by the Trade UnionAct of Nova Scotia) and any amendments issued by the Board or changes agreed to by the parties in writing;
(b)	Company - means Larsen Packers Limited;
(c)	Employees- meansthe Employees in the bargaining unit;
(d)	"Shall" is imperative and "May" is permissive;
(e)	Union - means Local 864, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, AFL CIO, CLC;
( 1 )
(f)	Words importing male persons include female persons;
(g)	Words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular, and
(h)	Every Schedule attached hereto is a part of this Agreement:
(i)	Plant Seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit from date of hire as a Full-Time Employee or Floater, but excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-time Employee or Floater and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days after the signing of this Agreement if the Employeeadvises the Companythat he is not available to work as a Floater or Extra.
(j)	Departmental Seniority is defined as the length of service in a department since the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department.
ARTICLE II- PURPOSE
2,01	The purpose of this Agreement is:
(a)	To promote and maintain harmonious relations between the Company and its Employees and to establish rules governing relations between them;
(b)	To facilitate the solution of such problems within the jurisdiction of this Agreement as may arise from time to time;
(c)	To establish and maintain a high degree cf discipline and efficiency.
( 2 )
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the purpose of bargaining collectively for all the Employees cf the Company as defined herein, the whole in accordance with the Order granted by the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board on October 8, 1964, being Order No. 884, arid any amendments thereto or changes agreed to by the parties in writing.
3.02	Insofar as the law pemmits, the Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting these Employees.
3.03	The Company will not act or be required to act upon any question of jurisdiction that may arise between the Union and any other Union.
3.04	The Company will not unreasonably withhold permission to the Business Agent or other representative of the Union to enter the Plant at reasonable times to discuss with the Union officers and/or stewards, matters relating to the administration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV- CHECK-OFF
4.01	The Company agrees that, upon receipt of written authorization in the form set out in Schedule "A" to this Agreement, it will deduct from the Employees' earnings weekly during the term of this Agreement, the amount of the Union dues, together with any special assessment* authorized to be deducted (it shall be the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company of the amount of the dues and of the date and amount of any special
( 3 )
assessment) and will transmit the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the local Union during the week following the deduction of dues. Membership applications will be completed on employment. Initiation fees will be deducted with the employee's first dues deduction. *Thisterni includes initiation fees.
4.02	All Employees shall have dues deducted and remitted to tne Union.
ARTICLE V - UNION SECURITY
5.01	All present Employees, as a condition of employment, shall remain Union members in good standing. All new Employees, as a condition of employment, shall become and remain Union members in good standing within sixty (60) days of employment. A list of new Employees shall be given to the Chief Steward at the end of each pay period.
5.02	The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the Company from acting upon or relying upon any statement by or on behalf of the Union that the Union membership of any Employee has ceased. The indemnity shall cover all damages, costs or expenses otherwise incurred.
5.03	Foreman and above shall not perform work of bargaining unit Employees, except for emergencies, training, instruction and sundry departmental duties not in excess of one (1) hour per day.
5.04	The Company recognizes that stewards and officers have duties and responsibilities towards, and on behalf of, the Union and are required at times to leave their jobs to investigate and process grievances, or
discuss, with supervision, other matters affecting Employees. The Union recognizes that stewards and officers are Employees of the Company and, as such, have jobs to perform on behalf of the Company. When it becomes necessary for officers or stewards to leave their jobs to attend to the above matters, the steward concerned shall obtain the permission of the foreman concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and arrangements will be made by their foreman to leave their jobs, with no loss of pay, as soon as reasonably possible, but normally not later than one (1) hour following that request. The Union agrees that there will not normally be duplication of duties or responsibilities of its stewards arid officers, however, it is recognized that there may be times, when, .because of the circumstances, the Union or the Company may deem it necessary to have more than one representative attend to the matter. The time away from productive work shall not be excessive and shall be reported in accordance with the time keeping method of the department in which the Steward is employed.
5.05	At times, it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. Any decision to do so shall be based on the following factors:
(1)	the availability of Employees with the required skills;
(2)	the urgency of the work to be done;
(3)	cost
If the work can be performed by Employees as efficiently (based on the above factors) as by outside contractors, the work shall be assigned to Employees. If work is to be performed by an outside contractor, the contractor may do the entire job. Before having work performed by
outside contractors, the Company shall discuss with the Union its intent to do so whenever reasonably possible. (For example, it may not be reasonably possible incases of emergency.) This Article 5.05 does not restrict the Company in regard to installation and construction work.
ARTICLE VI - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.01	The Union agrees it will riot authorize any strike, slowdown or cessation of work contrary to the Trade Union Act.
6.02	The Company agrees that it will not lock out contrary to the Trade Union Act.
6.03	Due to the perishable nature of the product, proper preservation conditions must be maintained at all times. The Union undertakes that it shall not take any action in any way detrimental to adequate product preservation or the maintenance of product preserving equipment. Should a legal strike and/or lockout occur, the Company will be responsible for the preservation of its product.
ARTICLE VII - WAGES
7.01	The Schedule of Classifications and Rates shall be as set out in Schedule “B”.
7.02	If any new classification or new department is created within the bargaining unit, the Company shall discuss and negotiate wages and working conditions relating to the new classification with the Union. If an appropriate wage rate cannot be agreed upon, the issue will be submitted to arbitration as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII ■ VACATIONS
8.01	(1) Vacation Pay Schedules:
Year of Continuous Service	Amount of Vacation Pay	Time Off
Between 1 and 5 Years	4% of vacation pay base	2 weeks
Between 5 and 10 Years	6% of vacation pay base	3 weeks
Between 10 arid 15 Years	8% of vacation pay base	4 weeks
15 Years or more	10% of vacation pay base	5 weeks
(2)	Vacation Pay Base - means the total earnings (as shown on T 4) of an Employee from the Company for the previous calendar year (January 1 to December 31, inclusive),
(3)	Service Calculation Date - means the total years of service of an Employee to December 31st of the calendar year.
(4)	Amount of Vacation Pay - the amount of vacation pay shall be the greater of the following amounts:
(a)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base, or
(b)	vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly-rated Employees shall be the normal weekly hours at the regular hourly rate, provided that this amount will be reduced by l/52nd for each week of absence (including any period during which an Employee works twenty-four (24) hours per week or less) when an Employee is absent for more than six (6) months.
( 7 )
8.02	Each Employee shall indicate his first, second, and third choice for the first two (2) weeks of his vacation entitlement by the 15th day of April. The Company shall post a vacation schedule by the 30th day of April. Preference in scheduling vacations will be on the basis of departmental seniority. Scheduling of the balance of vacation entitlement shall take place riot later than the 31st of May, with preferences submitted no later than the 15th day of May. Employees may also indicate a preference for taking their full vacation entitlement without interruption in months other than June, July, August and the deer hunting season. Where department functions are transferred from one department to another, the job function will be deemed a function of the original department in determining Employee's allocation of vacation and overtime.
8.03	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee,the vacation shall be lengthened by one working day.
8.04	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the Employee will be allowed a compensatory day's holiday, with pay, at the Employee's regular rate.
8.05	Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year.
8.06	All deducions normally made from an Employee's regular pay may be deducted from the Employee's vacation pay.
8.07	When Foremen and above the rank of Forerrien take their vacation, it will have no effect on any bargaining unit Employee's vacation.
( 8 )
8.08	At least fifteen percent ( 15%), rounded up, of bargaining unit Employees in any department cari take their vacation at the same time. For example, in a department with twenty one (21) Employees, the calculation of the minimum number of Employees who can take their vacation at the same time would be as follows: 21 X 15% = 3.15 - which is rounded up to 4.
8.09	An Employee with more than two (2) weeks' vacation entitlement may elect to waive tho excess and receive the resulting excess vacation pay in December (or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Company and an individual Employee). Such an election shall not affect an Employee's preference for his other weeks of vacation.
ARTICLE IX - SOCIAL SECURITY
9.0 1 (a) Effective April 1,1995 (or the first day of a later month if more time is reasonably required for transition), the Company will participate in the Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust (1992). All permanent Employees (Full-Time Employees arid Floaters) shall participate in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, an Employee can opt out of the group health care (Medical and dental) so long as the Employee has comparable coverage through the spouse's employment.
(b)	The Company's responsibility in regard
to group insurance is limited to the payment cf its share of the premiums. Costs of the premiums will be shared equally between the Company and the Employees, provided that the Company's share of premiums during the term of this Agreement shall not exceed Eighty-Six Dollars ($86.00) per month for family coverage arid Fifty-Four Dollars ($54.00) per month for single coverage.
9.02	While an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee shall be entitled to coverage under the Group Benefit Plans (subject to the terms of the Plans), provided the Employee reimburses the Company on a monthly basis for his share of the premiums or the Company agrees to alternative arrangements,
9.03	The Company will advance money in Workers' Compensation cases to cover the period between the injury or the filing of the claim and the first payment from the Workers' Compensation Board.
ARTICLE X - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	The term "grievance" includes an alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
10.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Chief Steward and Departmental Stewards and of any subsequent changes in the names thereof.
10.03	The grievance procedure is available to all Employees. Union and Employee grievances must betaken up within three (3) working days after the alleged grievance has arisen.
10.04	PROCEDURE
(1)	STEP 1 - The aggrieved Employee, with his Department Steward, shall discuss the matter with the foreman or forelady of the Deparlment. The foreman or forelady shall give his/her decision within two (2) working days of the discussion with the Employee.
( 10)
STEP 2 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) working days allowed for the foreman's reply, the Chief Steward shall discuss the matter with the Superintendent.The Superintendent shall give his decision within two (2) working days of his discussion with the Chief Steward.
STEP 3 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) working days allowed for the Superintendent's reply, the Chief Steward or his designate shall submit the complaint in writing to the Plant Manager or his designate. Within five (5) working days after the Plant Manager has received the writtin complaint, the Superintndent and Plant Manager, or their designates, shall meet with the unit Chairman and/or such other representative of the Union as the Union designates. The Company shall reply in writing (although reasons are not required) within two (2) working days of the meeting.
(2)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, either the Union or the Company may request a meeting of the Union Business Agent arid the Company President, or their designates, to discuss the matter. The meeting shall take place within four (4) working days of the receipt of the request and the President (orhisdes-ignate)shall reply inwriting, with reasons,within two (2) working days after the meetng.
(3)	The aggrieved Employee may attend at any stage of the Grievance Procedure.
(4)	The time set out herein may be extended at any stage by mutual consent.
(5)	Employee grievances arising out of discharge will be commenced within three (3) working days of the dismissal and shall begin at STEP 3 upon written notice
(11 )
from the Grievance Committee, stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal.
(6)	A request for a wage adjustment due to any error in calculadon of pay, il not answered within four
(4)	working days, may be treated as a grievance and handled progressively, beginning with STEP 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
10.05	Unresolved grievances shall be referred in writing to an Arbitration Committee composed as follows:
(a)	A single arbitrator where both parties agree; or
(b)	Three (3) arbitrators - one (1) appointed by the Union, one (1) appointed by the Company, and a third appointed by the first two (2) within one (1) week of their appointment, and if the third is not appointed within this time, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia to make the appointment.
10.06	The decision of a single arbitrator appointed under 10.05(a) or the decision of the majority appointed under 10.05(b), shall be final and binding upon all parties and shall be rendered within fourteen (14) days following appointment of the Committee. The decision shall not alter, modify or ammend any part of this Agreement, nor make any general changes, such as changes in wage rates agreed upon.
10.07	The Company and the Union agree to bear equally the fees and expenses of the single arbitrator appointed under 10.05(a) and of the third arbitrator appointed under 10.05(b).
(12)
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The normal work week shall consist of five
(5)	consecutive eight (8) hour days. This is not a guarantee by the Company of hours of work pet day or per week or of days of work per week. It is also understood that in special circumstances, the five (5) days may not be consecutive (for example, stock taking).
(b)	All Employees are subject to scheduling, provided the Company gives the affected Employee and the Union, two (2) weeks' notice of the change in schedule. However, two weeks' notice is not required where:
(i)	there is mutual agreement between an individual Employee and the Company;
(ii)	the change of schedule is for one (1) hour or less, provided:
-	it is made because of events beyond the control of the Company (for example, because of customer requirements or a delay in arrival of fresh pork);
-	the Employee(s) is advised by the end of the previous day's shift;
-	the Company shall accommodate couples who are both employed with the Company and who have child care obligations so only one spouse can be required to attend without the two weeks' notice.;
-	the exception may only be applied by the Company twice a week for any individual Employee;
(13)
- before applying this exception, the Company will first attempt to deal with the situation by asking for volunteers from among qualified Employees affected and obtaining mutual agreement.
(c)	If a seven (7) day continuous operation is instituted, the Company will discuss and negotiate with the Union, a formula to provide Employees with similar benefits for the holiday pay for holidays falling ori days that they were riot scheduled to work.
11.02	The days of work, daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the duration of lunch breaks and work breaks may be altered because of changes in the terms or conditions relating to government inspection staff.
11.03	Overtime shall be paid as follows:
(i)	All Employees - for each hour worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day - one arid one-half straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(ii)	All Employees - for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week - one arid one-half straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(iii)	All Employees -for each cf the first four (4) hours worked on days outside of the scheduled work week -one and one-half straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(iv)	All Employees - for each hour worked in excess often and one-half (10 'k) hours per day, and for each hour worked in excess of four (4) hours, on days outside of the scheduled work week - two (2) times their straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(14)
Provided nothing herein shall be construed to provide overtime on overtime, and that the only premium for overtime work is either daily or weekly, but not both.
11.04	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, (station to station), provided that the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-half (2'k) hours. An Employee shall receive two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided that the total working time is six (6) hours or more. The rest periods will be scheduled at approximately the mid point of each half of the shift, subject to change by the Company in accordance with its production schedule arid the requirements of business, provided however there shall not be a break within one (1) hour after the starting time of the shift or one (1) hour after the lunch break. If an Employee continues working at the end of his shift and works more than three-quarters (3/4) of an hour beyond eight (8) hours per day, the Company agrees to grant a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period or pay in lieu of the rest period. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, Employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
11.05	When an Employee is recalled to work outside his scheduled working hours, he shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at straight time rates, notwithstanding that he worked less than four (4) hours, or overtime rates for overtime hours actually worked, whichever is greater.
11.06	Scheduled overtime shall commence one-half (1/2) hour after normal quitting time, provided the Company is able to arrange for the necessary government inspection to commence at that time.
11.07	(a) Overtime will be offered first by department
seniority and second by plant seniority to the senior Employees within the Plant. Employees on approved leave will be excluded from these provisions.
(b)	The Company will solicit names from Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own; and prepare a Plant Overtime List. The Company reserves the right to require an applicant to demonstrate his/her ability to perform the work at line speed, in a proper and efficient manner.
Failure to meet the job requirements will result in the applicant's name being removed from the List for that particular job. The Plant's Overtime List will be revised quarterly. A senior Employee who has designated his/her desire to work on the overtime list, who is missed, will be paid for all hours a junior Employee worked, at the applicable overtime rate. All work referred to above will continue to be voluntary.
(c)	The Company may supplement the Plant overtime list by developing a weekly overtime list for Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own. Each Thursday morning, the Company may post a copy of the Plant overtime list with a request that the Employees indicate their interest in performing overtime work the following week. The list will betaken down by 10 a.m. on Tuesday of the following week and a copy of that list shall be given to a Union representative. Once the list has been removed, there will be no additions to the list. The Company may then use the weekly list instead of the quarterly list to offer overtime by plant seniority. If the Company goes through the weekly list and still needs more Employees, it may go to the top of the quarterly list and call from that list (without duplicating calls from the weekly list). If there
are still insufficient volunteers, the Company may use Extras.
This new system of a weekly overtime list will be used on a trial basis for six (6) months from the signing of this Agreement. The Union may cancel this arrangement for a supplementary weekly list providedthat any decision to do so will be made on a reasonable basis and provided that the Company will be advised of any Union decision to cancel, with reasons, shortly after the end of the six (6) month trial period.
(d)	It is understood that the Company requires that any major electrical work be done by an Employee with an electrician's ticket and therefore overtime would not be offered to an Employee, whether regularly employed in the Maintenance Department or riot, who does not hold the required ticket.
11.08	Unless an Employee has been notified beforehand not to report to work, an Employee reporting for work at a scheduled starting time shall be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof.
11.09	On signing of this Agreement, the Company agrees to implement a system to enable Employees to bank overtime pay. Each Employee may bank a maximum of forty (40) times their straight time rate in one (1) contract year.
Banked overtime may be withdrawn with an approved leave at the mutual consent of the Employee and the Company. (Any Employee seeking consent for leave shall apply to his foreman personally.) Payment for banked overtime pay can be drawn by the Employee at any time during the contract year. Any amount outstanding at the end of the contract year will be paid to the Employee within fifteen (15) days.
(17)
11.10	The Company agrees to pay a shift premium as follows:
(a)	4O0 per hour for scheduled shifts which coirimence after (and not including) 12 noon up to and including 4:30 a.m.;
(b)	500 (that is, an additional 100) for scheduled shifts which commence at or after 8 p.m. up to, but not including 2:30 a.m.
11.11	If, during a shift, an Employee is absent on approved leave and the Employee is required to work in addition to the scheduled hours, that Employee shall receive the overtime rate, although the Employee has not worked eight (8) hours.
11.12	The Company will schedule those Full-Time Employees who work the Tuesday to Saturday shifts in Shipping so that each week one of those Employees has the opportunity to have Saturday off. The schedule will be prepared in advance. An Employee who does not want his scheduled Saturday off must advise the Company more than a week in advance, but it is understood that if an Employee decides not to take his scheduled Saturday off, no other Employee shall be entitled to be scheduled eff on that Saturday.
11.13	The Company will establish a rotation system for gaming and sticking hogs on the kill floor. Rotation will be every one (1) hour (or less) from the above heavy-duty jobs to lighter-duty jobs. Additional jobs may be added to the above, following agreement in the Labour Management Committee.
(18)
ARTICLE XII - HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all Employees at their regular rates for tne following holidays when not worked.
If any of the above-defined holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead will be named by the Company.
Floating holidays are to be taken with the consent of the Company and on the basis of first come, first serve.
An Employee who wishes to take another day in place of his birthday shall notify his Supervisor at least three (3) days in advance of his birthday and if arrangements are made for an alternate day off, that alternate day shall he considered the holiday instead of the actual birthday.
12.02	Employees working on the above holidays shall receive eight (8) hours pay at straight time rates and shall in addition, be paid double time rates for all hours worked on such holidays.
12.03	(1) Employees absent on the working days next preceding or next following any of the defined holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holidays, unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
New Year's Day Good Friday Christmas Day
Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day
rthday
Day
Christmas Eve Floating Holiday
Boxing Day Canada Day Labour Day
( 19)
(2)	Employees who do not work eight (8) hours on the working days next preceding or next following any one of the defined holidays may have their holiday pay reduced proportionally so that for each hour missed on either day, the Employee's holiday pay will be reduced by one (1) hour's pay, unless the Employee missing time received permission from the Company to be absent or late or was absent or late because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
12.04	The Company agrees to pay the regular hourly rated Employees double time (two (2) times straight time rates) for work performed on Sunday, except by stationary engineers, maintenance men, or others whose work regularly falls on Sunday.
ARTICLE XIII - MANAGEMENT
13.01	The management of the Company's business, properties and plant, and the direction and distribution of the working forces including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing the right to hire, suspend, discipline, discharge, lay-off from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons, and to promote, demote and transfer, to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities or to change existing production methods or facilities, the determination of the lay-out and equipment to be used on the business, the processes, techniques, methods and means of manufacture and production and distribution remain in and are vested exclusively in the Company.
13.02	Disiplinary Rules & Penalties- immediate Discharge Offences. The following are mutually agreed and conclusively deemed to be just cause for immediate discharge:
(20)
(1)	reporting for work under the influence of alcohol andlor drugs, or with abilities impaired by alcohol and/or drugs;
(2)	possessing or drinking any alcoholic beverage and/or drugs on the Company's premises;
3) falsifying time cards or other records;
(4)	refusing to obey orders of Foreman or other members of the Supervisory Staff and/or to do work as assigned;
(5)	misuse or removal from the plant without proper authorization, Company material, products or property;
(6)	deliberate abuse or destruction of Company property, tools, and equipment, or the property of other Employees;
(7)	threatening, intimidation, physically assaulting or coercing Employees or members of the Supervisory Staff: or
(8)	theft or misappropriation of Company property or the property of other Employees.
13.03	Disciplinary Rules & Penalties - Lesser Offences - For breach of the rules and regulations listed in the Plant and including any revisions or additions thereto, (provided the Company consults with the Union at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to any revisions or additions), the Employee will be disciplined:
( 1)	(a)i n the first instance by warning or reprimand
which does not involve loss of work or loss of pay as a part of such warning or reprimand:
(21 )
b) in the second instance, suspension of employment for a period of two (2) weeks, without pay, and the Union will be notified cf the date arid duratiori of the suspension; and
(c)	subsequent violations are conclusively deemed to be cause for immediate discharge.
(2) AH disciplinary action to become null and void after eighteen (18) months.
13.04	Larsen Packers Limited acknowledges its responsibility to foster a productive work environment which is free of offensive behaviour. The Company has a policy on Sexual Harassment and therefore, sexual harassment in the work place will not be tolerated.
13.05	The Chief Steward, or in the absence of the Chief Steward, a designated alternate, when available on Company premises, will be present for all disciplinary reprimands to be entered on an Employee’s record.
13.06	If an Employee is called to a private meeting with the Company and wishes to have a Union Steward present, the Company will not refuse the request.
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS
'14.01 The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its Employees during working hours.
'14.02 Any medical examination requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all Employees, provided, however, that the Company bears the expense of such examination. The Company reserves
(22)
the right to select its own medical examiner or physician for group examinations. In the case of individual examinations, a family physician may be used, however, the Company reserves the right to require a second medical opinion.
14.03	The Company shall provide hard hats, coats and other appropriate safety equipment to be worn by all Employees. The Company shall provide eighty-five percent (85%) of the cost of aprons and wet suits. The Company will provide an annual Safety Root Allowance of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) increasing to Sixty Dollars ($60.00) effective January 1, 1996 to each regular Employee with more than six (6) months' seniority. This allowance can only be claimed once in any one (1) calendar year.
14.04	A joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall be established consisting of three (3) representatives of the Company and three (3) representatives of the Unton.
The joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall tour the plant once per month, after which the Committee shall meet to discuss, record and identify matters which require attention.
The Committee shall maintain records and minutes of Cornminee meetings in a form and manner approved by the Provincial Director of Occupational Health and Safety Act and will provide the Director with a copy cf those records and minutes upon request.
The Committee shall participate in inspections, inquiries, and investigations concerning the occupational health and safety of the Employees.
(23)
One (1) Committee member representing the Union and one (1) from the Company may accompany the Safety Inspector during his inspection of the plant.
14.05	The committee, through the co-operation of the Company, shall establish a prevention program that includes information and training in health and safety matters, and make recommendations to the Employees and any person for the improvement of the health and safety of persons at the work place.
Any Employeemay refuse to do any act at the work place where the Employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the act is likely to endanger his health or safety or the health or safety of any other Employee.
The Employee will first report to his supervisor.
Employees who refuse a job as stated above, may be reassigned to other work until they are able to return to their regular work. During such period of reassignment, the Employee will be paid the same wages and benefits as if they continued their normal job.
Another Employee may be assigned to the job in question, providing the Employee has been advised of the refusal by another Employee, the reason for refusal and their rights to refuse the job for similar reasons.
If the matter is not rectified, the Employees shall report the matter to the Committee representative. The Comminee representative shall convene a meeting of the joint Committee, which shall have equal representation.
If the Comminee and the Company do not resolve the matter and advises the Employee to return to work the unresolved maner shall be referred to the Director of
(24)
Occupational Health and Safety for investigation. If, after a full investigation by the Director of Occupational Health and Safety, the Employee's refusal is not upheld, the Employee may be disciplined arid the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
14.06	Effective January 1, 1995, the Company will schedule each Full-Time Employee two (2) hours per calendar year (pro-rated for persons who become Fulltime Employees during the year) for Health and Safety Seminars. These Seminars will be available on Company premises and will be without cost to the Union or the Employee.
The Employees shall be paid their regular straight time rate for the time in attendance ai Health and Safety Seminars.
ARTICLE XV - BEREAVEMENT
15.01	In the event of the death of an immediate relative (father, mother, sister, brother, spouse or common-law spouse, son or daughter) of a regular Employee on the active payroll, the Employee shall be entitled to three
(3)	days' bereavement leave with pay. The leave shall normally commence no laterthan the day after the death and shall not exceed beyond the day after the funeral, but a request to vary from this norm will not be unreasonably refused where there are special circumstances related to the death (for example, memorial service) and the Employee makes the request shortly after the death taking all three (3) days' leave.
15.02	When it is necessary for a regular Employee on the active payroll to be absent on a regular working day to arrange for andlor attend the funeral of their mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grand
(25)
parent or grandchild, the Employee is entitled to be absent the day before, the day of and the day after the funeral. For each of these, if they are regular working days, he shall be paid his regular straight time rate.
ARTICLE XVI - PENSION
16.01	Normal retirement age shall be 65.
16.02	The Company agrees to contribute the following amounts to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan for all hours paid to each Full-Time Employee, and for all hours worked by each Floater, in all cases up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of dhe month after signing of Agreement: 180 per hour Effective September 18, 1995: 225: per hour Effective September 18, 1996:260 per hour Effective September 18, 1997:300 per hour
16.03	The Company shall sign a “Participation Agreement” relating to the Pension Plan.
ARTICLE XVII - SENIORITY
17.01	The Company shall msintain a plant seniority list and an individual departmental seniority list which shall be posted every six (6) months, with an update as required. Seniority lists shall be put under plexiglass and permanenty displayed on the bulletin board.
17.02	Employeeswill be regardedas probationary Employees when hired and shall have no seniority under this contract until after sixty (60) calendar days of hire, or thirty (30) working shifts, whichever is longer (not including any time as an Extra).
The Employee's plant seniority date will be the date of hire, as a Full-Time Employee or a Floater, but excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a FullTime Employee or Floater and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days after the signing of this Agreement if the Employee advises the Company that he is not available to work as a Floater or Extra.
The Employee's department seniority ddte will be the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department.
When two (2) or more Employees have identical dates of hire, the Employee with the greater number of working days in the probationary period will be given preference on the seniority list.
17.03	Probationary Employees, if laid off and later rehired in a six (6) month period will receive credit for past service.
17.04	(a) Departmental seniority will be applied in determining preference in vacations, overtime, promotioris, and shifts. Shift preference in the department can only be exercised by an Employee twice in a given calendar year.
(b) Shift preference may be altered by the Company due to a lack of skill and ability. When this takes place, the Company shall advise the Union through the Labour Management Committee and reasonable steps will be taken to alleviate the situation through the use of the special training hours. (The Union may also advise the Labour Management Committee of situations where this could reasonably be expected to become a problem so that such information can be considered by the
Company in regard to tho use of the special training hours.)
17.05	(a) Whore it is necessary to lay-off Employees for a period in excess of three (3) working hours per day, plant seniority will be the guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent tho Company from maintaining a working force of Employees who are able, with a familiarization period, and willing to do the work which is available.
(b) In the taverit of a temporary layoff (temporary lay-off is defined as three (3) hours a day or less), the affected qualified Employee may choose to displace ajunior Employee subject to the following:
1.	There is no entitlement to bump for one (1) hour or less, provided that this cannot be applied to an individual Employee more than twice a week;
2.	The onus is on the Employee, at the time of being advised that his shift is ending early, to notify the Company immediately that he wishes to exercise his bumping rights and whether or not such a request has already been refused twice that week;
3.	The most junior Employee exercising burnping rights is matched up with the most junior Employee then working in the Plant. A junior Employee being temporarily laid off cari either accept the job of the most junior Employee still working in the Plant, if he has the ability to do that job (and if he cannot, he has no other options on the day shift), or bump the most junior Employee on tho night shift, if he has the ability do that job. In either case, if the junior Employee being temporarily laid off does not have the ability to do the job of the junior Employee with whom he is
matched, there are no other options for the Employee being temporarily laid off. A similar procedure would be followed for the second most junior Employee who is temporarily laid dF and who is exercising his bumping rights. He will be matched with the second most junior Employee still working in the Plant at the time or the
most junior Employee scheduled to work on the night shift - (the Employeeswith whom ho is matched may be more junior Employees who have already exercised their bumping rights).
4.	Ability to do the job means that the Employee must be able to immediately operate at line speed or R.E.
5.	There will be no "chain bumping". Thai isan Employee who was bumped cannot bump someone else.
6.	If there are more hours left in the shift of the junior Employee being bumped than in the overlapping shift of the more senior Employee exercising bumping rights, the more senior Employee has to wait until the last part of the junior Employee's shift. For example, if the more senior Employee has lost two (2) hours from his regular shift, he must wait until the last two (2) hours af the junior Employee's scheduled shift. If an Employee is bumping into an evening shift which has not yet started and the Company is able to contact the junior Employee scheduled for the evening shift before he arrives at work, the senior Employee can pick up his hours at the start of the scheduled shift of the junior Employee working on the evening shift and the start time for the junior Employee will be adjustedaccordingly. (The two weeks' notice of change of schedule would not bo applicable since the change was not initiated by the Company.)
( 29 )
7.	An Employee cannot bump another Employee so as to deprive the junior Employee of an opportunity to work at least four (4) hours (the minimum under Article 11.08). Similarly, an Employee who works more than four (4) hours in total, including time worked as a result of bumping, is not entitled to any benefits under Article 11.08.
8.	If an Employee bumpsinto the Packaging Room, the Employee will not be paid for the required clean up time.
17.06	An Employee’s seniority rights shall be forfeited for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if he voluntarily resigns or leaves the services of the Company;
(b)	if he is discharged for cause;
(c)	if he is absent without leave for three (3) consecutive working days without first securingperrnission from the Company;
(d)	if he is continuously out of employment with the Company fora period of twelve (12) months; provided however, if an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, he shall retain seniority for a period equivalent to his length of service at the time of leave up to a maximum of four (4) years.
17.07	Employees promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain their bargaining unit seniority until ninety (90) days following the date of promotion, following which their seniority rights shall cease.
( 30 )
17.08	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled by promotion within each departmein on the basis of the Employee's seniority within that department and the ability to perform the job with normal training.
17.09	Promotions within the department will bo as follows:
(a)	follow the steps up the line of progression as per departmental seniority;
(b)	if, for some reason, the senior Employee refuses the promotion,the next senior Employee will pass him in departmental seniority for promotional purposes only.
17.10	(1) If the vacancy cannot be filled within the department the Company shall post notice of the vacancy and the notice shall remain posted for five (5) working days. Those applications received within the posting period will be considered and the vacancy will be filled in accordance with plant seniority. The name of the successful applicant will be posted within ten (10) days of the original posting.
(2) Where a senior Employee refuses training or after the training is not able to do the job, the next eligible Employee will be offered the training.
17.11	A successful applicant for a posted vacancy, other than an entry level position, shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months.
17.12	The vacancy may be filled on a temporary basis, normally by a bargaining unit Employee, provided a qualified Employee is available. until such time as the
job posting sequence has been completed. No Employee will accumulate departmental seniority until such time as he is established in a home department.
17.13	Ability to do the job means the ability to perform the requirements of the job following an appropriate familiarization period or following an appropriate training and triai period. The Company shall not curtail the training or trial period without reasonable cause before it has run its normal course. In the event the Employee is not able or does not wish to complete the trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job within the training period or trial period, he shall be returned to his former position at its wage or salary rate without loss of seniority.
17.14	Where an Employee is not able, through illness or injury or other reasons, to perform his normal duties, the Company and the Union may arrange suitable alternate employment.
The following positions (subject to change by mutual agreement) have been identified as light duty jobs to be used for rehabilitation purposes:
Kill Floor Pork Cut
Packaging Room
Head Table Making Boxes Stamping Loins Railing Hogs Box Feet
Scale Job (not main table, just belly table)
Making Boxes
These jobs will be red-circled for light duty exclusively (i.e. any incumbents in these positions will not be affected, but when the positions become vacant, the posi-
(32)
tions will not be posted).The Company shall utilize these jobs for temporary assignment to Employees injured at work and requiring light duty work while recovering, as evidenced by a medical opinion. Employees suffering from illness or a non-compensable injury, and requiring light duty work while recovering, as evidenced by a medical opinion, will also be considered for light duty jobs. after a reasonable period of rehabilitation, Employees will be expected to return to their original jobs. Employees remaining in light duty jobs in excess of six (6) months, will be reviewed by the Company, in consultation with the Union, on at least a semi-annual basis.
17.15	All job applications, pursuant to a job posting, shall be filled out in duplicate, with a copy to be given to the Union.
17.16	New Employees shall not be hired where there are Employees on lay-off able to perform the job.
ARTICLE XVIII - TRANSFERS
18.01	The Company will have the right to temporarily transfer, not exceeding six (6)weeks, an Employee from one position lo another in order to affect proper and efficient operation of the plant, providing that the rate of no Employee shall be reduced when he is performing work in a classification having a lower rate than his own under these circumstances, or when work is available in his own classification. In temporary transfers from one department to another, the Company will recognize seniority, subject to the requirements of the business and qualifications of the Employee.
18.02	When an Employee is permanently assigned to workinaclassificaion paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid the higher rate for such work. When an Employee is temporarily assigned or transferred to work
(33)
in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has consecutively worked one (1) hour in the higher classification.
18.03	When an Employee, at his own request, is transferred or assigned to work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, he shall be paid the lower rate for such work.
18.04	When an Employee is transferred for the purpose of gaining job experience and to qualify for a higher rate, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has acquired the skill to perform the job classifications at line speed.
ARTICLE 19 -ABSENTEEISM
19.01	Absent Employees shall notify the Company at least one-half (1/2) hour before the scheduled start of their shift provided the Company makes arrangements to receive the calls.
19.02	In the event of an Employee being absent through illness for a period of five (5) working days or more, the Union agrees that such Employee shall give the Superintendent one (1) working day's notice of his intention to return to work.
19.03	The Company may, as part of an absenteeism control program, require an Employeeto provide a medical certificate provided that the Company will pay for any reasonable charges by the doctor for the certificate for Employees who have less than seven (7) absences in the previous calendar year, pro rated based on attendance.
(34)
ARTICLE XX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to attend Union conventions, without pay and without loss of seniority, provided that
(i)	the Company is given at least two (2) weeks’ notice, when possible, of the request for leave of absence;
(jj) the leave does not seriously interfere with the business of the Company; and
(iii)	riot more than three (3) members of the Union are on leave of absence at any one time.
20.02	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority to any Employee where the Company determines in its discretion, that the leave is for legitimate personal reasons. Leave of absence for cases other than illness and accident will not be granted except under special circumstances.
20.03	The Company may grant leave of absence to an Employee who wishes to apply to work for the Union on a full-time basis - this is to be reviewed from year to year. However, the Employee on such Union leave does not accumulate seniority during the leave.
20.04	When a regular Employee (one who has completed his probationary period) is summoned to jury service, he will be paid his normal daily hours work multiplied by his regular hourly rate, provided he turns over to the Company, the amount received for each jury service. The Employee will be required to notify the Company immediately upon receiving notice of jury duty and to report to work on any day he is not required to serve as a juror.
(35)
20.05	The Company shall grant maternity leave and parental leave in accordance with the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE XXI-SICK LEAVE
21.01	(a) Effectivethe start of the month following signing of this Agreement, Full-Time Employees (not Floaters or Extras) shall accumulate one hour for each month of perfect attendance, with a maximum accumulation of forty (40) hours. Effective September 18,1996, sick leave will accumulate at the rate of one and one-half ( I -1/2) hours for each month cf perfect attendance.
(b) Perfect attendance includes time off on paid leave other than sick leave (for example holidays, vacation and bereavement leave) or authorized leave of less than one (1) week (for example to attend a doctor's appointment or leave on Union business).
21.02	Employee can only draw on his sick leave bank in blocks of eight (8) hours, provided that if an Employee can establish to the Company that his department only worked one-half day, the Employee can draw a block of four (4) hours from his sick leave bank.
ARTICLE XXII - SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANT CLOSURE
22.01	In the event of a permanent Plant closure, FullTime Employees who have one (1) or more years of service and who are not on layoff at the time of closure will receive severance pay as follows:
(36)
I	to 5 years -6 to 10 years -
II	to 15 years 16 to 20 years over 20 years ■
3	weeks' pay
4	weeks’ pay
5	weeks’ pay
6	weeks’ pay
7	weeks’ pay
This Article shall be null and void if a Plant closure results from a labour dispute, explosion, loss of utilities, machine breakdown, acts cf God or other acts of a similar nature which are beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE XXIII - FLOATERS
23.01	Floaters are those Employees (not “Full-Time Employees") who are not permanently assigned to any department, but work throughout the Plant on an as required basis.
23.02	The Company may maintain a group of twenty (20) Employees as Floaters. If, after the signing of this Agreement, any Full-Time Employees are laid off, tho group of Floaters may be increased up to twenty-five (25). Employees will fall back from Floaters to Extras based on plant seniority.
23.03	The Company will make reasonable efforts to give Floaters an opportunity to work five (5) shifts per week before using Extras. However, it is recognized that there may be situations where an Extra works seven (7) or eight (8) hours a shift while a Floater on that particular day only works a six (6) hour shift. An Extra may work in a week before a Floater works five (5) shifts, but the Company's intention will be that by the end of the week, the Floater will have had an opportunity to work five (5) shifts.
23.04	Floaters are not covered by the following provisions of the Agreement:
(a)	re vacations: 8.01 (4)(b), 8.02, 8.07 and 8.08;
(b)	hours of work 11.01;
(c)	12.01 (holidays): Floatersare entitled only to nine
(9)	holidays, that is all holidays listed in 12.01 except the Employee's Birthday, Floating Holiday and Christmas Eve provided they have worked:
(i)	their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after the holiday; and
(ii)	for at least twelve ( 12) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
(d)	Article 17 (Seniority) - Floaters have plantsenior-ity and therefore are covered by 17.01,17.02,17.06, 17.07,17. 10,17. 15 and 17.16 inclusive except any partsof those Articles relatingto departmental seniority - since Floaters do not have departmental seniority.
Floaters working on the same shift will be laid off in reverse order of plant seniority provided that Floaters remaining at work have the skill and ability to immediately do tine work assigned to Floaters (without a familiarization, training or trial period), but Floaters are not entitled to bump or displace a junior Employee.
(e)	Article 18 (Transfers): This Article is not applicable to Floaters who are paid at the rate of the classification in which they are working from time to time, provided however 18.04 (transferforthe purpose of gaining job experience) would apply to Floaters.
(38)
(f)	Article 21 (Sick Leave); and
(g)	Article 22 (Severance Pay on Plant Closure).
ARTICLE XXIV - EXTRAS
24.01	"Extras" are persons who ate employed for up to twenty-four (24) hours per week provided however this restriction does not apply during the period May 15 to September 15 or during the deer hunting season. Extras may only be used as follows:
(a)	To relieve Full-Time Employees, Floaters or Extras who are absent from work provided any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opponunity to work. When the Company is advised that an Employee will be absent prior to the day of absence, any relieving Extra may be used on the day of absence anywhere in the Plant (regardless of department or shift), subject to the 20% requirement under Article 24.02. If a Full-Time Employee notifies the Company on the day of absence (at least one-half hour before the scheduled start of the shift under Article 19.01), then any relieving Extra will be assigned to the department of the Full-Time Employee.
The Company will provide the Union with a daily absenteeism report and a list of the Extras used as relief.
(b)	To operate new product lines on a trial basis, subject to the following:
(i) any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to work;
(ii)	"Trial Basis" referred to above will be a maximum of one (1) year for each new product line. At the conclusion of the year, the line will be operated by FullTime Employees or discontinued.
(iii)	During the one (1) year trial period;
(A)	if a new product line operates for three
(3)	continuous months for twenty-four (24) hours per week, the Company will operate the line with Full-Time Employees;
(B)	if two (2) new product lines are operating for three (3) continuous months for a total of forty (40) hours or more a week, hours of work on the two (2) lines will be combined to create Full-Time employment;
(C)	on a quarterly basis, the Company will review with the Union new product demand and the pos-sibilityof creating Full-Time employment in accordance with (A) and (B) above. Any disagreement on combining new product lines to provide FullTime employment will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
(iv)	Upon ?hecreation of Full-Time employment referred to inthis paragraph(b), the job will be posted in accordance with Article 17.
(c)	To work when no Full-Time Employeesare available to work overtime under Article 11.07. For example:
(i) If any extra shift is scheduled on the weekend and Full-Time Employeesare not available to work overtime, Extras may be used;
(40)
(ii) if an Extra is working in relief and additional work is required at the end of the shift, the Extramay only work the additionaltirne if Full-Time Employees are not available.
If any Full-Time Employee is laid off, he shall advise the Company whether or not he wishes to work as an Extra. If he does not wish to do so, he will bo recalled only when Full-time work becomes available and will be considered to have been given an opportunity to work under (a) and (b) above.
24.02	The number of Extras shall riot exceed twenty percent (20%) of all Full-Time Employees. For example, if there are two hundred and fifty (250) Full-time Employees, the maximum number of Extras is fifty (50).
24.03	Full-Time Employees for the purpose of Article
24.02	include Floaters, probationary Employees and Students.
24.04	Extras are not entitled to the provisions of Articles 8, 9, 11, 12,15, 17,18 and 20 to 22 inclusive of this Agreetment, except that:
(a)	Extras will be eligible for public holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked on the following holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Christmas Day
provided they work:
(41 )
(j) their scheduled day before and after the holiday, and
(ii) at leasttwelve(12) of the thirty (30) calendar days preceding the holiday.
(b)	Extras with one (I) year's service or more will be entitled to two (2) weeks' vacation with vacation pay of four percent (4%) of earnings during the previous calendar year;
(c)	Extras shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rates for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day; and
(d)	Extras shall be entitled to the provisions cf Article 11.04 plus one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
24.05	Extras do not have either plant seniority or departmental seniority. However, the Company will keep a list of Extras by hours worked after the signing of this Agreement. The list will be updated monthly arid also at the time of any vacancy in the group of Floaters.
24.06	In selecting new Floaters, preference will be given to an Extra based on total hours worked where the Extras are relatively equal in skill and ability (that is, persons will be hired as Floaters first by skill and ability and then based on their position on the list).
ARTICLE XXV - LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMIITEE
25.01	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Labour Management Committee composed of two (2) representatives of the Union (the Unit Chairman of the
(42)
Local and the Chief Steward) and two (2) representatives of the Company (the Plant superintendent and one (1) other designated by the President). The Management Committee shall meet at least once every month at a time and place to be decided by the Committee, to discuss all proper subjects of general interest to both the Union and the Company, including health, safety and other matters. But the Labour Management Committee is not intended to, nor shall it replace the Grievance Procedure, and all matters properly dealt with by the Grievance Procedure and not by the Labour Management Committee. The Union shall designate a Chairman of its Safety Committee who, when he has cause for concern, shall sit with the Labour Management Committee, which shall deal with questions of safety.
25.02(a) The Company shall establish a pool of hours for special training. The number of hours in the training pool shall be established on January 1 of each year based on four (4) hours for each active Hull-Time Employee as of that date. The training pool shall be used for special training of Employees - for example, to increase the flexibility of the work force.
(b) The Company will provide periodic updates to the Union through the Labour Management Committee in regard to the use of the special training hours.
ARIICLE XXVI - GENERAL
26.01	The Company will designate one (1) Bulletin Board for the use of the Union at a conspicuous place. Copies of Bulletins and Notices will be submitted to management before posting.
26.02	Tool allowances will be paid annually as follows:
(43)
( |	(a) Maintenance Men in Class 1, 2 and 3: One Hun-
dred Seventy-Five Dollars ($175.00);
(b) Powerhouse Operators: Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00).
This amount is to be spent to replace broken, lost and damaged tools. Any additional expenditure to be approved by the Company, and the Company shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the additional approved expenditure.
26.03	Freezer coats, quilted liners, coveralls and gloves, as required for work in certain departments of the Plant, will be supplied to Employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation.
ARTICLE XXVII - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27.01	This Agreement is to remain in full force and effect for a period of four (4) years from September 18, 1994 and further negotiations will be subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
27.02	This Agreement wjll be automatically renewed from year to year unless one party gives to the other, notice in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
27.03	Only the wage rates set out in Schedule “B” are retroactive and only persons who are Employees on the date of ratification of this Agreement are entitled to retroactive pay.
(44)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed and signed this Agreement the 24th day of February, 1995.
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED UNITED FOODS COMMERCLAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL864
Karl Fi. Larsen
Norman Gee
Bruce Wilson
Freeman G. Purvis
Timothy Mitchell
Stan Corkum
Bruce Durno
(45)
SCHEDULE"A"
CHECK-OFF DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
I,__________________________. being an employee of
Larsen Packers Limited at its Plant at Berwick, Nova Scotia, hereby irrevocably authorize and direct Larsen Packers Limited to deduct initially initiation dues and thereafter to deduct weekly on my first or any pay day of each calendar month from my earnings accumulated to my credit, my monthly dues, together with any special assesment* levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union, Local 864, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. I further authorize Larsen Packers Limited to pay the amounts so deducted to the Financial Secretary of Local 864, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute good and sufficient discharge to Larsen Packers Limited for the amounts so deducted from my earnings. A letter from the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Company shall be conclusive evidence of the amount of dues and the special assessment* authorized.
NAME___________________________ .	___________
ADDRESS__________________________________________
NUMBER_____________SIGNATURE,
WITNESS______________________
Dated at Berwick, Nova Scotia this____day of__________ig
1. * Special assessment includes initiation fees ( 46 )
(47)
SCHEDULE“B”
WAGE RATES
Starting Rate - New Employees shall start at 85% of the base rate. This rate will be increased 5% each three (3) months until the rate is reached. Starting Rate for experienced New Employees is 12c an hour lessthan classification and an increase of 6c every three (3) months until classification rate is reached.
Extras- Extras shall be paid at 80% of the base rate.
The base rate will be as follows:
September 18/94	$13.45
September 18/95	$13.65
September 18/96	$13.85
September 18/97	$14.15
Students, that is Employees hired between May and August, inclusive, shall be paid ai 70% of the base rate and are not considered to be an Employee as defined in Article 1.01(c). The Company will deduct an amount equivalent to Union Dues from the student’s wages and remit the deduction to the Union.
( 48)
Sept 18/94 Spot. 1S/9R Seat. 18/96
1. MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Industrial Mechanic who has demonstrated	15.23	15.43	15.63
ability to maintain and repair all machines in the plant (including sophisticated production and packaging equipment)
Class 2 - Valid Certificate Holder (Electrician,	14.53	14.73	14.93
Welder, Industrial Mechanic and Refrigeration Mechanic); Department Mechanic (able to service and repair all machines in department)
Class 3 - Welder, Electrician, Refrigeration,	14.20	14.40	14.60
Technician, Pipefitter
Class 3A - Storekeeper
14.20	14.40	14.60
Class4 - General Maintenance
13.65	13.85	14.05
Sant. 18/97
15.93
15.23
14.90
14.90 14.35
(49)
Class 5-General Help
2.	POWERHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Class I - Valid 2nd class Stationary Engineer Certificate
Class 2 - Valid 3rd class Stationary Engineer Certificate
Class 3 - 3rd class trainee (holding valid 4th class certificate)
3.	SLAUGHTER
Class 1 -Able to do all jobs on kill line at line speed
Sept. 18/94
13.45
15.38
14.88
14.53
Sect. 18/95
13.65
15.58
15.08
14.73
Sept. 18/96
13.85
15.78
15.28
14.93
Sept. 18/97
14.15
16.08
15.58
15.23
14.36
14.56
14.76
15.06
(50)
Class2 -Able to do at least three jobs in Group A at line speed
Class 3 -
Group A - Scraper, Jowl Trimmer,
Head Skinner, Brisket Cutter, Bunger, Eviscerator, Hog Splitter, Rail Trimmer, Sticker, Trimmer, Unjoint Heads
Group B: Scald Tank Operator, Shackler, Gammer, Livestock Receiver, Scaleman, Leaf Lard Puller: Head Boner, Offals,
Front Feet
Class 4 - Livestock Driver, Torchman, Stamper Class 5-GeneralHelp
Sect 18/94
14.16
13.98
13.63
Sept. 18/95 Sept. 18/96 14.36	14.56
14.18	14.38
13.83	14.03
Sept 18/97 14.86
14.68
14.33
13.45
13.65
13.85
14.15
4. PORK CU? DEPARTMENT
Class I -Able to do all jobs at line speed
Class 2 -Able to do a combination cf three jobs in Group A cf Class 3 at line speed
m Class 3 -
—	Group A - Loin Breaker, Loin
Puller Operator, Belly Ribber, Butt Boner, ShoulderTrimmer,
Group B - Shoulder, Saw, Ham Saw, LoinTrimmer, Belly Trimmer, Ham Trimmer, Rind Machine
Class4 - Scaleman (Weigh and Strap)
Seat 18/94 Sent 18/95 Sent 18/96 Sent 18'97
14.36	14.56	14.76	15.06
14.16	14.36	14.56	14.86
13.98	14.18	14.38	14.68
13.63
13.83
14.03
4.33
(52)
Seot. 18/94 Sept. 18/95 Sept. 18/96
Class5 - Hog Pusher, Hog Weigher, Bellie	Rind,	13.51	13.71
Back Rind and Back Fat, Wrappers, Piling Off,
Sorter, Box Assembly, Hauling
Class6-General help	13.45	13.65
5.	CONVERSION DEPARTMENT
Class 1-	14.20	14.40
Group A - Skilled knifeman able to do all cuts in porkconversionat line speed
Group B - Skilled knifeman able to do all cuts in beef conversion at line speed
Class2 - Ham Boner, Loin Boner, Shoulder Boner	14.08	14.28
Class 3 - General Help	13.45	13.65
13.91
13.85
14.60
14.48
13.85
Sept. 18/97
14.21
14.15
14.90
14.78
14.15
6. FRESH SAUSAGE DEPARTMENT
Class I - Batcher/Grinder Class 2 - Stuffer Class 3 - Pick/Pack Sausage g Class 4 - Weigh/Pile Class 5-GeneralHelp 7. MANUFACTURING DEPARTMENT Class I -Bataher/Grinder/Blender
Class 2 - Stuffer
Sent 18/94	Sent 18/95	Sect. 18/96	Sew 18/97
14.08	14.28	14.48	14.78
13.82	14.02	14.22	14.52
13.61	13.81	14.01	14.31
13.54	13.74	13.94	14.24
13.45	13.65	13.85	14.15
14.08	14.28	14.48	14.78
13.82	14.02	14.22	14.52
(54 ).
Class 3-Scaleman Class 4 - Hanger Class 5-GeneralHelp
8. CURING DEPARTMENT
Class I - Smoker Operator, Edible Rendering Class 2- Formulating
Class 3 - Stuffer, Pump Operator, Scaleman Class 4 - Hanger Class 5 - General Help
Rant 18/94	Sent. 18/95	Sent. 18/96	Sect. 18/97
13.61	13.81	14.01	14.31
13.54	13.74	13.94	14.24
13.45	13.65	13.85	14.15
14.06	14.28	14.48	14.78
13.99	14.19	14.39	14.69
13.66	13.86	14.06	14.36
13.56	13.76	13.96	14.26
13.45
13.65
13.85
14.15
Sept 18/94 Sept ia.'9S Sept 1S/9B Sent 1bi97
9.	DAY SHIPPING AND FREEZER DEPT.
Class I - Shipper: Freezer Operator, Booker, Inventory Control
Class 2 - Stacker
Class 3 - Picker, Freezer Helper
Class 4- General Help
10. NIGHT SHIPPING AND FREEZER DEPT.
14.14
14.03
13.83
13.45
14.34
14.23
14.03
13.65
14.54
14.43
14.23
13.85
14.34
14.73
14.53
14.15
Class i - Freezer Operator, Booker, Inventory Control 14.14 Class 2 - Stacker	14.03
Class 3 - Picker. Freezer Helper	13.83
Class 4 - General Help	13.45
14.34	14.54
14.23	14.43
14.03	14.23
13.65	13.85
14.84
14.73
14.53
14.15
11.	PACKAGING DEPARTMENT
12.	SANITATION DEPARTMENT
(Clean Up Crew)
13.	PLANTSERVICES (Box Room)
Class I - Chief Slock Clerk Class 2 - Stock Clerk Class 3 - General Help
14.	PLANTSERVICES (Day Cleaning)
Janitor, Laundry, Operator, Wash Bay
15.	PLANT SERVICES (Knife Sharpener)
Sent- 18/94 Sapt. 18/95 Sept. 18/96 Sect. 18/97
13.55	13.75	13.95	14.25
13 45	13.65	13.85	14.15
13.83 13.63 13.45	14.03 13.83 13.65	14.23 14.03 13.85	14.53 14.33 14.15
13.45	13.65	13.85	14.15
13.83	14.03	14.23	14.53
SCHEDULED’
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Re Lump Sum Payments)
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 864
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
The Company agrees that it will make the following lump sum payments to Employees who are FullTime Employees or Floaters as of the date of ratification of this Agreement:
(a)	signing bonus of Two Hundred and fifty Dollars ($250), less required deductions, payable within one (1) week of the signing of the Agreement; and
(b)	lumpsum paymentof Two Hundredand Fifty Dollars ($250), less required deductions, payable on or about December I, 1995.
DATEDthis 24th day of February, 1995 at Berwick, N.S.
Karl R. Larsen Larsen Packers Limited
Norman Gee
United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 864
Witness Ian Frost
SCHEDULE“D”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (Re New Departments)
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS, LOCAL 864
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
Several changes in departmental structure were introduced in this Collective Agreement and the following undertakings were given by the Company in regard to the new departmental structure:
1,	Beef Cut became part of the new Conversion Department. However, it is understood that as long as Reg Crouse is employed in Beef Conversion, he will be treated as a separate department.
2.	The old Sausage Departmentwas split into Fresh Sausage and Manufacturing, and the old Shipping Department was split into Day Shipping and Night Shipping. It is understood that Employees working in departments which were split shall be given preference as between the two (2) new departments based on seniority. For example, Employees who worked in the old Sausage Department will be given preference, based on seniority, as between Fresh Sausage or Manufacturing.
DATEDthis24th day of February, 1995 at Berwick, N.S.
Karl R. Larsen Larsen Packers Limited Norman Gee
United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 864 Witness Ian Frost
(58 )
SCHEDULE "E1
MEMORANDUMOFAGREEMENT
(Re Vacancies in Overstaffed Departments)
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL864
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
It is agreed that present “vacancies” will not be filled through the normal process, but rather the Company may continue to use Floaters or Extras. However, new vacancies will be posted, provided that if a vacancy occurs on the day shift in an overstaffed department (cut/kill), that position will not be filled, but a position on the night shift will be posted. This practice will continue until the overstaffing is eliminated.
DATEDthis 24th day of February, 1995 at Berwick, N.S
Karl FI. Larsen Larsen Packers Limited
Norman Gee
United Food and Commercial Workers Union 864 Witness Ian Frost
SCHEDULE“F”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Re Powerhouse)
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 864
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
The following terms and conditions of employment will be introduced in the Powerhouse within a reasonable transitional period after the signing of the Agreement:
1. Hours of work
(a)	Powerhouse Operatorsshall normally work 12 hour shifts. There shall be a two (2) week cycle with alternating weeks of thirty-six (36) hours (three (3) shifts) and forty-eight (48) hours (four (4) shifts), resulting in an average of forty-two (42) hours per week.
(b)	The shift schedule shall be as follows:
	Sun	Mon	IUS£»	.Wed.	Thu is	Eru	Sal.
Week 1	A/B	A/B	CID	CID	A/B	CID	CID
Week2	CID	CID	A/B	A/B	C/D	A/B	A/B
(c)	Night shift: 8 p m. to 8 a m Day shift: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
(60)
The twenty-four (24) hour day is considered to begin atSp.m. of the previous day,for example,the Sunday shift starts at 8 p m. on Saturday.
(d)	Shift preference (that is the selection of shift A, B, C or D) among the four (4) regular Operators will be determined by departmental seniority in accordance with Article 17.04.
(e)	Operators may trade shiftsamong themselves provided the arrangement is approved by the Supervisor involved. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any such arrangement shall not result in additional cost to the Company, either directly (for example, overtime) or indirectly.
(f)	Operators are enitled to four (4) breaks of fifteen (15) minutesduring each twelve (12)hourshiftatsuch times as are consistent with operational efficiency.
(g)	Operators shall not work more than eighteen ( 18) consecutive hours except in cases of an emergency.' If an Operator is absent for his scheduled shift and a Relief Operator is not available, the hours would first be offered to the two (2) Operators who were working the shifts immediately before and after the absent Operator, split equally between the two (2) Operators (that is six (6) hours each); hours which are not taken by those Operatorswould be offered to the fourth regular Operator.
2. Compensation:
(a)	Weekly pay would be based on an average forty-two (42) hours per week at straight time, subject to adjustment for working more or less than the sched-
(61 )
uled number of hours. For example, if an Operator was absent for one day, his pay for the week of the absence would be reduced by twelve ( 12) hours.
(b)	Overtime pay time and one-half straight time rate of pay for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day or in excess of the number of hours scheduled for that week (thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) as the case may be); double straight time rate of pay after an Operator has worked six (6) hours overtime at time and one-half on any day.
(c)	Shift premium Operators working the night shift shall receive a shift premium of 50ffi per hour in accordance with Article 11.10.
3.	Holidays:
(a)	Operatorsshall have eight (8) paid holidays. (Since these are twelve (12) hourdays,they representninety-six (96) hours, which is equivalent to the twelve (12) holidays at eight (8) hours received by other employees).
(b)	Scheduling: Operators must schedule holidays in advance and at such times that a Relief Operator could be available to work the shift. For example, two (2) Operators working back to backshifis could not take the same day off if there was only one (1) Relief Operator because this would require the Relief Operator to work twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
(c)	Preference for scheduling holidays as between two (2) or more Operators will be based on departmental seniority.
(62)
4.	Vacations:
(a) Vacation time: Convert weeks to shifts based on
the forty-two (42)hour per week average;
(b) Vacation pay: The greaterofthe following amounts:
(a)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base;
(b)	a normal shift's pay (twelve (12)hours at the regular hourly rate) for each shift, subject to reduction in accordance with Article 8.01 (4)(b).
(c)	Vacation Scheduling:
(i)	Operators may be allowed to take vacations other than in blocks of calendar weeks, but normally would not be allowed to take only one (I) or two (2) vacation days. (Single days off can normally be obtained through scheduling of holidays.)
(ii)	Vacation shall be scheduled in April and May in accordance with Article 8.02.
5.	Bereavement Leave:
Operators shall be entitled to two (2)days of bereavement leave with pay (two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts being equivalent to the three (3) days referred to in Article 15.01).
For example:	2 weeks
3	weeks - 10 1/2 shifts
4	weeks - 14 shifts
(63)
6.	Sick Leave:
Operators can only draw on their sick leave bank in blocks of twelve (12) hours.
7.	Relief Operator(s):
(a)	The Company will appoint at least one (1) Relief Operator,
(b)	All holidays and vacations of regular Operators will be scheduled so that the shifts can be covered by a ReliefOperator(s);
(c)	A Relief Operator is expected to be available to relieve a regular Operator who is absent, including absences for such matters as illness or injury where the Company receives very little, if any, advance notice of the absence. In such cases, it will be impossible for the Company to give the Relief Operator the two weeks' notice of change of schedule normally required under Article 11.01(b). That notice is therefore not required in such cases, but the Company is required to give the Relief Operator as much notice as reasonably possible and at least four (4) hours' notice.
(d)	A Relief Operator shall work in the Powerhouse at straight time rates for up to twelve (12) hours a day and up to forty-eight (48) hour per week or bank the hours in excess of eight (8) hours a day or forty (40) hours per week to be taken as time off.
8.	Return to Eight (8) Hour Days:
Powerhouse Operators may revert to eight (8) hour days after a six (6) month trial period provided there is mutual agreement between the Company and the Union as to terms and conditions which would apply.
DATED this 24th day of February, 1995 at Berwick N.S.
Karl R. Larsen Larsen Packers Limited
Norman Gee
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 864 Witness Ian Frost
(65)
ATLANTIC FISHERIES BENEFIT TRUST (1992)
Welcome to the Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust (1992). This Plan is effective from APRIL 1, 1995. Following is some brief information you should know.
REGISTRATION CARD
If you have not already done so, you are asked to complete and sign (in ink) a registration card and return it to your employer (Larsen Packers Limited) as soon as possible, making sure that all information requested on the card is provided. If in the future, any of the information on the Registration card changes, please obtain a new card from your employer, union representative, or by contacting the Administrator (address listed below). Return the registration card to the Administrator as soon as possible. In the event that the Administrator does not receive a completed Registration Card, wherein you have appointed a beneficiary, the death benefit must be paid to your estate and will ho subject to an otherwise avoidable probate fee.
BENEFIT COVERAGE
Flere is a brief summary of the benefit provisions you are entitled to under this plan.
•	Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment - $25,000.00
•	Short-Term Disability
Payable from the first (1st) day of disability due to accident... from the eighth (8th) day of disability due to sickness... to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks.
(66)
The benefit payment is equal to 66 2/3% of weekly earnings to a maximum of 60% of UIC maximum weekly insurable earnings.
•	Supplementary Health Care
Benefits will be subject to reimbursement at 100% (semi-private hospital, vision care - $100.00 every 24 months, etc.)...90% (drugs requiring a prescription)...80% (convalescent hospital, paramedical services, hearing aids, ambulance service, orthopaedic shoes, etc.). There may be benefit payment limitations, for the expenses noted above, which will be outlined in the booklet.
•	Dental Care
Annual maximum - $1,000.00... with reimbursement at 80% taking into account the 1994 Provincial Dental Fee Schedule, for eligible expenses which will be outlined in the booklet.
PHARMACIES YOU MAY USE TO FILL YOUR PRESCRIPTIONS
Following is a list of pharmacies in your area who have agreed to use this plan for your convenience:
VALLEY DRUG MART
KINGSTON, NS
WILSON’S PHARMASAVE
213 Commercial Street BERWICK. NS
CLINIC PHARMACY
70 Exhibition Street KENTVILLE, NS
MADER’S ARP PHARMACY
2591 Highway #1, Suites COLDBROOK, NS
CHISHOLM’S PHARMACY
AYLESFORD. NS
(67)
NOTE: There may be additional pharmacies in the future that may be added to this list as well. We will keep you updated.
CLAIMS AND FORMS
You may obtain claim forms from your employer's office, your union representative, or the Administrator. Claim forms and/or any questions you may have, are to be submitted to the office of the Administrator at the following address:
ATLANTIC FISHERIES BENEFITTRUST P.O. Box 880
SAINT JOHN’S, NEWFOUNDLAND AIC 5L7
Inorderto avoid delays in claims payment, certain steps should be taken before submitting your claim as follows:
•	Provide all the information requestedon the claim form
•	Ensure that the claim form is signed and dated
•	Include all receipts, invoices, etc, before the claim is mailed.
All claims are considered and paid in accordance with the documentation governing the Trust Fund, including the insurance policy.
YOU MAY ALSO CONTACT YOUR UNIONOFFICEAT: 1-800-565-1646 (toll free) ANYTIME FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
PHONE: TOLL FREE: FAX:
(68)