COLLECTIVE
LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
LOCAL 864
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL, CIO, CLC
- AND -
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED Sept. 18/91 - Sept. 18/94
00250 (04)
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 864
297 Sackville Drive,
LOWER SACKVILLE, NOVA SCOTIA B4C 2R7
(902) 864-8329 1-800-565-1646 (toll free)
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected, front-line representative of the United Food& Commercial Workers. It is his/her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this Agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because the time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problems on the spot, but he/she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Business Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Your Union Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this Collective Agreement, but only if you. stand together with the Steward.
A.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food & Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected Unions in North America. You are one of 180,000 members in Canada and 1.3 million throughout Canada and the United States.
U.F.C.W. is the result of a giant merger between two former Unions, the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union, to which our locals belong. The merger creating U.F.C.W. took place on June 6, 1979. This unification produced a Union which is even more capable of protecting and improving the wages, benefits, working conditions and job security of our membership.
A very large percentage of the good sold in Canadian stores are produced and processed by U.F.C.W. members, all over Canada.
U.F.C.W. LOCAL 864
U.F.C.W. Local 864 was formed out of a merger voted on and approved by the membership of former U.F.C.W. Locals 1973 and 1252. Local 864 represents workers in New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia.
The job of looking after your interests on a daily basis is given to the Local 864 of the U.F.C.W. A qualified staff of Union Representatives work more than full time to negotiate and service your Collective Agreement. Your elected officers, along with the elected Executive Board, are responsible for directing and co-ordinating the resources of the Union so that the members' interests are well served.
WHAT YOU GET FOR UNION DUES HIGHER THAN AVERAGE WAGES AND BENEFITS:
According to recent government statistics, Unionized workers, make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-Union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your Union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
JOB SECURITY: Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-Union worker have that kind of security? GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE: Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are nonbargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-Union work place you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
C
PROBLEMS WITH WORKERS' COMPENSATION OR UIC?: The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-Union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
PENSIONS, DENTAL INSURANCE, SICK PAY, DISABILITY INSURANCE, ETC.:	Compare your
benefits package with those of non-Union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? Yet bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year. (Don't forget that they are tax deductible).
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT & SECRETARY-TREASURER
U.F.C.W. LOCAL 864
Dear Fellow Member:
I hope that you will take the time to carefully read this new Collective Agreement. Like most contracts, the language is complicated in parts, but it is very important that you have some familiarity with your rights and duties.
Many of our members, particularly newer ones, have a hard time believing that they actually have the rights detailed in this contract. Consequently, they don't object or put in a grievance when management violates those rights. This is a very grave mistake which weakens the Union.
U.
This is a legal document negotiated in good faith between the Union and the Company. Should you feel that any of the Articles contained in this Agreement have boon violated, please contact your Steward or Area Representative immediately.
We should all tie proud of olu Union's achievements. We have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their businesses efficiently and profitably. Occasionally, we will have disagreements - sometimes serious ones; but we can always rosolve our differences through mutual respect anti an agreement everyone can live with.
In Local 864, we are committed io Jot) Security. People without a Union to protect them do not have security and must rely on continuing good will of management if they want to keep their jobs. Only your Union can be relied on to protect your rights in employment 24 hours a day, every day of the year. Only your Union can bo counted on for help when you have problems with management. Only your Union is 100% dedicated to improving your wages, benefits arid job security.
Please feel fret: to contact us at any time with questions oi concerns about the Union Ibis is your Union and your opinion is what really counts. Help keep your Union strorrg.
Fraternally yours,
Bruce Uurno,
President and	Mark Dobson,
Chief Executive Officer	Secretary-T reasurei
E
INDEX
Article	Page
1.	Definition............................... 1
2.	Purpose.................................. 2
3.	Recognition.............................. 2
4.	Check-Off................................ 3
5.	Union Security........................... 3
6.	Strikes and Lockouts..................... 5
7.	Wages.................................... 6
8.	Vacations................................ 6
9.	Social Security.......................... 8
10.	Grievance Procedure....................... 9
11.	Hours of Work............................ 11
12.	Holidays & Sundays....................... 15
13.	Management .............................. 17
14.	Safety & Health Precautions.............. 19
15.	Bereavement.............................. 22
16.	Retirement Policy........................ 22
17.	Seniority................................ 22
18.	Transfers................................ 27
19.	Leave of Absence......................... 27
20.	Extras................................... 28
21.	General.................................. 31
22.	Duration of Agreement.................... 32
Schedule “A” - Check Off Dues Deduction
Authorization........................... 34
Schedule “B” - Wage Rates.................... 36
Schedule “C” - Labour Management
Committee............................... 43
Schedule “D" - Memo Re Pension and
Benefit Plan........................... 45
Schedule “E” - Memo re Job Classification
System.................................. 47
Schedule “F” - Memo re Departmental
Seniority of Certain Employees.......... 48
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
LOCAL 864, UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
- and -
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
Its Successors or Assigns
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	It is agreed by the parties that, except where a
contrart intention appears, in this Agreement.
(a)	Bargaining Unit - means the bargaining unit described in Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board Order Nor 884, dated October 8, 1964, and any amendments thereto;
(b)	Company - means Larsen Packers Limited;
(c)	Employees - means the Employees in the bargaining unit (all Company Employees excluding Farmhands, Buyers, and Salesmen, Foremen and above that rank, Office Employees and those excluded by the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia);
(d) "Shall" is imperative and "May" is permissive;
(e)	Union - means Local 864, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, AFL, CIO, CLC;
(f)	Words importing male persons includes female persons;
(g)	Words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular, and
(h)	Every Schedule attached hereto is a part of this Agreement;
1
(j) Plant Seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit;
0 Departmental Seniority is defined as the length of service in a department.
ARTICLE II - PURPOSE
2.01	The purpose of this Agreement is:
(a)	To promote and maintain harmonious relations between the Company and its Employees and to establish rules governing relations between them;
(b)	To facilitate the solution of such problems within the jurisdiction of this Agreement as may arise from time to time;
(c)	To establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the purpose of bargaining collectively for all the Employees of the Company as defined herein, the whole in accordance with the Order granted by the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board on October 8, 1964, being Order No. 884, and any amendments thereto.
3.02	Insofar as the law permits, the Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organizations affecting these Employees.
3.03	The Company will not act or be required to act upon any question of jurisdiction that may arise between the Union and any other Union.
2
3.04	The Company will not unreasonably withhold permission to the Business Agent or other representative of the Union to enter the Plant at reasonable times to discuss with the Union officers and/or stewards, matters relating to the administration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - CHECK-OF
4.01	The Company agrees that, upon receipt of written authorization in the form set out in Schedule "A" to this Agreement, it will deduct from the Employees' earnings weekly during the term of this Agreement, the amount cf the Union dues, together with any special assessment* authorized to be deducted (it shall be the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company of the amount of the dues and of the date and amount of any special assessment) and will transmit the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the local Union during the week following the deduction of dues. Membership applications will be completed on employment. Initiation fees will be deducted with the employee's first dues deduction. 'This term includes initiation fees.
4.02	All Employees shall have dues deducted and remitted to the Union.
ARTICLE V - UNION SECURITY
5.01	All present Employees, as a condition of employment, shall remain Union members in good standing. All new Employees, as a condition of employment, shall become and remain Union members in good standing within sixty (60) days of employment. A list of new Employees shall be given to the Chief Steward at the end of each pay period.
3
5.02	The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the Company from acting upon or relying upon any statement by or on behalf of the Union that the Union membership of any Employee has ceased. The indemnity shall cover all damages, costs or expenses otherwise incurred.
5.03	Foreman and above shall not perform work of bargaining unit Employees, except for emergencies, training, instruction and sundry departmental duties not in excess of one (1) hour per day.
5.04	The Company recognizes that stewards and officers have duties and responsibilities towards, and on behalf of, the Union and are required at times to leave their jobs to investigate arid process grievances, or discuss, with supervision, other matters affecting Employees. The Union recognizes that stewards and officers are Employees of the Company and, as such, have jobs to perform on behalf of the Company. When it becomes necessary for officers or stewards to leave their jobs to attend to the above matters, the steward concerned shall obtain the permission of the foreman concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and arrangements will be made by their foreman to leave their jobs, with no loss of pay, as soon as reasonably possible, but normally not later than one (1) hour following that request. The Union agrees that there will not normally be duplication of duties or responsibilities of its stewards and officers, however, it is recognized that there may be times, when, because of the circumstances, the Union or the Company may deem it necessary to have mote than one representative attend to the matter. The time away from productive work shall be reported in accordance with the
4
time keeping method cf the department in which the steward is employed.
5.05	At times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The Company will consider before contracting out such work:
(1)	The availability of required skills.
(2)	Urgency of the jot;.
(3)	Cost of equipment in relation to its use.
When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has an adverse effect on present Employees, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration. This provision does not apply to installation and construction work.
ARTICLE VI - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.01	The Union agrees it will not authorize any strike, slowdown or cessation of work contrary to the Trade Union Act.
6.02	The Company agrees that it will not lock out contrary to the Trade Union Act.
6.03	Due to the perishable nature of the product, propel preservation conditions must be maintained at all times. The Union undertakes that it shall riot take any action in any way detrimental to adequate product preservation or the maintenance of product preserving equipment. Should a legal strike and/or lockout occur, the Company will be responsible foi the preservation of its product.
ARTICLE VII - WAGES
7.01	The Schedule of Classifications and Rates shall be as set out in Schedule “B”.
ARTICLE VIII - VACATIONS
8.01	Vacation Pay Schedules:
Vacation Pay Base -means the total earnings (as shown on T-4) of an Employee from the Company for the previous calendar year (January 1 to December 31, inclusive).
Service Calculation Date - means the total years of service of an Employee to December 31st of the calendar year.
Amount of Vacation Pay - the amount of vacation pay shall be the greater of the following amounts:
(a)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base, or
(b)	vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourlyrated Employees shall be the normal weekly hours at the regular hourly rate, provided that this amount will be reduced by 1/52nd for each week of absence (including any period during which an Employee works twenty-four (24) hours per week or less under Article 20), excepting absences which are:
(i)	that provision up to fifteen (15) days annually, excepting leaves of absences;
(ii)	due to sickness up to fifteen (15) days annually, excepting longer periods as an Employee may
Years of
Amount of
Continuous Service Vacation Pay
6
be entitled to receive sick pay under the Company's sick pay plan;
(iii)	up to one year due to compensable accident (effective May 1, 1981);
(iv)	for approved Union business.
8.02	Each Employee shall indicate his first, second, and third choice for the first two (2) weeks of his vacation entitlement by the 15th day of April. The Company shall post a vacation schedule by the 30th day of April. Preference in scheduling vacations will be on the basis of departmental seniority. Scheduling of the balance of vacation entitlement shall take place not later than the 31st of May, with preferences submitted no later than the 15th day of May. Employees may also indicate a preference for taking their full vacation entitlement without interruption in months other than June, July, August and the deer hunting season. Where department functions are transferred from one department to another, the job function will be deemed a function of the original department in determining Employee's allocation of vacation and overtime.
8.03	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the vacation shall be lengthened by one working day.
8.04	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the Employee will be allowed a compensatory day's holiday, with pay, at the Employee's regular rate.
8.05	Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year.
8.06	All deductions normally made from an Employee's regular pay may be deducted from the Employee's vacation pay.
7
8.07	When Formen and above rank of Foreman take their vacation, it will have no effect on any bargaining unit Employee's vacation.
8.08	At least fifteen percent (15%), rounded up, of bargaining unit Employees in any department can take their vacation at the same time. For example, in a department with twenty-one (21) Employees, the calculation of the minimum numberof Employees who can take their vacation at the same time would be as follows: 21 x 15% = 3.15 -which is rounded up to 4.
ARTICLE IX - SOCIAL SECURITY
9.01	The Company is prepared to discuss the existing Group Insurance Sickness and Hospitalization Plan and will inform Employees of the benefits accruing to them under the Plans. All permanent Employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Group Life Insurance Plan, Short Term Disability Plan, and the Group Health Care (Blue Cross) Plan in accordance with the provisions of those Plans. Costs of these Plans will be shared between the Company and the Employees. The Company will not introduce new Plans in addition to or in substitution for existing Plans without first discussing same with the Union.
9.02	While an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee shall bo entitled to coverage under the Group Benefit Plans (subject to the terms of the Plans), provided the Employee reimburses the Company on a monthly basis for his share of the premiums or the Company agrees to alternative arrangements.
9.03	The Company will arrange financing in Workers' Compensation cases to cover the period
8
between the injury or the filing of the claim and the first payment from the Workers' Compensation Board.
ARTICLE X - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	The term "grievance" includes an alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
10.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Chief Steward and Departmental Stewards and of any subsequent changes in the names thereof.
10.03	The grievance procedure is available to all Employees. Union and Employee grievances must be taken up within three (3) working days after the alleged grievance has arisen.
10.04	PROCEDURE
(1) STEP 1 - The aggreived Employee, with his Department Steward, shall discuss the matter with the foreman or forelady of the Department. The foreman or forelady shall give his/her decision within two (2) working days of the discussion with the Employee.
STEP 2 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within tho two ^working days allowed for the foreman's reply, the Chief Steward shall discuss the matter with the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall give his decision within two (2) working days of his discussion with the Chief Steward.
STEP 3 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) working day:; allowed for the Superintendent's reply, the Chief Steward or his designate shall submit the complaint in writing to the General Manager or his designate. Within five (5) working days after the General Manager has received
9
the written complaint, the Superintendent and General Manager, or their designates, shall meet with the unit Chairman and/or such other representative of the Union as the Union designates. The Company shall reply in writing within three (3) working days of the meeting.
(2)	The aggrieved Employee may attend at any stage of the Grievance Procedure.
(3)	The time set out herein may be extended at any stage by mutual consent.
(4)	Employee grievances arising out of discharge will be commenced within three (3) working days of the dismissal and shall begin at STEP 3 upon written notice from the Grievance Committee, stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal.
(5)	A request for a wage adjustment due to any error in calculation of pay, if not answered within four (4) working days, may be treated as a grievance and handled progressively, 'beginning with STEP 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
10.05	Unresolved grievances shall be referred in writing to an Arbitration Committee composed as follows:
(a)	A single arbitrator where both parties agree; or
(b)	Three (3) arbitrators - one (1) appointed by the Union, one (1) appointed by the Company, and a third appointed by the first two (2) within one (1) week of their appointment, and if the third is not appointed within this time, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia to make the appointment.
10
10.06	The decision of a single arbitrator appointed under 10.05(a) or the decision of the majority appointed under 10.05(b), shall be final and binding upon all parties and shall be rendered within fourteen (14) days following appointment of the Committee. The decision shall not alter, modify or amend any part cf this Agreement, nor make any general changes, such as change in wage rates agreed upon.
10.07	The Company and the Union agree to bear equally the fees and expenses of the single arbitrator appointed under 10.05(a) and of the third arbitrator appointed under 10.05(b).
10.08	The Chief Steward, or in the absence of the Chief Steward, a designated alternative, when available on Company premises, will be present for all disciplinary reprimands to be entered on an Employee's record.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	The forty (40) hour work week consists of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts, Monday to Friday (both days inclusive); commencing at 8:00 o'clock in the morning to 12:00 o'clock noon, and from 12:30 o'clock p.m. to 4:30 o'clock in the afternoon. All Employees are subject to scheduling, provided the Company gives the affected Employee and the Union, two (2) weeks' notice of the change in schedule. If a two (2) or more shift operation is instituted, the Company will discuss and negotiate with the Union, an appropriate shift premium. If a seven (7) day continuous operation is instituted, the Company will discuss and negotiate with the Union, a formula to provide Employees with similar benefits for the holiday pay for holidays falling on days that they are not scheduled to work. If any
11
new classification is created within the bargaining unit, the Company shall discuss and negotiate wages and working conditions relating to the new classification with the Union. If an appropriate wage rate cannot be agreed upon, the issue will be submitted to arbitration as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
11.02	The days of work, daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the duration of lunch breaks and work breaks may be altered because of changes in the terms or conditions relating to government inspection staff.
11.03	Overtime shall be paid as follows:
(i)	All Employees - for each hour worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day - one and one-half straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(ii)	All Employees - for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week - one and one-half straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(iii)	All Employees - for each of the first four (4) hours worked on days outside of the scheduled work week - one and one-half straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(iv)	All Employees - for each hour worked in excess of ten and one-half (10%) hours per day, and for each hour worked in excess of four (4) hours, on days outside of the scheduled work week - two (2) times their straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
Provided nothing herein shall be construed to provide overtime on overtime, and that the only premium for overtime work is either daily or weekly, but not both.
11.04	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, (station to station), provided
12
that the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-half (2V2) hours. For those whose work day begins at 8:00 o’clock a.m. and ends at 4:30 o’clock p.m., the work break shall be at 10:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m., subject to change by the Company in accordance with its production schedule and the requirements of business. Work breaks for all others shall be at such times as the Company shall choose. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, Employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused. In the event that the starting time is altered, the rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be scheduled at the end of the two and one-half (2%) hours.
11.05	When an Employee is recalled to work outside his scheduled working hours, he shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at straight time rates, notwithstanding that he worked less than four (4) hours, or overtime rates for overtime hours actually worked, whichever is greater.
11.06	Scheduled overtime shall commence one-half (V2) hour after normal quitting time, provided the Company is able to arrange for the necessary government inspection to commence at that time.
11.07	Overtime will be offered first by department seniority and second by plant seniority to the senior Employees within the plant. Employees on approved leave will be excluded from these provisions.
The Company will solicit names from Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own; and prepare a Plant Overtime List, The Company reserves the right to require an applicant to demonstrate his/her ability to perform the
13
work at line speed, in a proper and efficient manner. Failure to meet the job requirements will result in the applicant's name being removed from the List for that particular job. The Plant's Overtime List will be revised quarterly. A senior Employee who has designated his/her desire to work on the overtime list, who is missed, will be paid for all hours a junior Employee worked, at the applicable overtime rate. All work referred to above will continue to be voluntary.
11.08	Unless an Employee has been notified beforehand not to report to work, an Employee reporting for work at a scheduled starting time shall be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof.
11.09	On signing of this Agreement, the Company agrees to implement a system to enable Employees to bank overtime pay. Each Employee may bank a maximum of forty (40) times their straight time rate in one (1) contract year.
Banked overtime may be withdrawn with an approved leave at the mutual consent of the Employee and the Company. (Any Employee seeking consent for leave shall apply to his foreman personally.) Payment for banked overtime pay can be drawn by the Employee at any time during the contract year. Any amount outstanding at the end of the contract year will be paid to the Employee within fifteen (15) days.
11.10	The Company agrees to pay a shift premium for scheduled shifts which commence at 4:30 p.m. or later and terminate at 8:00 or earlier, at the rate of 40< per hour.
11.11	If, during a shift, an Employee is absent on approved leave (approved leave is defined as written
14
authorization by the Company) and the Employee is required to work in addition to the scheduled hours, that Employee shall receive the overtime rate, although the Employee has not worked eight (8) hours.
11.12	The Company will cooperate with Employees in arranging a work schedule for those working the Tuesday to Saturday shifts, so that each Employee has at least one (1) Saturday and Sunday weekend off per month, provided that any Employee involved is able to make the necessary arrangements with a qualified volunteer from the Monday to Friday shift, and the arrangement is approved by the supervisor(s) involved. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Agreement, and in particular Article 11.03, any such arrangement shall not result in additional cost to the Company.
11.13	The Company will establish a rotation system for gaming and sticking hogs on the kill floor. Rotation will be every two (2) hours from the above heavy-duty jobs to lighter-duty jobs. Additional jobs may be added to the above, following agreement in the Labour-Management Committee.
ARTICLE XII - HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all Employees at their regular rates for the following holidays when not worked:
New Year's Day Good Friday Christmas Day Boxing Day Canada Day Labour Day
Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day Employee's Birthday Remembrance Day Christmas Eve Floating Holiday
15
If any of the above-defined holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead will be named by the Company.
Floating holidays are to be taken with the consent of the Company and on the basis of first come, first serve.
An Employee who wishes to take another day in place of his birthday shall notify his Supervisor at least three (3) days in advance of his birthday and if arrangements are made for an alternate day off, that alternate day shall be considered the holiday instead of the actual birthday.
12.02	Employees working on the above holidays shall receive eight (8)hours pay at straight time rates and shall in addition, be paid double time rates for all hours worked on such holidays.
12.03	(1) Employees absent on the working days next preceding or next following any of the defined holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holidays, unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
(2)	Employees who do not work eight (8) hours on the working days next preceding or next following any one of the defined holidays may have their holiday pay reduced proportionally so that for each hour missed on either day, the Employee's holiday pay will be reduced by one (1) hour's pay, unless the Employee missing time received permission from the Company to be absent or late cr was absent or late because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
16
12.04 In the event of a lay-off preventing an Employee from qualifying under tho next preceding paragraph herein, the Company agrees to pay for the defined holiday providing:
(a)	When the holiday is on a Friday, that the Employee had worked on the working day immediately preceding the holiday (Thursday);
(b)	When the holiday is on a Monday, the Employee works on the working day immediately following the holiday (Tuesday).
12.05	The Company agrees to pay the regular hourly rated Employees double time (two (2) times straight time rates) for work performed on Sunday, except by stationary engineers, maintenance men, or others whose work regularly falls on Sunday.
ARTICLE XIII - MANAGEMENT
13.01	The management of the Company’s business, properties and plant, and the direction and distribution of the working forces including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing the right to hire, suspend, discipline, discharge, lay-off trom duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons, arid to promote, demote and transfer, to introduce new or improved production methods oi facilities or to change existing production methods or facilities, the determination of the lay-out and equipment to be used on the business, the processes, techniques, methods and means of manufacture and production and distribution remain in and are vested exclusively in the Company.
17
13.02	Disciplinary Rules & Penalties - immediate Discharge Offences. The following are mutually agreed and conclusively deemed to be just cause for immediate discharge.
(1)	reporting for work under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, or with abilities impaired by alcohol and/or drugs.
(2)	possessing or drinking any alcoholic beverage and/or drugs on the Company's premises;
(3)	falsifying time cards or other records;
(4)	refusing to obey orders of Foreman or other members of the Supervisory Staff and/or to do work as assigned;
(5)	misuse or removal from the plant without proper authorization, Company material, products or property;
(6)	deliberate abuse or destruction of Company property, tools, and equipment, or the property of other Employees;
(7)	threatening, intimidation, or coercing Employees or members of the Supervisory Staff; or
(8)	theft or misappropriation of Company property or the property of other Employees.
13.03	Disciplinary Rules & Penalties - Lesser Offences - For breach of the rules and regulations listed in the Plant and including any revisions or additions thereto, the Employee will be disciplined:
(1) (a) in the first instance by warning or reprimand which does not involve loss of work or loss of pay as a part of such warning or reprimand;
(b) in the second instance, suspension of employment for a period of two (2) weeks, without pay,
18
and the Union will be notified of the date and duration of the suspension; and
(c)	subsequent violations are conclusively deemed to be cause for immediate discharge.
(2) All disciplinary action to become null and void after eighteen (18) months.
13.04	Larsen Packers Limited acknowledges its responsibility to foster a productive work environment which is free of offensive behaviour. The Company has a policy on Sexual Harassment and therefore, sexual harassment in the work place will not be tolerated.
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS
14.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its Employees during working hours.
14.02	Any medical examination requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all Employees, provided, however, that the Company bears the expense of such examination. The Company reserves the right to select its own medicl examiner or physician for group examinations. In the case of individual examinations, a family physician may be used, however, the Company reserves the right to require a second medical opinion.
14.03	The Company shall provide hard hats, coats and other appropriate safety equipment to be worn by all Employees. The Company shall provide eighty-five percent (85%) of the cost of aprons and wet suits. The Company will provide a Safety Boot Allowance of Thirty Dollars ($30.00) (Safety Boot Allowance to increase to Thirty-Five Dollars ($35.00) on January 1, 1993 and
19
to Forty Dollars ($40.00) on January I, 1994) to each regular Employee with more than six (0) months seniority, on presentation of the appropriate receipt. This allowance can only bo claimed once iri any one (1) calendar year.
14.04	A joint Occupational Health and Hafety Committee) shall be established consisting of three (3) representatives of the Company and throe (3) representatives of the Union.
The joint Occupational Health anil Safety Committee shall tour the plant once pur month, after which the Committee .shall meet to discuss, record and identify matters which require attention.
The Committee shall maintain records and minutes of Committee meetings in a form and manner approved by the Provincial Director of Occupational Health and Safety Act and will provide the I )iroetor with a copy of those records arid minutes upon request.
The Committee shall participate in inspections, inquiries, and investigations concerning tiro occupational health and safety of the Employees.
14.05	The Committee, through the co-operation of the Company, shall establish a prevention program that includes information-and training in health and safety matters, arid make recommendations to the Employees and any person for the improvement of the health and .safety of poisons at the work place.
Any Employee may infuse to do any act at the work place where the Employee liar; reasonable grounds to believe that the act is; likely to endanger his health or safety or the health or safety of any other Employee. The Employee will first report to his supervisor.
Employees who refuse a job as stated above, may be reassigned to other work until they are able to return to their regular work. During such period of reassignment, the Employee will be paid the same wages and benefits as if they continued their normal job.
Another Employee may be assigned to the job in question, providing the Employee hasbeen advised of the refusal by another Employee, the reason for refusal and their rights to refuse the job for similar reasons.
If the matter is not rectified, the Employee shall report the matter to the Committee representative. The Committee representative shall convene a meeting of the joint Committee, which shall have equal representation.
If the Committee and the Company do not resolve the matter and advises the Employee to return to work, the unresolved matter shall be referred to the Director of Occupational Health and Safety for investigation. If, after a full investigation by the Director of Occupational Health and Safety, the Employee's refusal is not upheld, the Employee may be disciplined and the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
14.06	Effective January 1, 1992, the Company will schedule each Full-Time Employee six (6) hours per calendar year (pro-rated for persons who become FullTime Employees during the year) for Health and Safety Seminars. These seminars will be available on Company premises and will be without cost to the Union or the Employee.
The Employees shall be paid their regular straight time rate for the time in attendance at Health and Safety Seminars.
21
ARTICLE XV - BEREAVEMENT
15.01	When it is necessary for a regular Employee on the active payroll to be absent on a regular working day to arrange for and/or attend the funeral of their immediate relative (father, mother, sister, brother, spouse or common-law spouse, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law,brother-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren), he is entitled to be absent the day before, the day of and the day after the funeral. And for each of these, if they are regular working days, he shall be paid his regular straight time rate.
ARTICLE XVI - RETIREMENT POLICY
16.01	Normal retirement age shall be as is provided in the established pension plan.
ARTICLE XVII - SENIORITY
17.01	The Company shall maintain a plant seniority list and an individual departmental seniority list which shall be posted every six (6) months, with an update as required. Seniority lists shall be put under plexiglass and permanently displayed on the bulletin board.
17.02	Employees will be regarded as probationary Employees when hired and shall have no seniority under this contract until after sixty (60) days of hire. The Employee's plant seniority date will be the date of hire. The Employee's department seniority date will be the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department. When two (2) or more Employees have identical dates of hire, the Employee with the greater number of working days in the probationary period will be given preference on the seniority list.
22
17.03	Probationary Employees, if laid off and later rehired in a six (6) month period will receive credit for past service.
17.04	Departmental seniority will be applied in determining preference in vacations, overtime, promotions, and shifts. Shift preference in the department can only be exercised by an Employee twice in a given calendar year.
17.05	(A) Where it is necessary to lay-off Employees for a period in excess of three (3) working hours per day, plant seniority will be the guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of Employees who are able, with a familiarization period. and willing to do the work which is available.
(B) In the event of a temporary lay-off (temporary lay-off is defined as three (3) hours a day or less), the affected qualified Employee may choose to displace the junior Employee in the plant on a job which he can perform.
17.06	An Employee's seniority rights shall be forfeited for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if he voluntarily resigns or leaves the services of the Company;
(b)	if he is discharged for cause;
(c)	if he is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without first securing permission from the Company;
(d)	if he is continuously out of employment with the Company for a period of twelve (12) months: provided however, if an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, he shall retain seniority for a period
23
equivalent to his length of service at the time of leave up to a maximum of four (4) years.
17.07	For Employees who have been promoted out of the bargaining unit, they may retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months from the date of signing of this Agreement. For Employees promoted out of the bargaining unit, subsequent to the signing of this Agreement, shall retain their bargaining unit seniority until ninety (90) days following the date cf promotion, following which their seniority rights shall cease.
17.08	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled by promotion within each department on the basis of the Employee's seniority within that department and the ability to perform the job with normal training.
17.09	Promotions within the department will be as follows:
(a)	follow the steps up the line of progression as per departmental seniority;
(b)	if, for some reason, the senior Employee refuses the promotion, the next senior Employee will pass him in departmental seniority for promotional purposes only.
17.10	If the vacancy cannot be filled within the department, it will then be posted and filled in accordance with plant seniority.
17.11	No Employee will be allowed more than one
(1)	lateral transfer a year.
17.12	The vacancy may be filled on a temporary basis by either a bargaining unit or a non-bargaining unit Employee until such time as the job posting sequence has been completed. At this time, the Employee from outside of the bargaining unitwill go to
24
whichever department has the unfilled vacancy in the bottom job. A non-bargaining unit Employee will not accumulate departmental seniority until such time a; he is established in a home department
17.13	(1) Where it is required to fill a vacancy within a dejiartment, the Company shall post notice of the vacancy within tho department and the same shall remain posted foi five (5) working days. Those applications received within the posting period will be considered. The successful applicant will be posted within ten (10) days of the original posting.
(2)	Where a senior Employee refuses training or after the training is not able to do the job, the next eligible Employee will be offered the training. Trained Employees who fill higher jobs in the line of progression on a permanent basis, shall be deemed to have greater departmental seniority than those they bypass for promotional purposes only.
17.14	Ability to do the job means the ability to per form the requirements of the job following an appropriate familialixation period or following an appropriate training and trial period. 1 lie Company shall not curtail the training or trial period without reasonable cause before it has run its normal course. In the event the Employee is not able oi does not wish to complete the trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job within the training period or trial period, he shall be returnedto his former position at its wage or salary rate without loss of seniority.
17.15	Where an Employee is not able, through illness or injury or other reasons, to perform his normal duties, the Company and the Union may arrange suitable alternate employment.
25
The following positions have been identified as light duty jobs to be used for rehabilitation purposes:
Chief Stock Clerk (Dry Storage)
Utility Service Man Stock Clerk (Dry Storage)
Plant Janitor Laundry Operator Hanging Livers Scaleman (Beef)
Making Boxes (Port Cut)
These jobs will be red-circled for light duty exclusively (i.e. any incumbents in these positions will not be affected, but when the positions become vacant, the positions will not be posted). The Company shall utilize these jobs for temporary assignment to Employees injured at work and requiring light duty work while recovering, as evidenced by a medical opinion. Employees suffering from illness or a noncompensable injury, and requiring light duty work while recovering, as evidenced by a medical opinion, will also be considered for light duty jobs. After a reasonable period of rehabilitation, Employees will be expected to return to their original jobs. Employees remaining in light duty jobs in excess of six (6) months, will be reviewed by the Company, in consultation with the Union, on at least a semi-annual basis.
17.16	All job applications, pursuant to a job posting, shall be filled out in duplicate, with a copy to be given to the Union.
17.17	New Employees shall not be hired where there are Employees on lay-off able to perform the job.
26
ARTICLE XVIII - TRANSFERS
18.01	The Company will have the tight to temporarily transfer, not exceeding six (6) weeks, an Employee from one position to another in order to affect proper and efficient operation of the plant, providing that the rate of no Employee shall be reduced when he is performing work in a classification having a lower rate than his own under these circumstances, or when work is available in his own classification. In temporary transfers from one department to another, the Company will give consideration to seniority, subject to the requirements of the business and qualifications of the Employee.
18.02	When an Employee is permanently assigned to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid the higher rate for such work. When an Employee is temporarily assigned or transferred to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has consecutively worked one (1) hour in the higher classification.
18.03	When an Employee, at his own request, is transferred or assigned to work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, shall be paid the lower rate for such work.
18.04	When an Employee is transferred for the purpose of gaining job experience and to qualify for a higher rate, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has acquired the skill to perform the job classifications at line speed.
ARTICLE XIX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to
27
attend Union conventions, without pay and without loss of seniority, provided that:
(i)	the Company is given at least two (2) weeks' notice, when possible, of the request for leave of absence:
(ii)	the leave does not seriously interfere with tho business of the Company; and
(iii)	not more than three (3) members of the Union are on leave of absence at any one time.
19.02	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority to any Employee for legitimate personal reasons. Leave of absence for cases other than illness and accident will not be granted except under special circumstances.
19.03	The Company may grant leave of absence to an Employee who -wi§hes to apply to work for the Union on a full-time basis - this to he reviewed from year to year. However, the Employee on such Union leave does not accumulate seniority during the leave.
19.04	When a regular Employee (one who has completed his probationary period is summoned to jury service, he will be paid his normal daily hours work multiplied by his regular hourly rate, provided he turns over to the Company, the amount received for each jury service. The Employee will be required to notify the Company immediately upon receiving notice of jury duty and to report to work on any day he is not required to serve as a juror.
ARTICLE XX - EXTRAS
20.01	"Extras" are persons who are employed for
up to twenty-four (24) hours per week and may only be used as follows:
28
(a)	to relieve Full-Time Employees or Extras who are absent from work provided any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to work. The Company will provide the Union with a daily absenteeism report and a list of the Extras used as relief.
(11) To operate new product lines on a trial basis, subject to the following:
(i)	any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to work;
(ii)	"Trial Basis" referred to above will be a maximum of one (1) year for each new product line. At the conclusion of the year, the line will be operated by Full-Time Employees or discontinued.
(jjj) During the one (1) year trial period;
(A)	if a new product line operates for three
(3)	continuous months for twenty-four (24) hours per week, the Company will operate the line with Full-Time Employees;
(B)	if two (2) new product lines are operating for three (3) continuous months for a total of forty (40) hours or more a week, hours of work on the two (2) lines will be combined to create Full-Time employment;
(C)	on a quarterly basis, the Company will review with the Union new product demand and the possibility of creating Full-Time employment in accordance with (A) and (B) above. Any disagreement on combining new product lines
29
to provide Full-Time employment will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
(iv)	Upon the creation of Full-Time employment referred to in this paragraph (b), the job will be posted in accordance with Article 17.
(c) To work when no Full-Time Employees are
available to work overtime under Article 11.07.
For example;
(I)	if any extra shift is scheduled on the
weekend and Full-Time Employees are not available to work overtime, Extras may be used:
(jj) if an Extra is working in relief and additional work is required at the end of the shift, the Extra may only work the additional time if Full-Time Employees are not available.
If any Full-Time Employee is laid off, he shall advise the Company whether or not he wishes to work twenty-four (24) hours per week or less. If he does not wish to do so, he will be recalled only when Full-Time work becomes available and will be considered to have been given an opportunity to work under (a) and
(b)	above.
20.02	The number of Extras shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of all Full-Time Employees. For example, if there are two hundred and fifty (250)Full-Time Employees, the maximum number of Extras is fifty (50).
20.03	Full-Time Employees for the purpose of this Article includes probationary and student Employees.
30
20.04	Extras are not entitled to the provisions of Articles 8, 9, 11, 12, 15 and 17 to 19 inclusive of this Agreement, except that:
(a)	Extras will be eligible for public holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked on such holiday provided they report for work their day before and their day after the holiday:
(b)	Extras with one (1) year's service or more will be entitled to two (2) weeks' vacation with vacation pay of four percent (4%) of earnings during the previous calendar year;
(c)	Extras shall be paid one and one-half (1 Vz) times their regular rates for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day; and
(d)	Extras shall be entitled to the provisions of Article
11.04	plus one-half (V2) hour unpaid lunch break.
20.05	Absent Employees shall notify the Company at least one (1) hour before the scheduled start of their shift provided the Company makes arrangements to receive the calls.
ARTICLE XXI - GENERAL
21.01	The Company will designate one (1) Bulletin Board for the use of the Union at a conspicuous place. Copies of Bulletins and Notices will be submitted to management before posting.
21.02	In the event of an Employee being absent through illness for a period of five (5) working days, the Union agrees that such Employee shall give the Superintendent one (1) working day's notice of his intention to return to work.
21.03	Maintenance men in Class 1, 2, and 3 and Powerhouse Operators will receive a tool allowance
31
annually, of up to One Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($125.00). This amount is to be spent to replace broken, lost and damaged tools. Any additional expenditure to be approved by the Company, and the Company shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the additional approved expenditure.
21.04	Freezer coats, quilted liners, coveralls and gloves, as required for work in certain departments of the plant, will be supplied to Employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation.
ARTICLE XXII - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01 This Agreement is to remain in full force and effect for a period of three (3) years from September 18, 1991 and further negotiations will be subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
22 02 This Agreement will be automatically renewed from year to year unless one party gives to the other, notice in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
22.03	Only the wage rates set out in Schedule “B” are retroactive and only persons who are Employees on the date of ratification of this Agreement are entitled to retroactive pay.
32
IN WH NESS WHEREOF the parties have executed and signed this Agreement the 27th day of March, 1992.
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED Lowell Weir
John Pettet
UNIT ED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 864
John Chipper Timothy A Mitchell
Carol Cappell DougOickle
S3
SCHEDULE “A”
CHECK-OFF DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
being an employee of Larsen Packers Limited at its Plant at Berwick, Nova Scotia, hereby irrevocably authorize and direct Larsen Packers Limitedto deduct initially initiation dues and thereafter to deduct weekly on my first or any pay day of each calendar month from my earnings accumulated to my credit, my monthly dues, together with any special assessment* levied in accordance with the Constitution and ByLaws of the Union, Local 864, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. I further authorize Larsen Packers Limitedto pay the amounts so deducted to the Financial Secretary of Local 864, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute good and sufficient discharge to Larsen Packers Limited for the amounts so deducted from my earnings. A letter from the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Company shall be conclusive evidence of the amount of dues and the special assessment* authorized.
NAME .____________________ _________________
ADDRESS
NUMBER
WITNESS
34
Dated at Berwick, Nova Scotia this _
day of	____________ , 19
‘Special assessment includes initiation fees
35
SCHEDULE“B’ WAGE RATES
Starting Rate - New Employees shall start at 85% of the base rate. This rate will be increased 5% each three (3) months until the rate is reached. Starting Rate for experienced New Employees is 12* an hour less than classification and an increase of 6* every three (3)months until classification rate is reached.
Extras- Extra shall be paid at 80% of the base rate
The base rate will be as follows: go	September 18/91	$12.15
01	September 18/92	$12.55
March 18/93	$12.70
September 18/93	$13.10
March 18/94	$13.25
Students, that is Employees hired between May and August, inclusive, shall be paid at 75% of the base rate and are not considered to be an Employee as defined in Article 1.01(c). The Company will deduct an amount equivalent to Union Dues from the student's wages and remit the deduction to the Union.
1.	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Industrial Mechanic who has demonstrated ability to maintain and repair all machines in the plant (including sophisticated production and packaging equipment)
Class 2 - Valid Certificate Holder (Electrician. Welder, Industrial Mechanic and Refrigeration Mechanic). Department Mechanic (able to Service and repair all machines in department)
Class 3 - Welder, Electrician. Refrigeration. Technician, Pipefitter
Class 3A - Storekeepei Class 4 - General Maintenance Class 5 - General Help
2.	POWERHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Valid 2nd class Stationary Engineer Certificate
Class 2 - Valid 3rd class Stationary Engineer Certificate
Sept. 18/91	Sept. 18/92	March 18/93	Sept. 18/93	March 18/94
13 93	14.33	14,4e	14.88	15.03
13.23	13.63	13.78	14.10	14.33
12.90	13.30	13.45	13.85	14 00
12.90	13.30	13.45	13.85	14.00
12.35	12,75	12.90	13.30	13.45
12.15	12.55	12 70	13.10	13.25
'4.08	14.48	14.63	15.03	15.18
13.58	13.98	14.13	14.53	14.68
Class 3 - 3rd class trainee (holding valid 4th class certificate)
3.	BUTCHERS
Class 1 - Able to do all jobs on kill line at line speed
Class 2 - Able to do at least three jobs in Group A. or in Group B1 of Class 3 at line speed Class 3 -
Group A (Beef Kill): Rumper, Sider/Brisket Cutter, Head Skinner/Sticker, Gutter, Hide Puller, Paunch Culler, Splitter, Trimmer/Weigher,
Head Boner
Group B1 (Pork Kill): Scraper, Jowl Trimmer,
Head Skinner. Brisket Cutter, Cut and Bung. Eviscerator, Hog Splitter, Rail Trimmer. Sticker. Trimmer. Unjoint heads Group B2 (Pork Kill): Scald Tank Operator,
Shackler, Gaming Hogs. Livestock Receiver. Scaleman, Leaf Lard, Head Boner, Offals,
Front Feet
Sept. 18/91	Sept. 18/92	March 18/93	Sept. 18/93	March 18/94
13.23	13.63	13.78	14.18	14.33
13 06	13.46	13 61	14.01	14 16
12.86	13.26	13.41	13 81	13.96
12.68	13.08	13.23	13.63	13.78
Class 4 •
Group A (Beef Kill) Livestock Driver. Washer, Shrouder
Group B (Pork Kill): Livestock Driver,
Torchman, Stamper Class 5 - General Help
4.	PORK CUT DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Able to do all lobs at line speed CO
co	Class 2 - Able to do a combination cf three lobs in
Group A of Class 3 at line speed
Class 3 -
Group A - Loin Breaker, Loin Puller Operator,
Belly Ribber Bun Boner, Shoulder Trimmer Group B- Shoulder. Saw, Ham Saw. Loin Trimmer, BellyTrimmer Ham Trimmer, Rind machine Class 4 - Scaleman (Weigh and Strap)
Class 5 - Hog Pusher. Hog Weigher, Bellie Rind, Back Rind and Back fat, Wrappers, Piling off, Sorter, Box Assembly, Hauling
Sept.	Sept.	March	Sept.	March
18/91	18/92	18/93	18/93	18/94
12.33	12.73	12.88	'326	'343
12.15	12.55	12 70	13.10	13 25
13 06	13.46	13.61	14.01	14 16
12.86	13.26	13.41	13.81	13.96
12.68	13.08	13.23	13.63	13.78
12.33	12.73	12.88	13.28	13.43
12.21	12.61	12.76	13.16	13.31
Class 6 - General help
BEEF CUT DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Meat Cutter. Class "A"-Cutting (Cut and/or trim Chucks, Loins. Hips) at line speed, Saw Operator (Breaking Beef)
Class 2 - Meat Class "6"-Boning (Shanks, Plates, Briskets. Ribs, Flanks), Beef Shipper
Class 3 - Bagger/VC999 Operator Class 4 General Help
SAUSAGE DEPARTMENT
A - Fresh Sausage
Class 1 - Batcher/Grinder
Class 2 - Stuffer
Class 3 - Pick/Pack Sausage
Class 4 - Weigh/Pile
Class 5 - General Help
Sept.
18/91
12.15
13.06
12.86
12.68
12.21
Sept.
18/92
12.55
13.46
13.26
13.08
12.61
March
18/93
12.70
13.61
13.41
13.23
12.76
Sept.
18/93
13.10 14 01
13.81
13.63
13.16
March
18/94
13.25
14.16
13.96
13.78
13.31
12.78
12.52
12.31
12.24
12.15
13.18
12.92
12.71
12.64
12.55
13.33
13.07
12.86
12.79
12.70
13.73
13.47
13.26
13.19
13.10
13.88
13.62
13.41
13.34
13.25
B -Wieners, Bologna. Salami, etc
Class 1 - Batcher/Grinder
Class 2 - Stuffer
Class 3 - Blender, Scaleman
Class 4 - Hanger
Class 5 • General Help
7. CURING DEPARTMENT
A - Curing Cellar
Class 1 - Smoker Operator, Edible Rendering Class 2 - Formulating (Langen Operator) Class 3 - Stuffer. Pump Operator. Scaleman Class 4 - Hanger Class 5 - General Help B- Pork Conversions Class 1 - Skilled knifeman able io do all cuts in pork conversions at line speed Class 2 - Ham Boner. Loin Boner Class 3 - General Help
Sept.	Sept.	March	Sept.	March
18/91	18/92	18/93	18/93	18/94
12 78	13.13	13.33	13.73	13 88
12.52	12.92	13.07	13.47	13 62
12.31	12.71	12.86	13.26	13 41
12.24	12.64	12.79	13.19	13.34
12.15	12.55	12.70	13.10	13 25
12.78	13.13	13.33	13 73	13.88
12.69	13.09	13.24	13.64	13.79
12.36	12.76	12.91	13 31	13.46
12.26	12.66	12.8:	13.21	13 36
12.15	12.55	12 70	13.10	13 25
12.90	13.30	13.45	13.35	14.00
12.73	13.18	13.33	13.73	13 88
12.15	12.55	12.70	13.10	13.25
8. SHIPPING AND FREEZER
Class 1 - Shipper/Freezer Operator, Headphone Operator, Book, Freezer Line,
Inventory Control Class 2 - Stacker Class - 3 Picker, Freezer Help Class 4 - General Help
^	9. SANITATION DEPARTMENT
no	Clean Up Crew
10. PLANT SERVICES (Formerly "Curing Other") A - Box Room Class 1 - Chief Stock Clerk Class 2 - Stock Clerk Class 3 - General Help S-Janitor. Laundry Operator
11. PACKAGING ROOM
Sept.
18/91
12.84
12.73
12.53
12.15
12.15
12.53
12.33
12.15
12.15
12.25
Sept.
18/92
13.24
13.13
12.93
12.55
12.55
12.93
12.73
12.55
12.55
12.65
March
18/93
13.39
13.28
13.08
12.70
12.70
13.08
12.88
12.70
12.70
12.80
Sept.
18/93
13.79
13.58
13.48
13.10
13.10
13.48
13.28
13.10
13.10
13.20
March
18/94
13.94
13.83
13.63
13.25
13.25
13.63
13.43
13.25
13.25
13.35
SCHEDULE “C”
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE, ETC.
1.	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Labour Management Committee composed of two (2) representatives of the Union (the Unit Chairman of the Local and the Chief Steward) and two (2) representatives of the Company (the Plant Superintendent and one (1) other designated by the President). The Management Committee shall meet at least once every month at a time and place to. be decided by the Committee, to discuss all proper subjects of general interest to both the Union and the Company, including health, safety and other matters. But the Labour Management Committee is not intended to, nor shall it replace the Grievance Procedure, and all matters properly dealt with by the Grievance Procedure and not by the Labour Management Committee. The Union shall designate a Chairman of its Safety Committee who, when he has cause for concern, shall sit with the Labour Management Committee, which shall deal with questions of safety.
2.	Business Agent’s attendance at premises - the Company agrees that the Business Agent of the Union, or other outside representative of the Union, may at reasonable times (having first secured the permission of the Company) meet with any officers of the Union or the Chief Steward of the Union.
3.	Wage Assignments - both the Union and the Company agree that the practice of Employees making wage assignments to finance companies, stores, etc. is to be discouraged, and new Employees will be notified that an assignment of wages of this kind is grounds for dismissal (and the application for employment will be amended accordingly) and that existing
43
Employees will be notified by the Company and the Union, that any wage assignment made after ten (10) days following the signing of this Agreement shall be grounds for dismissal and that the Employees should so advise any finance company or store seeking a wage assignment.
44
SCHEDULE “D” LETTER OF UNDERTAKING
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local 864
(hereinafter called UFCW - 864)
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
(hereinafter called Larsen)
1.	As of the signing of this Agreement, the Employees' share of premiums for the Group Health Care Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan is $69.16 per month (family) and $41.99 per month (single). The Company agrees that the Employees' share of premiums will not increase during the first year of the Agreement and will not exceed $75.00 per month (family) and $45.00 per month (single) during the second and third years of the Agreement. It is understood that the Company may vary the existing plans or introduce a plan in substitution for the existing plans, subject to first discussing changes with the Union, so that total costs of the Plan will continue to be shared equally between the Company and the Employees.
2.	During the life of this Agreement, the Company (Larsen) and the Union (UFCW-864) will establish a joint Labour-Management Committee to review the existing pension and benefit plans. The Committee will make the recommendations to be used as a basis for discussion during the term of the contract, as well
45
as, negotiations for the subsequent Collective Agreement. In particular, the Committee will review measures (such as changing carriers, or the amount of co-pay) which may allow maintenance of the present level of premiums for the Group Health Care Plan and the Group Life Insurance, or at least minimize any increase in those premiums.
Dated this 27th day of March, 1992 at Berwick, N.S, Lowell Weir
Larsen Packers Limited John Chipper UFCW - Local 864
Timothy A. Mitchell Witness
46
SCHEDULE "E"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
During the life of this Agreement the Company (Larsen) and the Union (UFCW - 864) will establish a joint Labour - Management Committee to review the existing job classification system The Committee will examine the staffing requirements of the new plant and make recommendations for a revised classifica tion system These recommendations will form the basis for a revised classification system This new classification system will be implemented by the Company provided the implementation can be made without increasing the average hourly wage rate in the plant Otherwise the new classification system will form the basis for negotiations for the subsequent collective agreement
Dated this 27th day of March, 1992 at Berwick N S Lowell Weir
Larsen Packers Limited John Chipper UFCW - Local 864 Timothy A Mitchell Wit ness
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
(hereinafter called Larsen)
47
SCHEDULE“F”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local 864
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
The following Employees shall continue to be treated as part of the Shipping Department as long as they remain in their present positions:
(a)	Pork Cut Department: Ed Deveau (Weigh and Strap), Mike Lutz (Hauler), Zane Morse (Piling Off), Lloyd Ward (Weigh and Strap); and
(b)	Packaging Department: Brian Gould (Table Help), Gordon Jones (Table Help) and Kendall Joudrey (Table Help).
Dated this 27th day of March, 1992 at Berwick, N S Lowell Weir
Larsen Packers Limited John Chipper
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 864
Timothy A Mitchell
48
Witness
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local 864
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
No Employee will have his wage rate reduced as a result of changes to the classification system Introduced in this Collective Agreement.
Dated this 27th day of March, 1992 at Berwick, N S Lowell Weir
Larsen Packers Limited John Chipper
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 864
Timothy A Mitchell Witness
49