Collective Agreement
Between
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
and
Larsen Packers Ltd
Begins:
09/18/2005
Terminates:
09/18/2009
00250 (08)
Source: Employees: Received by: pg Date: 08/01/2007 Coded :
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
1.	DEFINITION.....................1
2.	PURPOSE........................2
3.	RECOGNITION....................3
4.	CHECK-OFF......................4
5.	UNION SECURITY.................4
6.	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS....■......6
7.	WAGES..........................7
a. VACATIONS......................8
9.	SOCIAL SECURITY...............12
10.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE............13
11.	HOURS OF WORK..................15
12.	HOLIDAYS&SUNDAYS...............24
13.	MANAGEMENT.....................26
14.	SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS....28
15.	BEREAVEMENT....................32
16.	PENSION........................32
17.	SENIORITY .....................33
18.	TRANSFERS......................40
19.	ABSENTEEISM....................41
20.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE...............42
21.	SICK LEAVE.....................43
22.	SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANTCLOSURE ...45
23.	FLOATERS ......................45
24.	EXTRAS.........................47
25.	TRADES APPRENTICES.............51
26.	LABOUR MANAGEMENTCOMMITTEE...54
27.	GENERAL........................56
28.	CORRESPONDENCE.................57
29.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT..........58
INDEX
SCHEDULE "A" - WAGE RATES..........59
SCHEDULE'S” - MEMO RE CERTAIN
WAGE RATES.........................63
SCHEDULE “C” - MEMO RE POWERHOUSE--64
SCHEDULE “D” - LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE VARIOUS COMPANY COMMITMENTS.....69
SCHEDULE “E" - MEMO REJOHSC .......70
SCHEDULET”- MEMO RE TRIAL OVERTIME , PROCEDURE..........................71
SCHEDULE “G’ - MEMO RE PAY PERIOD .74
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION -and-
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED Its Successors or Assigns
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	It is agreed by the parties that, except where a contraryintentionappears inthis Agreement:
(a)	Bargaining Unit - means the bargaining unit described in Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board Order No. 884, dated October 8, 1964 (all employees of the Company, but excluding farm hands, buyers and salesmen, supervisors and above that rank, office employees andthoseexcludedby the Trade UnionAc/of Nova Scotia) and subsequent Board Order No. 4948 dated November9,2001 and any amendmentsissuedby the Boardor changes agreedto bythe parties inwriting;
(b)	Company-meansLarsen Packers Limitedand any successors in accordance with the provisions of the TradeUnion Act(Nova Scotia);
(c)	Employees - means the Employees in the bargainingunit;
(d)	"shall"is imperativeand“may” ispermissive;
(e)	Union- meansAtlantic MeatpackersUnion:
(f)	Union officers- meansthe President, Vice-president and the Chief Steward;
(g)	words importing male persons include female persons;
(h)	words in the singular includethe plural, and words in the plural includethe singular;
(i)	every Schedule attached hereto is a part of this Agreement;
(j)	Plant Seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit from date of hire as a Full-Time Employee or Floater, but excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee or Floater(subjectto the credit provided in this Agreement fortime worked as an Extra) and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days if the Employeeadvises the Company that he is not availableto work as a Floateror Extra; and
(k)	Departmental Seniority is defined as the length of service in a department sincethe date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department.
ARTICLE2- PURPOSE
2.01	The purpose of this Agreement is:
(a)	to promote and maintain harmonious relations between the Company and its Employees and to establishrulesgoverningrelations betweenthem;
(b)	to facilitate the solution of such problems within the jurisdiction of this Agreement as may arise from time to time;
(c)	to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency.
(2)
ARTICLE 3- RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the purpose of bargaining collectively for all the Employees of the Company as defined herein, the whole in accordance with the Order granted by the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board on October 8, 1964, being Order No. 884 and .subsequent Order No. 4948 dated November 9, 2001, and any amendments thereto or changes agreedto by the parties in writing.
3.02	Insofar as the law permits, the Company will not bargaincollectivelyduring the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting these Employees.
3.03	The Company will not act or be required to act upon any question of jurisdiction that may arise between the Unionand any other union.
3.04	(a) The Company will not unreasonably withhold permission to the President or other representative of the Union to enter the Plant at reasonabletimesto discuss with the Union officersand/or stewards, matters relating to the administration of this Agreement.
(b) Management shall provide the President of the Union with a guided tour of the Plant once a year at a time mutuallyagreeable to the parties.
3.05	The Union shall be entitled to have the Company post a sign approximately eight and a half inches (8%') by eleven and a half inches (11%') identifying that employees of the plant are represented bythe Union. The sign shall be posted inside the building near the visitors' main entrancein a locationthat is readilyvisible.
3.06	The Company will allow the Union to continue to use the room in the plant currently designated for the
(3)
Union (or a comparable space) for storage of current files and for communication with the Union's head office. To allow for secure storage, the Unionwill be providedwith a key to the room and the Company will have a mail slot installed in the door to the room. To allow for communication with the Union's head office, the Company will arrange for the installation of a phone/fax line, with the Union to reimburse the Company for all costs (includingbothinstallationand regularbills).
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	Deduction and Remittance
The Company agrees that it will deduct from the Employees' earnings on each payday during the term of this Agreement, the amount of the Union dues, together with any special assessment (including initiation fees which shall be deducted with an Employee's first dues deduction). The Treasurer of the Union shall notify the Company of the amount of the dues andof the date and amount of any special assessment. The Company will transmit the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Treasurer of the Union during the month following the deductionof dues.
4.02	Indemnification
In consideration of the Company deducting and remitting amounts to the Union, the Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any claim or liability arising out of or resulting from the operationcf this Article.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	All present Employees, as a condition of employment, shall remain Union members in good standing. All new Employees, as a condition of employment, shall become and remain Union members
(4)
in good standing within sixty (60) days of employment. A list of new Employees shall be given to the Chief Steward at the end of each pay period. Every six (6) months, the Employerwill provide the Union with a list of Employees (which includes Extras, but not Students), together with their addresses and phone numbers as shown on the records of the Company.
5.02	The Union shall indemnify and hold harmlessthe Company from acting uponor relying upon any statement by or on behalf of the Unionthat the Union membershipof any Employeehas ceased. The indemnity shall cover all damages, costs or expenses otherwise incurred.
5.03	Supervisorsand above shall not perform work of bargainingunit Employees, exceptfor:
(a)	an emergency;
(b)	training;
(c)	instruction; and
(d)	sundry departmental duties not in excess of one (1) hourperday.
5.04	The Company recognizes that stewards and officers have duties and responsibilitiestowards, and on behalf of, the Union and are required at times to leave their jobs to investigate and process grievances, or discuss, with supervision, other matters affecting Employees. The Union recognizes that stewards and officers are Employees of the Company and, as such, have jobs to perform on behalf of the Company. When it becomes necessaryfor officers or stewardsto leavetheir jobs to attend to the above matters, the steward concerned shall obtain the permission of the Supervisor concerned before leavinghiswork. Such permissionshall not be unreasonably withheld, and arrangements will be made by their Supervisor to leave their jobs, with no loss of pay, as soon as reasonably possible, but normally not later than one (1) hour following that request. The Union agrees that there will not normally be duplication of duties or responsibilitiesof its stewards and officers, however, it
is recognized that there may be times, when, because of the circumstances, the Union or the Company may deem it necessary to have morethan one representativeattend to the matter. The time away from productive work shall not be excessive and shall bereportedin accordance with the time keeping method of the department in which the stewardis employed.
5.05	At times, it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. Any decision to do so shall be basedon the followingfactors:
(a)	the availability <£ Employees with the required skills;
(b)	theurgencyoftheworktobedone;
(c)	cost.
Ifthe work can be performed by Employees as efficiently (based on the above factors) as by outside contractors, the work shall be assignedto Employees. If workisto be performed by an outside contractor, the contractor may do the entire job. Before having work performed by outside contractors, the Company shall discuss with the Union its intent to do so whenever reasonably possible. (For example, it may not be reasonablypossiblein cases of emergency.) This Article 5.05 does not restrict the Company in regard to installation and construction work or in regard to loading and related functions in the Night Shipping Department which are contractedout as part of a trucking contract.
5.06	The Company will not displace Full-Time Employees for the purpose of using Floaters, Extras or Apprentices.
ARTICLE 6 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.01	The Union agrees it will not authorize any strike, slowdown or cessation of work contrary to the Trade UnionAct.
(6)
6.02	The Company agrees that it will not lock out contraryto the Trade UnionAct.
6.03	Due to the perishable nature of the product, proper preservation conditions must be maintained at all times. The Union undertakes that it shall not take any action in any way detrimental to adequate product preservation or the maintenance of product preserving equipment. Should a legal strike and/or lockoutoccur, the Company will be responsible for the preservation of its product.
ARTICLE 7 -WAGES
7.01	The Schedule of Classifications and Rates shall be as set out in Schedule"A".
7.02	The Company may create newjob classifications and/or new departments provided it first discusses any newclassification/department with the Union.
If such discussion fails to result in agreement on rate of pay for a new classification, the Company shall assigna ratecommensurate with the rate structure of this Agreement. The Union may requirethat the rate befinally determined by means of the grievance and arbitration procedure.
When a new department is being implemented (but not if an existing department is being split into two departments), the Company shall post for the jobs accordingto Article 17.11. Employees who post into the new department and have the same departmental seniority date shall be ranked on the departmental seniority list in accordance with plant seniority.
ARTICLES-VACATIONS
8.01	(1) Vacation PaySchedules:
Years of Continuous Service Between 1 anc/5 Years Between 5 and 10 Years Between 10 and 15 Years 15 Years or more
Amount of Vacation Pay
4% of vacation pay base 6% of vacation pay base 8% of vacation pay base 10% of vacation pay base
Time Off
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
(2)	Vacation Pay Base - meansthe total earnings (as shown on T-4) of an Employeefromthe Company for the previous .calendar year (January 1 to December 31, inclusive).
(3)	Service - meansthe total years of service in the bargaining unitfrom date of hire as a Full-Time Employeeor Floater and excluding time as an Extra before being employedas a Full-Time Employeeor Floater, (subject tu the credit provided in Article 24.07 for time worked as an Extra).
The service calculation date for vacation is March 1 of the current calendar year.
(4)	Amount <f Vacation Pay-the amount of vacation pay shall be the greaterof the following amounts:
(a)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base, or
(b)	vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly-ratedEmployeesshall be the normalweekly hours at the regular hourly rate, provided that this amountwillbereducedby1/52ndfor each wee k of absence (including any period during which an Employee works twenty-four (24) hours per week or less) when an Employeeis absentfor more than six (6)months.
(8)
8.02	(a) The Department Supervisor or designate
shall ask each Employeeinthe Departmentto indicate his preference for vacation, and each Employee, upon request, shall immediately indicate their choice for vacation entitlement.There shouldbetwo roundsof vacation selection:
(i)	The first round will deal with the first two weeks of vacation entitlement and will be completed no later than the 31 st day of March.
(ii)	The second round will deal with any vacation entitlement in excess of two (2) weeks. 1 will be completed no later than the 30th day of April, with the posting of the full vacation schedule not later than the 15thday of May.
In each round, on indicating his vacation choice, an Employee will be given the opportunity to sign off (initial) his chosen vacation and the record shall be preserved by the Companyfor the balance of the vacation year.
(b) Preferencein scheduling vacations will be on the basisof departmentalseniority, provided, however:
(i)	Employees who do not choose vacation as soon as possible when requested by the Supervisor, and in any event, within two (2) working days (excluding weekends and holidays) of the request, shall lose their opportunity to receive preference over other Employees who have less departmental seniority, but who select their vacation when requested: and
(ii)	Employeesare not entitledto participate inthefirst roundofvacation selection if at the
time they would otherwise be entitled to indicate their preference vacation they are off work on medical leave, have been off on such l eavefor morethan six (6) months and have not provided the Company with a probabledate of returnsupported by medical evidence.
(c)	In departments where there were day and night shifts for more than a total of six (6) months during the previous calendar year, the shifts will be treated as separate departments for the purposes of vacation scheduling.
(d)	If, after an Employee's vacation has been scheduled, but before the Employee has taken his vacation, the Employee transfers to another department (or another shift where that shift is considered a different department for the purpose of vacation selection), the Employee may carry his scheduled vacation with him, provided he has been employed in the department or on the shift for more than four (4) months at the time of transfer.
8.03	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the vacation shall be lengthened by one (1) working day. It is the Employee's choice whether to take that day on the working day immediately before or the working day immediately after his/her vacation (or to agree with the Company on another mutuallyacceptableday off), provided, however, during the week in which Christmas Day falls, and during the week which follows, the Company has the right to designate whetherany individual Employee can take the working day off immediately before his/her vacation or the working day off immediately following his/her vacation.
8.04	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the Employee will be allowed a compensatory day‘s holiday, with pay, at the
(10)
Employee's regularrate.
8.05	Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year.
8.06	All deductions normally made from an Employee's regular pay may be deducted from the Employee's vacation pay.
8.07	When Supervisors and above the rank f Supervisortaketheir vacation, it will have no effect on any bargaining unit Employee's vacation.
8.08	(a) Atleastfifteenpercent(15%), roundedup.of bargaining unit Employees in any department can take their vacation at the same time. For example, in a department with twenty-one (21) Employees, the calculation of the minimum number of Employees who can take their vacation at the same time would be as follows: 21x15% = 3.15 - which is rounded up to four (4).
(b) Notwithstandingthat the calculation in paragraph (a) may allow only one (1) Employee in a department to be on vacation at a time, the Company will make reasonable efforts, subject always to operational requirements, to allow up to two (2) Employees in the same departmentto take their vacation at the same time.
8.09	An Employee with more than three (3) weeks' vacation entitlement may elect to waive the excess and receive the resulting excess vacation pay in December (or at such othertimeas may be mutually agreed between the Company and an individual Employee). By making this election, the Employee is waiving his/her entitlement to the vacation leave for which he/she is receiving vacation pay, but such an election shall not affect an Employee's preference for his/her other weeks of vacationforwhich he/she has not received vacation pay.
(11 )
ARTICLE 9 - SOCIAL SECURITY
9.01	(a) The Company will participate in the group benefit plan(s) designated in writing by the Union. All permanent Employees (Full-Time Employees and Floaters) shall participate in the Plan in accordance with the provisionsof the Plan. Subjectto the provisionsof the Plan, an Employee can opt out of the group health care (medical and dental) so long as the Employee has comparable coverage throughthe spouse's employment.
(b) The Company's responsibility in regard to group insurance is limited to the payment of its share of the premiums. Costs of the premiums will be shared equally between the Company and the Employees, providedthat the Company's share of premiums during the term of this Agreement shall not exceedthe following amounts:
(i)	for family coverage: One Hundred Dollars and Thirty Cents($100.30) permonth; and
(ii)	for single coverage: Sixty-Two Dollars and Ninety-EightCents ($62.98).
9.02	While an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee shall be entitled to coverage underthe Group BenefitPlans(subjecttothetermsofthe Plans), providedthe Employee reimburses the Company on a monthly basis for his share of the premiums or the Company agreesto alternative arrangements.
9.03	(a) The Company will advance up to Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250) in Workers' Compensation cases to cover the period between the injury or the fiIing of the clai m and the first paymentfrom the Workers' Compensation Board, (b) An Employee receivingan advance agreesthat:
(i)	the Workers' Compensation Board may deduct the amount of and advance from compensation payable by the Board
(12)
(normally the first payment)to reimbursethe Companyforthe advance; and
(ii)	should the Company not be reimbursed fully under clause (i), the Company may deducttheamountofthe advance, or any balance owing, from any amount payable by the Company to the Employee, including any vacation pay.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	The term “grievance” includes an alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
10.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Chief Steward and Departmental Stewards and of any subsequent changes in the names thereof.
10.03	The grievance procedure is available to all Employees. Union and Employee grievances must be taken up within five (5) days after the alleged grievance has arisen.
10.04	PROCEDURE
(1)	STEP 1 - The aggrieved Employee, with his Departmental Steward, shall discuss the matter with the Supervisor of the Department. The Supervisorshall give his/her decision within two (2) days of the discussion with the Employee.
STEP 2 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) days allowed for the Supervisor's reply, the Chief Steward and the Departmental Steward shall discuss the matter with the Production Manager or designate. The Production Manager or designate shall give his decision within two
(2)	days of his discussionwith the Chief Steward.
(13)
STEP 3 • Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) days allowed lor the Production Manager's reply, the Chief Steward or his designate shall submit the complaint in writing to the ProductionManager or his designate. Within five (5) days after the Production Manager has received the written complaint, the Production Manager and Human Resources Manager, or their designates (and they may be accompanied by a third management representative), shall meet with the Union Grievance Committee, consisting of the Chief Shop Steward, or designate, and two (2) other Union appointees. The Company shall reply in writing (although reasons are not required) within two (2) days of the meeting.
STEP 4 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, eithertheUnionorthe Company may request a meeting of the Union President, or his designate, and the Union Grievance Committee, and the Company's Plant Manager, or his designate, who may be accompanied by the Production Manager and/or Manager of Human Resources, or their designates, to discuss the matter. The meeting shall take place within four (4) days of the receipt of the request and the Plant Manager (or his designate) shall reply in writing, with reasons, within two (2) days afterthe meeting.
(2)	The aggrievedEmployee may attendat any stage of the Grievance Procedure. An aggrieved Employeewho is reasonably required to attend a grievance meeting at Step 2 or Step 3 may do so without lossof pay.
(3)	Employee grievances arising out of discharge will be commenced within five (5) days of the dismissal and shall begin at STEP 3 upon written notice from the GrievanceCommittee, stating the grounds of objectionto the dismissal.
(4)	A request for a wage adjustment due to any error in calculation of pay, if not answered within four (4) days, may betreated as a grievanceand handledprogressively,
(14)
beginningwith STEP3 of the Grievance Procedure.
10.05	Time Limits:
(a)	The time limits specified in this Article shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and fixed holidays.
(b)	Any of the time limits may be extended at any stage by mutual consent.
10.06	Unresolvedgrievancesshall be referredin writing to an Arbitration Committeecomposed as follows:
(a)	asingle arbitratorwherebothpartiesagree; or
(b)	three (3) arbitrators - one (1) appointed by the Union, one (1) appointed by the Company, and a third appointedbythe first two (2) within one (1) week of their appointment,andifthethirdis not appointed within this time, either partymay apply to the Minister of Labourfor the Provinceof NovaScotiato makethe appointment.
10.07	The decision of a single arbitrator appointed under10.06 (a) or the decision of the majority appointed underl 0.06 (b), shall befinal and bindingupon all parties. The decision shall not alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor make any general changes, such as changes inwage ratesagreed upon.
10.08	The Company and the Union agree to bear equally the fees and expenses cf the single arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (a) and of the third arbitrator appointedunderl 0.06 (b).
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The normal work week (excluding the
Powerhouse - see Schedule “C") shall consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. This is not a guarantee by the Company of hours of workperdayorperweekor of
(15)
days of workper week. It is also understoodthat in special circumstances, the five (5) days may not be consecutive (for example, stocktaking).
(b) All Employees are subject to scheduling, providedthe Company gives the affected Employeeand the Union,' two (2) weeks' notice of the change in schedule. However, two (2) weeks' notice is not required where:
(i)	There is mutual agreement between an individualEmployee andthe Company.
(ii)	The change of schedule is for one (1) hour or less, provided:
-	it is made because of events beyond the control of the Company (for example, because of customer requirements or a delay in arrivalof fresh pork);
-	theEmployee(s) isadvisedbytheendof the previousday's shift;
-	the Company shall accommodate couples who are both employed with the Company and who have child care obligations so only one (1) spouse can be requiredto attendwithoutthetwo (2)weeks’ notice;
-	the exception may only be applied by the Companytwice a weekfor any individual Employee;
-	before applying this exception, the Company will first attempt to deal with the situation by asking for volunteers from among qualified Employees affected and obtainingmutual agreement.
(16)
If the start time is delayed under this paragraph (ii) and an Employee wishes to leave at the time when the shift is normally scheduledto end, the Employeemay ask his Supervisor for permission to leave at the normal quitting time and such request shall not be unreasonablyrefused.
(iii)	An Employee is participatingin a Return to Work Program and the only available work that is safe and suitable for the Employee is not scheduled during the Employee's regular shift, in which case, if there is more than one (1) such job, the Employee will be assigned the job with the shift which is more comparableto the Employee's regularshift.
(c)	If a seven (7) day continuous operation is instituted, the Company will discuss and negotiate with the Union, a formula to provide Employeeswith similar benefits forthe holiday pay for holidays falling on days that they were not scheduledto work.
(d)	The days of work, daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the duration of lunch breaks and work breaks may be altered because of changes in the terms or conditions relating to government inspection staff.
11.02	It is understoodthat at the start of an Employee's scheduled shift, the Employeeis to be at his work station. On the first occasion an Employee is late by five (5) minutes or less, the Employee will be advised by his Supervisorthat hewas late andthis may be confirmed in writing, but will not be considered a formal warning. On any other occasionsan Employeeis late, the Employeeis subject to discipline for just cause in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
11.03	Overtimeshallbepaidasfollows:
(17)
(a)	all Employees-for each hourworked in excess of eight (8) hours per day - one and one-half (1%) straight time rate of pay, calculatedon an hourly basis:
(b)	all Employees - for each hourworked in excess of forty (40)hoursperweek- one and one-half (1%) straight time rate of pay, calculatedon an hourlybasis;
(c)	all Employees- for each of the first four (4) hours worked on days outside of the scheduled workweek- one and one-half (1%) straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
d) all Employees - for each hourworked in excess of ten and one-half (10%) hours per day, and for each hour worked in excess of four (4) hours, on days outside of the scheduled work week - two (2) times their straight time rateof pay, calculatedon an hourlybasis.
Provided nothing herein shall be construed to provide overtime on overtime, and that the only premium for overtime workiseitherdaily or weekly, butnot both.
11.04	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, (station to station), provided that the working time of any one (1) shift exceeds two and one-half (2%) hours. An Employee shall receive two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each providedthat the total working time is six (6) hours or more. The rest periods will be scheduled at approximately the mid point of each half of the shift, subject to change by the Company in accordance with its production schedule and the requirements of business, provided however there shall not be a break within one (1) hour after the starting time of the shift or one (1) hour after the lunch break. If an Employee continues working at the end of his shift and works more than three-quarters(%) of an hour beyond eight (8) hours per day, the Company agrees to grant a fifteen (15) minute paid rest periodor pay in lieu of the rest period. The Union agreesthat except in cases of personal necessity, Employeesshall not askfor additional time off
(18)
during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periodsarea privilege andshould not be abused.
11.05	An Employee is not requiredto work a shift which is scheduled to commence within eight (8) hours of completion of the Employee's previous shift, but it is understood that if the Employee elects not to work the second shift, the Company has no obligation to reschedulethe Employeeto makeupforthe hourslostas a resultof notworkingthesecondshift. (Forexample, ifa Floater works a shift which ends at 12 midnight, the employee is not requiredto work a shift which starts at 7 o'clockthe next morning. However, ifthe Employeeelects not to work the 7 am shift, the Company has no obligation to schedule the Employee to make up those hours; whether or not the Employeegets calledfor a shift later the same day will depend upon the Company's requirements.)
11.06	When an Employee is recalledto work outside his scheduled working hours, he shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at straighttime rates, notwithstanding that he worked less than four (4) hours, or overtime rates for overtime hoursactuallyworked, whichever is greater.
11.07	(a) When it is decided during a shift that overtime is requiredat the end of the shift, overtime will be offeredto Employees inthe following order of preference:
(i)	Employees on duty by departmental seniority;
(ii)	other Employees on duty by plant seniority f rom th e PI ant Overti me List;
(iii)	Employeesnot on duty by departmental seniority; and
(iv)	other Employees not on duty by plant seniorityfromthe PlantOvertimeList.
(19)
In all other cases, the order of preference is firstly, by departmental seniority, and then by plant seniority from the PlantOvertime List.
Notwithstanding the above, in all cases of overtime, the Company is not obliged to offer overtime to an Employee underthis paragraph (a) if an Employeehas a scheduled shift which commences within eight (8) hours of the expected completion of the overtime; and provided also that Employeeson approved leave will be excludedfrom these provisions.
(b)	The Company will solicit names from Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own; and prepare a Plant Overtime List. The Company reserves the rightto requirean applicantto demonstrate his/her ability to perform the work at line speed, in a proper and efficient manner.
Failure to meet the job requirements will result in the applicant's name being removed from the List for that particular job. The Plant's Overtime List will be revised quarterly. A senior Employeewho hasdesignatedhis/her desire to work on the overtime list, who is missed, will be paid for all hours a junior Employee worked, at the applicable overtime rate. All work referred to above will continueto bevoluntary.
(c)	The Company may supplement the Plant Overtime List by developing a weekly overtime list for Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own. Each Thursday morning, the Company may post a copy of the Plant Overtime List with a request that the Employees i ndicate their interest in performing overtime work the following week. The listwill betaken down by 10 am. onTuesday of the following week and a copy of that list shall be given to a Union representative. Once the list has been removed, there will be no additions to the list. The company may then use the weekly list instead of the quarterly list to offer overtime by plant seniority. If the
Company goes through the weekly list and still needs more Employees, it may go to the top of the quarterly list and call from that list (without duplicating calls from the weekly list). If there are still insufficient volunteers, the Company may use Extras.
(d)	It is understood that the Company requires that any major electricalwork bedone by an Employeewith an electrician's ticket and therefore overtime would not be offered to an Employee, whether regularly employed in the Maintenance Department or not, who does not hold the requiredticket.
(e)	The Union will cooperate with the Company by encouraging Employees to work overtime when the Company decides that overtime is required.
11.08	Unless an Employee has been notified beforehand not to report to work, or the Company has made reasonable efforts to notify an Employee not to report to work, an Employee reporting for work at a scheduled startingtime shall be providedwith a minimum of four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof except in the case of an Employee returningfrom an absence who has not given the required notificationto the Company.
11.09	(a) The Companyagreesto allow Employeesto continue banking overtimesubjectto the following:
(i)	each Employee may bank a maximum of forty-eight (48) times their straight time rate;
(ii)	an Employee cannot bank less than one (1)hourfor any overtime period; and
(iii)	an Employee cannot bank part of an overtime period: that is, an Employee must bank all time in an overtime period or not bank any ti mefor that overti me period.
(21 )
(b)	Banked overtime may be withdrawn only in the
following circumstances:
(i)	with a pre-approved leave at the mutual consent of the Employeeand the Company; (any Employee seeking consent for leave shall apply to his Supervisor personally); time must be withdrawn in one (1) hour blocks except if the Employee is sent home more than one (1) hour early, or is allowedto go home more than one (1) hour early, becauseof lack of work, inwhich case the Employee may withdraw overtime in the amount of time lost that day in order to maintain full payfortheday;
(ii)	when, as a result of winter snow storms, the Company is satisfiedthat the Employeeis unable to reportfor work becauseof the weather;
(iii)	when the Employee has not missed a scheduled shift in a pay period, the Employee maywithdrawbanked overtime in eight (8) hour blocksor the balanceinthe bank;
(iv)	when the Employee has been absent from work due to illness or injury for five (5) consecutive regularly scheduled shifts or more, the Employee may withdraw the full balance in the bank; and
(v)	subject to the above, payment for banked overtime pay can be drawn by the Employee at any time during the calendar year provided the Employee applies on the standard form to be made available by the Company and the completed form is submitted to the payroll department no later than Wednesday for payment on Friday (payday) of the following week.
(c)	Any amount outstanding at the end of the
(22)
calendar year will be paid to the Employee within fifteen (15) days.
11.10	The Company agrees to pay a shift premium as follows:
(a)	fifty cents (500) per hour for scheduled shifts which commence at or after 12 noon up to, but not including4:30 am;
(b)	sixty cents (600) (that is, an additional ten cents (100) for scheduledshifts which commence at or afterB p.m. upto, butnotincluding2:30 am.
11.11	If, during a shift, an Employee is absent on approved leave and the Employee is required to work in addition to the scheduled hours, that Employee shall receive the overtime rate, although the Employeehas not worked eight (8) hours.
11.12	The Company will schedule those Full-Time Employees who work the Tuesday to Saturday shifts in Shipping so that each week one of those Employeeshas the opportunityto have Saturday off. The schedulewill be preparedin advance (and an Employee who is scheduled off on a Saturdaywill bescheduledandtherefore required to work the previous Monday). An Employee who does not want his scheduled Saturday off must advise the Company more than a week in advance, but it is understood that if an Employee decides not to take his scheduled Saturday d£ (and is therefore not required to work the previous Monday), no other Employee shall be entitledto be scheduledoff on that Saturday.
11.13	The Company recognizes that as a general principle (subject always to consideration of the specific circumstances including such factors as the demands of individualj obs and the practicalities of the situation) that when Employees are involved in repetitive production work, for health and safety reasons a job rotation system is beneficial for both the Employees involved and the
(23)
Company.
ARTICLE 12 - HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all Employees at their regular rates for the following holidays when not worked:
New Year's Day Good Friday Christmas Day BoxingDay Canada Day LabourDay
Victoria Day
Thanksgiving Day
RemembranceDay
Christmas Eve
two (2) Floating Holidays
If any of the above-defined fixed holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead will be namedbythe Company.
Floating holidays are to be taken with the consent of the Companyand on the basisof first come, first serve.
If an Employee ceases employment with the Company before July 1 of any year, after havingtaken both floating holidays for the year, the Employee is liable to the Company for holiday pay for the second floating holiday and, without restricting the Company's remedy, the Company is authorized to deduct such amount from the Employee's final pay.
12.02	Employees working on the above holidays shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at straight time ratesand shall in addition, be paid double time ratesfor all hoursworked on such holidays.
12.03	(1) Employees absent on the working days next preceding or next following any of the defined holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holidays, unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness, evidenced by a MedicalCertificate.
(24)
(2)	Employeeswho do not work eight (8) hours on the
working days next preceding or next following any one of the defined holidays may havetheir holiday pay reduced proportionally so that for each hour missed on either day, the Employee's holiday pay will be reduced by one (1) hour's pay, unless the Employee missing time received permission from the Company to be absent or lateorwas absent or late because of sickness, evidenced by a MedicalCertificate.
12.04	(a) The Company agrees to pay the regular hourly rated Employees double time (two (2) times straighttime rates)forwork performedon Sunday, except by Powerhouse Operators and for other classifications whentheworkis regularly done on Sunday.
(b) Employees who are regularly scheduled for a work week of five (5) eight (E) hour days, including Sundays, shall be paid double time (2x) for work performedon the seventh day inthe work cycle, beingthe second scheduled day off.
Example#1: If an Employee has a regular work week of Wednesday th roug h Sunday, th e seventh day in the work cycle (and the second scheduled day off) is Tuesday so the Employee would receive double time (2x) for any work performed on Tuesday.
Example#2: If an Employee has a regularwork week of Tuesday through Saturday, the Employee will receive double time (2x) for any work performed on Sunday even though Sunday is the sixth day in their work cycle and their first scheduled day off. (Paragraph (a), not paragraph (b), applies to Employees who are regularly scheduled for a work week of five (5) consecutive days excluding Sunday.)
ARTICLE 13 - MANAGEMENT
13.01	The management of the Company's business, propertiesand plant, and the direction and distribution of the working forces including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to hire, suspend, discipline, discharge, lay-off from duty because of lack of work or other legitimatereasons, andto promote, demote and transfer, to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities or to change existing production methods or facilities, the determinationof the lay-out and equipment to be used on the business, the processes, techniques, methods and means of manufacture and production and distribution remain in and are vested exclusively inthe Company.
13.02	Disciplinary Rules & Penalties - Immediate Discharge Offences. The following are mutually agreed and conclusively deemed to bej ust cause for immediate discharge:
(1)	reporting for work under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, or with abilities impaired by alcohol and/or drugs;
(2)	possessing or drinking any alcoholic beverage and/or drugson the Company's premises;
(3)	falsifyingtime cards or other records;
(4)	refusing to obey orders of Supervisor or other members of the Supervisory Staff and/or to do work as assigned;
(5)	misuse or removal from the plant without proper authorization, Company material, productsorproperty;
(6)	deliberate abuse or destruction of Company property, tools, and equipment, or the property of other Employees;
(26)
(7)	threatening, intimidation, physically assaulting or coercing Employees or members of the Supervisory Staff; or
(8)	theft of Company property or the property of other Employees.
13.03	DisciplinaryRules& Penalties- Lesser Offences
(1)	For breach of the rules and regulationslisted in the Plant and including any revisions or additions thereto, (provided the Company consults with the Union at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to any revisions or additions), the Employeewill bedisciplined:
(a)	in the first instance by warning or reprimand which does not involve loss of work or loss of pay as apart of such warning or reprimand;
(b)	in the second instance, suspension of employment for a period of two (2) weeks, without pay, and the Union will be notified of the date and durationof the suspension; and
(c)	subsequent violations are conclusively deemedto becausefor immediate discharge.
(2)	All disciplinary action to become null and void after eighteen (18) months.
13.04	Larsen Packers Limited is committed to creating and maintaining a work environmentthat is characterized by mutual respect and is free of harassment and discriminationwhich is contraryto the Human Rights/4cf (Nova Scotia). The Company has a policy on Workplace Harassment and therefore harassment in the workplace (includingsexual harassment)will not be tolerated.
13.05	The Chief Steward, orinthe absence ofthe Chief Steward, a designated alternate, when available on Company premises, will be present for all disciplinary
(27)
reprimandsto be entered on an Employee's record.
13.06	If an Employee is called to a private meetingwith the Company and the Company has a reasonable expectationthat discipline will be imposed:
(a)	the Company shall inform the Employee that he has a right to have a Union Steward present and if the Employee statesthat he wishes to have a Union Steward present, the Company will not refusethe request; and
(b)	the Company will notify the Chief Shop Steward (or, in his/her absence, a designate) prior to the meeting that such a meeting will be held with the Employee, but there is no obligation to provide particularsof the issueto be discussed with the Employee; the Chief Shop Steward, or designate, shall have a brief opportunity to meet with the Employeepriorto the Employee's private meetingwith the Company.
13.07	Within seven (7) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays andfixed holidays) of the Company advising an Employee that a suspension will be imposed and the length of the suspension, the Company shall advise the Employeein writing, with a copy to the Union, of the dates of the suspension. This is not applicable to a situation where an Employee is suspended indefinitely pending further investigation, but only to a situation where the Company has determined and advised the Employee of the specific length of the suspension.
ARTICLE 14 - SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS
14.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its Employeesduring working hours.
14.02	Any medical examination, including but not limited to a physical abilities assessment, requested by
(28)
the Company shall be promptly complied with by all Employees, provided, however, that the Company bears the expense of such examination. The Company reserves the rightto select its own medical examiner or physician for group examinations. In the case of individualexaminations, a family physicianmay be used, however, the Company reserves the right to require a second medical opinion.
14.03	(a) The Company shall provide hard hats, coats and other appropriate safety equipment to be worn by all Employees. The Company shall provide eighty-five percent(85%) of the cost of aprons and wet suits.
(b)	Safety Bootsand BootAllowance
(i)	The Company will provide an annual Safety Boot Allowance of Ninety Dollars ($90.00). This will be payableto each regular Employee with more than six (6) months' seniority; it will also be provided to Extras after completion of ten (10) months of employment and in the subsequent calendar years. This allowance can only be claimed once in any one (1) calendar year.
(ii)	Subject to any statutory requirements, the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will establish the minimum requiredcharacteristicsof all boots worn by Employees in the plant, any changes to be made effective at the start of the calendar year after the Committee establishes such characteristics. The Company may inspect boots, including a general semi-annual inspection, to ensure that boots are suitable both in terms of characteristics established by JOHSC and the amount of wear.
14.04	A joint Occupational Health and Safety
(29)
Committee shall be established consisting of four (4) representatives of the Company and four (4) representativesofthe Union.
The joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall tour the plant once per month, after which the Committee shall meet to discuss, record and identifymatterswhich require attention.
The Committee shall maintain records and minutes of Committee meetings in a form and manner approved by the Provincial Director of Occupational Health and Safety and will provide the Director with a copy of those records andminutes upon request.
The Committee shall participate in inspections, inquiries, and investigationsconcerning the occupational health and safely of the Employees.
One (1) Committee member representing the Union and one (1) from the Company may accompany the Safety Inspectorduring his inspectionof the plant.
14.05	(a) The Committee, throughthe co-operationof the Company, shall establish a prevention program that includes information and training in health and safety matters, and make recommendations to the Employees and any person for the improvement of the health and safety of persons at the work place.
(b) Right to Refuse Work
Any Employee may refuse to do any act at the work place where the Employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the act is likely to endanger his health or safetyorthe healthorsafetyof any other Employee.
The Employeewill first reportto his Supervisor.
Employees who refuse a job as stated above, may be reassigned to other work until they are able to
(30)
return to their regular work. During such period of reassignment, the Employee will be paidthe same wages and benefitsas if they continuedtheir normaljob.
Another Employee may be assigned to the job in question, providing the Employee has been advised of the refusal by another Employee, the reason for refusal andtheir rightsto refusethejob for similar reasons.
If the matter is not rectified, the Employees shall report the matter to the Committee representative. The Committee representativeshall convene a meeting of the joint Committee, which shall have equal representation.
If the Committee does not resolve a matter and advises the Employeeto returnto work, but the Employee continuesto refuse, a member of senior managementwill evaluate the situation. If that does not result in a resolution,the unresolved mattershall be referredto the Occupational Health and Safely Division (Nova Scotia) for investigation. If, afterafull investigationbythe Director of Occupational Health and Safety, the Employee's refusal is not upheld, the Employee may be disciplined and the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
14.06	The Company will schedule each Full-Time Employeetwo (2) hours per calendar year (pro-rated for persons who become Full-Time Employees during the year) for Health and Safety Seminars. These Seminars will be available on Company premises and will be withoutcosttothe Unionorthe Employee.
The Employees shall be paidtheir regularstraight time rate for the time in attendance at Health and Safety Seminars.
14.07	An Employee who is injured at work, but is not off work long enough to be eligible for compensation under the Workers' CompensationAct (Nova Scotia) underthe socalled "two-fifthsdeductible"rule, shall be paidfor fifty
(31 )
percent (50%) of time lost from work on the day of injury as a result of the injury; provided however, such Employeeshall be paid for one hundred percent (100%) of time lost from workon the day of the injury as a result of the injury if either the Employee returns to work that day and works the balanceof his shift or the injuryoccurs after the Employee's lunch break and requires immediate outside medical attention (that is, attendance at a doctor's off iceor hospital).
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT
15.01	Inthe event of the death of an immediate relative (father, mother, sister, brother, spouse or common-law spouse, son or daughter) of a regular Employee on the active payroll, the Employee shall be entitled to three (3) days' bereavement leave with pay. The leave shall normally commence no laterthan the day after the death and shall continue for a total period of three (3) consecutive regular working days, but a request to vary from this norm will not be unreasonably refused where there are special circumstances relatedto the death (for example, memorialservice) andthe Employeemakesthe request shortly afterthe death before taking all three (3) days' leave.
15.02	When it is necessary for a regular Employee on the active payrollto be absent on a regularworking day to arrange for and/or attend the funeral of their mother-inlaw, father-inlaw, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, the Employee is entitled to be absent the day before, the day of and the day after the funeral. For each of these, if they are regular working days, he shall be paid his regularstraighttime rate.
ARTICLE 16- PENSION
16.01	Normal retirementageshallbe65.
16.02	The Company agrees to contribute the following amounts to a pension plan or retirement fund designated
(32)
inwriting by the Union for all hours paid to each Full-Time Employee, andforall hoursworked by each Floater, in all cases up to a maximum of forty (40) hoursperweek 60® perhour.
ARTICLE 17 - SENIORITY
17.01	The Company shall maintain a plant seniority list and an individual departmental seniority list which shall be posted every six (6) months, with an update as required. Seniority lists shall be put underplexiglass and permanentlydisplayedonthebulletinboard.
17.02	Probation
(a)	Employees will be regarded as probationary Employeeswhen hired and shall have no seniority under this contract until:
(i)	inthecaseof an Extra,1250 hoursofwork and
(ii)	in the case of a Full-Time Employee, 625 hours of work, subjecttothe50% credit providedin Article
24.07	fortime worked as an Extra; (for example, if a Full-Time Employee h ad worked 1,000 hours as an Extra before becoming a Full-Time Employee, the Employee will receive a 500 hour credit on his probationary period and therefore after becoming a Full-Time Employee, will have 125 hours remaining in his/her probationary period).
(b)	Probationary Employees, if laid df and later rehired in a six (6) month period will receive credit for past service.
(c)	An Employee can be dismissed during his/her probationary period if the Company determines in good faith that the Employee is unsatisfactory and such dismissal shall be deemedto beforjust cause.
17.03	Seniority
(33)
(a)	The Employee's plant seniority date will be the date of hire, as a Full-Time Employee or a Floater, but excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee or Floater(subjectto the 50% credit providedin Article24.07 fortime worked as an Extra) and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days if the Employee hadadvised the Company that he is not available to work except as a Full-Time Employee.
(b)	The Employee's department seniority date will be the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment inthat department.
(c)	When two (2) or more Employees have identical dates of hires, the Employee with the greater number of working days in the probationary period will be given preferenceon the seniority list.
17.04	(a) Departmental seniority will be applied in determining preference in vacations, overtime, promotions, andshifts. Shift preference inthe department can only be exercised by an Employee twice in a given calendar year. Where department functions are transferred from one department to another, the job function will be deemed a function of the original department in determining Employees' allocation of vacation and overtime.
(B)	Shift preference may be altered by the Company
due to a lack of skill andability. When this takes place, the Company shall advise the Union through the Labour Management Committee and reasonable steps will be taken to alleviate the situation through the use of the special training hours. (The Union may also advise the Labour Management Committee of situations where this could reasonably be expected to become a problem so that such information can be considered by the Company in regardto the use of the specialtraining hours.)
17.05	(a) Where it is necessary to lay-off Employees
(34)
for a period in excess of three (3) working hours per day, plant seniority will bethe guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of Employees who are able, with a familiarization period, and willing to do the work which is available.
(b)	Inthe event of a temporary lay-off (temporary lay-
off is defined for the purposes of this paragraph (b) as three (3) hours a day or less), the affected qualified Employee may choose to displace a junior Employee subjectto the following:
1.	There isno entitlementtobumpfor one (1)houror less, providedthatthis cannot be appliedto an individual Employeemore than twice a week.
2.	The onus is on the Employee, at the time of being advised that his shift is ending early, to notify the Company immediately that he wishes to exercise his bumping rights and whether or not such a request has already been refusedtwice that week.
3.	The most junior Employee exercising bumping rights is matched up with the mostjunior Employee then working inthe Plant. Ajunior Employee beingtemporarily laid off can either accept the job of the most junior Employeestill working inthe Plant, if he hasthe abilityto do that job (and if he cannot, he has no other options on the day shift), or bump the mostjunior Employee on the nightshift, if he hasthe abilityto do that job. Ineither case, if the junior Employee being temporarily laid off does not have the ability to do the job of the junior Employee with whom he is matched, there are no other options for the Employee being temporarily laid off. A similar procedure would be followed for the second most junior Employee who is temporarily laid off and who is exercising his bumping rights. He will be matched with the most junior Employeestill working in the Plant at the time or the mostjunior Employeescheduledto work on the night shift - (the Employees with whom he is matched may be morejunior Employeeswho have already exercised their
(35)
bumping rights).
4.	Ability to do the job means that the Employee mustbeableto immediately operate at linespeedorR.E.
5.	There will be no “chain bumping”. That is, an Employeewho was bumpedcannot bumpsomeoneelse.
6.	Ifthere are more hours left in the shift of thejunior Employee being bumped than in the overlapping shift of the moresenior Employeeexercising bumping rights, the moresenior Employee has to wait untilthe last part of the junior Employee's shift. For example, if the more senior Employee has lost two (2) hours from his regularshift, he must wait until the last two (2) hours of the junior Employee'sscheduledshift. If an Employee is bumping into an evening shift which has not yet started and the Companyis able to contact the junior Employee scheduledfor the evening shift before he arrives at work, the senior Employee can pick up his hours at the start of the scheduled shift of the junior Employee working on the evening shift and the start time for the junior Employee will beadjustedaccordingly. (The two (2) weeks’ notice of change of schedule would not be applicable since the changewas not initiatedbythe Company.)
7.	An Employee cannot bump another Employeeso as to deprive the junior Employee of an opportunity to work at least four (4) hours (the minimum under Article 11.08). Similarly, an Employeewho works morethanfour (4) hours in total, including time worked as a result of bumping, is not entitled to any benefits under Article 11.08.
8.	If an Employeebumps into the Packaging Room, the Employee will not be paid for the required clean up time.
9.	Employees in the Maintenance Department and the Powerhouse are excluded from this bumping procedure.
(36)
(c)	In the event of a temporary layoff for the balance of the shift, the Company will offer senior Employeesthe option of leaving early, subject to the Company‘s determination of operational requirements and maintenance of a skilledworkforce.
17.06	An Employee's seniority rights shall be forfeited and employment terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if he voluntarily resigns or leaves the services of the Company;
(b)	if he is dischargedfor cause;
(c)	if heisabsentwithoutleaveforthree (3)consecutive working days without first securing permission from the Company, unless the Company is satisfied that the Employeehas a reasonable excuse;
(d)	if he is continuously out of active employment with the Companyfor a periodof twelve (12) months: provided however, if an Employee is on leavefor medical reasons, he shall retain seniority and employee status for a period equivalentto his length of service attheti me of leaveupto a maximum of three (3) years, subject to any statutory dutyforfurther accommodation.
17.07	(a) If an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee's position shall be heldfor him for three (3)years, or untilsuch earlierdateasthe Employee loses seniority and employee status under 17.06 (d). During this time, the Company will continue to be responsible for its share of the premiums for group insurance coverage provided the Employee pays the Company the Employee's share of the premiums on a monthly basis in advance of the Company's remittance of premiumsto the insurer.
(b) On expiry of a period of three (3) years after commencement of medical leave, or on such earlier date
(37)
as established under 17.06 (d) based on length of service, an Employee who has not returned to active employment shall forfeit his seniority rights and his employmentisterminated.
(c) For the purpose of calculating the duration of medical leave underthis Article 17.07, an Employeewho is on leave for medical reasons and returnsto work for lessthanthree (3) monthsandthen goesbackon medical leave for the same or related reason as the original leave, will not beconsideredto have returnedto work.
17.06	Employees promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain their bargainingunit seniority until ninety (90) days following the date of promotion, following which their seniority rightsshall cease.
17.09	Vacancies withinthe bargaining unit shall be filled within fourteen (14) days of the vacancy arising by promotion within each department on the basis of the Employee's seniority within that department and the ability to performthejob with normaltraining.
17.10	Promotions within the department will be as follows:
(a)	follow the steps up the line of progression as per departmentalseniority;
(b)	if, for some reason, the senior Employee refusesthe promotion, the next senior Employee will pass him in departmentalseniorityfor promotional purposesonly.
17.11	(a) If the vacancy cannot be filled within the department, within twenty-eight (28) days of the vacancy arising the Company shall post notice of the vacancy and the notice shall remain posted for five (5) working days. Those applications received within the posting period will be considered and the vacancy will be filled in accordance with plant seniority. The name of the successful applicantwill be postedwithin ten (10) days of
(38)
the original posting. The Company reserves the right to delay an Employee starting in a new position until a replacementfor the Employeehas beentrained.
(b)	Where a successful applicant is delayed starting in the new position for more than ninety (90) calendar days, he will be paid a higher rate for the new position afterthe ninety (90)calendardays.
(c)	Where a senior Employeerefusestraining or after the training is not able to do the job, the next eligible Employeewill be offeredthetraining.
17.12	If an Employee who is entitled to fill a vacancy under Article 17.09 or who is the successful applicant underthe postingprocedurein Article 17.11 is on a leave of absence or absentwhen they would otherwise befilling the vacancy, the position will be held for the Employee only up to a period of three (3) months, provided that the position will be held longer if the Employee satisfies the Company that there is a reasonable expectationof return, but the positionwill not be held open for more than five (5) months.
17.13	An Employee who has been the successful applicant for a posted vacancy shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period f twelve (12) months, exceptwhere:
(a)	the position held by the Employee (that is, the position for which the Employee was previously the successfulapplicant) is an entry levelposition; or
(b)	the posted vacancy for which the Employeewishes to apply is a higher ratedjob.
17.14	The vacancy may be filled on a temporary basis, normally by a bargaining unit Employee, provided a qualified Employeeis available, until such time as the job postingsequence has been completed. No Employeewill accumulate departmental seniority until such time as he
(39)
is establishedin a home department.
17.15	Ability to do the job means the ability to perform the requirements of the job following an appropriate familiarization period or following an appropriate training andtrial period. The Companyshallnotcurtailthetraining ortrial period without reasonable cause before it has run its normalcourse. Inthe eventthe Employee is not able or does not wish to complete the trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job within the training period or trial period, he shall be returnedto his former position at its wage or salary rate without loss of seniority. The Company may extendany training or trial period, in which case it shall advisethe Union inwriting of the extension.
17.16	Where an Employee is not able, through illness or injury or other reasons, to perform his normal duties, the Company andthe Union may arrange suitablealternate employment.
17.17	All job applications, pursuant to a job posting, shall be filled out in duplicate, with a copy to be given to the Union.
17.18	New Employees shall not be hired where there are Employeeson lay-off ableto performthe job.
ARTICLE 18 - TRANSFERS
18.01	The Company will have the right to temporarily transfer, not exceeding six (6) weeks, an Employee from one position to another in order to affect proper and efficient operation of the plant, providing that the rate of no Employee shall be reduced when he is performing work in a classification having a lower rate than his own under these circumstances, or when work is available in his own classification. In temporary transfers from one department to another, the Company will recognize seniority, subject to the requirements of the business and qualificationsof the Employee.
(40)
18.02	When an Employee is permanently assigned to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid the higher rate for such work. When an Employeeis temporarily assigned or transferred to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has consecutively worked one (1) hour in the higher classification; heshall then bepaidthehigherratefortime worked inthe higherclassification,includingthefirst hour.
18.03	When an Employee, at his own request, is transferredor assignedto work ina classificationpaying a lower ratethan his own, he shall be paidthe lower ratefor such work.
18.04	When an Employee istransferredforthe purpose ofgainingjob experience and to qualify for a higher rate, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has acquiredthe skill to perform thejob classifications at line speed.
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENTEEISM
19.01	Absent Employees shall notify the Company at least one-half (Vz) hourbeforethescheduledstart of their shift provided the Company makes arrangements to receivethe calls.
19.02	Inthe event of an Employeebeing absentthrough illness or injury, the Employee shall give the Production Manager the following notice of his intention to return to work:
(a)	where the Employeehas beenabsentfor a period of five (5) working days or more: one (1) working day's notice; and
(b)	where the Employee has been absentfor a period of one (1) month or more: three (3) workingdays' notice.
19.03	The Company may, as part of an absenteeism
(41 )
control program, require an Employee to provide a medical certificate providedthat the Company will pay for any reasonable charges by the doctor for the certificate for Employees who have less than seven (7) absences (excluding any absences resulting from a court appearance required by subpoena) in the previous calendaryear, pro ratedbasedon attendance.
19.04	Employees cff work for medical reasons are required to maintain regular contact with the Company. Without restricting the obligation of an Employee who is cff work for a relatively short period of time to maintain regular contact with the Company, an Employee shall personally contact a designated individual(s) in the Company's Human Resources Office at least once every two (2) weeks.
ARTICLE 20- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to attend Unionconventions, without pay and without loss of seniority, providedthat:
(a)	the Company is given atleasttwo (2) weeks' notice, when possible, of the requestfor leave of absence;
(b)	the leave does not seriously interfere with the businessof the Company; and
(c)	not morethan three (3) members of the Union are on leaveof absence at any one time.
20.02	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniorityto any Employee where the Company determines in its discretion, that the leave is for legitimate personal reasons. Leave of absencefor cases otherthan i llness and accidentwill not be grantedexcept underspecial circumstances.
20.03	The Company may grant leave of absence to an Employee who wishes to apply to work for the Union on a
(42)
full-time basis -this is to be reviewed from year to year. However, the Employee on such Union leave does not accumulate seniority during the leave.
20.04	When a regular Employee (one who has completed his probationary period) is summoned to jury service, he will be paid his normal daily hours worked multipliedby his regular hourly rate, provided he turns overto the Company, the amount receivedfor each jury service. The Employee will be required to notify the Company immediately upon receiving notice of juiy duty and to report to work on any day he is not required to serve as ajuror.
20.05	The Company shall grant maternity leave, parental leave and compassionate leave, all in accordance with the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 21 - SICK LEAVE
21.01	(a) Full-Time Employees and Floaters (not Extras) sh al I accu mu late sick leave at th e rate of on e an d one-half (1-1/2) hours for each month of perfect attendance, subject to a maximum accumulation under paragraph (c).
(b) Perfect attendance includes time off on paid leave (for example, holidays, vacation and bereavement leave) other than sick leave, provided however, in the case of a floating holiday, the Employee must have given the Employerforty-eight (48) hours' notice of his request for the floating holiday. Perfect attendance is also not affected byan authorizedl eave of lessthan one (1) week, for example, to attend a doctor's appointment or leave on Union business, provided however in order to be considered authorized leave:
(i)	in the case of health related appointments such as doctor's appointments, dental appointments, appointments for blood
tests and x-rays, in order to be considered authorized leave, the Employee must have given the Employertwenty-four (24) hours' notice of the appointment: and
(ii)	inthecaseofacourtappearanceas a result of a subpoena, the Employee must have advised the Employer as soon as reasonably possibleafter beingservedwith the subpoena.
(c)	The maximum amount of sick leave which an Employee may carry forward from one (1) calendar year to the next is sixty (60) hours. An Employee with an excess of sixty (60) hours in his sick leave bank ai year end shall receive a lump sum payment based on one hundred percent (100%) of the excess hours. For example, an Employee with sixty-eight (68) hours in the sick leave bank at year end shall receive a lump sum payment of eight (8) hours' pay - one hundred percent (100%) of the eight (8) hours in excess of sixty (60) hours.
21.02	An Employee can only draw on his sick leave bank in blocksof eight (8) hours, provided however:
(a)	if an Employee can establish to the Company that his department only worked one-half day, the Employee can draw a block of four (4 ) hours from his sick leave bank; or
(b)	if an Employeereportsto work and leaves because of sickness during the first two (2) hours, the Employee can draw a block of hours (round number) from his sick leave bankupto a maximum of the remaining hours in his shinthat he would haveworked that day hadhenot been sick.
21.03	The Company will post accumulated sick leave semi-annually (in January and July).
(44)
ARTICLE22 - SEVERANCE PAYON PLANTCLOSURE
22.01	In the event <± a permanent Plant closure, FullTime Employees and Floaterswho have one (1) or more years of service at the time of closure will receive severancepay asfollows:
I	to 5 years- 3 weeks’ pay 6 to 10 years- 4 weeks’pay
II	to 15 years- 5 weeks’ pay 16to20years- 6weeks’pay over20 years - 7 weeks’ pay
This Articleshall be null andvoid if a Plant closure results from a labour dispute, explosion, loss of utilities, machine breakdown, acts of God or other acts of a similar naturewhich are beyondthe control of the Company.
ARTICLE 23- FLOATERS
23.01	Floaters are those Employees (not "Full-Time Employees") who are not permanently assigned to any department, but work throughout the Plant on an as requiredbasis.
23.02	The Company may maintaina group of up to and including forty (40) Employees as Floaters. If the Employer reduces the number of Floaters, Employees will fall back from Floaters to Extras based on plant seniority.
23.03	The Company will make reasonable efforts to give Floaters an opportunity to work five (5) shifts per week before using Extras. However, it is recognized that there may be situations where an Extra works seven (7) or eight (8) hours a shift while a Floater on that particular day only works a six (6) hour shift. An Extra may work in a week before a Floater weaks five (5) shifts, but the Company's intention will be that by the end of the week, the Floater will have had an opportunity to weak five (5) shifts.
(45)
23.04	Floaters are not covered by the following provisions of the Agreement:
(a)	Re vacations: 8.01 (4)(b), 8.02, and 8.08; Floaters shall be scheduled for vacation as follows:
(i)	Each Floatershall indicatehisfirst, secondand third choiceforthe first two (2) weeks of hisvacation entitlement by the 15th day of March.The Company shall post the vacation schedule by the 15th day of April. The scheduling of the balance of vacation entitlement shall take place not later than the 31st day of May, with preferencessubmitted no laterthan the 1st day of May.
(ii)	Preference in scheduling vacations will be on the basis of plant seniority, provided however Floaters who do not submit their requests for vacation by the required date shall lose their opportunity to receive preference over other Floaters who have less plant seniority, but who submittheir requestsby the requireddate.
(iii)	Vacations for Floaters will be scheduled based on operational requirements. Byway of example, it is understood that from thefirst day of June untilthe last day of September and at Christmastime (mid-December until the end of the first full week in January), only two (2) Floaters shall be scheduled for vacation provided that no Floaters shall be scheduled for vacation the week before or the week after the Canada Day holiday or the Labour Day holiday.
(b)	Hoursofwork: 11.01 (a)and(b);
(c)	Article 17 (Seniority)- Floaters have plantseniority andthereforearecoveredby17.01,17.02,17.06,17.08, 17.11, 17.17 and 17.18 inclusive except any parts of those Articles relating to departmental seniority - since Floaters do not have departmentalseniority.
(46)
Floaters working on the same shift will be laid off in reverse order of plant seniority provided that Floaters remainingatworkhavethe skill andabilityto immediately do the work assigned to Floaters (without a familiarization, training or trial period), but Floaters are notentitledtobump ordisplaceajunior Employee.
(d)	Article 18 (Transfers): This Article is not applicable to Floaters who are paid at the rate of the classificationin which they are working from time to time, provided however 18.04 (transferfor the purpose of gaining job experience)would apply to Floaters.
23.05	After the signing of this Collective Agreement, Floaterswill be phasedout as follows:
(a)	No more Employeeswill be appointed as Floaters.
(b)	Employeeswho are classified as Floaters as of the signing of this Agreement will be encouraged by both partiesto apply forvacancies for which they are qualified.
(c)	Effective September 17, 2009 (the day before the expiry of the term of this Agreement), if a vacancy is not filledby a Full-TimeEmployeeoraFloaterthroughthejob posting process, then the most junior Floater mustelect either to take the vacant job or become an Extra. If the most junior Floater elects to become an Extra, the next most junior Floater must also elect either to take the vacant job or become an Extra and the process will continue until a Floaterfillsthe vacancy.
ARTICLE 24- EXTRAS
24.01	"Extras" are Employees who are used to supplement the regular work force of Full-Time Employees, and may only be usedas follows:
(a)	To relieve Full-Time Employees, Floaters or Extras who are absent from work provided any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to
(47)
work. Any relieving Extra may be used anywhere in the Plant (regardless of department or shift), subjectto Article 24.02.
After the end of each week, the Company will provide the Union with daily absenteeism reports for the previousweek and a list of the Extras usedas relief.
(b)	To operate new product l ines on a trial basis, subject to the following:
(i)	any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunityto work,
(ii)	"Trial Basis" referred to above will be a maximum of one (1) year for each new product line. At the conclusion of the year, the line will be operated by Full-TimeEmployees or discontinued.
(iii)	Duringthe one (1) yeartrial period;
(A)	if a new product line operatesfor three (3) continuous months for twenty-four (24) hours per week, the Company will operate the line with full-Time Employees;
(B)	if two (2) new product lines are operating for three (3) continuous months for a total of forty (40) hours or more a week, hours of work on the two (2) lines will be combined to create Full-Timeemployment;
(C)	on a quarterly basis, the Company will review with the Union new product demand andthepossibilityof creating Full-Time employment in accordance with (A) and (B) above. Any disagreement on combining new product lines to provide Full-Time employment will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
(48)
(iv)	Upon the creation of Full-Time employment referred to in this paragraph (b), the job will be postedinaccordance with Article 17.
(c)	Toworkwhenno Full-TimeEmployeesareavailable toworkovertimeunderArticle11.07. Forexample:
(i)	if any extra shift is scheduled on the weekend and Full-TimeEmployeesare not available to work overtime, Extras may be used;
(ii)	if an Extra is working in relief and additional work i s re qu i red at th e en d of th e sh ift, th e Extra m ay only work the additional time if Full-Time Employees are not available.
If any Full-Time Employee is laid off, he shall advise the Company whether or not he wishes to work as an Extra. If he does not wish to do so, he will be recalled only when Full-Time work becomes available and will be considered to have been given an opportunity to work under(a)and(b) above.
24.02	The number of Extras shall not exceed the following maximums calculated based on the number of Full-TimeEmployees:
(a)	where there are up to 380 Full-Time Employees: 25% of the total numberof Full-TimeEmployees;
(b)	wherethere are over380 Employees and up to 475 Full-Time Employees: 95 Extras; and
(c)	where there are over 475 Full-Time Employees: 20% of thetotal numberof Full-Time Employees.
24.03	Full-Time Employees for the purpose of Article
24.02	include FloatersandprobationaryEmployees.
24.04	Extrasare not entitledto the provisionsof Articles 8, 9, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18 and 20 to 22 inclusive of this
(49)
Agreement, exceptthat:
(a)	Extras will be eligible for public holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked on the following holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day ChristmasDay
providedthey work:
(i)	their scheduled day before and after the holiday, and
(ii)	at least twelve (12) of the thirty (30) calendar days precedingthe holiday.
(b)	Extras with one (1) year's service or more will be entitled to two (2) weeks' vacation with vacation pay of four percent (4%) of earnings during the previous calendaryear;
(c)	Extrasshall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rates for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or in excessof forty (40) hours ina week;
(d)	Extras shall be entitled to the provisions of Article
11.04	plus one-half (%) hourunpaidlunch break.
(e)	Extrasshall be covered by Article 11,05 (re eight (8) hours betweenshifts).
24.05	Extras do not have either plant seniority or departmental seniority. However, the Company will keep a list of Extras by hours worked after the signing of the 1994-98 CollectiveAgreement (February 24,1995). The list will be updated monthly.
(50)
24.06 The Employer shall meet with an Extra to discuss the Extra's performance after approximatelytwo hundred (200) hours of work, with subsequent reviews as determined by the Company, but normally before approximately four hundred (400) hours and then approximatelyevery four hundred(400) hours afterthat.
24.07	Full-lime Employees or Floaters who have worked as an Extra will receive credit for time worked as an Extraforthe purposesoftheprobationaryperiod, plant seniority and service for calculatingvacation. The credit will be calculated on the basis of fifty percent (50%) of hours worked as an Extra since February 24, 1995 (the date of signing of the 1994-98 Collective Agreement), prorated based on 2080 hours representingone year; for example, an Extra who becomes a Floateror Full-lime Employee and who has worked 2080 hours as an Extra after February 24,1995 will receive credit <£ 1040 hours, that is, twenty-six (26) weeks or six (6) months.
ARTICLE 25 - TRADES APPRENTICES
25.01	(a) Apprentices hired under an apprenticeship
program established in accordance with the Apprenticeship anc/ Trades Qualifications Act (Nova Scotia) will be paid a percentageof the Class2 wage rate inthe MaintenanceDepartment.
(b)	Apprentices in the followingtrades will be paid no
less than the percentages established under the Trades Regulationswhich at presentare as follows:
(i)	IndustrialElectricianTrade:
for the first six months, 50% of the journeyman’s rate; to r the second six months, 55% of the journeyman's rate; for the third six months, 60% of the journeyman's rate; for the fourth six months, 65% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fifth six months, 75% of the journeyman's rate; tor the sixth six mortis, 80% of the journeyman’s rate; forthe seventh six months, 85% of tie journeyman's rate;
(51)
for the eighth six months, 90% of the journeyman's rate,
(ii)	IndustrialMechanicTrade (Millwright):
for the first six months, 55% of the journeyman’s rate; for the second six months, 60% of the journeyman’s rate; forthethirdsix months, 65% of thejouneyman’s rate; for the fourth six months, 70% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fifth six months, 80% of the journeyman’s rate; fbrthesixthsix months, 85% of the journeyman’s rate; fbrtheseventh six months, 90% of IhejoLineyman's rate; for the eighth six months, 95% of the journeyman’s rate
(iii)	PlumbingTrade:
for the first six months, 45% of the journeyman's rate; for the second six months, 50% of the journeyman’s rate;
fbrthethird six mortis,55% of the journeyman’s rate; fbr1hefbur1hsixmcrth^60% of the journeyman's rate; fbrthefifth six months, 65% of thejouneyman’s rale; fbrthesixth six months, 70% of the journeyman's rate; for the seventh six months, 75% of IhejoLineyman's rate; for the eighth six months, 80% of the journeyman’s rate.
(iv)	where the term “six months” is used above, it means the period required to satisfactorily complete six months (1,000 hours) of apprenticeship training.
(c)	Apprentices in the welding trade shall be paid at I eastth e fo 11 owi n g rates:
on commencementof apprenticeship, 50% of the journeyman's rate Class “C" Welder, 85% of the journeyman's rateClass“B” Welder, 100%. <f the journeyman's rate
(d)	The journeyman's rate referred to above is the Class2 rateforthe MaintenanceDepartment.
25.02	Apprentices shall not have either plant seniority (52)
or departmentalseniority
25.03	(a) The Company will monitor each Apprentice's progress and will meet with an Apprentice after each six (6) month wage step; intrades where there are not six (6) month wage steps, the meeting shall be heldapproximatelyeverysix (6)months.
(b) An Apprentice who does not (i) pass the examinations which he is requiredto take as part of his apprenticeship program or (ii) does not attend the prescribedyeariy classesfortwo (2)years in succession, maybe releasedfrom employment and such releasewill beconsideredto beforjust cause.
25.04	Apprentices will be permitted to apply for posted vacancies during the last three (3) months of their apprenticeship. An apprentice who has not obtained or accepted a regular position by their graduation date will be released from employment.
25.05	Apprentices are not covered by the following provisions of this Agreement:
(a)	revacations: 8.01 (4)(b), 8.02,8.07 and 8.08;
(b)	hours of work: 11.01;
(c)	12.01 (holidays): Apprentices are entitled onlytoten (10) holidays,that is, all holidayslistedin 12.01 exceptthe Floating Holidays, providedthey haveworked:
(i) their scheduled day before and their scheduled day afterthe holiday, and (ii) for at leasttwelve (12) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately precedingthe holiday.
(d)	Article 16 (Pension).
(e)	Article17 (Seniority).
(53)
(f)	Articl e 18 (Transfers).
(g)	Article21 (SickLeave); and
(h)	Article22 (Severance Pay on PlantClosure).
ARTICLE 26 • LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
26.01	(a) The Company and the Union agree to establish a Labour Management committee composed of four (4) representatives of the Union (the Union President, the Union Vice President, the Union Secretary andthe Chief Steward) andfour (4) representativesofthe Company (the Production Manager and three (3) other persons designated by the Plant Manager). The Labour Management Committee shall meet at least once every month at a time and place to be decided by the Committee, to discuss all proper subjects of general interest to both the Union and the Company, including health, safety and other matters. (In the absence of a regular member of the Labour Management Committee, an alternate designated bytheCompanyorthe Union, as the case may be, mayattendthe meeting.) But the Labour Management Committee is not intended to, nor shall it replace the Grievance Procedure, and all matters properly dealt with by the Grievance Procedure and not bythe LabourManagementCommittee. The Unionshall design ate a Chairman of its Safety Committeewho, when he has cause for concern, shall sit with the Labour Management Committee, which shall deal with questions of safety.
(b) The Company will make reasonable efforts to give Union representatives on the Labour Management Committee fifteen (15) minutes preparation time immediatelybeforeCommitteemeetings.
26.02	(a) The Company shall establish a poolof hours for special training. The number of hours in the training poolshall be established on January 1 of eachyear based on four (4)hours for each active Full-TimeEmployee as of
(54)
that date. (The number of hours in the training pool establishesacommitment bythe Company, but in noway restrictsthe Company intraining Employees in excess of that number of hours.) The training pool shall be usedfor specialtraining of Full-Time Employees- for example, to increase the flexibility of the workforce or training a Full-lime Employee in additional jobs in his department so that the Employee is better able to advance in his classification. The training pool is not to be used to train the Employees for posted jobs which they have been awardednortotrain Extras.
(b)	In early December of each year, the Companywill
post a notice inviting Employees to apply for training in a bargaining unit position other than their own and not related to training as a result of a job posting (such training to be referred to as "supplemental training"). Any Employee may apply for supplemental training in one positiononly.
If the Company decidesto select an Employee(s) forsupplementaltrainingforaposition.itwill consider:
(i)	the seniority of the Employees who have applied for training in the position with preferenceto Employees with more departmental seniority in the department for the position and then by plant seniority;and also
(ii)	the willingness of those Employeesto work overtime as indicated by their history of working overtime, providedhowever:
(iii)	an Employee will not be selected for supplemental training for a position where, in the opinion of the Company, the Employee has previouslydemonstrated that he is unsatisfactory for the position or the Employee is already satisfactorytoworkovertimei nthe position; and
(iv)	the selection of an Employeewill be subject
(55)
to operational requirements, includingthe needto havethe Employeeworkin their regularposition.
During the time an Employee is receiving supplementaltraining, the Employee will be paid his regular rate of pay.
(c) The Companywill provideperiodic updatesto the Union through the Labour Management Committee in regardto the useof the specialtraining hours.
(D)	A Supervisorfor each department shall meet with
a Steward for that department at least twice a year to discuss training of Employees in that department, including identifying jobs where training would be beneficialto operations and identifyingwhich Employees in the department are interested in training which would make the Employee better able to advance in his/her classification.
ARTICLE 27 - GENERAL
27.01	The Company will designate one (1) Bulletin Board for the use of the Union at a conspicuous place. Before posting, copies of bulletins and notices will be submitted to management for approval, approval not to be unreasonablywithheld.
27.02	Tool allowances will be paidannuallyas follows:
(a)	MaintenanceMen in Classl, 2 and 3:Two Hundred andTwenty-FiveDollars ($225.00)
(b)	PowerhouseOperators: One HundredandTwenty-Five Dollars ($125.00).
This amount is to be spent to replace broken, lost and damaged tools. Any additional expenditure to be approved by the Company, and the Company shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the additional approved expenditure.
(56)
27.03	(a) Freezer coats, quilted liners, coveralls and gloves, as requiredfor work in certain departments ofthe Plant, will be supplied to Employees. Such clothing remains the properly of the Company and must be returned for new issueor upon separation.
(b) The Company, on request, shall provide quilted liners to Full-Time Employees working in the Pork Cut Departmentorthe Conversion Department on a fifty-fifty (50/50) cost sharing basis.
ARTICLE 28 - CORRESPONDENCE
28.01	Noticeto Other Party
Any notice, inwriting, that a party wishes to give to the other party, shall be given by mail, prepaid and addressed as follows, or faxed to the other party at the following fax numberswith the originalto follow by mail:
Tothe Company: MichaelLarsen Plant Manager Larsen Packers Limited PO Box 1600 BerwickNS BOP1 BD Fax: (902)538-1180
Tbthe Union:	Atlantic MeatpackersUnion
PO Box 1052 BerwickNS BOP1 BD Fax: N/A
Eitherparty may change its addressand/or fax number at any time by giving notice of such change to the other party, as above provided.
28.02	EmployeeAddressesandTelephone Numbers
Employees shall keep their current residential address and telephone number on file with the Company and
(57)
where any Employee moves during the currency of the Collective Agreement, such Employee shall deliverto the Company a written notice of such Employee's new address and telephone number. The Company shall be entitled to rely on the residential address and telephone number most recently on file with the Company when seeking to contacttheEmployee.
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement is to remain infull force and effect for a period of four (4) years from September 18, 2005 and further negotiations will be subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of NovaScotia.
29-02 This Agreement will be automatically renewed from year to year unless one party gives to the other notice in accordance with the provisions of the Trade UnionAcfof NovaScotia.
29.03	Only the wage rates set out in Schedule “A” are retroactive and only persons who are Employees on the date of ratification of this Agreement are entitled to retroactivepay.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed and signedthis Agreement the 30th day of March, 2007,
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED	ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
(58)
SCHEDULE “A” -WAGE RATES
Starting Rate - NewEmployeesshallstartat85% of the base rate. This rate will be increased 5% each three (3) months until the rate is reached. Starting Rate for experienced New Employees is 120 an hour less than classification and an increase of 60 every three (3) monthsuntilclassificationrate is reached.
Extras- Extrasshallbepaidat85% of the base rate.
The base ratewill be as follows:
September 18/05	$13.10
January 1,2007	$13.35
September18/07	$13.60
September 18/08	$13.85
Students, that is persons who have been attending school or university and are hiredto work anytime inthe periodfrom April to August, both inclusive, and/or during the Christmas season, shall be paid at 70% of the base rate and are notconsideredto bean Employee as defined in Article 1.01 (c). The Company will deduct an amount equivalentto Union Duesfromthe Student's wages and remitthe deductiontothe Union.
1.	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Valid certificate holder in toro of fhe fofkwiring trades (Bedridan, Plumber, Industrial Mechanic/Mtlhvrigh!).
Sept 18/05 Jan. 1/07 Sept. 18/07 Sept 18/08 19.55	21.05*	21.30	21-55
Class2-VafidCerMcateHolder(Bedridan, Welder,	18.13	19-63*	19.88	20.13
Industrial Mechanic and Refrigeration Mechanic);
Department Mechanizable to serviceand repair aR madiinesindepartment)
Class3-WeWerpBectridan, Refrigeration Technidan; 17.45 1885*	1980	19.45
Pipefitter
Class 4 - General Maintenance Class 5-General Help
1580	15.55	15.80	16.05
13.10	1385	13.60	13.85
(59]
*	Note: Effective January 1, 2007, the above rates for Classes 1 through 3 of the Maintenance Department include a special, one time only, market adjustment of $155. Retroactivity for Maintenance Department employees Classes 1 through 3 will include this market adjustment
SepL 18/05 Jan. 1/07 Sept 18/07 Sept 18/08
2.	POWERHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Ciasslid 3rd Class Power Engineer	17.03	18.53*	16.78	19.03
Certificate or vaiid 4th Class Power Engineer Certification with 2nd Class Refrigeration Certificate
Class2 - Valid 4th Class Power Engineer Certificate	1653	1843*	18.28	1853
*	Note: Effective January 1, 2007, fie above rates for fie Powerhouse Depstment have been increased by a special, one time only, market adjustment of $155. Retroactivity for Powerhouse Department employees will indude this market adjustment
3.	SLAUGHTER
Ciassl -Able to do all jobs on kill line at line speed	16.01	1656	16.51	16.76
Class 2 • Able to do at least three jobs in Group Aat	1551	16.06	16.31	16.56
line speed.				
Ciass3-	1553	1558	16.13	1656
Group A- Scraper, Jowl Trimmer, Head Skinner, Brisket Cutter, Bunger, Evisceratar, Hog Splitter, Rail Trimmer Sticker, Trimmer, Unjoint Heads
Group B: Scald TankOperator, Shack! er, Gammer, Livestock Receiver, Scaieman, Leaf Lard Puller, Head Boner, Offals, Front Feet
Class 4 - Livestock Driver, Torch man, Stamper	1458	1453	14.78	15.03
Ctass5-GeneralHelp	13.10	1355	13.60	13.85
4. PORK CUT DEPARTMENT				
Ciassl - Able to do all jobs at line speed	16.01	1656	16.51	16.76
Class 2 - Able to do a combination of three jobs in Group Aof Class 3 at line speed	1551	1656	1651	1656
Class3- Group A- Loin Breaker, Loin Puller Operator, Belly Ribber, Butt Boner, Shoulder Trimmer	1553	1558	16.13	1658
Group B - Shoulder Saw, Ham Saw, Loin Trimmer, Belly Trimmer, Ham Trimmer, Rind Machine				
Class 4 - Scaieman (Weight and Strap)	1458	1453	14.78	15.03
(60)
Sept. 18/05 Jan. 1/07 Sept. 18/07 Sept
Class 5 • Hog Pusher, Hog Weigher, Bellie Rind,	13.16
Back Rind and Back Fat Wrappers, Piling OS,
Sorter, 8ox Assembly, Haliing
Class 6-General Help	13.10
5.	CONVERSION DEPARTMENT
Class 1 -Stalled knifeman able todoaH cuts in port	15.85
conversion at line speed
Class 2 - Ham Boner, Loin Boner, Shoulder Boner	15.73
Ctass3-SeroicePersor	14.20
(Note: tiis dassificsfon ® effsdrv&oniyon signing of Ws Agreement)
Class 4-General Help	13.10
6.	FRESH SAUSAGE DEPARTUOT
Class 1-Batcher	15.73
Class2-Cutter/Stuler	15.47
Class 3-WeigWPilafGas Rush, Scoop Sausage	1426
Class 4-Inventory Service, Weight/Pile	14.19
Class 5-General Help	13.10
7.	MANUFACTURING DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Batchsr/GrinderABender	15.73
Class 2-Stiller	15.47
Class 3-Scaleman, HeadCheese	1556
Class4-Hanger	14.19
Class 5-Genera! Help	13.10
8.	CURING DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Smoker Operator, Edible Rendering	15.73
CIass2-Formulalng	15.64
Class 3 Stutter, Pump Operator, Scaleman	15.31
13.41
13.35
16.10
15-98
14.45
13.35
15.98
15.72
14.51
14.44
13.35
15.98
15.72
15.51
14.44
13.35
15.98 15.89 15£6
13.66
13.60
16.35
16.23
14.70
13.60
16.23
15.97
14.76
14.69
13.60
16.23
15.97
15.76
14.69
13.60
16.23 16.14 15.81
13.91
13.65
16.60
16.48
14.95
1345
16.48
1622
15.01
14.94
13.85
16.46
1622
1601
14.94
13.85
16.48 1639 16.06
Class4- Hanger, Clipper
Class 5-Genera) Help
S. SHIPPING AND FREEZER DEPT.
Class 1 • Shipper, Freezer Operator, Booker, Inventory Control
Class 2-Stacker
Class 3- Picker, Freezer Helper
Class 4-General Help
Sept 18/05 Jan. 1/07 Sept 18/07 SepLl8/D8
1421	14.46	14.71	14.96
15.79	16.04
15.68	15.93
14.48	14.73
13.10	13.35
1129
16.18
14.98
13.60
1634
16.43
1523
1335
Note: The Day Shipping and Freezer Department ami the Night Shipping and Freezer Department were combined eflediveon signing of this Agreement
10.	PACKAGING DEPARTMENT
11.	CRYOVAC DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - PumpOperator Class 2 - Other Employees in Dept
12.	SANITATION DEPARTMENT (Clean Up Crew)
13.	PLANT SERVICES (Box Room)
Class 1 - Chiel Stod; Clerk Class 2-Stock Clerk Class 3-General Help
14.	PLANT SERVICES (Day Cleaning) Janitor, Laundry Operator, Wash Bay
15.	PLANT SERVICES (KnHa Sharpener)
16.	PLANT SERVICES(Effluent Control)
1423	14,46
14.46	14.73	14.98	1523
1420	14.45	14.70	1425
14.10	14.35
15.48	16.73
1528	15-53
13.10	1325
15.96
15.78
13.60
1623
16.03
1325
14.10	14.35
15.46	15.73
1530	15.55
14.60
15.96
15.80
1425
1623
16.05
SCHEDULE“B”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (Re Certain Wage Rates)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERSUNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
1.	Conversion Department. Class 1
The deletionfrom the ConversionDepartmentofwhatwas ‘Group B-Skilled knifeman able to do all cuts in beef conversion at line speed" will not affectthe class structure or wage rates of Employees in the Conversion Department that is, an Employeewho was considered Classl (‘Skilled knifemanabletodoallcutsinporkconversion atline speedT when there was a separate grouping for baf conversion will continue to be considered Classl withthe elimination of the reference to beef conversion.
2.	Maintenance Department and Powerhouse Department -Soedal MarketAdiustment
The Classl, 2 and 3 wage rates in the Maintenance Departmentwill be increasedby a special market adjustment in the amount of $1.25 per hour effective January 1,2007. The wage rates shown in Schedule “A' for January 1,2007, Septemberl 8,2007 and subsequentcontract years havebeen increasedto reflectftdsspecial adjustment
DATED this 30th day of March, 2007 at Berwick, N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic MeatpackersUnion
(63)
SCHEDULE“C"
MEMORANDUM OFAGREEMENT (Re Powerhouse)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERSUNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERSLIMITED
The following terms and conditions of employment apply inthe Powerhouse:
1.	Hours of Work
(a)	PowerhouseOperators shall normally work 12 hour shifts. There shall beafour (4) weekcyclealternatingtwo (2) consecutiveweeks of day shifts (four (4) shifts in one (1) week and three (3) shifts in the other) and two (2) consecutiveshifts of night shifts (againwith four (4) shifts in one (1) week andthree (3) shifts in the other), resulting in an average of forty-two (42) hours perweek.
(b)	Nightshift: 7:30 p.m. to 7:30 am;
Dayshift: 7:30 am. to 7:30 p.m.
The twenty-four (24) hour day is considered to begin at 7:30 am of the previous day, for example, the Monday shift starts at 7:30 am. and finishes at 7:30 am. on Tuesday.
(c)	An Operator is entitledto exercise seniorityfor shift preference twice in a given calendar year in accordance with Article 17.04(a), subject to the Operator giving reasonable advance notice and the change being effective at the start of a four week rotation described in paragraph 1 (a) of this Memorandum.
(d)	Operators may trade shifts among themselves providedthe arrangement is approvedby the Supervisor involved. Notwithstanding any other provisions <f this
(64)
Agreement, any such arrangement shall not result in additional cost to the Company, either directly (for example, overtime) or indirectly.
(e)	Operators are entitled to four (4) breaks of fifteen (15) minutes during each twelve (12) hour shift at such times as are consistent with operationalefficiency.
(f)	Operators shall not work more than sixteen (16) consecutivehoursexceptincasesof an emergency. Ifan Operator is absent for his scheduled shift and a Relief Operator is not available, the hours would be offered as follows:
(i)	the shift will be offered to Operators who are not scheduled to work either the shift immediately before or the shift immediately after the absent Operator and if there is more than one such Operator, preferencewill be basedon departmental seniority;
(ii)	the first six (6) hours would be offered to the Operator working the shift immediately before the absent Operator, while the last six (6) hours would be offered to the Operator working the shift immediatelyafterthe absentOperator;and
(iii)	hours which are not taken by the regular Operators in accordance with the above may be workedbythe Chief Engineer.
2. Compensation:
(a)	Weekly pay would be based on an average forty-two (42) hours per week at straight time, subject to adjustment for working more or less than the scheduled number of hours. For example, if an Operator was absent for one day, his pay for the week c£ the absence would be reducedby twelve (12) hours.
(b)	Overtime pay: time and one-half straighttime rate of
(65)
pay for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hoursper day orinexcessofthenumberofhoursscheduledforthat week (thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) as the case may be); double straight time rate of pay after an Operator has worked six (6) hours overtime at time and one-half on any day.
(c)	Shiftpremium: In accordance with Article 11.10(b), Operators working the night shift shall receive a shift premiumof6O0 perhour.
3.	Holidays:
(a)	Operators shall have eight (8)paid holidays. (Since these aretwelve (12) hour days, they represent ninety-six (96) hours, which is equivalentto the twelve (12) holidays ateight (8)hoursreceivedby other employees).
(b)	Scheduling: Operators must schedule holidays in advance and at suchtimes that a Relief Operator could be availableto work the shift. For example, two (2) Operators working back to back shifts could not take the same day d£ if there was only one (1) Relief Operator because this would requirethe Relief Operatorto work twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
(c)	Preferencefor scheduling holidays as between two (2) or more Operators will be based on departmental seniority.
(d)	Operators are not entitled to holidays under Article 12, but an Operatorwho works on one of the days listed in Article 12.01 as a fixed holiday shall be paid at time and one half straighttime rate of pay for all hours worked on that day. Forthepurposesofthisclause(d), the holidayis considered to be the 24 hour period beginning at 8:00 p.m. of the day previousto the holiday: for example, if the holidayfallsona Monday, the holiday isconsideredto run from 8:00 o'clock Sunday evening until 8:00 o'clock Monday evening.
(66)
4.	Vacations:
(a)	Vacation time: Convertweeks to shifts based on the forty-two (42) hour perweek average;
For example:	2 weeks-7 shifts
3	weeks -10-1/2 shifts
4	weeks-14 shifts
(b)	Vacation pay: The greaterof the following amounts:
(i)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base;
(ii)	a normal shift's pay (twelve (12) hours at the regular hourly rate) for each shift, subject to reduction in accordancewith Article8.01 (4)(b).
(c)	Vacation Scheduling:
(i)	Operators may be allowed to take vacations otherthan in blocks of calendar weeks, but normally would not be allowedto take only one (1) or two (2) vacation days. (Single days off can normally be obtainedthroughschedulingof holidays.)
(ii)	Vacation shall be scheduled during the period Marchthrough May in accordancewith Article8.02.
5.	BereavementLeave:
Operators shall be entitled to two (2) days of bereavement leave with pay (two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts being equivalent to the three (3) days referred to in Article 15.01).
6.	Sick Leave:
Operators can only draw on their sick leave bank in blocks of twelve (12) hours.
(67)
7.	Actinn Chief Ennineer
The Chief Engineer may designate one of the Operators as Acting Chief Engineerfor any period of time when the Chief Engineer is away from the plant for more than seventy-two (72) hours.
8.	ReliefOperatortst:
(a)	The Company will appoint at least one (1) Relief Operator;
(b)	All holidays and vacations of regular Operators will be scheduledso that the shifts can be covered by a Relief Operator(s);
(c)	A Relief Operator is expected to be available to relieve a regular Operator who is absent, including absences for such matters as illness or injury where the Company receives very little, if any, advance notice of the absence. In such cases, it will be impossible for the Company to give the Relief Operator the two weeks' notice of change of schedule normally required under Article 11.01(b). That notice is therefore not required in such cases, but the Company is required to give the Relief Operator as much notice as reasonably possible andatleastfour (4) hours’notice.
(d)	A Relief Operator shall work in the Powerhouse at straight time ratesfor up to twelve (12) hoursa day and up to forty-eight (48) hour per week, or bank the hours in excess of eight (8) hours a day or forty (40) hours per week to betakenastimeoff.
DATEDthis 30th day of March,2007 at Berwick, N.S.
168)
SCHEDULED”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (re Various Company Commitments)
This is to confirm that during negotiation of this Agreement, the Company made the following commitments:
1.	Re Group Insurance Benefits (Article 9.01): If, as a result of the Union's investigation of alternative group insurance benefit plans, the Union would prefer to have Employees covered by a benefit plan other than the plan designated by the Union on signing of this Collective Agreement, the Company would participate in the new plan, but that the Company's participation would be limited to is responsibilities under 9.01(b), that is, paymentof its share of the premiums.
2.	Employee Lockers: At the time of the next major expansion of the plant, the Company will meet with Union representatives to discuss the feasibility of providing Employeelockers, with discussionto includewhetherthe lockers can be located in an area that is reasonablyclose totheworkstationsof most Employeesand also the issue ofbiosecurity.
DATEDthis 30th day cf March, 2007 at Berwick, N.S.
(69)
SCHEDULE"E'
MEMORANDUMOF AGREEMENT (re JOHSC)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERSUNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
The parties agree to the following with respect to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee (the “JOHSC’ or the 'Committee'):
1)	Itis recognized thatwhere there are two or more Employees from the same department on the JOHSC, there may be operational difficultiesiftheCommitteewastodoa planttourorto holda meeting during regularlyscheduledhoursofwork Therefore, where there are two or more Employeesfromthe same departmenton the Committee, if such Committee functions are held outside regularly scheduled hoursofwork, the Employeeswillbe paid at straighttime rateswhile attending Committee functions. However, if all Employees on the Committeearefrom different departments,any Committeefunctions which take place outside regularly scheduled hours tf work will be consideredtime wo rkedforthe purpose of calculating overtime.
2)	The Union agrees that it is in the best interest of both the Company and the Union to have Union representatives on the Committee who are broadly representative of departments throughout the plant. During elections of the Union members to the Committee, the Union will attempt to attract members from different departments in order to have a broad Union representation on the Committee.
DATED this 30th day of March, 2007 at Berwick N.S.
n^.J II L
Larsen Packer^Limhed
Witness
(70)
SCHEDULED”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (Article 11.07 -Trial Overtime Procedure)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTICMEATPACKERSUNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
1.	Trial
The parties agree that overtime shall be offered and distributed in the following manner on a trial basis. The partieswill reviewthese methods after a six (6) monthtrial period following the ratification of this Collective Agreement or at such earlier or later date as the parties may agree. At the time of review, the parties may, by mutual agreement, amend this Memorandum. If, after review, either party is not satisfied with the methods set out herein and there is not mutual agreement on amendment, the party may cancel the trial period, such cancellation to be effective one (1) month after notice of cancellationisgivenandovertimewillthen beofferedand distributed in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in Article 11. Ifthe Memorandumis not cancelled after the review, it will continue in effect subject to amendment by mutualagreement.
2.	Saturday Overtime IPre-Noon on Thursday!
Saturday overtime which is known to be required before 12 noon on the previousThursday shall be offered anddistributed as follows:
(a)	The overtime required will be posted by the scan clocks in the department where work is required and on the posting boardat the top of the steps, on or before 12 noon on Thursday if possible. IF not possible, it will be posted as soon after 12 noon as possible.
(71)
(b)	The overtime posting shall be on a distinctive form which will have separate places for Full-Time Employees and Extrasto sign up.
(c)	Employeeswho wish to workthe overti me mustsign upby9:30am. onthat Friday.
(d)	Following9:30 am. onthat Friday, managementwill reviewboth lists and by 12 noonthat Friday, will post a list of those working in the department where the work is required on the posting board at the'top of the steps and will also putthe listonthecrewing line.
(e)	When an employee signs up for and is assigned overtime work in this manner, the work shall be consideredscheduledworkfor purposesof attendance.
(9 Additional work or vacancies that arise during the course of the overtime workshall befilled from the lists in accordancewith overtime rules.
3.	SameDav Overti mefPre 10:30 a.m.l
Same day overtime which is known to be required before 10:30 am shall be offered and distributed as follows:
(a)	The overtime required will be posted by the scan clocks in the department where work is required and on the posting board at the top of the steps as early as possible, but no laterthanl 0:30 am
(b)	The overtime posting shall be a distinctive form which will have separate placesfor Full-Time Employees and Extrasto sign up.
(c)	Employeeswho wish to workthe overti me mustsign upbyl :00 p.m. that day.
(d)	Following 1:00 p.m., managementwill review both lists andby 2:00 p.m. will post a list of those working inthe
(72)
department where the work is required and on the posting boardat the top of the steps.
(e)	When an employee signs up for and is assigned overtime work in this manner, the work shall be consideredscheduledworkfor purposes of attendance.
(f)	Additional work or vacancies that arise during the course of the overtime work shall befilledfromthe lists in accordancewithovertime rules.
4.	“Last Minute Overtime”
“Last minute overtime” is overtime which isrequired on a day but which arises after 10:30 a.m. or which is required on a Saturday but arises after 12 noon the previous Thursday. Last minute overtime will be offered anddistributedfromthe quarterly list in accordance with the overtime rules set out in Article 11 of the Collective Agreement.
DATEDthis 30th day of March, 2007 at Berwick, N.S.
£ L
Larsen Packers Limited

At]antif>reatpackcrs Union
as^ l
Witness
(73)
SCHEDULE“G”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (Re Pay Period)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERSUNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERSLIMITED
It is understood and agreed that the Company may change the pay period for Employees from the present system of weekly pay to a system of bi-weekly pay. The Company may also require all Employeesto be paid by direct deposit.
DATEDthis 30th day of March,2007 at Berwick, N.S.
f L^-rl_____■	~__.
Larsen PackersLimited
/?A~.
Witness