Collective Agreement Between
Cuddy food products and
United foods & commercial workers international Union Local 1758
Begins:
02/Jun/1997
Terminates:
01/Jun/2000
00267 (07)
Source: Company Employees: 890 Received by: DF Date:
Name
Address......
Phone .......
Soc. Ins. No.... Work Address Work Phone ... Union Steward Phone ........
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. Locals 175 and 633 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto
1-800-565-8329 Fax (905) |821-7144
- i < q _______________________

LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCAL 175
Dear Fellow Members:
I wish to welcome new members to Locals 175 and 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
New or seasoned, I hope you will all read this contract and become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, it is an agreement you accepted when you took the job. If you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, like any other, it is of little value to you personally.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be two years in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Be aware of your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted at any time to assist you.
We work as your full-time representatives and advisors.
In addition to Stewards in the workplace and Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of
professionals who provide support.
We should all be proud of our Union’s achievements. We have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently and profitably.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers’ Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workers’ Compensation Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring
other workers under the union umbrella. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members. Use them.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning Sunday work, pay equity, UIC and pensions, to name a few.
Your Local Union represents some 40,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members’ support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other professionals there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is right-
fully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the ‘U’ in our Union.
In Solidarity,
Michael J. Fraser, President,
U.F.C.W. Local 175.
OFFICERS
Michael J. Fraser
President
Wayne Hanley
Secretary-Treasurer
Betty Partly	Ron Springall
Recorder	Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure
the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. We represent some 40,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we must be supported by a staff equally knowledgeable in their field of expertise. These include your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, a staff lawyer and communications. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 185,000 members in Canada and 1,400,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This merger took place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 and 633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 AND 633
Your local unions, with over 40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 and 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Michael J. Fraser, Mississauga
SECRETARY-TREASURER
Wayne Hanley, Oakville
RECORDER Betty Pardy, London VICE-PRESIDENTS Rick Alagierski, Mississauga Toni Armstrong, Hawkestone Bryan Braithwaite, Chatham John Brodhagen, Chesley Judith Burch, Scarborough Freda Courtnage, Brantford Bruce Dosman, Hanover Hyacinth East, Stoney Creek Colby Lynn Flank, Thunder Bay David Fox. Napanee Sheila Grant, Belleville Wayne Harbin, Guelph Tim Kelly, Stratford Masood Khan, Scarborough Cliff Kostyniuk, St. Catharines
Marilyn Lang, Cobourg Angus Locke, Kitchener Julie Marentette, Belle River Rosemarie Mathieu, Scarborough Rodney Merkley, Thunder Bay James Montgomery, Welland Pat Newell, Port Hope Philip Palahnuk, Waterford Cindy Rarie, Kenora Leslie Sardo-Viscuglia, Hamilton Christopher Scott, Cambridge Ron Springall, Kitchener Margaret White, Trenton Thomas Williams, Baltimore Coreena Zurkan, Kenora
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVEBOARD
PRESIDENT	VICE-PRESIDENTS:
Dan Bondy, Amherstburg
SECRETARY-TREASURER Linval Dixon, Whitby
Sherry Casagrande, Sault Ste. Marie Neil Hotchkiss, McGregor Roy Reed, Orillia
RECORDER
Patricia Bain, Willowdale
What You Get For Your Union Dues
. Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
•	Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
•	Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are
vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
•	Problems with Workers' Compensation or Employment Insurance? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
•	Pensions, Dental insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don’t forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or “impulse” gifts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for
their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Unions believe that colleges and universities should be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union have three scholarship programs available to all members and their children. The International Union annually awards $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. These are the James A. Suffridge Fund and the Earl W. Jimerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a number of William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mathieu Scholarships every year to Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals 175 and 633 award 35 Mattie McKay-Pat
Thompson Scholarships worth up to a maximum of $750 each.
Local members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications for the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December 31 of the year before you plan to enter a post secondary institution.
For the Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships, you must apply before September of the year you first enter coOege or university.
The deadline for the Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 of the year you plan to enter post secondary education.
There are a limited number of scholarships available, so everyone who needs and deserves one cannot always receive one. However, you will never get one unless you apply. Call or write the UFCW, Locals 175 and 633, Education Committee for details.
Good Luck!
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
The Workers’ Compensation Board (WCB) insurance program protects workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
What do IdoifI have an accident at work? All accidents, even minor ones, must be reported to management immediately. If the accident is serious enough to leave work, you must seek medcal attention as soon as possible. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have.
What forms must he tilled out to receive compensation? Two forms are essential in order to receive WCB benefits. First, the yellow “Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Diseases" must be filled out by management if, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time heyond the day of the accident.
Please note that you do not have to actually lose time from work in
order to initiate a WCB claim. Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day, your employer must file their report. This is known as a “No Lost Time” claim.
The second form is a form called “Doctor’s First Report”. There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well. This is filled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB.
What are WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive 90% of your net pre-accident earnings. WCB benefits are non-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are 175% of the average industrial wage. This is recalculated every year based on stats publicized by Statistics Canada. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident claim will take from four to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away.
How long do WCB benefits last? Most people who have workplace accidents are back to work within six weeks. Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from. For between one year and eighteen months if you are judged to be totally disabled and the disability is considered temporary, the WCB will continue to pay benefits. After that, a wage loss system will begin. If you are permanently injured, the WCB can award you a very small permanent pension for the pain and suf-
fering caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
If you are injured after January 2,1990, you have a right to re employment after the iniurv. This riqjit lasts for two years. Even if you have permanent limitations on your ability to work, you still have the right to return to work There are four steos in tils process.
1.	If you can do your old job without any restrictions, your employer has to offer it to you.
2.	If you could do your old job if it were modified, then that has to be done.
3.	If you can’t do your old job even if it were changed, then your employer has to offer you another job.
4.	If you can do another job if it were modified, then your employer is required to do this.
What if I have a health pruhlem that is caused hy my fuh hut I didn't have an accident at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, fibromyalgia, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc., are just a few of the work-related disabilities suffered by UFCW members. If you feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category, first consult your doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is or is likely to have been caused by your job, a Doctor’s First Report should be submitted right away. Inform your employer of your doctor’s opinion and ask that the Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimate claim.
What happens if my claim is turned down hy the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB. The Union will assist you and represent you, without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldn't I be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases, NO. However, if you have a non-accidental disability which requires you to take time off from work, consult the Union for advice.
Poes the WCB cover part-timers? Yes. The same rules and benefits apply, regardless of the number of hours you work per week.
What if my benefits are late or are cut off for some reason? Contact the Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence.
Remember: Never let management talk you out of filing a WCB claim. You may regret it later, when your disability won't go away. It is illegal for management to interfere with your right to make a WCB claim. If you have any problems or concerns, contact the Union office.
At the time of printing, changes to the Workers’ Compensation Act, Bill 99 is before the Legislature.
There are some significant changes in Bill 99 that will reduce the rights of injured workers. The new legislation is likely to come into effect in the fall of 1997.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE [formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30,1996 the Employment Insurance Act came into effect. Additional changes became effective January 1,1997. The new system reflects a fundamental restructuring of the old Unemployment Insurance System.
"Where to Apply?"
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada Employment Centre for the office nearest you.
Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you can’t find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
•	you have paid into the El account;
. you have worked the required minimum number of hours in the last 52 weeks; the number of hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemployment rate in your region.
•	there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need aminimumof910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximum of $413 per week. Claimants who are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receive the Child Tax Benefit will receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit. Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greater than the maximum benefit rate of $413.
C laimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the number of hours they have worked in the last 52 weeks.
How to Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings in the last 26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor. The divisor is the greater of:
(a)	the number of weeks of insured earnings in the last 26 week period; or
(b)	the number of weeks specified in the divisor table.
If you worked for only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longer than that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30,1996 could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Weeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintained for five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their El cheques will be able to earn work credits to be applied against the intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paid for up to 15 weeks, if you have 700 hours of insurable employment in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employment was interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 700 hours, Medical reports are necessary.
Maternity Benefits:
You must have worked and paid El premiums for at least 700 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefits cannot be received later than 17 weeks after the baby is due or born, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
Parental Benefits:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 10 weeks by both natural and adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. The time allotment may be extended to 15 weeks if the child is six months or older at the time of arrival in your home and suffers from a physical, psychological or emotional condition that requires extended care. The benefits can be claimed by one par:! or split between the two, but if they are split, each parent will ave a two week waiting period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximum of$413 per week.
Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefits are paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification, Contact your Union if you need assistance with your appeal.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
CONTACT
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA OR
CANADA EMPLOYMENT CENTRE
SHOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM CALL YOUR
LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR HELP!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer's Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor's Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protectivedevices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment. If a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers' Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety
equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor, Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal.
He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continue to refuse to work, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Page
1	Purpose..................................
2	Recognition .............................
3	Employees ...............................
4	Relationship ............................
5	Union Security ..........................
6	Management ..............................
1 No Strike No Lockout .......................
8	Stewards and Divisional Committees . . . .
9	Grievance Procedure ......................
10	Dismissal or Suspension ..................
11	Arbitration .............................
12	Wages and Letters of Understanding ........
13	Shift Premium and Reporting Allowance .
14	Hours of Work and Overtime ...............
15 Rest Periods & Clean-Up ....................
16	Seniority ................................
17	Job Postings ............................
18	Paid Holidays ...........................
19	Vacation .................................
20	Bulletin Boards .........................
21	Clothing and Tool Allowance ..............
22	Welfare ..................................
23	Bereavement Leave ........................
24	Leave of Absence .........................
25	Temporary Transfers ......................
26	Safety and Health ........................
27	Return To Work Program ...................
28	Pension ..................................
29	Group Classifications ....................
30	General ..................................
31	Duration .................................
Schedule “A” - Wages and Classifications
Letters of Understanding
Re: Article 5 Union Dues/Initiation Fee
Re: Printing of Collective Agreements
35
44
48
53
1
1
2
3
4
5
6 7 11
14
15
17
18 19 22 23 31 33
39
39
40 43
47
49
52
59
. 60
Re: Article 16 - Seniority .	.
Re: Article 14.01 (Division "C" Only) Re: Article 22.02 - Weekly Indemnity Re: Transfers Between Plants
Re: Past Practice............
Re:	Layoff	.
Re: Students .	.	.	.	.
Re: Union Management Committee Re: Technological Change Re: Transitional Work Program Re: Maintenance & Distribution Departments Shift Preference Re: Change of Job .
Re: Pension
61
62
64
.	65
. 66 .	67
.	73
. 74 . 75 . 76
. 77 . 78 . .	79
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
i
BETWEEN:
PART,
CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
(Hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) OF THE FIRST
and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART.
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of the Agreement is to secure for the Company and its employees, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining and to ensure, to the utmost extent possible, the safety and welfare of the employees, the economy of operations, the quality of work and the protection of property.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive
bargaining agent for all employees of its plants as defined in Article 3.
2.02	The Company undertakes that it will not enter into any
agreement or contract with those employees for whom the
Union has bargaining rights, either individually or collectively, inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement,
2.03	The Collective Agreement shall be gender neutral. The singular shall include the plural and vice versa, as applicable.
ARTTCT/F, 3 - F.MPT .OYF.F.S
3.01	The term “employees”, as used in the Agreement, shall be
all employees of Cuddy Food Products, in the City of London, Ontario, save and except:	truck drivers,
supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, nurses, office and sales staff, students during the school vacation period, and persons employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
3.02	(a) Supervisory personnel will not perform Bargaining
Unit work except in the training of employees, testing of equipment, developing of methods or standards, or assisting to overcome operating difficulties.
(b)	Persons excluded from the Bargaining Unit will not perform Bargaining Unit work beyond current practice, or notwithstanding Article 16, when a Bargaining Unit employee is on layoff.
(c)	Such person permitted to perform Bargaining Unit
work as outlined in 3.02 (b) above shall perform such Bargaining Unit work for the sole purpose of replacing Bargaining Unit employees absent from work for reasons other than layoff.	The Chief
Steward shall be provided with the names of employee(s) being replaced.
3
3.03	The Company will not contract out Bargaining Unit work beyond current practice to such an extent that it directly results in the layoff of a Bargaining Unit employee.
ARTICLE 4 - RELATIONSHIP
The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by either of them, their representatives or members because of an employee’s membership or non-membership in the Union.
The Parties agree that there will be no discrimination exercised or practised by either of them because of an employee’s age, race, creed, colour, sex, national origin, handicap, religious or political affiliation in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Human Rights Code.
4.02	On commencing employment, the Supervisor or his
designate will introduce the new employee to the Department Union Steward or the Chief Steward, if available.
4.03	The Union agrees that Union meetings will not be held on Company premises, and that no employee or Union Official will engage in any Union activity on Company time during his working hours or the working hours of any employee, except as provided for in this Agreement.
4.04	(a) The Union undertakes to secure from its officers,
stewards and members their cooperation with the Company.
4.01 (a)
(b)
4
(b) The Company undertakes to instruct its supervisors, and its appointees to the committees outlined in Article 8, to cooperate with the Stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this Agreement.
4.05 Union Management Committee: The Union and the Company agree to establish a Joint Labour Management Committee. The Union portion of the Committee shall consist of a Representative of the Union and the Divisional Chief Steward(s).
The function of the Committee shall be to discuss matters of mutual concern to the parties, but it is understood and agreed that the Committee will not discuss any matter which is the subject of any outstanding grievance.
The Committee shall meet on the first Wednesday of each calendar quarter or in addition on an informal basis at a time mutually agreed to by the parties.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	(a) The Company agrees that all employees, as defined by Article 3.01, upon completion of their probationary period, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment.
(b) The Company shall remit to the Union, within thirty (30) calendar days following the completion of the probationary period, the United Food & Commercial Workers Membership Application Form signed by the new employee.
5.02	(a) All employees shall, as a condition of employment,
authorize the deduction of Union dues and initiation fees. Such deductions will commence with the employee’s first pay.
(b) The Company agrees to make the deduction, set out in Article 5.02 (a), from each employee in the Bargaining Unit. The Company will remit the total sum so deducted to the Union on or before the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the following month, accompanied by a list of active employees and their Social Insurance Number from whose pay such deductions have been made.
5.03	The Company agrees to enter the amount of Union dues paid on employees’ T4 forms for Income Tax purposes.
5.04	The Company agrees to provide the Union Office once a month with the names, addresses, telephone and Social Insurance Numbers of new employees, also the names of employees who have terminated their employment, including the date of termination.
5.05	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, the
amount of the Union dues and me initiation fee which the Company is required to deduct from each eligible employee. The Company will be advised, in writing, of any further changes in the Union dues or initiation fees.
ARTICLE 6 - MANAGEMENT
6.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a) maintain order, discipline and efficiency; and
6
(b)	hire, retire, discharge, classify, schedule, transfer,
assign, direct, promote, demote, layoff, and suspend or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; and
(c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the kinds and locations of equipment, machines, and tools to be used, the allocation and number of employees required by the Company from time to time.
(d)	Management rights, as outlined above, shall not be
exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
6.02	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to make, enforce and to alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, to be observed by all employees.
ARTICLE 7 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
7.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes or the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, it will not call a strike, slowdown, sitdown, or other stoppage of work or interference with production and the Union will hold its members to this responsibility.
The Company agrees that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no lockout.
7.02	For the purpose of this Article, the Union recognizes that in order to provide maximum opportunities for continuing employment, the Company must operate efficiently in order to be in a strong market position.
ARTICLE 8- STEWARDS AND DIVISIONAL
COMMITTEES
8.01	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no
individual employee or group of employees shall undertake to represent the Union at meetings with the Company without proper authorization of the Union. In order that this may be carried out, the Union will supply the Company with the name of its representative or designate and the Company will supply the Union with the name of its Vice President of Human Resources or designate.
8.02	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to
appoint or otherwise select members to its Grievance Committee and its Negotiating Committee. The Parties acknowledge each other’s right to appoint or otherwise select its members to the Joint Health & Safety Committee and the Joint Return To Work Program Committee.
8.03	(a) A Grievance Committee shall be appointed from
within each of the Divisions and shall consist of a Business Representative of the Union and the Chief Steward, plus the Steward who handled the initial grievance. Employees of the Company appointed to the Grievance Committee must have six (6) months seniority with the Company.
(b) The Grievance Committee members may leave their work without loss of pay to attend to Union business on the following conditions:
i)	such business must be between the Union and Management;
ii)	the time shall be devoted to the prompt
handling of necessary Union business;
8
iii)	the Steward or Officer concerned shall obtain the permission of the Supervisor concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld;
iv)	any meetings with Management will be held
during Plant working hours and shall be considered as hours worked and paid for at the appropriate rate.
8.04	(a) A Negotiating Committee shall be appointed from
within each Division and shall consist of a representative of the Union and a maximum of nine (9) Bargaining Unit employees .
Employees so appointed must have a minimum of six (6) months employment with the Company.
(b) The employees of the Company who are appointed, or otherwise selected, by the Union to the Negotiating Committee shall be paid eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay for each negotiating session scheduled between the Parties. The Union will reimburse the Company fifty percent (50%) of wages paid for up to the first (1st) six (6) meetings and one hundred percent (100%) for all other meetings, if any.
It is understood that the work week for employees appointed, or selected, to the Negotiating Committee is reduced by eight (8) hours for each negotiating session.
8.05	(a) A Joint Health & Safety Committee shall be
appointed or otherwise selected by the Union, from within Divisions “A” & "B”, and Division "C", and
9
shall consist of a representative of the Union, and a maximum of ten (IO) Bargaining Unit employees as follows:
Division “A” and Division "B"
—	three (3) Bargaining Unit employees
Division "C"
—	seven (7) Bargaining Unit employees
(b) The Joint Health & Safety Committee shall be governed by the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and Article 26 of this Agreement.
8.06	(a) A Joint Return To Work Program Committee shall be
appointed from within Divisions “A” & "B" and Division "C”, and shall consist of a representative of the Union, and a maximum of five (5) Bargaining Unit employees as follows:
Division “A” and Division "B"
—	two (2) Bargaining Unit employees
Division "C"
—	three (3) Bargaining Unit employees
(b) The Joint Return To Work Program Committee shall be governed by the provisions of Article 27 of this Agreement.
8.07	The name of each employee, as from time to time selected or elected to the above Committees, shall be given in writing to the other Party.
10
8.08	(a) The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint Chief Stewards and Stewards from within each Division as follows:
Division “A” — One (I) Chief Steward and one (1) Steward from each shift within each Department.
Division "B" — One (1) Chief Steward and one (1) Steward from each shift within each Department.
Division "C" — One (1) Chief Steward and one (1) Steward from each shift within each Department.
Boning Department:
Turkey Line - one (1) Steward per shift Chicken Line - one (1) Steward per shift
(b) The Union acknowledges that the Chief Stewards and Stewards have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons may not leave their regular duties without notifying their immediate Supervisor.
In such cases where a Steward and an employee do not have similar lunch and/or break periods, the Chief Steward who shall be scheduled to work the day shift, will be allowed when necessary to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of time to function as a Steward as provided in this Agreement.
The Union will designate two (2) Stewards in each Division (one on each shift not covered by the Chief Steward) to perform the duties outlined above to a maximum of thirty (30) minutes per shift where the Chief Steward is not available. The Chief Steward shall be scheduled to work the day shift.
11
Each Steward will seek the permission of his Supervisor to leave his regular duties and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
8.09	An employee shall have the right to have his/her Steward or Chief Steward present as a representative at any discussion with supervisory personnel which the employee believes might be the basis of disciplinary action. This clause shall not apply to those discussions that are of an operational nature unless the employee has reasonable cause to believe such discussion may be of a disciplinary nature. The employee may request the Steward to leave the meeting.
8.10	A Staff Representative of the Union, upon advising the
Vice President of Human Resources, or designate, with reasonable prior notice, may enter the Plant during normal working hours to view working conditions and generally service the Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	The Parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible. No grievance shall be considered if more than five (5) working days have elapsed between the occurrence of the incident and the filing of the grievance. The above time limit shall not apply in those incidents where the grievance filed is of a monetary nature and the Company’s liability shall be limited to one (1) full year immediately prior to the date of the filing of the grievance.
Work days referred to in Articles 9,10, and 11 will not include Saturdays, Sundays and paid holidays.
12
9.02	Grievances or complaints arising under this Agreement shall be adjusted or settled as follows:
STEP ONE:
Whenever an employee has a complaint or grievance, such employee together with his Steward shall first discuss his complaint or grievance with his immediate Supervisor. The Supervisor shall give his decision within three (3) working days following the presentation of the complaint or grievance to him. If the Supervisor’s decision is not satisfactory to the employee, then the complaint or grievance may be presented as follows:
STEP TWO:
Within five (5) working days or such longer time as mutually agreed after the decision at Step One, the aggrieved employee, together with his Steward, and Chief Steward or alternate shall present his grievance, in writing, at a meeting with his Supervisor and higher member of Management. The Supervisor shall render his decision, in writing, with copies to the Vice President of Human Resources and the Steward within three (3) working days. If satisfactory settlement to the employee is not reached, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
STEP THREE:
Within five (5) working days or such longer time as mutually agreed upon after the decision at Step Two, the Union Grievance Committee will meet with the Management of the Company to discuss the grievance. A Representative of the Union will be present. The grievor will be allowed to attend the Step Three meeting provided the meeting is held during the day shift.
13
After the Step Three meeting, the Company shall reply to the grievance, in writing, with a copy to the Union Steward and the Regional Union Office within three (3) working days (replies to grievances filed under Article
9.03	or 9.04 shall he within ten (10) working days) or such time as mutually agreed upon. At the request of either Party to this Agreement, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration.
9.03	A Group Grievance, defined as an alleged violation of this Agreement concerning all or a significant number of employees in the Bargaining Unit, or in regard to which a number of employees have signified an intention to grieve, may be brought forward, in writing, by the Union at Step Three within five (5) working days after the incident giving rise to the grievance occurred.
9.04	Any grievance which arises directly between the Company and the Union concerning the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall constitute a Policy Grievance, and it may be brought forward, in writing, at Step Three within five (5) working days of occurrence of the incident.
9.05	If arbitration is to be invoked, the request for arbitration must be made in writing to the other Party within ten (10) working days after the receipt by the grieving Party of the other Party’s reply, in accordance with Article 9.03, Step Three, or the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned and all rights to arbitration forfeited.
9.06	No employee or member of the Grievance Committee shall suffer loss of pay by reason of time spent discussing grievances with representatives of the Company.
14
9.07	During the term of this Agreement, meetings of the
Grievance Committee with Management shall be held upon reasonable notice by either the Grievance Committee or Management.
Grievance meetings shall be held on the Company’s premises.
9.08	If required, extensions to the time limits referred to in
Articles 9, 10, and 11 shall be by written, mutual agreement.
9.09	In the event of an in-house GSO meeting which does not involve a Ministry of Labour appointee, the parties mutually agree to share the costs involved.
9.10	Any employee who receives discipline shall have such
discipline remain actively recorded in the Personnel File for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months in the case of a verbal or written warning and eighteen (18) months in the case of a suspension from the date of such disciplinary action occurring.
ARTICLE 10 - DISMISSAL OR SUSPENSION
10.01	No employee shall he disciplined or discharged without just cause. Employees shall be notified in writing of the grounds for discipline or discharge. In subsequent grievance procedures, including arbitration, the Company shall be limited to such grounds. The Union shall receive a copy.
10.02	A claim by an employee that he has been unjustly discharged or suspended from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such
15
grievance is presented to the Vice President of Human Resources within five (5) working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and paid holidays) after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the Grievance Procedure to Step Three will be omitted in such cases. Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the Management’s action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties. When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Steward, or in his absence, the Chief Steward, in the Grievance Room for a time not to exceed thirty (30) minutes.
10.03	Notwithstanding Articles 6.01 (b), 10.01, and 10.02, a probationary employee may be discharged by the Company whether or not just cause exists provided the decision to discharge is not arbitrary, in bad faith, or for discriminatory reasons. The Company shall advise the Chief Steward in writing of the reason(s) for such termination.
ARTICLE 11 - ARBITRATION
11.01	Both Parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the Steps of the Grievance Procedure outlined in Article 9 above and which has not been settled, will be referred exclusively to a Board of Arbitration at the request of either of the Parties hereto.
11.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one (I) person appointed by the Company and one (1) person
16
appointed by the Union, and a third (3rd) person to act as Chairperson chosen by the other two members of the Board.
11.03	Within five (5) working days of the request by either Party for a Board, each Party shall notify the other of its appointee.
11.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by the Union fail to agree on a third (3rd) person within seven (7) calendar days of the notification mentioned in Article 11.03 above, the Office of Arbitration, Ministry of Labour will be asked to nominate a Chairperson.
11.05	The decision of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof constituted in the above manner, shall be final and binding on both Parties.
11.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
11.07	Each of the Parties to this Agreement will bear the expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it, and the Parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairperson.
11.08	It is understood and agreed that the applicable provisions of Article 11 shall apply to an arbitrator appointed pursuant to the provisions of Section 46 (1) of the Labour Relations Act, Ontario.
17
11.09	If the Company and the Union mutually agree to appoint a single arbitrator, or alternative means of dispute resolution mechanism, the foregoing applicable provisions of this Article shall apply to such single arbitrator or the alternate dispute resolution mechanism.
ARTICLE 12 WAGES and LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
12.01	Wage rates and classifications are appended hereto as Schedule “A” and shall form part of this Agreement.
12.02	In the event the Company establishes an entirely new job, or substantially changes an existing job, the Company will make its best effort to notify the Union fifteen (15) days before the new job is implemented. The classification and hourly rate of pay of such new job will be negotiated with the Union. Failing agreement, the matter shall be put before an arbitrator who will decide those two (2) issues. The new rate and classification will be adjusted to the commencement of operation.
12.03	Employees shall be paid weekly. Pay stubs shall be made available to each employee on or before 1:30 p.m. on Friday.
12.04	Supplementary agreements, if any, shall form part of this Agreement and are subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. Further, the Company agrees that the Chief Steward and Stewards from their respective Divisions so affected shall attend any meetings held between the Company and the Union pertaining to such Supplementary Agreements.
18
12.05	Letters of Understanding as outlined below shall form part of this Agreement.
#1 Union Dues and Initiation Fees and Information #2 Printing of the Collective Agreement #2 Seniority
#4 Standard Work Week - Division "C" Only
#5 Weekly Indemnity
#6 Transfers Between Plants
#7 Past Practice
#8 Layoff Options
#9 Students
#10 Union Management Committee #11 Technological Change #12 Transitional Work Program #13 Maintenance and Distribution Departments Shift Preference #14 Change of Job #15 Pension
ARTICLE 13 - SHIFT PREMIUM AND REPORTING
ALLOWANCE
13.01	An employee reporting for work shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or in lieu thereof, four (4) hours pay at the applicable rate of pay.
13.02	An employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, is specifically called in at any time outside his normal working hours, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his applicable overtime rate. Except for the Maintenance Department, this provision does not apply when an employee’s next regular shift is scheduled to commence a maximum of two (2) hours prior to their normal start time.
13.03	Shift premium shall be paid as follows:
19
Thirty cents (30C) premium - afternoon shift Forty cents (40C) premium - night shift
Effective June 1,1998 a shift premium shall be paid as follows:
Thirty-five cents (350) premium - afternoon shift Forty-five cents (450) premium - night shift
The afternoon shift premium shall apply to all employees commencing work between the hours of 12:00 Noon and 6:00 p.m.
The night shift premium shall apply to all employees commencing work between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The standard work week will be forty (40) hours per week comprised of five (5) eight (8) hour days, Monday through Friday.
14.02	(a) Employees shall be paid one and one-half times
(1 ‘Ax) their regular rate for all hours worked or paid by the Company in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or for all hours worked or paid by the Company in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
(b) Employees shall be paid one and one-half times (1 !Ax) their regular rate for all hours worked or paid by the Company on Saturday, unless such work is to complete the employee’s last shift of the standard work week.
20
(c) Employees shall be paid two times (2x) their regular rate for all hours worked or paid by the Company between 12:01 a.m. Sunday and 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
14.03	Double the straight time rate shall be paid for all work performed in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours.
14.04	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any specified number of hours on either a daily or weekly basis. The Company will pay for hours worked except where otherwise stated in this Agreement.
14.05	(a) Divisions "A". "B" & "C":
i)	During the standard work week (Monday through Friday) when overtime is required within a Department, such overtime shall be offered on a voluntary basis from among qualified senior employees within the Department on the shift (in the order of seniority).
In the event the Company is unable to fill its staffing requirements as outlined above, then such overtime shall be offered by seniority to qualified employees on the following basis:
First, to senior qualified employees within the Department who are at work and are available; then to senior qualified employees within the Division who are at work and are available.
ii)	Subject to 14.08, the opportunity to work overtime on Saturday or Sunday shall be offered first on a voluntary basis from qualified
21
senior employees in the order of seniority within the Department; then
To employees within the Division; then
To employees within other Divisions (based upon combined seniority lists)
iii)	If the Company cannot fill its overtime
requirements on a .voluntary basis as outlined in Article 14.05 (a) (i) and (ii), the Company will assign the overtime work and such employee(s) will be required to perform the work on the following basis:
(1)	Overtime work required under Article
14.05	(a) (i) will be designated to the most junior qualified employee within the Division who is at work and who is available.
(2)	Overtime work required in accordance
with 14.05 (a) (ii) will be designated to the most junior qualified employees in the Divisions.
iv)	No employee will be required to work an unreasonable amount of overtime.
14.06	Employees in Division “A”, "B" or "C" who are designated to work overtime in accordance with Article 14.05, must, whenever possible, be provided with advance notice as follows:
22
(a)	Week Day Overtime
Notice of such designation prior to 12:00 noon (day shift) or 7:30 p.m. (afternoon shift) each day.
(b)	Weekend Overtime
Saturday Overtime - Notice of such designation at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance.
Sunday Overtime - Notice of such designation at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance.
14.07	Employees shall not be transferred from one Department or shift to another to the extent that it reduces the regular straight time hours of work of seniority employees in such Department, unless such transfer is required to maintain the Company’s staffing requirements.
14.08	Employees will not be required to report for their scheduled shift unless a minimum of nine (9) hours has elapsed since the completion of their last scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 15 - REST PERIODS & CLEAN-UP
15.01	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes during each half (14) shift, providing the first half (14) shift is in excess of two (2) hours duration and the second half (14) shift exceeds two (2) hours of work subsequent to the lunch break. The rest period shall be scheduled between one and three-quarter (114) hours after the start of the shift and one and three-quarter (13A) hours prior to the lunch break. The second rest period shall be scheduled between one (1) hour after the lunch period and one (1) hour prior to the completion of the scheduled eight
23
(8) hour shift. In lieu of the above, the two (2) fifteen (15) minute breaks can be combined into one (1) half-hour (V4) break.
A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted prior to commencing overtime, providing the overtime shall be of one and one-half (1 'A) hours duration. The fifteen (15) minutes is not to include clean-up and shall commence when an employee leaves his position on the floor.
The intent of this language is to ensure employees receive a full fifteen (15) minute rest period.
15.02	Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a thirty (30) minute lunch period.
15.03	Employees shall not be required to clean their aprons, sleeves, knives and gloves during their rest and lunch periods.
15.04	(a) All employees who are performing the function of
Live Receiving, Live Hang, Kill Backup or Kill Line shall be allowed a ten (10) minute paid clean-up period immediately following the completion of their work.
(b) Evisceration employees who rotate, shall be allowed a five (5) minute paid clean-up period immediately following the completion of their work.
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
16.01	(a) A new or rehired employee will be considered to be on probation and will be termed a probationary employee until he has worked sixty (60) scheduled
24
working days, or four (4) months of continuous employment, whichever occurs first.
(b)	A probationary employee will not be considered a
seniority employee and during his probationary period, shall have no rights under this Agreement except as outlined in the following Articles contained in this Agreement; Articles 9,10,11,12,13,14,15, 18, 19.03, 21.01, 24.05, 25 and 26.04.
(c)	Upon completion of the probationary period,
employee(s) retained by the Company shall be considered seniority employee(s), and their name shall be placed on the seniority list, and such employee shall be credited with seniority to his last date of hire with the Company in the Bargaining Unit.
16.02	Seniority as referred to in this Agreement shall mean length of continuous employment with the Company in the Bargaining Unit.
16.03	Service as referred to in this Agreement shall mean length of continuous employment with the Company since the last date of hire.
16.04	Every three (3) months (January, April, July and October) the Company shall post and provide the Chief Steward with four (4) copies of the updated seniority list for each Department, each Division, and the Bargaining Unit. The Company will mail a copy to the Union’s Regional Office.
16.05	For the purpose of this Collective Agreement, there shall be three (3) Divisions, “A” and "B" and "C". The Departments within these Divisions are as follows:
25
i)	Division “A”
Boxing Department Sanitation Department Distribution Department Quality Assurance Department Maintenance Department Roast Department Sausage Department
ii)	Division "B"
Processing/Boxing/Cooler Department Quality Assurance/Receiving Department Sanitation Department
iii)	Division "C"
Kill Department Evisceration Department Boning Department Maintenance Department Distribution Department Sanitation Department Quality Assurance Department Full Cook Department D.S.I. Department
16.06	(a) In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the work force for more than one (1) full shift, the following layoff procedure will be followed, provided the remaining employees can perform the normal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company:
i)	First, non-Bargaining Unit temporary and parttime employees, including students, will be laid off: then
26
ii)	Probationary employees will be laid off; then
iii)	The most junior employee(s) performing the job affected by the work shortage.
(b)	In the event a Bargaining Unit employee receives
notice of layoff (to be defined as greater than one (1) full shift), he shall have the option of accepting the layoff or bumping another Bargaining Unit employee whose job he is able to perform in a manner satisfactory to the Company, in the sequence as outlined below:
-	The most junior employee in the Department whose job he is able to perform;
-	The most junior employee in the Division whose job he is able to perform;
-	The most junior employee in the Bargaining Unit provided the layoff is expected to be in excess of or exceeds five (5) working days whose job he is able to perform.
(c)	Recall from layoff shall be by seniority in the
sequence outlined below:
-	First, to employees who exercise their bumping rights to avoid layoff to their former job (immediately prior to layoff) as it becomes available; then
-	To employees on layoff in order of their seniority where jobs become available, subject to Article 17.01, provided they have the ability
27
to perform the normal requirements of the available job; then
-	To their former job (immediately prior to layoff) as it becomes available.
(d)	In the event a bargaining unit employee within the skilled trades classifications (group 7, 8, 9,10) is laid off, such employee(s) shall have the option of accepting the layoff, or bumping another Bargaining Unit employee provided he/she has the skill, ability and certification to perform the work in the sequence as follows:
-	most junior employee within the skilled trades classification within his/her Division.
-	The most Junior employee within the skilled trades classification within the other Divisions.
When bumping in the skilled trades classification is exhausted, then Article 16.06 (b) shall apply, unless the skilled trades person is the most junior, in the classification in the Company in which case he/she will have the option of accepting layoff as per Article
16.06	(b).
16.07	Notwithstanding Article 16.06 (a) (iii), in cases where layoffs are due to Christmas or vacation shutdown [neither of which shall exceed ten (10) working days], layoff shall be by Department in the reverse order of seniority and recall shall be by Department in order of seniority. This clause only applies when an entire Division is shutdown due to Christmas or Vacation shutdown.
28
16.08	(a) In the event of a short work day within a
Department, the Company will distribute the work available within the Department amongst the departmental Bargaining Unit employees on that shift based upon seniority, who are capable of performing the work in a manner satisfactory to the Company.
(b) In the event it becomes necessary to layoff an employee for one (1) full shift, the most junior Bargaining Unit employee on that shift in the Division will be laid off.
16.09	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, his employment will be considered terminated, and there shall be no obligation to rehire him when he:
(a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is dismissed for just cause, and such dismissal is not reversed through the grievance procedure or arbitration; or
(b)	fails to return to work within seven (7) calendar days after being notified to do so by registered mail at his last known address, unless a satisfactory reason exists for not returning; or
(c)	fails to report to work at the expiry of his leave of absence, unless the Company grants an extension, in writing, for valid reasons or unless a satisfactory reason exists for not reporting to work; or
(d)	takes another position temporarily, seeks out or tries new work, or ventures into business for himself while on a leave of absence; or
29
(e)	is absent from work for three (3) or more consecutive scheduled working days without notifying the Company, during that period and providing a satisfactory reason; or
(f)	is laid off for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months: or
(g)	is absent from work for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months as a result of a nonoccupational sickness or injury, or is absent as a result of an occupational sickness or injury and is receiving Workers Compensation for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months. A period of illness shall be deemed continuing when the employee returns to work, and is unable to continue working due to a reoccurrence of the original illness, for a period of his scheduled hours during the first two (2) calendar weeks immediately following his return to work.
16. IO In the event an employee covered by this Agreement shall be promoted to a position outside the Bargaining Unit and later transferred to the Bargaining Unit, he shall retain seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the time spent while serving outside the Bargaining Unit up to one (1) year.
16.11	The Company will advise the Union as quickly as possible, of any pending layoff consisting of two (2) full shifts or more and will publish the names of employees being retained. The Company will advise the Union as quickly as possible, the names of employees being recalled from layoff.
30
16.12	Where two (2) Departments are being merged, the employees in the Department eliminated shall be deemed to have seniority in the surviving Department for all purposes of this Agreement.
16.13	Employees training or participating in Company-sponsored courses shall not be bound to the terms of Sub-articles 16.06 and 16.08.
It is understood and agreed that this Sub-article is not applicable to Lead Hand training or if such training is in violation of Sub-article 17.01.
16.14	The Company shall, when assigning employees, assign the junior employee on the shift, from within a Department provided they have the skill and ability satisfactory to the Company to do the work they are being assigned to in the other Department and provided the remaining employees in the Department have the skill and ability to do the work satisfactory to the Company. Exceptions to this would be for employees being assigned for training and instructional purposes.
The Company agrees that an employee(s) temporarily assigned to another department will only be eligible for overtime in that department on the same basis as any other Bargaining Unit employee(s) outside that department.
In the event of a short shift occurring in the department to which and employee(s) is assigned or in the department from which the employee(s) is assigned from, within his/her division, such employee(s) shall be returned to his own department prior to that short shift occurring.
In the event of a layoff of one shift or more in a department and where a employee(s) is temporarily
31
assigned into the department, such employee(s) shall be returned to his own department prior to the layoff occurring.
ARTICLE 17 - JOB POSTINGS
17.01	(a) When the Company decides to fill a permanent vacancy within a Division, such vacancy shall be posted for two (2) working days. Subject to 17.01 (b), employees interested in filling the vacancy shall sign the posting within two (2) working days. The vacancy will be awarded and filled within twenty (20) working days of the posting unless the Company decides not to fill the vacancy or an extension is agreed upon between the Parties.
(b)	Employees absent from work will be considered for the job posting, provided they advise the Company, in writing, prior to commencing their vacation, of their desire to transfer to the vacancy.
(c)	Where skill and ability for the permanent vacancy are relatively equal, respective seniority will prevail on the following basis:
It is understood and agreed that skills and ability obtained through a temporary assignment of less than thirty (30) working days will not be a factor in considering the successful applicant.
Permanent vacancies will be filled from within the Department; however, in the event that the vacancy cannot be filled from within the Department, then the vacancy will be filled from within the Division.
32
Should this not satisfy the vacancy, the Company will consider applicants from other Divisions.
(d)	In the event that no eligible employee applies for the posting, employees with less than twelve (12) months seniority who have completed their probationary period and employees who have transferred pursuant to this Article within the last nine (9) months prior to the posting, shall he considered by the Company.
(e)	Employees awarded a vacancy in accordance with
Article 17 during the last twelve (12) months whose job became redundant or upon being awarded a job, failed to qualify, shall be entitled to apply for a vacancy as per Article 17.01 above.
(f)	An employee transferred under this Article will be given an opportunity of fulfilling the duties of the new position during a trial period of up to ten (IO) full working days.
If the employee fails to meet the requirements of the job during the trial period, he will be returned to his former position.
If the employee wishes to relinquish the new position within the trial period, he may do so and return to his former position.
(g)	Such postings as referred to in this Article will be
limited to two (2) moves to fill one (I) position.
(h)	The term “permanent vacancy” as used in this Article, shall mean a permanent vacancy that occurs from retirement, resignation, transfer or discharge and which the Company decides to fill, or where the
33
requirement for employees exceeds the number of employees in a Department.
(i)	Permanent vacancies which are rotational, or are of similar job content or are part of a line process, shall be posted as such and not as an individual position.
17.02	When it is necessary to temporarily assign an employee to another job for a period of thirty (30) days, then the temporary assigned job shall be posted unless it is for the purpose of replacing an absent Bargaining Unit employee. Such position shall be posted as a temporary job posting. This posting will not apply to positions arising due to vacations. This Clause will be subject to Article 17.01, except for the provisions 17.01 (f), (g) and (h). Such postings as referred to in this Article will be limited to one (1) moves to fill one (1) position. It is agreed that assignments will not exceed 30 days.
ARTICLE 18 - PAID HOLIDAYS
18.01	(a) Employees who have accumulated thirty (30) working days or three (3) months employment, whichever occurs first, will be credited with pay known as holiday pay for the following holidays:
New Year’s Day Heritage Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater Day
In the event the Federal and/or Provincial Government proclaim another paid holiday, it will replace Heritage Day.
34
(b)	Paid holidays listed in Article 18.01 above shall be observed on the day of occurrence except as provided below:
1997	1998	1999
Floater Dec. 31st Dec. 24th Dec. 24th Heritage Day (Third Monday in February)
18.02	Holiday pay is defined as the amount of straight time pay which the employee would have received if he had worked a standard number of daily hours.
18.03	An employee who qualifies under Articles 18.01 and 18.04 and is required to work on any of the abovenamed Paid Holidays will receive pay for all hours worked on such days at the rate of two times (2x) the employee’s regular rate of pay in addition to his regular rate of pay to which he is entitled by Article 18.01. The Paid Holiday for those other than day shift employees will be observed as that shift which they normally would have had off when the plant is closed to observe the Paid Holiday.
18.04	In order to be entitled to payment for a Paid Holiday, an employee must have worked a minimum of four (4) hours of the scheduled shift immediately preceding and a minimum of four (4) hours of the scheduled shift immediately following the holiday. An employee who is otherwise eligible but fails to work either his shift before or shift following the holiday, due to sickness or accident, must provide a medical certificate which indicates the date of absence, in order to receive payment for the Paid Holiday.
18.05	An employee who would otherwise qualify for Paid Holiday pay as provided in Article 18.04, but who is
35
absent and drawing sick benefit insurance or Workers Compensation when a Paid Holiday occurs, will be paid the difference between the sick benefit or Workers Compensation, as the case may be, and eight (8) hours pay at his regular straight time rate. This provision will only apply when the employee is drawing weekly sick benefits (including the three (3) day waiting period that results in the employee qualifying for sick benefits), or if on Workers Compensation, for a period not to exceed the maximum stipulated by the sick benefit insurance plan; but will be paid only after the employee’s return to work.
18.06	An employee on layoff will be paid for the Paid Holiday, provided he has worked at least twelve (12) days in the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
18.07	If one or more of the Paid Holidays mentioned in this Article occurs while an employee is away on a personal leave of absence in excess of fourteen (14) calendar days, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday or holidays.
ARTICLE 19 - VACATION
19.01	This Agreement acknowledges that the Company has the right to schedule vacation so as to efficiently maintain plant operations. Every reasonable effort will be made to grant vacations at times requested by employees. It may be a two (2) week period or periods of one (1) week or total vacation, subject to the production requirements of the Company.
(a)	During February, the vacation entitlement will be posted in each Department indicating the number of days each employee is eligible for and also the
36
maximum number of employees eligible to be off at any one time.
(b)	Employees should signify their vacation time
preference in writing to their Supervisor prior to April 1st in each year and these vacation requests shall be scheduled on the basis of Departmental seniority.
(c)	Employees may signify their vacation time preference in writing on a first come, first serve basis to their Supervisor from April 1st to April 30th inclusive.
(d)	Employees not having signified all or part of their
vacation time preference prior to May 1st in each year, will be allotted available vacation time by their Supervisor.
(e)	A copy of the vacation schedule will remain posted throughout the vacation year.
(f)	Vacation time shall not be accumulated from year to year and must be taken between April 1st of the vacation year and March 31st of the following year.
19.02	Vacations will be based on service as of April 1st, in the year in which the vacation is to be taken. Employees will be given their vacation pay at the time of taking their vacation. The vacation pay will only be for the amount of vacation taken at that specific time. Each employee will become eligible for a vacation pay on the following basis except for vacation of less than rive (5) consecutive days in which case they will be paid in the week following:
(a) Employees who on April 1st have less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay calculated
37
at the rate of four percent (4%) of their gross earnings with the Company for the period of their employment during the preceding twelve (12) months and shall be given one-half (Vi) day of vacation for each full month of service to a maximum of five (5) days.
(b)	Employees who on April 1st have completed one (1) year or more of continuous service [or whose seniority is equivalent to more than one (1) year] are entitled to two (2) weeks vacation and shall be paid four percent (4%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous year’s vacation pay) as vacation pay.
(c)	Employees who on April 1st of the vacation year
have completed five (5) years of continuous service will receive three (3) weeks vacation and shall be paid six percent (6%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous year’s vacation pay) as vacation pay.
(d)	Employees who on April 1st of the vacation year
have completed ten (10) years of continuous service will receive four (4) weeks vacation and shall be paid eight percent (8%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous year’s vacation pay) as vacation pay.
(e)	Employees who on April 1st of the vacation year
have completed twenty (20) years of continuous service will receive five (5) weeks vacation and shall be paid ten percent (10%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous year’s vacation pay) as vacation pay.
38
(f)	Effective June 1,1999 employees who on April 1st of the vacation year have completed twenty-five (25) years of continuous service will receive six (6) weeks vacation and shall be paid twelve percent (12%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous year’s vacation pay) as vacation pay.
19.03	Any employee whose employment with the Company is terminated voluntarily, shall receive vacation pay as set forth in Article 19.02.
19.04	If a Paid Holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay at a mutually convenient time (unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing.)
19.05	It is the responsibility of the employees to request their vacation pay, in writing, to their Supervisor at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the last working day prior to the start of their vacation. Upon proper notice, the Company shall provide each employee with his vacation pay on the pay day immediately preceding his vacation.
19.06	An employee who has worked less than 6 months in the preceding-vacation year due solely to injury or illness, the employee may elect to take their entire vacation entitlement, or a reduced vacation entitlement commensurate with the employees earnings in the previous vacation year.
19.07	Employees going on vacation shall have the option of taking their vacation in minimum allotments of one (1) day increments if so desired.
ARTICLE 20 - BULLETIN BOARDS
20.01	The Company shall provide reasonable space on bulletin boards located within each Division, for the posting of official Union notices. The Area Manager(s) or his designate will sign all Union Notice for the Chief Steward or Stewards, after a one (1) day time frame of the notices being presented to him.
ARTICLE 21 - CLOTHING AND TOOL ALLOWANCE
21.01	The Company agrees to supply and launder the following as outlined below:
Smocks
Coveralls for designated employees
The Company further agrees to supply and replace the following articles where such articles are deemed necessary to perform the job, provided the worn out article is turned in:
Aprons Gloves Head Gear Freezer Clothing Sleevelets Wet Suits
Coats for designated areas Insulated coveralls where required
Such shall remain the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company’s premises and must be returned for a new issue or upon separation of the employee.
40
The above articles not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee.
21.02	Commencing in year two:	The Company agrees to pay
each employee, except employees in the classification of Sanitation, Distribution, Material Handlers, Fourth Class Stationary Engineer, Industrial Mechanic and Grade III Engineer, Licensed Millwright, and Licensed Electrician forty-five dollars ($45.00) twice per year towards the purchase of safety footwear where such footwear is to be used at work. Employees in the classification of Sanitation, Distribution, Material Handlers, Fourth Class Stationary Engineer, Industrial Mechanic and Grade III Engineer, Licensed Millwright, and Licensed Electrician will be paid sixty dollars ($60.00) twice per year towards the purchase of safety footwear where such footwear is to be used at work. This Article shall only apply to employees who have passed the probationary period.
21.03	The Company agrees to pay each employee in Group Classifications 7, 8, 9 and 10, up to two hundred and seventy-fifty dollars ($275.00) per year effective June 1, 1997, as a tool allowance. This tool allowance will be paid only upon receipt provided by the employee for new or replacement tools and shall only apply to employees who have passed the probation period effective the date of payment. Effective June 1,1998, tool allowance will be increased to three hundred dollars ($300.00). Effective June 1,1999, tool allowance will be increased to three hundred and twenty-five dollars ($325.00)
ARTTCTiE 22 - WET.EARE
22.01	(a) The Company agrees to continue to pay premiums for the present Life Insurance and Accidental Death and
41
Dismemberment Policy to provide insurance equal to one and one-half times (1 Vix) annual earnings to a maximum of thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00).
(b) The Company agrees to pay premiums for a Life Insurance Policy for the employee’s dependents as follows:
The employee’s spouse - $5,000.00 Each child of the employee - $2,500.00
22.02	(a) The Company agrees to provide a Weekly Indemnity at no cost to employees on the following basis:
Sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3 %) of the weekly earnings to a maximum equivalent to the U.l.C. ceiling as at commencement of disability:
Payments commence first (1st) day in the event of accident;
Payments commence fourth (4th) day in the event of sickness;
Payments commence first (1st) day in the event of hospitalization due to sickness;
Effective June 1,1998 payments commence first (1st) day in the event of day surgery/out patient surgery.
Payments continue for a period of up to twenty-six (26) weeks.
(b) The Company will allow an employee awaiting a decision of entitlement or payment from the Workers’
42
Compensation Board (W.C.B.) to sign a waiver with the Company to initiate a weekly indemnity claim. The Carrier will subsidize the employee said funds until compensation is received from W.C.B. at which time the employee will repay the Carrier for any weekly indemnity benefits received.
In the event both the W.C.B. and the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Carrier deny an employee’s claim for benefit, the Company will be entitled via the waiver, to recover monies paid to the employee in advance, prior to such denial from the employee’s wages or vacation pay, provided such recovery, in all cases, is completed over a reasonable period.
22.03	The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of a Plan to provide prescription drugs to employees and their dependents at no cost.
22.04	The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of a Dental Plan for eligible employees. The O.D.A. fee schedule outlined below will apply
(Effective December 1, 1994, the following will be added to the existing Plan):
Periodontics
Endodontics
New dentures and replacement dentures only if these dentures have been in place for a minimum of three (3) years, plus rebasing, relining, and repair of dentures
1996	O.D.A.
1997	O.D.A
1998	O.D.A.
43
This addition to the existing Plan is subject to the following terms:
(i)	65% Company/35% employee, effective July 1, 1995, Co-Insurance. Effective June 1, 1999 Company 75 % / 25 % employee.
(ii)	a deductible of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) single, and fifty dollars ($50.00) family
(iii)	a cap of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year, per person
22.05	The Company agrees to provide Eye Care in the amount of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) every twelve (12) months for all eligible employees and their dependents. Effective June 1, 1998 the amount increases to one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) every twelve (12) months.
22.06	The Company agrees to pay premiums for its share of all benefit programs for three (3) months when an employee is absent due to illness, vacation or accident. Effective June 1,1998 the Company agrees to pay premiums for its share of all benefit programs for six (6) months when an employee is absent due to illness, vacation or accident.
22.07	The benefits provided by Article 22 apply only to employees who have completed the probationary period.
APTTCTE 23 - REPEA VF.ME.NT TE.AVF.
23.01	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company agrees to grant time off without loss of pay for up to three (3) days. In the event an
44
employee qualifies for up to three (3) days bereavement leave with pay, said three (3) days shall be three (3) consecutive working days falling within the period inclusive from the day of death to the second day after the funeral, and at no other time.
For the purpose of this Clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following:
Mother, Father, Step-parents, Spouse (including common-law), Son, Daughter, Brother, Sister, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Grandparents, Grandparents-in-law, and Grandchildren
One (1) day’s leave with pay shall be granted the bereaved employee in the event of the death of the employee’s:
Brother-in-law, Sister-in-law, Son-in-law and Daughter-inlaw
“Employee” shall mean an employee of the Company whp has completed his probationary period.
An employee shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate while on bereavement leave.
An employee will not be eligible to receive payment under this Agreement for any period for which he is receiving other benefits in the form of vacation pay, specified holiday pay, sick benefits, or Workers Compensation.
ARTICLE 24 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
24.01	When an employee’s personal affairs make it desirable for him or her to be relieved of Company duties, leave of
45
absence without pay may be granted for good and sufficient reasons. Each request will be handled on an individual basis depending upon the circumstances for the request and the production requirements of the Company. However, application in writing with duplicate copy of same must be submitted to the Company. Leave of Absence shall not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, or to try out new work, or to venture into business for himself.
A copy of the application for the leave of absence will be given to the Union by the Company with notice whether leave of absence has or has not been granted and reasons for same outlined. Failure of the employee concerned to comply with the above requirements shall constitute loss of seniority, pursuant to Article 16.01.
When an employee returns to work, he will either be placed on his previous job or, if redundant, alternate work of a comparable nature.
Vacation should be used prior to granting leave of absence. Vacations should take precedence over granting of Leave of Absence where a conflict occurs and the Company cannot grant all requests for vacation and/or Leaves of Absence and still reasonably operate the business.
24.02	Union business will be considered a good cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company as long as it does not interfere unduly with the operations of the plant and after the Company has been given adequate advance notice.
24.03	It is understood that not more than two (2) employees will be absent at any one time.
46
24.04	An employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union shall, upon one (1) week’s notice in writing, be granted a leave of absence, without pay, for a period not to exceed the term of this Agreement and upon one (1) week’s notice, in writing, of his desire to return to work with the Company, shall be placed in the position previously held or one at an equal rate of pay. This privilege shall be limited to two (2) employees.
24.05	The Company will grant pregnancy and/or parental leave, without pay, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario. In part, the Act provides as follows:
(a)	A pregnant employee is normally entitled to seventeen (17) weeks leave of absence provided she commenced her employment with the Company at least thirteen (13) weeks prior to the expected birth date.
(b)	The pregnancy leave may begin no earlier than seventeen (17) weeks prior to the expected birth date.
(c)	The pregnancy leave shall end no later than seventeen (17) weeks following the date of birth.
(d)	At least two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of such leave, the employee must submit a request for her leave and a doctor’s certificate stating the expected date of birth. If the employee is required to stop work due to complications, she may request her leave at a later date in accordance with the Employment Standards Act, Ontario.
47
(e)	The parental leave of an employee who takes a
pregnancy leave must begin when the pregnancy leave ends.
(f)	The parental leave ends a maximum of eighteen (18) weeks after it begins.
24.06	Jury Duty and Crown Witness
An employee called for Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness shall be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between Jury Duty or Crown Witness fees and the straight time wage the employee would otherwise have received [not to exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week]. Payment under this Article will only be for the actual day(s) the employee is required to appear or serve as a Juror or as a Crown Witness. It is the responsibility of the employee to provide the Company with a copy of the Notice of Jury Selection or a copy of the subpoena to appear as a Crown Witness and any further information relating to his Jury Duty or appearance as a Crown Witness.
ARTICLE 25 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
25.01	An employee who is transferred to a different job within the Bargaining Unit shall be paid while so employed as follows:
(a)	if the transfer is for the convenience of the Company and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the employee’s regular rate, he shall receive his regular rate of pay;
48
(b)	if the transfer is for the convenience of the employee, or to enable him to avoid layoff, and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the employee’s regular rate of pay, he shall receive the lesser rate;
(c)	if the transfer is to a higher rate of classification, the employee will receive the higher rate of pay.
ARTICLE 26 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
26.01	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall perform its duties and responsibilities in accordance with the
provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and this Article 26.
26.02	A Safety Committee shall meet at least once per month and immediately after any serious accident. Minutes will be kept of each meeting.
26.03	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Employees will not be disciplined for refusing to perform work they consider unsafe until the Plant Safety Committee investigates and considers it safe for the employee to do so.
26.04	An employee who is injured at work during working hours and is required to leave for treatment for such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his hourly rate of pay, unless a doctor states the employee is fit to return to work and the employee fails to return.
26.05	The Company encourages and welcomes recommendations on safety from the Union.
49
26.06	The Safety Committees from each Division shall meet at least once per year between August and October.
26.07	Employees required for safety reasons to wear safety glasses, and who, for verified medical reasons, require prescription safety glasses, will be provided such glasses by the Company at no expense to the employee(s).
ARTICLE 27 - RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM
27.01	The Return To Work Program shall provide rehabilitation employment, subject to the terms of this Article, to injured Bargaining Unit employees as follows:
(a)	The Return To Work Program is applicable to Bargaining Unit employees unable to perform their regular work due to an occupational or nonoccupational illness or injury.
(b)	Employees shall be considered for placement in the
Return To Work Program based upon the following priority sequence:
1.	Employees ready to return from Workers Compensation.
2.	Employees with work-related injuries who have medical evidence to support the injury, but remain actively at work.
3.	Employees ready to return from nonoccupational illness or injury.
4.	Employees with non-occupational illness or injury who have medical evidence to support
so
the illness or injury, but remain actively at work.
(c)	The specific job [subject to 27.05 (a)] to be performed by the injured worker as defined in Article
27.01	(b) shall be determined by the Company, based upon medical recommendations in the sequence as outlined below:
1.	Essential Diities/No Restrictions
Return the injured worker to his pre-injury job in accordance with Bill 162; or
2.	Essential Diities/With Restrictions/With Accommodations
Return the injured worker to his pre-injury job with modification in accordance with Bill 162; or
3.	Suitable Alternative Emplovment/No
Restrictions
Return the injured worker to another job in accordance with Bill 162; or
4.	Suitable Emplovment/With Restrictions/With Accommodation
Return the injured worker to another job with modification in accordance with Bill 162.
27.02	(a) A Joint Return To Work Committee, as outlined in Article 8.06 (a) shall be established.
51
(b)	The purpose of the Joint Return to Work Committee shall be to provide recommendations to the Company and the Union regarding the Return To Work Program.
(c)	The Committee shall meet a minimum of four (4)
times per calendar year.
(d)	The Committee shall maintain minutes of meetings
and provide the Company and the Union with a copy of such minutes.
(e)	The Committee shall meet during Plant working
hours. Time spent shall be considered as time worked and shall be paid for at the appropriate rate.
27.03	(a) The Company shall provide the Committee with the
name of each Bargaining Unit employee qualified to participate in this Program, including the expected date such employee would commence participation.
(b) Bargaining unit employee(s) shall not be directly or indirectly laid off due to placement of an injured employee into the Return To Work Program.
27.04	Employees participating in the Return To Work Program shall be paid at the lowest rate outlined in Schedule “A” of this Agreement or their pre-injury rate or the applicable rate for the job as outlined in Schedule “A” of this Agreement, whichever one of the above is greater.
The rate shall not include premium rates, including Lead Hand or Shift Premiums, unless the premium is directly earned during the employee’s participation in the Return To Work Program.
52
27.05	(a) Bach individual job designated [maximum one (1) worker per position] must be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union prior to such job being included in this Article.
(b) Jobs designated in accordance with 27.05 (a) above, shall be excluded from the job posting procedures outlined in Article 17.01 of the Collective Agreement.
(c)	A classification/position currentlv excluded from the Bargaining Unit that is designated as a return to work job(s) shall become Bargaining Unit work.
(d)	In the event a specific job as outlined in 27.05 (c) above is vacant, it shall be posted in accordance with Article 17.02 of the Collective Agreement.
(e)	The successful applicant shall be paid the lowest rate outlined in Schedule “A” of this Agreement or the applicable rate for the job, as outlined in Schedule “A” of this Agreement, whichever one of the above is greater, and shall be returned to their former classification when an injured employee is available and has been designated to perform that Return To Work Program job.
ARTTCT/F, 28 - PF.NSTON
28.01	The Company agrees to contribute twenty-five cents (25C) per hour for all hours worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week for employees who had obtained their seniority by February 7,1989.
53
Effective January 1, 1997, the Company agrees to contribute forty-six cents (46C) per hour for all hours worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week for all bargaining unit employees.
Effective June 1, 1998, the Company agrees to contribute fifty cents (50C) per hour for all hours worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week for all bargaining unit employees.
Effective June 1, 1999, the Company agrees to contribute fifty-five cents (55C) per hour for all hours worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week for all bargaining unit employees.
28.02	The Company’s liability, present and future, with regard to the aforementioned Pension Plan is limited to the abovenoted contributions.
28.03	Employees who obtain their seniority subsequent to February 7, of each year, will not be entitled for a pension contribution on their behalf until February 8, following the date of obtaining their seniority.
28.04	The Parties agree that the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P.) is the applicable pension plan.
ARTICLE 29 - GROUP CLASSIFICATIONS
(a) Group Classifications
Group 1 - General - (Divisions “A” & "B")
Group 2 -Group 3 -
Group 4 -
Group 5 -Group 6 -
Group 7 -Group 8 -
Group 9 -
54
Cooler, Blender Operator, Former Operator, Stretch Wrap Operator, including Floaters
General - (Division "C")
Quality Assurance, Sausage Formulators, Cook Room Operator, Multivac Operator, Injector Operator, Portioning Blender Operator, Batter/Breader Operator, Triangle Operator, Fryer Operator, Scale Operator, Material Handler, L-Bar Operator, Haysen Operator, Cryovac Operator, Hoyer Operator, and Boxing Machine Operator.
Beehive Operator, Tray Pack Operator, Wizard and Knife Sharpeners (Division C)
Sanitation
Quality Assurance Receiver, Live Hang, Live Receive and Kill, Driver and Distribution
Fourth Class Engineer
Industrial Mechanic and Grade III Engineer
Licensed Millwright (rate only applies when the Company requires employees in this classification)
55
Group IO - Licensed Electrician (rate only applies when the Company requires employees in this classification)
(b) Apprenticeships
The Company agrees that the Apprenticeship Program, if required by the Company, will be administered in accordance with the regulations set out in the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act.
The wage scales will also be in accordance with the above Act except for those employees who are accepted by the Company for a job posting into the Apprenticeship Program. Such employees will be paid their existing rate or the applicable rate under the Act, whichever is the higher.
ARTICLE 30 - GENERAL
30.01	(a) The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive
function of the Company to appoint or demote Lead Hands at any time during this Agreement. If demoted from this classification, the employee will no longer receive the premium. Lead Hands shall be defined as a person who performs work, transmits orders, assists other employees, and shall not have authority to hire, fire, or discipline other employees and shall be a Union member.
(b) Lead Hands shall be subject to layoff and recall as per Article 16 of this Agreement.
30.02	Management or employees shall not punch another employee’s time card.
56
In case of layoff or a short work day, the Chief Steward shall be the last person laid off, provided there is work available which the Chief Steward is capable of performing. In the event the Chief Steward is absent due to illness, etc, then the Acting Chief Steward will be the last person laid off. Within thirty (30) days of the signing of this Agreement, the Union shall advise the Company in writing of the names of the employees who will be designated to replace the Chief Steward in such event.
30.04	Employees shall inform the Company, in writing, of their current mailing address and telephone number and the Company shall be entitled to rely upon this information when administering pertinent Articles in the Collective Agreement.
30.05	Paid Education Fund
%
30.03
Effective one (1) week after ratification, the Company agrees to contribute ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to the Local 175, Employees Education & Training Fund.
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION
3 1 .01 This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from June 2, 1997 until June 1. 2000. and shall continue thereatter to automatically renew itself from year to year unless a notice of termination or amendment is given by either Party to the other, in writing, not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to date of expiration. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall remain in force during the period of negotiations.
57
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF Sentember 1997.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL
UNION. Local 175	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
FOR THE UNTON:	FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
SCHEDULE “A’
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Group #1 Group #2 Group #3 Group #4 Group ti5 Group ff6 Group til Group #8 Group ti9 Group #10
July 1/97 $14.20 $14.20 $14.20 $14.25 $14.30 $14.70 $14.95 $16.45 $19.00 $19.45
June 1/98 June 1.1999 $14.60	$15.00
$14.60
$14.60
$14.65
$14.70
$15.10
$15.35
$16.85
$19.40
$19.85
$15.00
$15.00
$15.05
$15.10
$15.50
$15.75
$17.25
$19.80
$20.25
Probationary employees’ rate will be fifty cents (500) less than the applicable job classification rate.
Lead Hands will receive forty-five cents (450) per hour above the highest paid Bargaining Unit employee that he/she leads.
Apprentice employees will be paid in accordance with Article 29 ' (b) of this Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
59
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. LOCAL 175
RE: ARTICLE 5 - UNION DUES AND INITIATION FEES AND INFORMATION
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a monthly computer tile of Union Dues and Initiation Fee deductions as prepared currently. Such file shall be contained on a 3'A" diskette and the Union agrees to return the diskette promptly to the Company to ensure the next month’s transaction.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF September 1997.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL
UNION. Local 175	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Partly Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING U2
60
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE: PRINTING OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Company will reimburse the Union fifty percent (50%) of the cost of printing this Collective Agreement, to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF September 1997.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE: ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
The amendment to the calculation of seniority date in Article 16.01 (c) of this Agreement, will be applied to employees hired by the Company after July 29,1989.
The calculation of the seniority date of employees hired before July 29, 1989, will be in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.01 contained in the Collective Agreement between the Parties that expired on May 30,1989.
This Letter of Understanding forms part of the Agreement.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF September 1997.
FOR THE UNION:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE COMPANY: Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING U
62
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE: ARTICLE 14.01 - DIVISION "C" ONLY
For the purposes of Article 14.01, the Company agrees to the following:
a)	The standard work week for all employees, except Maintenance Department employees, will be Monday to Friday.
b)	The standard work week for Maintenance Department employees will be five (5) consecutive days, Monday to Saturday.
c)	Existing employees of the Maintenance Department (as of July 29,1989), shall have the option of refusing to work a Tuesday to Saturday work week schedule.
d)	Employees commencing work in the Maintenance Department after July 29,1989, may be required to work a Tuesday to Saturday work schedule.
e)	Employees scheduled to work on Saturday will be paid one and one-halftimes (l'AX) their hourly rate for all hours worked or paid by the Company on Saturday.
63
Letter of Understanding #4 (cont’d)
page 2
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF Sentember 1997.
Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE UNTON:
FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys  
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ttS
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE: ARTICLE 22.02 - WEEKLY INDEMNITY
The Company agrees to advance employees who have not received their Weekly Indemnity benefits within three (3) weeks of delivering the completed forms to the Health Centre an amount equal to the estimated benefit. The employee will assign the Weekly Indemnity cheque from the Insurer to the Company.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd	DAY OF
__September_ 1997.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon
A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE: TRANSFER BETWEEN PLANTS
Notwithstanding Article 16.06, the Parties agree that in the event that a Department, a part of a Department, or one or more employees of a Department from either Divisions “A” or ”B" is transferred to 10 Cuddy Blvd., Division "C", such transfer shall' not constitute a layoff but shall be deemed to be a relocation of that employee, Department, or part thereof.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd____________DAY OF
Sen tern her	1997.
FOR THE UNION:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat BayJiss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE COMPANY:
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS NTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:	PAST PRACTICE
The Company and the Union agree that the parties may continue to rely on the past practices that have occurred or will occur.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF September 1997.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING M
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:	LAYOFF
A. Short Work Day
1	The Company will post a seniority list by department each day.
2	At the top of the list, employees will be asked to indicate whether they will work in the event the day becomes a short work day in their department.
3	If an employee chooses to elect such short work day layoff, he or she will so indicate by crossing off his or her name on the list and initialling the document. An employee who does not so indicate will have no option to elect layoff.
4	Employees will have until the end of their first break on the day to indicate, on their own time, availability
for work in the event of a short work day in their
department.
5	If the day becomes a short work day, the Company will assess its manpower requirements on a departmental basis on that shift. If no employees are required beyond a certain point in the work day, all employees in the department on that shift will be sent
68
Letter of Understanding #8 (cont’d)
page 2
home early. If, on the other hand, the Company requires some employees in the department to work that full work day, it will go down the completed seniority list requiring those employees who have not crossed. off their name to work provided the selected employees can perform the normal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company. Those employees in the Department who elect a short work day layoff will be laid off.
6	The employees electing short work day layoff and exercising such option by going home early, forfeit the right to any overtime claim which may arise with respect to that shift.
7	It is agreed that senior employees’ right to elect a short work day will take precedence over junior employees (i.e. grievances will not be pursued on behalf ofjunior employees claiming a “right” to go home first).
B.	Exactly One III Day l.nvoft'
1	In the event of an exactly one day layoff, the Company will proceed by way of Supervisor inquiry or seniority list check-off.
Supervisory Inquiry
2	If the Company proceeds by way of Supervisor inquiry, employees in the department on the shift will be approached, in order of seniority, to choose
69
Letter of Understanding #8 (cont’d)
page 3
whether they elect to accept the exactly one day layoff in the department.
3	Employees will be entitled to a “single offer” election (i.e. employees must make their election when approached by the supervisor without opportunity for consultation).
Seniority List Check-Off
4	If the Company proceeds by way of seniority list check-off, the Company will post a seniority list by department asking each employee whether he or she will work in the event of an exactly one day layoff in their department.
5	If an employee chooses to elect such layoff, he or she will so indicate by crossing off his or her name on the list and initialling the document.
6	Generally, employees will have until the end of their first break on the work day immediately preceding the exactly one day layoff to indicate their availability for work. In the event, however, that the exactly one day layoff is announced on the day immediately preceding the layoff, the Company will proceed by way of Supervisor inquiry.
7	If a department will be experiencing an exactly one day layoff, the Company will assess its manpower requirements on a departmental basis on that shift and proceed in the following fashion:
70
Letter of Understanding #8 (cont’d)
page 4
Required Crewing
8	If the number of employees electing to accept the layoff matches the number of employees required to be laid off, those employees who. have elected to accept the layoff will be laid off, provided the remaining employees can perform the normal requirements of the work required in a
manner satisfactory to the Company. If one or more of the remaining employees cannot perform the normal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company, it will be treated as a shortage of crewing and addressed as set out in paragraph nine (9) below.
Shortage of Crewing
9	If the number of employees electing to accept layoff on the exactly one day layoff exceeds the number of employees required to complete the available work, the Company will require a sufficient number of employees in the department on that shift, in reverse order of seniority and subject to ability to perform the normal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company, to perform the available work.
Excess Crewing
10	If the number of employees electing to accept layoff is inadequate to meet the required number to be laid off in the department on that shift for the exactly one
71
Letter of Understanding #8 (corn’d)
page 5
day layoff, those employees faced with mandatory layoff will have the option, based on seniority and subject to ability to perform the normal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company, to “bump” the junior employee in the division on that shift.
Whole Department
11	If no employees in the department on that shift are required for an exactly one day layoff, then the employees in the department, who are faced with a mandatory layoff, will have the option, based on seniority and subject to ability to perform the normal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company, to “bump” junior employees in the division on that shift.
C.	A More Than One Day Layoff
1 In the event a short work day becomes a more than a one day layoff, the Company will:
(a)	disregard the completed seniority list referred to in Section A - Short Work Day.
(b)	layoff as set out in Articles 16.06 (a) or (b) of the subsisting Collective Agreement between the parties depending on the length and circumstances surrounding the pending layoff.
72
Letter of Understanding #8 (cont’d)
page 6
2 In the event of more than one day layoff, the Company will layoff as set out in Articles 16.06 (a) or(b) of the subsisting Collective Agreement between the parties depending on the length and circumstances surrounding the pending layoff.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF Sentember 1997.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 09
BETWEEN:
AND:
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:
STUDENTS
The parties agree that in the event of a short work day, bargaining unit employee(s) may bump a student in their Division on their shift provided they have the skill and ability satisfactory to the Company to do the job.
In the event of a one shift layoff, the bargaining unit employee(s) may bump a student working in any Division on any shift provided they have the skill and ability satisfactory to the Company to do the job. It is understood that this bump will not result in the payment of an overtime premium to the bargaining unit employee(s).
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF Sentemher 1997.
Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE UNION:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski
FOR THE COMPANY:
Jack
Dawi
Kath;
Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10
BETWEEN:
AND:
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL I7S
RE:
UNION MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union agree to the principle that one (1) past practice on an issue should apply to all bargaining unit employees whenever possible. Where more than one (1) past practice exists, the Union management Committee shall meet and attempt to agree on which past practice will prevail.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd________DAY OF
September 1997.
Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
1)	In the event that the Company introduces technological changes into the work place, Article 12.02 will apply.
2)	The parties agree that existing employees will be given the first opportunity to do any new work due to the introduction of these changes into the work place. The parties further agree to meet immediately to consider ways and means of reducing the impact of such changes upon any employee or employees.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF Sentember 1997.
FOR THE UNION:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE COMPANY:
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #12
76
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:	TRANSITIONAL WORK PROGRAM
- WORK HARDENING
RE:	ARTICLE 27.00 AND ARTICLE 17.02
Not withstanding Article 17.02, in the event of a return to work employee as per Article 27, temporary assignments, for the purpose of accommodating an injured workers medical documentation and providing a work hardening program, will not exceed 12 weeks, unless agreed in writing between the parties. It is understood such temporary assignments shall not replace a job vacancy.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF September 1997.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #13
77
BETWEEN:	CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:	MAINTENANCE AND
DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENTS SHIFT PREFERENCE
The Company agrees with that within one (I) month of ratification, the Company will post openings for all three (3) shifts in the maintenance and distribution departments. Bidding will be for department employees only by seniority. After the award is made, employees who wish to change shifts and have reached mutual agreement with the other employee must obtain prior approval from the Company before the switch is made and such approval will not be unreasonably denied.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF September 1997.
FOR THE UNION:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE COMPANY: Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #14
78
BETWEEN:
CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
RE:
CHANGE OF JOB
Not withstanding Article 12.02 (new job or changing existing job) or Article 16.14 (Assignments), the following will apply: In the event of a job function in a Department needing new skills and ability or upgrading, the Company will make every reasonable effort to provide the opportunity for training and upgrading to the senior employee(s) in the Department.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS D 3rd Y O F September 1997.
Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski
Jack Westman Dawn Janveaux Kathy Houde Steve Crawford
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #15
79
BETWEEN:
CUDDY FOOD PRODUCTS
AND:
RE:
PENSION
The Company agrees to pay to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (CCWIPP), to purchase improved benefit levels for 1997, the lump sum equivalents of six cents (6C) per hour, calculated as per the Article 28.01 procedure, in the form of two (2) lump sums. The first lump sum is twenty thousand dollars ($20,000,00) to be paid on August 1,1997, and the second sum will represent the total sum owing, minus the twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) already paid, to be paid on February 1,1998. the six cents (6C) per hour is to cover January 1, 1997,to June 1, 1997.
DATED AT LONDON, ONTARIO, THIS M_____________DAY OF
September 1997.
Betty Pardy Pat Bayliss Leslie Rose Darryl Howlett Sonny Vardon A.G. Sherman Bud Adam
FOR THE UNION:
Ron Tucker John Keys Hanna Baddaoui Janusz Szymanski
FOR THE COMPANY:
Jack
Dawi
Kath,
Steve Crawford
NORTHERN REGION
Dan Onichuk
Director
Bill Kalka	Luc Lacelle
Union Representative	Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
Room 21, Lakehead Labour Centre, 929 Fort William Road, Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 3A6 Phone: (807) 346-4227 Fax: (807) 346-4055 Wats (800)465-6932
EASTERN REGION
John Fuller
Director
Ray Bromley	serge Castonguay
Union Representative	Union Representative
Dan Lacroix	Ian Miller	Wendy Zych
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North. Ottawa. Ont. K1Y 1 B6 Phone: (613) 725-2154 Fax: (613) 725-2328 (800) 267-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Bud Adam
Director
Larry Bain	Susan Bayne
Union Representative	Union Representative
Tim Oribine A. G.Sherman
Union Representative Union Representative
Richard Woodruff
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519) 744-5231 Fax: (519) 744-8357 (800) 265-6345
CENTRAL REGION
O
■Ml
Jim Hastings
Director
Mike Brennan	Kathie Chrysler
Union Representative	Union Representative
Jerry Clifford	Don Morin
Union Representative	Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone:(905)821-8329	Fax J905) 821 -7144
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
CENTRAL REGION con’t
Jay Nair	Brian Noonan
Union Representative Union Representative
Fernando Reis
Union Representative
Steve Springall Teresa Suppa-Magee Harry Sutton
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821 -8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
SOUTH- CENTRAL REGION
Jim Hobbs
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905)821-8329 Fax (905)821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
ORGANKING TEAM
f905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Mark Flannigan
Organizing Co-ordinator
Kevin Dowling
Union Representative
Richard Wauhkone
Union Representative
John DiFalco
Union Representative
Michael Duden
Union Representative
BENEFIT DEPARTMENT
(905) 821 -8329	(8OD) 565-8329
Herb MacDonald
Benefits Co-ordinator
Karl Goennemann
Benefits Representative
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Maureen McCarthy
Union Representative
ADMINISTRATION
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565 8329
Robert Linton
Communications
Representative
EDUCATION & TRAINING
Dave Killham
Polit:.G3l Action,
Con i m u'ncations and Education Co-ordinator
Sylvia Groom
Union Representative
OFFICE:
1450 Meyerside Drive, 7th floor Mississauga, Ontario L5T 2N5 Phone: (905) 564-2500 Fax: (905) 564-2898 Wats (800) 728-8902