— 2.DC:. —
WJrKB FOOD ^AND CO^^^RCHAL m^^A'FEONAL ^ONs LOCAL £75, A.F.L., CI.-Il, CL.G.
00268 (02)
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Unemployment insurance is not welfare It is a system of providing partial income replacement for people who have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer pay weekly premiums to the Unemployment Insurance Commission and you are entitled to benefits if you meet certain eligibility requirements. You should apply for U.I. benefits if you rail into one of the following categories Laid oil—It you are out of work due to lay-off and you have worked at least 10-14 weeks during the last 52 weeks. you are elioible for benefits. You receive no monev for the first two weeks of lay-off and your benefits will continue for up to 52 weeks Your maximum benefit period may be less than 52 weeks, depending on a number of factors. Discharged or Qull-Same eligibility rules as for lay-off. but the two-week waiting period can be extended to eight weeks if you were fired for just cause or quit without a good reason You may appeal an extension of your wailing period
filckness-You must have worked at least 20 weeks during the last 52 and vou r benefits will continue for a maximum or 15 weeks. A doctor's report os necessary to obtain U I Sickness benefits.
PrigMncy-15 weeks of benefits are payable when you take your maternity leave. provided you apply at the lime of leaving. You must have worked 20 weeks in the last 52 and there is the same two week waiting period as that imposed on other claimants.
What you need to apply for U.I. benefits:
•	A Record of Employment from the company If you have problems obtaining 11. inform your local Canada Employment and Immigration Centre iCEIC)
•	An ippllcitlM for benefits. obtainable at CEIC offices
•	A doctors report for sickness or maternity benefits. also obtainable at CEIC offices
If you have any questions or problems with U l.C call your local CEIC office If your problems continue contact the Union Ofice
Travelodge Motel Sarnia PlmPizza Maumee
llSpa
Community ^Centre S19 Church SI Toronto
MllDeJi.hnle t^^^
Plumbers & Pipelillers Union Hall 30 Fennell Ave E Hamilton
UAW Hall Merrill St Chatham
uFC W Hall
Erie St South Leamington
NullHe. Ir^lCldgl
Hunlsville Legion Hall Braceblidge Legion Hall
Pal" ^11
Trapper's Restaurant The Mall. Parry Sound t'*'"
Stel'Mlrkers Hall.
Frood St Sudbury SlultStMrt
Empress Motel. Sault Ste Marie
CIVK: Centre KapuSkasieg
Kmghls ot Columbus Hall Espanola
Falls
Empire Motel. North Bay Kirkl<rd ILal<e
Steelworkers Hall Kirkland Lake
Lakehead Labour Centre Bay
.....
Legion Hall. Pembroke
*^,.. ..11 F..
Embassy West Motel. Ottawa
lltall
Holiday Motel
He1ri Motel.
Norenda. Que
Ogee's Motel
Legion Hall
Ibe 11n Mating ptacti ny be aubjaci la changa upaa nailieiBen.
CHECKYOURBULLETINllOAlDS FORUNIONINFORMATIONAID MEETING NOTICES
BIMONTHLY GENERAL MEETINGS
TMFMSM
0 f L Bldg Auditorium A-1 15 Gervais Dr Don Mills
T..t ll 6 lt1UurMi
Holiday I n n Yorkdale Hwy 401 & Oullerin St T^tlPM
UAW Hall
891 Wilson Ave W Downsview IIWMIee
Howden Recreation Centre Bramalea Ontario
a.rtt
Anny & Navy Club 7 George Street Barne
0111111. Mdl<nl. KHwkk Holiday Inn 40 Memorial Dr Junction 121 Onllia
0I111WI
U A W Hall 44 Bond SI East Oshawa
MaydmM^taaM
Holiday Inn Oshawa
Plllf^btralb Lindsay Peterborough 401 Moioi Hotel 150 Landsdowni- St W (Hwy 28i
Lindsay Legion Hall York Si ItlllVNIl
legion Hall Pinnacle St Belleville Klnipltn
Royal Cdn legion Hall Bi 9 64 Barrack St Kings1on
C^lmWll
HohdayInn
NMHM FM 6 Mill^ll
Glassworkers Hal
787 Barton St E Hamilton
St.C..r11
UAW Hall
124 Bunting Rd Si Catnarines MisIuwll
Tnnily Club rTeamstersi
1194 Matheson Blvd Mississauga
CMbfldgl f.. Swa
Desert Inn
Hwy No 24 CambridqeGall 0"4. Stom t
Desert Inn
Hwy No 24 CambridgeGall
Minima Oman Slund
Sun Gardens Motel IC>.\ten Sound
TMlwburg. WlldllGCk. S^m
Community Centre Hardy Avenue Tillsonbiirg oi Canadian l eqion Suncor
Ga^dtrlcl. Slriltlrd
Salltord Valley Union Hall Hwy Nn 21 Godeiich or Optimist Club Wale! St Stratford
Windsor- IFo 6 0<pl Storti Cabnlo Club
7175 Parent St Windsor
Selrlriri. W^M
Caholo Club
2175 Parent SI Windsor
Lamplighter Inn
591 Wellington Ad South l ondon
How 11 II WWCI	Most people who have workplace
accidents are back to work within tour weks or les Serious iniures can lake months or even years lo racever from As long as you are ludged lo be total ly diluted and the disability is considered WCB benefits will continue without limitation li you have a permanent disability. WCB will award you a small pension. depending on what they assess lo be your degree of disability.
Whit I I hlvii hlllhtl ^Dan 11 II c^ed llY • lilt I dldn'i bhM ■	II ^rtT Back problems. tendonitis. carpal tunnel
syndrome. Ring & Bag syndrome, etc.. are .just a few of the work-related disabilities suffered by UFCW members If you feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category. first consult your doctor It be or she agrees that your problem is or is likely to have ben caused by your job. a Doctor's First Report should be submitted right away Inform your employer of your doctor's opinion and ask that the Employer's Report ot Accident or Industrial Disease be sub-miiied Your employer cannot refose to till out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or net you have a legitimate claim
Wilt	II ay IIIIa ta turned lliwi ly led WCI? You 111
appeal an edverse decision by the WCB The Union will assist you and represent you. without charge Do not consult a lawyer. since their services are net tree The Union employs WCB experts lo help you
Wllllll't I be ^11 dNlllledll alck PQ?ll Beet 11111. ND
However. if you have a non-accidental disability which requires you lo lake time ofl horn work. consult the Union tor advice
Dan lhi WCB cover peel-tlmln? Yes The same rules and benefits
apply. regardless ot the number ot hours you work per wek
Whll H llY	1rllIIl.. n cul Illlr—r^ted? Contact the
Union ollice wilhout delay All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence
1^- tM	talk out DI tiling a WCB ctil11 Yb
may regret It ^pe. Wheeyaur dtsedlllry won t ti awaythe n II llllpl lar mipeonnanllllnliriKi	rlgltltsl1i WCBDanjyahen11
problems or CGlclrM. an1ii:1 the Unll oftla
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
The Workers Compensation Board <WCBi is an employer-paid insurance program that protects workers against loss of income due lo job-related disabilities Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits
Whll do I da Ill ItiVOin accidental work? Al l accidents even mmoi ones must be reported to management immediately II the accident is serious enough lo leave work. you musl task mldlul lltnlhoni u loon as prnlbli. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple tirst aid must bo recorded in the hrst aid bok which every workplace is required by law to have
tarmi muat bo fllltd aut lo receive cempmiitlon? rwo forms are essential in order lo receive WCB benefits First the yellow "Empleyer'i Report ol Accident or Indlitrlil 011111" must be tilled out by management if. and only if
(al You consult a doctor about your work-related dtsabilily and/ or (bt You lose work time lIJll lht day al 111 eccldml
Please note that you do not have to actually lose time from work m order to imtiale a WCB claim Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day. your employer must Iile their report This s known as a "No Lost Time' claim
The second fonn is a pink fonn called “^Doctor's fllll Repar'. There should bo a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well This s filled out by your doctor al the time of your first visit for your disabihly The doctor sends this form directly to the WCe
What art WCB btntflli worth? Once your claim s allowed you will receive 750,< of your pre-accidental earnings. which are averaged over the four weeks prior lo your accident WCB benefits are non-taxable There is a maximum on benefits ul S370 per wek WCB cheques are sent every two weks A nonnal accident claim will lake about ten days to process before you begin receiving benefits assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away
Nllt: In 1915. IMnillti will chingi lo gog ol yaur average II earnings.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or delecl in safely equipment lo your Supervisor
•	Obey the Health and Salely law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations lo your Supervisor
Workers uy not
•	Remove oi tui n oil any safely device
•	Use any equipment oi work in a manner which may endanger youisell or another worker
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind
The Right lo RiloM Unult Work II you encounter an unsale condition al work. your liisl obligation IS lo report rl to your Supervisor Once you have done that you may reluse lo work at a yob or task where you have reason lo believe tui
•	Any machine or equipment you ere supposed lo use IS
likely lo endanger youtsell oi another worker. or
•	The condition of the workplace ilsell IS hazardous
You must prompUy notify your Super visor of your refusal tic must then investigate the mater m your presence and that ol a health and safely representative of the workers (noi mally the Sieward or a member of the Health & Safely Committee) II the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied thal the job IS sale you may continue lo iefuse lo work. provided you have runnable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a ha/aid
At this poinlthe Inspactor from the Mirnstiy of L.i!toui must bu called in While you ere waiting fothim. the Supervisor can request that someone else perfoim the iob provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the ietusal Tins second worker also has the same right lo refuse The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable aiieinative work subject lo the Collective Agreement
The decision ol the Inspector IS tmal Although tus order may he appealed you musi return lo the iob il ihe so orders pendmii the outc.ome ol such appeal
Ill OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH I SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act (Bill 70). For details, refer to the Act itself, which is fuund in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
E11liyir's Dulles
Among other things, the employer must'
•	Provide information. instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the woiker with any workplace hazard
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker.
Su^^CT's Duties
In stores. the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment. protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety
•	Provide written safety instructions. where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations
Note:	in the bargaining unit also
that workers work m a safe manner. as above. but they discipline workers who refuse. for example. to wear safety equipment If a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so. he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
^rters' Obligatioos
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIBNER EDUCATION
Some people believe that unions are prejudiced against higher education, but nothing could be further from the truth. Unions have always believed that colleges and universities should be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers have two scholarship programs open to members and their children. The International Union annually awards nearly $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. UFCw Region 18 also awards six William ggs' Scholarships every year to Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. But you must think about it well ahead of time. Applications for the International Union scholarships must be submitted by December 31st of the year before you plan to enter a post-secondar institution. For the Wm. Beggs’ award, however, you need apply only before September of the year vou first anter college or universit . Regrettably, there are a limited number of scholarShips available, so everyone v.tlo ^eds and one can't be a winner. But y<?u never know if it's your tum to win unless you try. Call or write the Union's Education Department for details.
WHAT IS A IMl SHWARD'I
A Union Steward is an elected, front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Business Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you stand up on your own two feet first!
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Business Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
YOUR OFFICERS AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
JaeO'UMIMl	Bill llno
Business	Research & Education,
Representative	Workers' Compensation
Werren Kennedy
Business
Representative
ad ^om Business Representative
Frank Kiiiy Business Representative
John
Business
Representative
W1WMHll
Business
Representative
YM	AND	^^OTATIVES
What Yll Get fir Yll amn to
. Higher than average wages and llnillla. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, MW in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding lnvastrment in your future.
. Job Sei:urlty. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and il IS up to management to prove just cause. Every yoar the Union spends tens of thousands of dollers in grievance and arbittration expenses just to protect your rights If you are unjustly discharged. your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
•	Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally Important to your Union Did you deserve a protection and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit ^ngle doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late m coming? Have you ^ed unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union logo to bat for you In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to aliow you.
•	PrlllMi wllh Workmen's Compensationor UIC? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agendies. Tfrese senses are tre to you, should you ever ^ed them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in matters. They can only tum to expensive lawyers for help.
•	Pensions. Dentil Insurance. Sick Pay. Ollibillty Insurance. etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family Should they be unable to work ^ceuse of sickness or accident, would they trade their Insurance protection for yours? You bet the would1
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible) Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes. beer, movies. television or ‘Impulse’ gifts.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
The Executive Board of the U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 is composed of Union members who are elected to their posts every three years. Their job is to approve expenditures, formulate policies and generally se that the Union is run in the best interests of the membership..
The Board meets every other month in full session. The Executive Committee, which is com^posed of the President, Vico-President and Secretary-Treasurer of the Council and all Locals, meets in alternate months.
U.F.C.11 ILICle I7C/M1 ^1 111 MISIDERT
W.E. Hanky
SECRETAN-FREAIURIR
Denis ^Sexton RECORRER John DINardo VICE'PRESIKNTS
Reuben
Braun Cathy Clermont Drene Car igan Don Daymen Nellie Dfvla
Sheila (Grantt ^^^rubb Wayne Hanley
Gary Haycock Barry Haywood RonHihberd Marg Jowett
W^ee Kenoody
MalUe^M;Kay
Jim
Eliz NosevKxthy Steve Spence
eian morryEco
I^Rich<rd Tilson Ilene Tomlin (Grant W^^^
Ya.rg
ILKltM:
PRESllERT
AG.
SEMITARF-TREASUREI
CO Morin RECORDER
Floyd Gutcher VICE-PRESIDENTS Jerry Qifford BerniceDJw Bill Durfey Vince Oraqano N Patamioes (O'e ^Va)
LETIERFROM
THEPRESIDENT
U.F.C.W.
LOCALS 175/633
Oear Fellow Member
This contract is probably the most valuable thi ng you own. It Is a written guarantee of your income. benefits and job security It gives you peace ol mind becauseyou know that you cannot lobe your job arbitrarily. Non-union workers do not enjoy this security.
It allows you to plan for the future because you know what your income will be as much as two years in advance Non-union workerscan have their i^has al (^benefits cut at ary time This has	quite (often in ^recent
years
^Please oo rot take this collective	for ^graited ^Prolect it as you
would protect any valuable property Do not let your contract rights be violated, even in small ways. Remember that you can be disciplined by management for even smell violations of tlllr rules why should they be allowea to ignore a legal contract that spells out your rights?
If you feel that you are not being treated fairly	the company, to
your UnionSteward He or she is traine by the Union to handle complaints and grievances II your problem is a complicated one. a full-time Business Representative ol the Union can be called on at any time lo assist you
In the next 10-15 years. we can extract many changes m our work^yous We work in a very competitive industry in which companies are pressuring lower management to keep down labour costs Technological change can have a negative impact on our jobs New government policies might increase our taxes. which reduces our take-home pay
As individuals. such challengas are overwhelming	working together,
as a Union. we have a great deu	al ability to pro ect ourselves
and our families
^. than ever. you NEED 't'OUI' We ^ve <00ne a gondjob for you in the past And we can do as much or more for you in the fufurefijt not without your interest participation and wndle-bearfnd support It IS the members who make the Union strong. not the other way around
fe fre lo extract me t^^hasy at any tim if you ^ve a question or This is a ery democratic Union and your views are as Important as any other member's It really IS your Union
W E Hanley Presid nt
UNITED FOODI COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 142,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in the U.S.
UFCW is the result of a giant merger between two former unions: the Amalgamated Meat Cuiters and Butcher Workmen of North America (to which our locals belonged) and the Retail Clerks International Union. The merger creating UFCW took place on June 6, 1979. This unification produced a union which is even mere capable of protecting and improving the wages, benefits, working conditions and job security of our ^^bership
A very large percentage of the goods stocked on supermarket shelves are processed by UFCW members, all over Canada.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 111/033
The job of looking after your interests on a daily basis is given to the U.F.C. W Local 175. For this purpose, Locals 175 and 633 have a service agreement. A highly qualified staff of fifteen (15) Business Representatives and Organizers work more than full time to negotiate and service your collective agreement. Your elected officers, along with the elected Executive Board, are responsible for directing and co-ordinating the resources of the union so that the members' interests are well-served.
The U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 is actually an "umbrella" organization, which pols the resources of beth Locals. Each member of the U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 actuallv belongs to one of these Locals. Each Local has its own ofcers, who sit on the U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 Executive Board.
Name Address Phone Soc. Ins. No. Work Address Work Phone Union Steward Phone
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. locals 175/833 81 International Blvd. Rexdale, Ontario M9W 814 Phone: (418) 874-0808
11 calDJ mm
^outside the thethe Tareato area you cmi can yw U1111 omca ton-rre. 11 YoU Ive .. the 416
can 1-80-387-4874.
11 YoU Ive h the 519, 613 IF 705
call i-aix}38387-4864.
INDEX
Article

I	Recognition...................................
II	Relationship!.................................
III	Management Rights.............................
IV	Plant	................................
V	Grievance P^rocedure..........................
V I Arbitration....................................
VII Management Grievances............................
VIII Discharge Cases and Disciplinary Records.. . IX No Strikes — No Lockouts.........................
X	Wages ........................................
XI	Shift Premiums................................
Xll	Hours of Work and Overtime.....................
XIII	Vacations with Pay............................
XIV	Plant Holidays...............................
XV	Seniority.....................................
XVI	Bulletin Boards...............................
XVII	Safety and Health..............................
XV 111 Leave of Absence................................
X IX Rest Periods....................................
XX	Reporting Allowance and Call In Pay...........
XXI	Bereavement Pay...............................
XX II Sick and Welfare Plans...........................
XXlll U.F.C.W. Pension Plan............................
XXN General............................................
XXV	Cost of Living.................................
XXVI	Union Security...............................
XXVllTennination..........................................
Schedule “A”....................................
Letters.........................................
1
1
2
3
5
7
8 8
9
10 11 11 12
15
16 24
24
25 2!
27
30
30
31
32 32 35 40
THIS AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED INTO
THIS FIRST DAY OF JUNE 1987.
BETWEEN:-
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
— an d —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 175, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
Article 1
RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at the City of Brampton, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during the school vacation peried.
Artidr II RELATIONSHIP
2.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that any present employee of the Company covered by this Agreement may become a member of the Union if he wishes to do so. and may refrain from becoming a member of the Union if he so desires, New employees who have completed their probationary period will be required to join the Union as a condition of employment.

202	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by either of them or by any of their representatives or members because of an employee's membership or non-membership in the Union or because of his activity or lack of activity in the Union.
203	It is agreed that the Union and the employees will not engage in Union activities, except as provided in this Agreement, during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Superintendent.
Article Ill
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order and efficiency;
(b) hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and rehire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	make, enforce and alter, from time to tithe, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided that when new rules are enacted, a copy shall be given to the committee and an opp^ortunity given to them to make representations;
(d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds of locations of plants, equipment and materials to be used, the control of
-2-
materials and parts. the methods and techniques of work, the content ofjobs, the schedules of production, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the express provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreod that breach of any of the Plant Rules, or any of the provisions of this Agrement. shall be deemed to be sufficient cause for discipline or dismissal of any employee; provided that nothing herein shall prevent an employee going through the Grievance Procedure.
Article IV
PLANT COMMITTEE
4.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appeint or otherwise select a plant committee which shall be collJ^DOSCd of not more than nine (9) stewards. four (4) from the dayshift, three (3) from thesecond shift, one (I) from the third shift and one (I) Chief Steward. All stewards shall have seniority with the Company, and shall be regular efl\oIovecs of the Company during their time in office. The name and area of each of the stewards and the name of the Chairman of the Plant Committee, from time to time so selected, shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recogni:zc any such steward or chairman until it has been so notified.
4.02	The parties mutually agree that there shall be an Employee/Employer Relations Committee composed of no les than three ( 3) representatives of the Employer and three (3) representatives of the Union, who shall once monthly for the purposes of consultation and communication of information on matters of mutual concern relating to day-today working problems.
-3-
4.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to cooperate with the stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this Agreement.
4.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers. stewards and members, their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company In a supervisory capacity.
4.05	The privileges of stewards to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend to Union business is granted on the following conditions:
(a)	such business must be between the Union and the Management. Employees having grievances cannot discuss these with the stewards in working hours, except in the case of a discharge or suspended employee;
(b)	The time shall be devoted to the prompt handling of necessary Union business;
(c)	The steward conce^rned shall obtain the permission of the foreman concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld;
(d)	The time eway from productive work shall be reported in accordance with the time-keeping methods of the department in which the steward is employed.
(e)	The Company reserves the right to limit such time if it d^eems the time so taken to be excessive.
4.06 The Company will provide appropriate locker or tiling space for the Chisf Steward to retain necessary union papers and material.
4.07	(a) In the event an employee is to be suspended or terminated while at work be shall be entitled to the presence of the shift steward at the time of the suspension or termination.
-4
(b)	In the event an employee is suspended or discharged while at work he shall be given an opportunity to interview his steward In private for fifteen (IS) minutes prior to leaving the plant except where the suspension or discharge is the result of a violent incident.
(c)	The Company will provide written reasons for the disciplinary suspension or discharge of an employee who has completed his probation period within two (2) working days of the discipline.
Article V
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	The parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complainte and grievances concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement as quickly as possible.
5.02	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (S) full working days before the filing of the grievance.
5.03	Grievances properly arising under this Agreement shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
Step No. I: The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance orally or in writing to his foreman. He shall have the assistance of his steward if he so desires. The foreman shall give his decision within three (3) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If the foreman's decision is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, then the grievance may be presented as fallows:
Step No. 2: Within three (3) working days after thedeclsion is given at Step No. I, the aggrieved employee may, with or without his steward, present the grievance (which shall be reduced to writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company) to the Plant Manager, who
-5-
shall consider K in the presence of the person or persons presenting same and the foreman, and render his decision in writing within three (3) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If a settlement to the employee conce^nd is not reached, then the grievance may he resented as foll^re:
Step No. 3: Within three (3) working days after the decision is given under Step No. 2 the aggrieved employee may submit his grievance to the General Manager and the employee, accompanied by the Chairman of the Plant Committee and his steward, shall meet as promptly as possible with the General Manager and such other person(s) as Management may desire, to consider the grievance. At this stage they may be accompanied by a full-time representative of the Union if his presence is reputed by either ^party. The Gei^rel Manager will render his decision in writing within three (3) working days following such meeting.
5.04	If final settlement of the grievance is not reached at Step No. 3, and if the grievance is ona which cor^^es the int^^^tion or alleged violation of the Agreement, then the grievance may be referred in writing by either p^arty to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VI below at any time within ten (10) forking days after the decision is given under Step No. 3, and if no such written request for arbitration is received within the time limited, then it shall be darned to have ben abandoned.
5.05 Work land grievance and grievances not pe^^and within the time limit set forth or not signed by an employee may be considered in the Grievance Procedure but in no event will be subject to arbitration,
5.06	A Union pelicy grievance which is defined as an alleged violation of this Agreement concerning all or a number of the employees in the bargaining unit pr in regard
- 6-
to which a number of employees have signified an intention
to grieve, may be brought forward by the Union Grievance
Committee, in writing at Step No. I of fho Grievance Procedure at any time within five (S) full working days after the circumstances giving rise to such policy grievance occurred and if it is not settled at this stage, it may go to Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure and ultimately to a Board of Arbitration in the same manner as a grievance of an employee.
Article VI ARBITRATION
6.01	Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the Grievance Procedure outlined in Article V above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitation, at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
6.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as Chainnan chosen by the other two members of the Board.
6.03	Within five (S) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee.
6.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail' to agree on a third person within seven (7) days of the notification mentioned in 6.03 above, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairman.
6.05	The decision of the Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner shall be binding on both parties.
-7-
6.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision Inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
6.07	Each of the parties to this Agreement will bsar the expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it; and the parties will jointly bsar the exponses, if any, of the Chairman.
^Ard VII
MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
7.01	Any grievance instituted by management may bs referred in writing to the Plant Committee within five (S) full working days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, and the Plant Committee shall meet within three (3) working days thereafter with management to consider the grievance! together with a full-time representative of the Union if his presence is requested by either party. If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within three (3) working days of such meeting, he grievance may he referred by either party, to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VI at any time within ten (10) working days thereafter, but not later.
Article VIII DISCHARGE CASES AND DISCIPLINARY RECORDS
8.01	A claim by an employee, who has completed the probationary period, that he has bsen discharged or suspended for more than three (3) days without just cause shell he treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged ^th the Plant Manager at Siep No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure within three (3) working days after the emplayee ee^es working for the compeny. Such special grievances may be ee^ed by:
(a)	confirming the Managements action in dismissing the employee; or
- 8-
(b)	reinstating the employee with full compensation for
time lost; or
(c)	any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties or the Board of Arbitration.
It is agreed and understood that suspensions for three(3) days or less shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of Article V of this Agreement.
8.02	After disclpline has been imposed, in the event an employee does not repeat any further misdemeanour of a similar nature for which the discioline was im^^sd for a continuous period of nine (9) months thereafter, then that original discipline which was imposed nine (9) months eariier will be destroyed.
Article IX
NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
9.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances the Union agrees that. during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work. either complete or partial and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
9.02	The Company shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part inor instigate 'any strike. picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or discipline may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article V above.
9.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, It may take the matter up with the Company at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
904 The Union agrees that it will not involve any employee ofthe Company orthe Company either directly
-9-
or indirectly in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer. The Company will not require an employee to cross a legal picket line to deliver product to the struck premises.
Article X
WAGES
10.01	Schedule “A" hereto headed Skill grades and Wages is hereby made a part ofthis Agreement.
10.02	New Operations
When a new operation constituting a new job which is covered by the terms of this Agr^oment iseetablished by the Company, the Company shall determine the skill grade level for such new operation and notify the Union of the same.
If the Union challenges the skill grade level, it shall have the right to request a meeting with the Company to negotiate the appropriate skill grade level.
Such request shall be made in writing within ten (10) working days after receipt of notice from the Company of such new operation and grade level.
If notice requesting a meeting is nof received within ten (10) working days of the date of the notice from the Company, the skill grade level in the Company's notification for the operation will be the agreed level for the operation.
If the duties are unable to agree, the dispute concerning the new grade level may be submitted to arbitration as provided in this Agreement if submitted within fifteen (15) doys of the meeting.
The decision of the Board shall be confined to establishing the appropriate skill grade level for the operation within the scheme of the skill grades set out in the schedules to this Collective Agreement taking into account reascnable and practical comparisons therein.
- 10-
Article XI
SHIFT PREMIUMS
11.01	(a) Effective on the date of ratification, a shift premium ofthirty (30) cents per hour shall be paid for all standard hours worked on a regular afternoon (second) shift and forty-five (45) cents per hour for all standard hours worked on a regular night (third) shift.
(b)	Effective June I, 1988, a shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour shall be paid for all standard hours worked on a regular afternoon (second) shift and fifty (SO) cents per hour for all standard hours worked on a regular night (third) shift.
(c)	To qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work fifty (^SO%) percent or more of his standard eight (8) hours on his respective shift.
(d)	For the purposes only of application of the fifty per cent rule in Article I l.Ol(c),
(i)	hours worked between 3:30 p.m. and 11 :30 p.m. are afternoon or second shift hours; and
(ii)	hours worked between I 1:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m. are night or third shift hours.
Article XII
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours ofworkand shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
12.02	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours per week, comprised of five (S) eight (8) hour days.
12.03	(a) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and in excess of forty (40) hours per
II
^eek or eight (8) hours per day and double the employee's regular hourly rate for all hours worked on Sundays.
(b)	Overtime at the rate of double the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked by the employee in exces of twelve ( 12) co^nsecutive hours on a shift.
(c)	For the purposes of application of overtime rates for employees regularly working the night shift (third shift):
(i)	Saturday will be considered to commence at that time on Saturday when the regular Friday night shift has ended.
(ii)	Sunday will be considered to commence twcnty-
four hours after the commencement of Saturday under (i) above and will run for a further period of twenty-four hours from that time.
12.04	Overtime premiums shall not be paid more than once for any hour worked, and there shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
12.05	The Company will continue to provide an unpaid one-half (Yi) hour meal break approximately half-way tlYough each shift.
Article XIII
VACATIONS WITH PAY
13.01	All employees who have acquired one (I) year's seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any year shall received (2) weeks' vacation pay at a time convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay four (4%) ^cent of such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
- 12 -
13.02	All employees who have acquired live (S) years' seniority with the Company prior to May Ist in any year shall ^eeive three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay at a time convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay six (6%) percent of such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.03	(a) All employees who have aquired eleven (I 1) years' seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any year shall receive four (4) weeks' vacation with pay at a time or times convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay eight (8%) percent of such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
ft) Effective June 1. 1988.. all employees who have . acquired ten (10) years' seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any year shall receive four (4) weeks' vacation with pay at a time or times convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay eight (8%) percent of such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.04	All employees who have acquired twenty (20) years' seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any year shall receive five.(J) weeks' vacation with oav at a time or times convenient to the company and shall -receive as vacation pay ten (10%) percent of such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13 .OS An employee who has ceased to be employed by the Company, other than being discharged for cause, before receiving his vacation pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall be entitled to receive vacation pay in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
- 13 -
Employees shall receive an estimated amount of vacation pay at the tune of taking vacation m proportion to the lime token.
The balance of vacation pay shall be paid by October 31st.
13.06	Where a plant holiday falls within an employee's annual vacation, the employee may elect to take an additional day's vacation or receive payment for the day in lieu.
If the employee elects to take an additional day's vacation, he shall notify his supervisor in writing prior to going on vacation. Such day shall be scheduled at a mutually agreeable time.
If an employee fails to notify his supervisor, he shah be paid for such plant holiday which occurs during the vacation period.
During those months other than June to September, an employee may elect to have the additional day's vacation edded to his vacation period providing he requests this in writing within a reasonable time prior to going on vacation. (The “additional day" represents the plant holiday which falls within an employee's vacation.)
13.07	Employees should signify their vacation time preferences in writing to the Plant Su^^tspr by the 1st day of April each year.
Subject to the efficient operation of the plant, vacations will be considered on the basis of seniority.
The final vacation schedule will be posted on the bulletin board by May ISth.
13.08	Employees who have signified pursuant to Article 13.07 a vacation time preference during the months June to September will be granted two (2) weeks vacation during prime vacation months of June to September inclusive. In
- 14 -
precognition. however. of the fact that the Company’s busiest production season falls within that same such vacations for those employees will be limited so that no more than ten ( 10%) percent of the employees within a department will be off for the same or an overlapping period of time except as may be designated by the Company in its discretion.
Subject to the foregoing ten (10%) percent rule set out earlier, more senior employees who require extended trips will be granted preference to the extent of four (4) weeks vacation.
13.09	No employee who is entitled to take two (2) ^tsks
or more vacation time off during the vacation year shall take less than	(2)weeks vacation time off during that
vacation year, May 1st to April ^30th; no employee who is entitled to take less than two (2) weeks time off during a vacation year shall take less than the whole of his vacation time off during that vacation year, May 1st to April ^30th.
13.10	The term “earnings” as used in this Article 13 for the purposes of vacation pay calculations shah have the same meaning as the term “wages” used for the same purposes in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario but shall also include vacation pay previously received during the prior vacation year and those O.H.I.P. premiums paid by the employer during the previous vacation year which are taxable as a benefit in the employee's hands.
Article XIV
PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.01	The following plant holidays, regardless of when they fall, will be granted with pay to all employees who have completed their probationary period:
- 15 -
New Year's Day G^ood Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Remembrance Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day One-half day bofore New Year's Day
One-half day bofore Christmas Day
Payment for such holidays shall be based on the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours he would normally have worked on such day. Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
14.02	In order to bo entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked the full working day immediately preceding the holiday and the full ^working day Immediately following the holiday unless absent with permission of Management or for reasons beyond his control.
14.03	If an employee works on one of the above-named plant holidays, he shall receive payment at time and one-half for the hours actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
14.04	The Company agrees to pay employees collecting Indemnity Insurance or Compensation Benefits, the difference betoeen such payments and regular holiday pay.
IS.OJ (a) Seniority, as refOTed to in this Agreement, shall mean length of continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall be on a departmental and plant-wade basis.
Article xv SENIORITY
- 16 -
(bl For purposes of clarification and purposes of application of seniority, the following departments shall prevail:
A.	Cooked Boning (including the Kitchen)
B.	Raw Boning (including Emulsion and Inspection)
C.	Portioning, Shaping and Finger Cutting
D.	Shipping (including Truck Driver)
E.	Receiving
F.	Breaded Lines (including Mixers
G.	Clean Up (Sanitation and Janitorial)
H.	Maintenance
I.	Deli Operations (Turkey Roll, Roast Forming, Smoke House It Vacuum Pack)
J.	Pack Out
K.	Meat Preparation (Cooler, Massage Room, Injector, Hydranaker)
When applying seniority, drivers will only be laid off or
sent home after completing their day’s run and having
returned to the plant.
(c)	When layoffs of less than one full day occur, department seniority shall prevail, providing those retained can perform the required work satisfactorily. When less than one hour’s work remains in a department, the Company will not be required to apply seniority.
(d)	An employee with plant seniority who deeires transfer
to another department or job may submit a written application to the superintendent. If later a vacancy ocurs in that department those with application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority, provided they	the	qualifications, an
employee being transferred shall be given a r^easonable
-17 -
amount of time to prove their ability. This clause only applies to employees ^nd have attained seniority, but which is less than six (6) months.
I5.02 An employee will be considered on probation for the first forty (40) working days, including statutory holidays as provided, and will have no seniority rights during that period. After forty (40) working days' service, his seniority shall date back to the day on which his employment pegan. The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall after lay-off of a probationary employee shall not pe the subject of a grievance.
I5.OJ Seniority lists will be revised each four (4) months; a copy of the list will be posted in the plant and a copy sent to the Union office. If an employee dpes not challenge the position of his name on the seniority list within the first five (5) working days the date his name first appears on a seniority list, provided he is at work ^ben the list is posted, then be shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing. In the event the employee is not at work he must object to his seniority standing within five (5) working days from the date he returns to work.
15.04	(i) Layoffs shall be based upon the following factors:
(a)	seniority; and
(b)	skill and efficiency.
^bere tbe qualifications in factor(b) are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
Bumping may occur in only the following circumstances: an employee who has completed the probationary peried and who is faced with the loss of his normal job as a result of the permanent elimination of the operation he normally performs, may, where skill and efficiency are relatively equal, displace the most junior employee in an
- 18 -
equal rates skill grade if available, or. if not available, then in the next lower skill grade level.
(ii) As agreed between the Union and the Company on February 27, 1986, when layofs occur, employees hired on the same day in the same year will be laidoff in alphabetical order: surname will be taken into consideration.
IS.OS	Seniority shall accumulate in the following circumstances only:
(a)	when off the payroll due to lay-off, sickness, or accident in which case seniority will continue to accumulate for a period of time equal to one year or the length of the employee's seniority which ever is the shorter!
(b)	when of the payroll due to personal leave of absence, then seniority will continue to accumulate for the first three months of such leave;
(c)	when absent on vacation or on plant holidays;
(d)	when actually at work for the Company.
! I S.06 Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company when he:
(a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company;
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration:
(c)	is off the payroll for a continuous period of twelve months, provided that in the event an employee is receiving Workers' Compensation payments such period shall be a continuous period of twenty-four months:
(d)	fails to report for work within two (2) working days after being notified by the Company following a lay-off, unless absent for a reason satisfactory to the Company;
- 19 -
(e)	fails to return to work upon the tennination of an autho^rized leave of absence unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given; and
(0 accepts gainful employment while on a leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the company in writing.
15.07	In the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this Agreement, and is later t>laced in a cpsition within the scone of this Agreement, ‘he shall retain the seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such supervisory or confidential capacity up to a maximum ofsix (6) months.
15.08	It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change of address. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employee.
15.09	(a) Any employee's reinstatement after sick leave will be conditional on his supplying, when requested, a certificate from a physician that he is fully recovered from the sickness which caused his absence. The said employee on return to work will be returned to his regular job at the appropriate rate! provided he is able to do the required work satisfactorily.
lb) The Comoanv shall bear the costs should it reauire an employee' to be examined by a physician designated by the Company, such costs to include the costs of the examination, tests, and reports made by the physician to the Company. (The Company's obligations regarding costs d^ not extend to the annual physical by the Department of Health for all employees.)
- 20 -
IS.10	Overtime ae S^^^V	or Holidays
(a)	When the Company decides that overtime work is
throughout the period of Monday to Friday inclusive, it will& assigned to employees on the same shift who are performing the work required, provided they are ready and available for such work.
(b)	For Skill Grades 1 and II, when Saturday, Sunday or holiday overtime work is required, where skill and efficiencv to perform the available work are relatively equal, it will be asigned to more senior employees in the plant who normally work on the shift the work is to be performed.
Provided that in the case of available overtime work involves raw-boning (which falls within Skill Grade 11) or portioning of meat (Skill Grade I). in order to be qualified for the overtime work the employee must have also passed the necessary skill test application to either raw-boning or portioning of meat as the case may be within the twelve month period immediately preceding the overtime assignment.
Except in cases of emergency, the Company agrees to schedule a day shift before scheduling an afternoon shift.
(c)	In all other Skill Grades, available overtime work on Saturday, Sunday or holidays will be assigned to senior employees who normally perform the work on the shift available.
(d)	These provisions do not apply to employees classified in Maintenance Grades.
(e)	Any employee who is offered overtime work and refuses shall be deemed to have waived or abandoned his entitlement to overtime.
(0 Where an employee works overtime on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday at an operation having a skill
- 21 -
grade level and rate lowerthan his regular skill grade level and rate, the lower skill_grade level and r^eshall apply for that work notwithstanding any other provisions of the Collective Agreement (that is, no rate maintenance in this situation).
1S.1I	(a) The term “vacancy" for the purpose of this Article shall be defined as an opening in the departmental senioritv list where the number o( wnersorn repuired by the Company exc^eeds the number employed therein due to an employee's transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department and the duration of which is expected to exceed fifty (SO) working days. The vacancy will be posted for three (3) working days throughout the factory. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees thro^^nte the factory \who> have more than six (6) .months senionty. Only applications received in writing within five (S) working days from the date of the posting will be entertained: and the company will announce the results of the postings within ten (10) working days of the date the original posting was made.
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill,
merit and ability are comparatively equal, it being underst^ood that the Company will not be obligated to select an application if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from tilling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within tbe unit	the necessary skill, merit and ability.
(c)	The job vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting there, will not be subjact to posting.
(d)	An employee who is successful on a posted vacancy may not apply for another posted vacancy for a
-22 -
period of six (6) months unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the employee.
(e)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the department he worked in ' immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that department except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other department. Such employee may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months.
(0 In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
(g) The changes made in Articles 15. 10 and 15.1 l{d) are to become effective in the next week following the date of ratification of this Agreement.
15.12	Transfers
(a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred for a continuous period of one {I) hour or more during a shift to an operation in a Skill Grade which has a higher rate of pay than his regular Skill Grade will receive the equivalent rate of pay In the higher grade for all continuous houre worked in the shift at the higher Skill Grade.
(b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred for a continuous period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less to an operation in a Skill Grade which has a lower rate of pay than his regular Skill Grade shall continue to receive his regular rate up to the end of that thirty day period while working in that lower Skill Grade.
(c)	In the case of transfers of a permanent nature to a lower Skill Grade, an employee will receive the appropriate rate of pay for that lower Skill Grade to which he has transferred.
- 23 -
^Ardele XVI
BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Company agrees the Union shall have the use of a notice board for the posting of Union notices. All such notices prior to posting must have the approval of management.
Article XVII
SAFETY AND HEALTH
17.01	(a) The Company shall make provisions for safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment, protective devices on machinery and other devices which the Company deems necessary to proporly protect employees from injury, shall be provided by the Company. The Company agrees to provide an adequately equipped first-aid room where employees may receive proper first-aid. Such facilities to be located in an area in the plant where it is easily accessible to all employees. The Company will provide a person holding a current first-aid diploma to asist employees requiring first-aid and to keep the room adequately equipped.
(b)	The Company shall provide two (2) pairs of safety boots to each omployee per year. The type of shoo is to be selected by the Safety Committee.
(c)	The Company will provide a suitable two piece suit
for the men working regularly in the freezers.
17.02	There shall be a Safety Committee comprising of up to four (4) representatives appointed by Management and four (4) representatives (at least one to be selected from each shift) appointed by the Union.
The Safety Committee shall meet monthly provided that the committee itself may unanimously waive the meeting for any given month provided that no more than two (2) consecutive monthly meetings may be waived. Minutes shall be kept of each meeting.
- 24 -
The parties agree that a schedule setting out the monthly dates for meetings of the Health and Safety Committee wilt be established annually in advance.
17.03	The Company will instruct its supervisors to rotate jobs within the same job classification and department which are usually tiresome due to exceptional conditions or circumstances.
Article XVIII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18.01	(a) The Company may grant leave of absence up to four (4) weeks if an employee requests it in writing from the Management and if the leave is for good reason and does not unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the plant. The Company will reply to such request in writing within five (5) working days of the date of receipt of the request or sooner if possible.
In emergency situations (eg. death in an employee's family) the Company will respond promptly and in such cases both the request and the response may be verbal.
(b)	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to not more than two (2) employees to attend Union conventions and conferences for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate fourteen ( 14) days for any one employee in any one calendar year. provided that this shall not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
Article XIX REST PERIODS
19.0I	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest periods of ten (10) minutes each per eight (8) hour shift and in the event of employees being requested to work overtime, they shall be given a ten (10) minute rest period for each two (2) hours of overtime worked prior to commencing the requirod overtime.
- 25 -
19.02	The Company will instruct supe^ore to take into coheid^eration congestion and apron removal in regards to the length of time employees take for rest periods, provided that employe make an effort to keep within the allotted ten minute periods.
Article XX
REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL IN PAY
20.1	Employees reporting for work as usual on a regular working day or scheduled work as requested, unless notified by the previous day not to report, and for whom no work at his regularjob is available, shall immediately be offered at least four (4) hours' employment in other ^work at the ^^^ee's ^regular ^straight	rate of
or pay for the time worked, whichever is greater. This provision shall not apply if the failure to receive notice was caused by the employes's absence on the previous day or if the failure to provide work is due to causes beyond the Company's control.
Article XXI
BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.01	In the event of the death of a member of an employee's family, the employes will be grantnd a leave of absence for a reasonable time and will be reimbursed for time necessarily lost from work up to a maximum of three (3) days. This allowance will only be made where the circumstances require the employee's absence work, the term “member of an employee's family" means a husband, wife, child, or parent, brother, sister, mother-inlaw, or ^ther-in law. A one (I) day leave of absence will be granted in the event of the death of an employee's grandparent or grandchild.
21.02	If an employee is unable to attend the funeral of a member of his “family”, he is not required to work on the
-26 -
day of the funeral and he shall receive eight (8) hours pay for that day, if lost time is involved.
21.03	The Company may require that satisfactory evidence of bereavement be furnished by an employee in the event of a claim under this Article XXI.
Article XXll
SICK AND WELFARE PLANS
22.01	(a) During the lifetime of this Agreement, the Company will contribute one hundred (1^00%) percent of the billed premiums of O.H.I.P. with respect to all employees \who> have attained seniority on a single basis or a family basis, whichever is applicable provided that any female employee is not covered by her spouse under the appropriate regulations of O.H.I.P.
(b) The Company will pay one hundred (1^00%) percent of the billed premiums of the Weekly Indemnity and Life Insurance Policy on behalf of employees who have attained seniority, and are eligible In ^^acince with the terms of the said Policy, which Policy shall provide the following benefits:
(i) The Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be amended following ratification of this Agreement for employees who thereafter commence a new absence from work in circumstances where they qualify for Weekly Indemnity Benefits.
The Weekly Indemnity Plan will provide a maximum coverage of twenty-six (26) weeks and shall continue to orovide a weekly indemnitv. allowance eauivalent to sixty-six and two-thirds (66 213%) percent of learnings to a maximum of two hundred ($200) dollars for employees who qualify thereunder. If the Unemployment Insurance Plan sixty-six and two-thirds (66 2/3%) percent increases over two hundred ($^M) dollars, the maximum will be increased to match the Unemployment Insurance Commission Plan.
-27 -
The Plan shall operate on the first day of accident, the first day of hospitalization and the fourth (4th) day of illness, provided the employee sees the doctor within a three day period of absence.
The Plan will also bs amended to incorperate the following principles:
A.	The “weekly earnings” of an employee for the purpeses of calculation of a week of indemnity allowance will be the average ^wely earnings of the employes m the twenty (20) weeks immediately proceeding the date the paid disability begins, provided ththat, there will be excl^uded from the twenty (20) weeks those weeks for which the employes:
I. was receiving WCB benefits;
2 was receiving weekly indemnity benefits;
3.	was on vacation leave;
4.	was laid off.
B.	Succesive periods of disability shall be considered as one period of disability, unless the employee returns to work and completes at east four (4) complete consecutive weeks of active and full time service before commencement of the later disability or unless the later disability is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior disability and comme^nces after the employes eas retu^od to work.
(Therefore: I) the waiting period will not bs required again; and 2) only the unused balance of the twenty-six (26) weeks of benefits will be available to the employee.)
(ii) Effective on ratification of this Agreement $^20,^W LIFE INSURANCE coverage for all eligible employees and the plan to continue to provide for Double Indemnity.
(c)	The Company shall assume the cost of a $10 single and $20 family deductible Extended Health Care Plan
-28-
including semi-private hospital coverage for all eligible employees.
(d)	The Company will continue to pay the premiums for eligible employees in respect of the Basic Dental Plan with Rider I based on the 1984 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees provided that the existing Plan is upgraded effective within one (I) month of the date of ratification to the 1986 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effeetive June I, 1988, the existing Plan will be upgraded to the 1987 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
(c)	The Company will continue to pay the premiums for eligible employees in respect of the existing Eye Care Plan provided that the existing Plan shall be upgraded effective within one (I) month of ratification to provide a subsidy of up to $100 every twenty-four months with no deductible.
22.02	Premiums for Benefits
The Company agrees to continue to pay the premiums for the various health and wolfare benefits provided for in Article 22 of this Agreement on behalf of eligible employees for a period of one month only after such employee ceases to be actively and continuously at work.
That period of one month will be extended to three months only where the employee is not actively and continuously at work as a result of being entitled to and while receiving Weekly Indemnity benefits pursuant to the Company Plan.
Furthermore that period of one month will be extended to twelve months only where the employee is not actively and continuously at work as a result of being entitled to and while reeeiving Workers' Compensation benefits due to an accident at the plant.
A return to active work for a period of less than thirty (30) continuous working days shall not be considered a return to active and continuous work for the purposes of
- 29 -
reinstating the Company's obligations to pay premiums for benefits as provided for in this Article.
Article XXlll
U.F.C.W. PENSION PLAN
23.01	(a) Effective on ratification, the Company agrees to contribute fifteen (15) cents per hour for all regular hours worked by non-probationary employees eligible under the rules governing the U.F.C.W. Pension Plan. Effective June l, 1988 the pension contribution described herein will be increased to twenty (20) cents per hour.
(b)	The Company's liability present and future with regard to the aforementioned Pension Plan is limited to-the above-noted contributions.
(c)	The Union agrees to provide the Company with annual audited financial statements for the Pension Trust and the Company actuary shall be allowed annual ounces on request to the ^^te, accounts and records of the Trust Fund.
Article XXIV GENERAL
24.01	In the event of a discharge, suspension for more than three (3) days or layoff of an employee for a period in excess of one day, the Company will advise the Plant Chairman and the Union office of such event.
24.02	The Company will not assign work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit to foremen to the extent that as a result employees in the bargaining unit are laid off, sent home without completing their normal day's work or deprived of overtime.
24.03	For all drivers who have completed their probationary period, the Company will provide a uniform as follows: 2 pairs of pants, 3 shirts, 2 jackets, 1 hat.
- JO -
Article 1XXV COST OF LIVING
25.01	Employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided a cost-of-living allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	The cost-of-living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1981) (1981 = 100) and hereafter referred to as the C.P.I.
(b)	The May 1987C.P.l. published June l987 will be used as the base index for the period May 1, 1987 to July 3 I, 1987 and adjustments in the cost-of-living allowance will be made quarterly at the following times:
Elective Date of Adjustment	Index	Published
Aug. 31, 1987	July 1987	Aug. 1987
Nov. 30, 1987	Oct. 1987	Nov. 1987
Feb. 28, 1988	Jan. 1988	Feb.' 1988
May 31, 1988	Apr. 1988	May 1988
Aug. 31, 1988	July 1988	Aug. 1988
Nov. 30, 1988	Oct. 1988	Nov. 1988
Feb. 27, 1989	Jan: 1989	Feb.' 1989
May 31, 1989	Apr. 1989	May 1989
(c) The cost-of-living allowance shall be adjusted at the		
rate of one (I) cent for each .35 increase or decrease in the C.P.I.
(d)	Payment of the allowance will be made quarterly to each employee calculated on the basis of the applicable cost-of-living allowance for the total number of hours worked by the employee during the quarterly period in respect of which the allowance is payable.
(e)	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision that may later be made in the
- 31 -
published figured for the C.P.I. on the basis on which the allowance has been detennined.
The Company agrees to post a notice on the bulletin beard announcing changes from time to time in the cost-of-living allowance being paid.
25.02	Retroactivity of C.O.L.A.
Any cost-of-living allowance resulting from amended Article 25.01 will be paid retroactively to June I, 1987 only for employees of record on the ratification date of this Agreement and only for hours actually worked.
Article XXVI UNION SECURITY
26.01	During the lifetime of this Agreement the Company shall deduct from the pay ofall employees who have acquired seniority covered by this Agreement on the first pay day of each calendar month the sum of$ and shall remit same prior to the end of such month to the Financial Secretary of the Union. The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of employe \who> are or shall b^ecome members of the Union and the sums so deducted from po^embers of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the exponses of maintaining the Union. The Company shall further deduct from the pay of all new employees when they attain eeniority the duly authoril.Cd fee in accordance with the Union Constitution.
Article XXVll TERMINATION
k 27 01 This Agreement shall remain in force and effort from June I. 1987 to May 31.1989 and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter unless in any year not more then sixty days, and not iles then thirty days, before the day of its tennination, either party shall furnish the
-32 -
other with notice of, or proposed revision of, this Ag^^enL
27.02	Retroactivity
(a)	Notwithstanding the stated effective date of this Agreement, it is understood and ag^ed between the parties that all improvements herein stipulated over those set out in the previous Agreement shall be effective from the ratification date of this Agreement unless otherwise specified herein.
(b)	An adjustment of wages of sixty (60) cents per hour representing thirty (30) cents of C.O.L.A. folded-in and thirty (30) cents in wage increase will be paid retroactivelv for all hours worked uo to fortv hours per week since June I, I987 to employees of record on ratification of this Agreement. All hours worked in excess of forty hours per week by those employees will be paid for on the basis of time and one-half, that is, at ninety (90) cents (60 cents t 30 cents) per hour worked.
(c)	It is understood that increases in wage rates on Schedule “A” as a result of classification or grade level adjustments will not be made retroactive.-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Dprtv of the first oart and the party of the seeond part have caused their proper officers to their signatures the day and year first above written.
- 33 -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175 A.F.L., C.1.0., C.L.C.
D. M. Dayman l\i'laretton Roberto Joe Rolo Roger ^Leduc Luis Dias
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
Robin Augustine
Bernard Kuperberg
Brant Hossick
Mike Nuygen
- 34 -
SCHEDULE “A"
SKILL GRADES AND WAGES (Effective after 40 working days with the Company).
RATES PER HOUR Effective
SKILL	on	Effective
GRADES OPERATIONS	Ratification June 1181
Grade I	All operations not listed In higher skill grades	S 9.58	$ 9.8
1 Grade II	Raw Boning (Removal of Meat from carcasses or ^parts)	$ 9.93	S10.23
1	Hanging Tending Circular Cut-up Saw Pulling Skin on line Packing on Raw Boning line and In the Portioning room involving work In		
Inventory control clerk
Wing Splitting
Quality Control (laboratory)
RATES PER HOUR
SKILL
GRADES
Grade Ill
I
OPERATIONS
Dry Warehousing Control Major	$10.48
Clean up and Sanitation (not janitorial or garbage)
Cooked Chicken Breaking
Line Supplying (not simply operating Power Hand Truck)
M^^^p Room Control Cooler Warehousing Control Machine and/or Line (required to ^atntain. adjust and operate) one of the following machines and/or lines:
K.F.C. Line
(a) Operating the K.F.C. line or complex which Includes breading, batter, and batter mixer machines
Effective J u d e
$10.78
(b)	Operating the fonnax machine
(c)	Operating the C02 preblend inassap machine
Patty Ltas
(a)	Operating a patty line or complex which
includes breeder, batter, and fonnax
machines
(b)	Operating the C02 preblend massage machine
Finger Line
(a) Operating the Finger making line or complex which includes the batter, breeder, predust and batter mixing machines
Frier Line
(a)	Operating the Flier Line or complex
(b)	Operating the batter/breading line or complex
Emulsion Machine Operating Silent Cutter Operating
RATES PER HOUR
Eff^^ee
SKILL GRADES	OPERATIONS	• Ratification	11
Grade IV	Cook Room Control	S10.73	Sil.OJ
	Freezer Warehousing		
Grade V	Shipping/Receiving	$10.98	11.28
1 G rade VI	Truck Driver	$11.23	*11.53
00 , Grade VII	Maintenance Ill - Handyman	$12.30	$12.60
Grade VIII	Experienced and skilled Mechanic not holding current papers	$13.98	»4.28
Grade IX	Experfen^ced and skilled tradesman holding currant papers In a required trade	$15.23	*15.53
Grade X	Elactrlclan	$16.23	$16.53
MAINTENANCE APPRENTICES Enrolled In a Certificate Course in a Required Tr^ade
On Ra^tltion
June l, 191
hi Year Active Senice
$10.15 .W Year
I Active Service $1290
Year
Active Senice
• Year
AcliYe Senice
$13.90
lsl Year AcliYe Senice
$10-45
Year
Active Senice $13.20
Year
Active Senice
41 Year Active Senice
$14.20
(a) The starting rate will be ffifty (50) cents less than the applicable full rate for the skill grade until completion of the probationary period.
$11.40
SI 1.70
In the ^one of R^awbonlng (Sklll Gr^ade II), employees will receive thirty-five (35) cents less than the applicable probationary rate or thirty-five (35) cents less than the full rate for the skill grade, whichever applies, until they qualify by passing the necessary skill test.
(b) Upon becoming a journeyman, a maintenance apprentice will be regrouped to the appropriate skUl grade.
(c)	^wd Hand Rates: The Company may appoint lead hands who wlll receive five (75) cents above the rate for their skill grade while so acting.
July 31, 1987
Mr. Don
Busi^nes Repaesentative
United Food & Commercial Workers
Suite ^0
61 International Boulevard Ontario M9X6K4
Dear Mr. Da^^:
Re: Tem^^ry Positions
We wish to confirm our understanding that the Company will post certain temporary positions which become available in the plant.
The posting itself will have the word “TEMPORARY POSITION” clearly stated.
Positions made available due to vacation schedule are not considered "TEMPORARY POSITION” and therefore will not be posted.
Where the Company wishes to '1 a temporary vacancy which it reasonably anticipates will exceed twenty working days in Grade II or a higher grade, it will post the position as a "TEMPORARY POSITION” provided:
(i)	only porsons from the same shift may apply;
(ii)	the procedure in Article lS. I I of the Collective Agreement will be followed;
(iii)	the Company can fdl in its discretion any such
vacancy until the sellectioon	is complete;
(iv)	it is understood that Article IS. I l(d) does not apply to temporary positions;
(v)	Article IS. I l(c) will be amended for temporary portions so only the original vacancy will be posted by the Company; and
-40-
(vi)	Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Collective Agreement a successfulapplicant from a higher grade will get the pay rate for the lower grade which he has bid.
Yours very truly,
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
Per:	Bernard Kuperbcrg
Production Manager
- 41 -
July 31, 1987
Mr. Don Dayman Business Represe^ntative United F<ood &: Commercial Workers Suite 302
61 International Boulevard Rcxdalc, Ontario M9X 6K4
Dear Mr. Dayman:
Re: Attendance Program
In the event the Company proposes to introduce a new Attendance Program it will discuss the matter with the Employee-Employer Relations Committee prior to implementation.
Yours very truly,
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
Per:	Bernard Ku^pcrbcrg
Production Manager
- 42 -
July 31, 1987
Mr. Don Dayman Business Representative United Food & Commercial Workers Suite 302
61 International Boulevard Rexdale, Ontario M9X 6K4
Dear Mr. Dayman:
Re: Pay Cheques
In the event there is an error in any employee's pay cheque to the extent of four (4) hours pay or more, the Company upon being advised of the error, will correct the same as ^>n as treasonably practical by separate cheque to the employee.
Yours very truly,
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
Per:	Bernard Kuperberg
Production Manager