II Uective Agreement
Between
Cuddy Food Products
(Trafalgar St., London, Ontario)
and
United Foods and CommercialWorkers International Union Local175
Begins:
02/08/1990
Terminates:
05/30/1991
00267 (03)
TER- A.
No . O, EMPlOYFfS
NOM' RE
O-'M? oh
Name .......
Address.....
Phone ......
Soc. Ins. No.. Work Address Work Phone .. Union Steward Phone ......
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. locals 175/633 61 International Blvd., Suite 302 Rexdale, Ontario M9W 6K4 Phone: (416) 674-0606
If calling from
outside the Metro Toronto area, you can call your Union office toll-free. If you live in the 416 area, call 1-80-387-4874.
If you live in the 519, 613 or 705 area, call 1-80-387-4864.
SEP ! 3 1990
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
■The United Fcx and Commercial Workers is ere cl the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are ere of 165,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in the U.S.
UFCW is the result of a merger between two cl the oldest and most respected unions inTMorth America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North Amenca and the Retail Clerks Intemational Union. This merger took place rn June 6, 1979. The new union representsworkers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Local 175/633.
U.F.c.w. LOCALS 175/633
Your local union, with over 40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
Local 175/633 is mede up of former members of the Ontario Retail Council (Locals 175, 633, 725 & 11 05P); Locals 116, 125L, 479P, 480P, 485 and 1230 all from the old Amalgamated; and Locals 206, 233F, 409, 486 and 1979 from The old Retail Clerks. Your Local has the expertise, financial stability and resourcesto provideyou, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCALS 175/633
Felow Members:
This contract is pr^obabiy the mostvaluablething you CJM'l. It is a writen guarantee
your income, benefits andjob ^curity. It gives yru peeced mind ^causeyou knowthatyou cannot loseyourjob arbitrarily.Non-union workersdo notcijoythis security.
It al^va you to plan fa the future ^cause you know Vt/hat your incomewill be as much as two years in Stance. Non-unionworkers can have their wages and benefits art a tnJ time. This has hsp^pened quite often in recent y^.
Please do not take the collective agr^ment for granted. Protect it as you would protectany valuable property. Do not let your contract rights be violated even in small ways. R^^ndarthet you can be disciplined^ managementfor even small viotations of their rules.	should they be all^owed to ignore a legal contract
that spells out your rights.
If you feel that you ae not being treated fairly by the ^^^, speak to your Union ^^^. He or she is trained by the Union to handle complaints and grievances. If your problem is a complicated^, a full-time Business Representative of the Union can be called on fl arftJ time to assist you.
^ should al beproudof our union's	We ^veproven ^ytimes
that empioyerscantreat their	faily and still run their businessesefficientiy
and profitably. Occasionally v-e will ^ve disagreements, sometimesserious ones. But can ahNays resolveourdifferences through mutual respect and an agree ment everyone can live with
In the United ^ed and Commerdal^^^ we a-e committedto job ^curity. Only your union can be relied on to protect your rights in empl^ment Only your union can be counted on for help ^when you have problems with management Only your union is 100% dedicated to improvingyour swages, benefits and job security.
^sp up to date about legislation concerning Sunday \work,, pay equity, U.i .C. and pension, to name a i:W. Don’t be afraid to write your legislators and voice your opinions. Rehieve me, it counts.
Your Union is now c40,000Only by all us working together can we keep what	have gained and get what i& rightfully ours in the fufure.
^Please fe free to contact me at arftJ time with questionsor concemsabout the union. This is your union and your opinion is what really counts.
Fratemaly yours,
Jim Crockett,
President, Local 175.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
175 EXEC^UTIVE ABOARD: raesBBfr
Jin Croctett, Mississauga
83 EXECUTIVE ABOARD
president
A. G.
SECRETMIYTREASURER Don Morin, Gareon
VICE^.nESIDENTSTC:
^Gerald
fa*nsvto«r
Kart St. catharines
^Floyd	T^horokl
What You Get For Your Union Dues
• Higher than average w^^ and benefits. According to recent government statistics. unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
•	Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause. and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expensesjust to protect your rights Ifyou are unjustly discharged. your Union will spare no expense ingetting you back to work a non-union worker have that kind of security?
•	Grievance Procedure. Eventhesmallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat lor you. In a non-unionworkplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you
•	Problemswith Workmen's^^^rationor UJC? Trie Union employs
experts incutting red tape and representingyou to government agencies These services are free to you. should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold inthese matters They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help	.
•	Pensions. Dental Insurance. Sick Pay. Disability Insurance. etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family Should they be unable to work becauseof sickness or accident. would they trade their insurance protection lor yours? You bet the would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies. cigarettes. beer, movies. cable television or "impulse" gifts.
YOUR (OF0RS AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
Jim
P^resident
Bud	Mike^wr
Regional Director Regional	Di^redor
YOUR OFFICERSAND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
Ron Springall
Regional Director
J^ames W. Andress	Jack Colvin	Joe Daignault
Business Agent	Busines /Agent	Business^lqrt.
DonDayman	Michael Duden	Susan Grynol
Business Agent	Business ^Agent	Business ^Agent
YClR OFFICERS AN:> BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
W.,ne Hanley	James Hastings	John Hurley
BusinesAgent	Busines^.Agrt	Co-ordinator,
A&P Chainnan	^Organizing
Frank Kelly	Wantn Ke^nnedy	^..m
Busi^ Agent	Busi^ Agent	Busi^ ^wt
Miracle Food Mart Chainnan
Joe O'Donnell DI Onlchuk	Joe^lleilr
Brumes	Busi^
RegionalChainnan	industrial
Northwest Region Service ^^ion
YOUR OFFICERS AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
C. W. Richardson Organizer
Je^an-Guy ^Seguin
Business
Denis Sexton Business ^Agert
Sarah Shartal Research& Benefits Ofcer
Harry Suton Busi^ Agent
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected, front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management 1 n the first stage of the grievance procedure
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the att^^n of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning yaur grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and' solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Business Representative.
Union Stewards are a I I volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility Treat them with consideration. as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement. but only if you stand up on your own two feet first!
Despite the trouble involved in the job. being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people. talk to your Business Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
a 'in.*
X
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
P^^ose • • • • ....................
Recognition • • • • ...............
Bmployees .........................
Relationship .....................
union security ....................
Management •••*.•• ................
No Strike - No Lockout •••••••
Plant Committees **.*.«..*.
Grievance Procedure ...............
Dismissal or Suspension............
Arbitration *..-•* ................
wages..............................
Shift Premium - Reporting Allowance . Hours of Work & Overture
Rest Periods	............
Seniority ••• •
Job Postings ...................
Public Holidays .. ................
vacation • ...*• ..................
Bulletin Boards • , ...............
Clothing & Tool Allowance • •••••
Safety & Health •,••• .............
Welfare ........ ,.••••••«•.
Bereavement Leave • •.•••••••
^Leave of Absence .................
Temporary Transfers ••«.*..••
General.......................
Pension .••••••>....................
Group Classifications .............
Duration........................
Schedule "A* - Wages and Classifications • Letters of Understanding ••••»••..
1
1
2 2 3
s
5
6 8 11 12 14
14
15 18 19 25 28 30 33 33 35 35
37
38
40
41
42
46/49
l
COLLECTIVE AGRfggMEMT
UOlMI :	^CUDT
(Trafalgar St., London, Ontario)
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF TBE FIRST PART
- and -
UNITED TOGO i COmCXU ZROa&TZQnL DHXOH. LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OP THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE I -
1.01	The purpose of the Agreement is to secure
for the Company and its ^employees, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining end to ensure, to the utmost extent possible, the safety and welfare of the employees, the economy of operations. the quality of work and the protection of pr^^^ty.
2.01
The company recognizes the Union as the
exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of its plant as defined in Article 3.
2
3.01	(a) The teem "employees” as used in the
Agre^exent, shall be all of Cuddy F^ood Products in the City of London, save and ex^cept:	truck
drivers, s^upervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, ^nurses. office and sales s^taff,	students in the
school vacation period, and ^pers^ons employed for not more than twenty-four ( 24) hours per ^we.
Cb) supervisory personnel will not perfom work cust^^^ily curled out by ^^bers of the bargaining nnit ex^cept in the training of ^employees, testing of ^equi^^nt, developing of meth^ocla or s^mderds, or assisting to overc^ome ^operating difficulties.
1.02	BDlp'loyeeS may be hired fran t^ime to titime
on a t^^ttrary full-tima basis to replace regular full-^^e	^employees absent fran
work for reasons other	layoff, subject
to the te^mlS of this	The Chief
S^^d shall be provided with the of ^emplo^ye(s) being replaced.

4*01 The ^COlpeny and the Union agree that there rill be no int^idetion, discrimination, interf^^^ce, restraint or coercion ^exercised or practiced by either of them, their representatives or	because
of an ^mpl^oye' s ^^^ership or ^DOD^^^ber-ship in the ^^cu.
3
4.02	The Union agrees that Onion meetings will not be held on C^anpany p^remises, and that no employee or Onion Official will engage in any Onion activity on ^^^any time during his working hours or the working hours of any employee, except as provided for in this Ag^^^ant.
4.03	The Onion undertakes to secure from its
officers, stewards, and	their
co-operation with the ^^^any.
4.04	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of the supervisory staff to cooperate with Stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this Ag^^^ant.
5.01	(a) Employees on the Payroll of the C^ompany
as of date of ratification (March 24,	1990) may bec^ome and thereafter
r^emain members of the onion as a condition of ^empl^oyment.
(b) All employees of the Company hired on or after date of ratification (March 24, 1990) shall, upon c^ompletion of the probationary period, become and thereafter r^emain members of the onipn as a condition of ^emplo^yment.
. (cJ The C^ampany s^hall ^remit to the onion, within thirty ( 30) calendar days following the completion of the probationary period, the United F^od Workers M^^ership Application Form signed by the new ^employee.
4
5.02
5.03
5.Dt
s.os
(a)	All employees shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the deduction of Union dues and initiation fees. Such deductions will commence with the employee’s first ^pay. This deduction shall not include any special assessment.
(b)	The C^empany agrees to make the
deduction, set out in Article 5.02 (a) , from each employee in the bargaining unit. The Company will remit the total sum so deducted to the Union on or before the 15th calendar day of the following month, accompanied by a list of employees and their Social Insurance Number	whose
pay such deductions have been ^^b.
The Company agrees to list the amount of Union dues paid on ^employees' T4 forms for Income Tax pu^Mses.
The Co,apany agrees to provide the Union office once a month with the n^ames, addresses, telephone, and Social Insurance Numbers of new employees, also the names of employees who have terminated their employment, including the date of termination .
The union shall advise the Company. in writing, the ^amount of the Union dues and the initiation fee which the Company is required to deduct from each eligible ^employee.	The Company will be advised,
in writing, of any further changes in the Onion dues or initiation fees.
5
AKDCXE 6	- MMWGaWT
6.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency: and,
(b)	hire, retire, discharge, classify, schedule, transfer, assign, direct, promote, demote, layoff, and suspend or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, subject to the provisions of this Agreement: and,
(c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the kinds and locations of equipment, machines, and tools to be used, the allocation and n^umber of employees required by the C^ompany from time to time.
6.02	The Union recognizes the right of the C^ompany to ^make, enforce and to alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the te^rms of this Agreement, to be observed by all ^anployees .
7 - no gFPTine - up iflcmow
7.01	In view of the orderly procedures estab-
lished by this Agreement for the settling of disputes or the handling of grievances , the Onion agrees that during the life of this Agreement, it will not call a strike, slowdown, sitdown, or other stoppage
6
of work or interference with production and the Union will hold its	to
this re^ronsibility.	The Company agrees
that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no lockout.
7.02	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it will take it up with the C^^any as provided in Article 9, ^^mencing at Step 2.
7.03	The Union recognizes that in order to
provide mazimUl o^^rtunities for continuing ^emplo^yment,	the	C^anpany	must operate
efficiently in order to be in a strong ^market position.
8*01	The Com^pany acknowledges the right of
the Union to appoint or o^rerwise select Plant C^omittees to be known as the Grievance C^omittee ^and the Negotiating C^aamit^te.
The Grievance C^omittee shall consist of a Staff ^Representative of the Union and the Chief S^teward, plus the Steward who	h^andlnd	the initial	grievance.
^Employees of the C^^&ny appointed to the Grievance C^^dttee must have six ( 6) months seniority with the ^^uy.
8.02	The Negotiating Cocnni ttee shall consist
of a staff ^Representative of the union, or his designate, and a	of five
( 5)	^employees,	elected or otherwise
Mlected.# wbo have six (6) months seniority with the Company.
$.03
$.04
^be	of the C^ompany vbo ^an
a^winted, or otherwise t«l«oud, by the Union to negotiating 0^^ l:t:M ehell be paid eight {8) home at their r^^lar rata of pay for each negotiating session aehadulsd betwaan the partin,	The Union
will uie1irit the Conpoaoy Ol\t hundred percent (lOO!) af mjti paid.
It is ^_.rs^to that the wort	for
-.ore^a appointed, or aeleO\ed, to the Negotiating C^edttea La redaoe4 by right (8) hours for aach negotiating MHien.
The nu« of each t1lo:riu, u tr<». to t.iia selected or el^^ed to the ^7e OoanittMw, anall be givan to tho ^^^^y in vritinf, tite ^^^ny w i 11 edviff Chid Sthirdi and the Plant of any ababese 1D supervl^.ary personnel,
^be priyil99e of the GrJ.evanoe c^edttea to leave their ^1"*k without	of ^pay
to attaad to Dnian business is granted
on the following conditions*
a)	auo banyans must be be^h'f tits
on Lon and ^nagezteat t
b)	the tibe ah.tll 'Cle devoted to the prbept handling of neoeaitby Union boainuar
a) the Ste)Ard or Officer coneeraed •bell	tbe pansiMioa Of tlae
supervisor concerned before leaving hia ^nkr such pa^mlas^m shall to-be	withheld;
d) any aeatingi with :aw.aag^nl: will
be held dll lag plant work^ty hours
1*
8
and shall be considered as hours ^worked and paid for at the appropriate rate.
8*05 A staff representative of the Union, upon advising the Director of	Resources
or designate with reaso^nable prior notice, may enter the plant during no^rmal working hours to view working conditions and generally service tbe ^contract.
8.05	Grievance meetings shall be held on the
s p^remises.
8.07	In such cases where the ^uef Steward
and an ^employee do not have similar lunch and/or break periods, the Chief Steward will be allowed up to ten ( 10) minutes per ^day. when n^^& s^cu:y, during that ^enpl^oye' s lunch ^and/or break period to handle any or all	. The Chief
Steward will secure the pennission fran his Supervisor prior to the ^meting. Such ^^^ssion shall not be unreasonably wi^theld.
9.01	The parties to this Agreement are agreed
that it is of the u^^st importance to adjust c^anplaints and grievances as quickly as pess^&e. No grievance shall be considered if more	five ( 5) working
deys have elapsed be^^an the occurrence of tbe incident and the filing of the gri^^nce. The above time limit shall not apply in those incidents where the grievance filed is of a monetary nature and the	s liability shall be limi ted
to one (l) full year i^mmediately prior to the dete of the filing of the gnim^mce.
9
Work days referred to in Article 9,.	10,
and 11 will not include Saturdays, Sundays, and paid holidays.
9.02	No individual, n^umber or group of ^employees,
shall undertake to represent the union at meetings with Management without proper authorization	the Business
Representative.
9.03	Grievances or complaints arising under this Agreement shall be adjusted or settled as follows:
Whenever an ^employee has a complaint or grievance , such employee together with his steward shall first discuss his complaint or grievance with his immediate Supervisor. The Supervisor shall give his decision within three (3) working days following the presentation of the complaint or grievance to ^him.	If the
Supervisor's decision is not satisfactory to the employee, then the complaint or grievance be presented as follows:

Within five (5) working days after the decision at Step No. 1, the aggrieved ^employee together with his Steward shall present his grievance , in writing, to his Supervisor. The Supervisor shall render his decision, in writing, with copies to the Director of Human Resources and the Steward within three (3) working deys. If satisfactory settlement to the employee is not reached, then the grievance may be presented as follows :
10
9.04
9.05
Within five (5) working days or such longer time as mutually agreed upon after the decision at Step No. 2, the Union Grievance Committee will meet with the Management of the Company to discuss the grievance. A Representative of the union will be present.
After the Step No. 3 meeting, the Company shall reply to the grievance, in writing, with a copy to the Union Steward and the Regional Union Office within three (3) working days (replies to grievances filed under Article 9.04 or 9.05 shall be within ten ( 10) working days), or such time as mutually agreed ^^. At the request of either party to this Agre^ement, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration.
A group grievance, defined as an alleged violation of this Agreement concerning all or a significant n^umber of employees in the bargaining unit, or in regard to which a n^umber of employees have signified an intention to grieve, may be brought forward, in writing, by the Union at Step No. 3 within five ( S) working days after the incident giving rise to the grievance o^^red.
Any grievance which arises directly between the Company and the Onion concerning the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall constitute a policy grievance, and it may be brought forward, in writing, at Step No. 3 within five ( 5) working days of occurrence of the incident.
ll
9.06	If arbitration is to be invoked, the request for arbitration must be made in writing to the other party within ten (10) working days after the receipt by the grieving party of the other party's reply, in accordance with Article 9.03, Step No. 3, or the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned and all rights to arbitration forfeited.
9.07	No employee or member of the Grievance Committee shall suffer loss of pay by reason of time spent discussing grievances with representatives of the Company.
9.08	During the term of this Agreement, meetings of the Grievance Col1\l1\ittee with Management shall be held upon reasonable notice by either the Grievance Committee or Management.
9.09	If required, extensions to the time limits referred to in Articles 9, 10, and ll shall be by written, mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 10 -	OR
10.01	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without just cause. Employees shall be notified in writing of the grounds for discipline or discharge. In subsequent grievance procedures, including arbitration, the Employer shall be limited to such grounds. The Union shall receive a copy.
10.02	A claim by an employee that he has been unjustly discharged or suspended from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is presented to the Director
12
of Buman Resources within five (5) working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and contract holidays) after the employee ceases to work for the C^ompany. All preliminary steps of the Grievance Procedure to Step 3 will be omitted in such cases. Such special grievances may be settled by confi^rming the Management's action in dismissing the ^employee, or by reinstating the employee with full c^ompensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties. When an employee been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Steward, or in his absence the Chief Steward, in the Grievance Room for a time not to exceed fifteen ( 15) minutes.
10.03	The te^rmination of emplo^^^t for any reason of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance or arbitration.
11.01	Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agre^ement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the Grievance Procedure outlined in Article 9 above and which has not been settled, will be referred exclusively to a Board of Arbitration at the request of either of the parties hereto.
11.02	The Board of Arbi tra tion will be composed of one person appointed by the Company and one person appointed by the Union,
13
	and a third person to act as Chairman chosen by the other two m^abers of the Board.
11.03	Within five (5) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other of its appointee.
11.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by the Union fail to agree on a third person within seven (7) calendar days of the notification mentioned in Article 11.03 above, the Office of Arbitration, Ministry of Labour will be asked to nominate a Chai^rman.
11.05	The decision of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof constituted in the above matter, shall be final and binding on both parties.
11.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agr^^tent.
11.07	Each of the parties to this Agreement will bear the expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chai^Mn.
11.08	It is understood and agreed that the applicable provisions of Article 11 shall apply to an arbitrator appointed pursuant to the provisions of Section 45 ( 1 ) of the Labour Relations Act, Ontario.
14
11.09	If the Company and the Union mutually agree to appoint a single arbitrator, the foregoing applicable provisions of this Article shall apply to such single arbitrator.
Maica 12 -
12-01 Wage rates are appended hereto as Schedule JI.' and shall forn part of this Agre^ement.
12.02	In the event the Company establishes an entirely new job, it shall so notify the Union in writing. The classification and hourly rate of pay of such new job will be negotiated with the thion. Failing agreement, the matter shall be put before an arbitrator who will decide those two (2) issues. The new rate and classification will be adjusted to the commencement of operation.
12.03	Employees shall be paid weekly. Pay stubs shall be made available to each ^employee on or before 1:30 p.m. on Friday.
13 - sBire Fromm,	mmwmcb
13.01	An employee reporting for work shall be given a minimum of four ( 4} hours' work or in lieu thereof, four (4) hours' pay at the applicable rate of pay.
13.02	An employee who, after leaving the C^ompany's
'pr^eatses, is specifically called in at any Ull outside his normal working hours, shall be paid a	of four ( 4) hours'
at his appli^cable ^rert^re rate.
15
13.03	Shift premium shall be paid as follows:
twenty-five cents (250) premium -afternoon shift
thirty-five cents (350) premium -night shift
The afternoon shift premium shall apply to all employees commencing work between the hours of 12*00 noon end 6:00 p.m.
The night shift premium shall apply to all employees co^mmencing work between the hours of 6:00 p.rn. and 4:00 ^
14
OP IUtK A1ID
14*01 The standard work week will be forty ( 40) hours per week comprised of five (5) eight < 8) hour days, Monday through Friday.
14.02	Ca) Employees shall be paid one and one-half times ClJi) their regular rate for all hours worked or paid by the Co^rany in excess of eight ( 8) hours per day, or for all hours worked or paid by the Co^rany in excess of forty (40) hours	^we.
(b)	Employees shall be paid one end one-half times (lls) their regular rate for all hours worked or paid by the Com^ny on Saturday.
(c)	^Employees shall be paid two times ( 2 > their regular rate for all h^ours worked or paid by the Company on Sunday, unless otherwise agreed, in writing, between the Union ana the C^^eny.
16
(d)	^lmployees	who commence	their	fifth
(5th) scheduled shift prior to midnight on Friday shall not be eligible for the pe^yment of one and one-half ( l\') times the rate for that shift.
(e)	Bmployeea	who commence	their	first
scheduled	shift on or	after	lOtOO
p.m. on Sunday shall not he eligible for the Sunday pr^uum, as outlined in Article 14.02 (c) above.
14.03	Double the straight t^ime rate shall be paid for all work perfo^rmed in excess of twelve ( 12) consecutive ^mrs.
14.04	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any specified n^mte- of hours on either a daily or weekly basis. The C^ompany will pay for hours worked except where otherwise stated in this Agre^ement.
14.05	(a) During the standard work week (Monday
through Friday) when overtime is required within a Deper^tment, such overtime shall he offered on a rotational basis (in the order of seniority) ^among the ^employees within the Department who normally perform the work on that shift.
In the event the Company is unable to fill its staffing requirements as outlined above, then such overtime s^ha.11 he offered by seniority to qualified ^employees on the following basis:
First, to ^employees within the Department	are at work and
are available; ^ren,
17
To ^employees within the Division who are at work and are available.
(h) Subject to 14.08, the opportunity to work overtime on Saturday or Sunday shall be offered on a rotational basis in the order of seniority among employees who qualify to perform the normal requirements of the required overtime on the following basis:
First, to employees within the Department; then,
To employees within the Division: then,
To employees within the other Division.
14.06	Employees shall not be transferred from one department to another to the extent that it reduces the regular straight time hours of work of seniority employees in such department.
14.07	If the Company cannot fill its overtime requirements on a voluntary basis as outlined in Article 14.05, the Company will assign the overtime work and such employee(s) will be required to perform the work on the following basis :
(a)	Overtime work required under Article
14.05	(a) will be designated to the
most junior qualified employee within the Division who is at work and who is available.
(b)	Overtime work required in accordance
with 14.05	(b) will be designated
18
to the most junior qualified employees in the Divisions.
14.08	Employees will not be required to report for their scheduled shift unless a minimum of nine ( 9) hours has elapsed since the ^completion of their last scheduled shift.
14. 09	Notwithstanding Article 14.07 (a } and
(h) , no ^employee will be required to work an unreasonable amount of overtime.
MIBM 15 ~	MMODB
15.01	The C^^any agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen <15} minutes during each half (Js) Shift. providing the first half PIs) shift is in excess of two ( 2) hours ' duration, and the second half (Is) shift exceeds two C 2} hours of work subsequent to the lunch br^eak.
A rest period of fifteen ( 15) minutes shall be granted prior to co^mmencing overtime, providing the overtime shall be of one	one-half (llf) hours duration.
The fifteen ( 15) minutes is to include clean-up and to co^mmence when an employee leaves his position on the floor.
15.02	^Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a lunch break. If ^employees are required to work in excess of the above time limit after the first lunch period, the C^apany will provide the second lunch and allow thirty
(30) minutes for such lunch period.
Employees may work up to one-half (Is) hour past the above time liait: in order to complete the day's work.
19
16	- SHHOSITT
16.01	(a) A new or rehired employee will be
considered to be on probation and will be termed a probationary employee until he has worked sixty (60) scheduled working days, or four (4) months of continuous employment, whichever occurs first.
lb) A probationary employee will not be considered a seniority employee and during his probationary period, shall have no rights under this Agreement except as outlined in the following Articles contained in this Agreement, Articles 12, H,	14, lS,
18, 19.03, and 22.03.
(c)	A probationary employee is recognized
as having no security in ^emplo^yment irrespective of Articles 9,	10, and
11. The employment of any employee
be terminated during his probationary period, in which event, there shall be no recourse to the Grievance Procedure or Arbitration, and the termination shall not be the subject of a grievance.
(d)	Effective March 24, 1990.
Upon completion of the probationary period, employee( s) retained by the Company shall be considered seniority employee( s), and their name shall be placed on the seniority list, and such employee shall be credited with seniority to his last date of hire with the Company in the bargaining unit.
20
16.02	Seniority as referred to in this Agreement shall mean length of continuous employment with the Company in the bargaining unit.
16.03	Service as referred to in this Agreement shall mean length of continuous employment with the Company since the last date of hire.
16.04	Every three (3) months (January, April, July, and Oct^ober) , the C^^ttny shall post and provide the Union Chairperson with four (4) copies of the updated seniority list for each Department, each Division, and the bargaining unit.
16.05	Should a bargaining unit employee be transferred from Caddy Food Products (Cuddy Boulevard), such employee shall retain the following:
1.	Seniority
2.	Vacation entitlement
3.	Wages - on a red-circled basis
16.06	For the purpose of this Collective Agreement, there shall be two (2) Divisions, "A" and "B”. The Departments within these Divisions are as follows:
Boxing Department Sanitation Department Warehouse Department Quality Assurance Department Maintenance Department Roas t Department Portion Department Sausage Department
21
16.07
(bJ Diri.aion "a*
Processing/Boxing/Cooler Department Quality Assurance/Receiving Department Sanitation Department
(a)	In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the work force for more than one ( 1) full day, the following layoff procedure will be followed provided the remaining ^employees can perfozm the nozmal requirements of the work required in a manner satisfactory to the C^ompany:
First, t^emporary and part-time employees, including students. will be laid off: then,
Probationary ^employees will be laid off: then,
The most junior employee(s) per-fozming the job affected by the work shortage.
(b)	In the event a bargaining unit employee receives notice of layoff, he shall have the option of accepting the layoff or bump another bargaining unit ^employee whose job he is able to perfozm in a manner satisfactory to the Company in the sequence as outlined below:'
-	The	most	junior	employee	in the
Department:
-	The	most	junior	employee	in the
Division;
22
- The most junior employee in the bargaining unit provided the layoff is e^xpected to be in excess of or exceeds five (5) days.
(e)	Recall from layoff shall be as follows:
-	First, to employees	exercise
their b^umping rights to avoid layoff to their former job (immediately prior to layoff) as it becomes available: then,
-	To ^employees on layoff in order of their seniority where jobs become available subject to Article 17.01, provided they have the ability to perform the normal requirements of the available jcb:
-	To their former job (^^wdiately prior to layoff) as it becomes available .
16*08 In cases where layoffs are due to Chris^tmas or vacation shutdown (neither of which shall exceed ten (lO) working days), layoff and recall shall be by departmental seniority.
16.09	In the event of a short work day within a Depar^tment. the C^anpany will endeavour to equitable distribute the work available within the Department ^rongst the Departmental bargaining unit employees who are capable of performing the work in a manner satisfactory to the ^^rny.
23
16.10	When there is a reduction within a department in accordance with Article 16.07, the most junior employee ( s} will be transferred out of that department, prbvided the remaining employees are capable of performing the required work. The employee(s) that is transferred out of that department may exercise seniority rights and bump the most junior employee in the division whose job he is capable of perfoming.
16.11	When increasing the work force within a division, the order of recall shall be on a divisional basis in reverse order to that in which they were laid off, subject to Article 16,07, provided those to be recalled can perform the work required in a manner satisfactory to the Company.
16.12	Where two (2) departments are being merged, the employees in the department being eliminated shall be deemed to have seniority in the surviving department for all purposes of this Agreement.
16.13	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, his employment will be considered terminated, and there shall b.Q no obligation to rehire him when he:
(a) voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is dismissed for just cause, and such dismissal is not reversed through grievance procedure or arbitration; or,
(bj fails to return to work within seven (7) calendar days after being notified to do so by registered mail at his
24
last known oddaess, unless a satisfactory reason exists for not ret^^^g; or,
(c)	fails to report to work at the expiry of his leave of absence, unless the Company grants an extension, in writing, for valid reasons or unless a satisfactory reason ^usts: or,
(ct) takes another position ^temporarily, seeks out or tries new work , or ventures into business for himself while on a leave of ^teance: or,
(e)	is absent from work for three (3) or aore consecutive scheduled working days without notifying the ^^^any: or,
(f)	is laid off for a period of twelve ( 12) consecutive months: or,
is absent from work as a result of a nonoccupational sickness or injury for a continuous period of eighteen (18) months, or is absent as a result of an occupational sickness or injury and is receiving Workers' Compensation for a continuous period of twenty-four ( 24) months.	A period of illness
shall be d^temed continuous when the employee returns to work and is unable to	continue	working due to a
re-occurrence of the original illness for a period of fifteen ( 15) consecutive work days.
16.14	In the event an employee covered by this agreement shall he promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit and later
25
transferred to the bargaining unit, he shall retain seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the time spent while serving outside the bargaining unit up to one (1) y^ear
16.15	Seniority lists shall be accessible to the Union Stewards and a copy made available to the Union Office and posted on the bulletin board once every three (3) months.
16.16	The Company will advise the Union as quickly as possible, of any pending layoff consisting of two (2) working days or more and will publish the names of employees being retained. The Company will advise the union as quickly as possible, the names of employees being recalled froai layoff.
16.17	Probationary ^employees have no rights under this agreement until they have passed their probationary period, except those rights relating to wages and hours of work.
WMCLB 17 - job
17 .01	(a)- When the company decides to f i 11
a ^^ranent vacancy within a Division, such vacancy shall be posted for two (2) working days. Subject to
17.01	(b), employees interested in
filling the vacancy shall sign the posting within two ( 2) working days. The vacancy will be awarded within twenty ( 20) working days of the posting unless the Company decides not to fill the vacancy.
26
(b) Employees absent from work for vacation purposes will be considered for the job posting, provided they advise the Company on a form letter provided by the Union prior to commencing their vacation, of their desire to transfer to the vacancy.
(o) Where skill and ability for the permanent vacancy are relatively equal, respective seniority will prevail on the following basis:
Permanent vacancies will be filled from within the department, however, in the event that the vacancy ^cannot be filled from within the department, then the vacancy will be filled from within the division. Should this not satisfy the vacancy, the Company will consider applicants from other divisions.
(d)	In the event that no eligible employee applies for the posting, employees with less than twelve ( 12 J months seniority and employees who have transferred pursuant to this Article, within the last nine ( 9 ) months prior to the posting may be considered by the Coinpany, This shall not apply to employees transferred during the last twelve (l2) months if their jcb becomes redundant or upon being awarded the job, the employee failed to qualify.
(e)	Employees transferred under this Article will be allowed up to ten ( 10) fu II working days in which to
qualify.
27
(f)	Employees transferred from one division to another in accordance with this Article, shall have seniority in the division to which they were transferred equal to the amount of seniority they had in their previous division. Upon transfer, they shall cease to-have seniority in the division where they previously worked.
{ g) Such postings as referred to in this Article will be limited to two (2) moves to fill one (l) position.
(h)	The term 'permanent vacancy" as used in this Article, shall mean a permanent vacancy that occurs from retirement, resignation, transfer or discharge and which the Company decides to fill, or where the requirement for employees exceeds the number of employees in a department.
(i)	Permanent vacancies which are rotational or are of similar job content or are part of a line process, shall be posted as such and not as an individual position.
17.02	when it is necessary to temporarily assign
an employee to another job for a period of thirty (30) working days or more, such position shall be posted as a temporary job posting. This posting will not apply to positions arising due to vacations. This Clause will be subject to Article 17.01, except for the provisions 17.01 (e) and (h). Postings as referred to in this Article, will be limited to one (1) move to fill one (1) position.
28
ARTICLE 18	- PAID BOtmilS
18.01	ED\ployees	have accwnulated thirty
(30) working days or three ( 3) months employment, whichever occurs first, will be credited with pay known as holiday pay for the following holidays:
New 's Day Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday Labour Day Christ.mas Day Boxing Day
Canada Day (July 2:, 1990)
Floater tl (December 27, 1990)
Heritage Day (Third Monday in February)
In the event the Federal and/or Provincial Government proclaim another paid holiday, it will replace Heritage Day.
18*02 Holiday pay is defined as the amount of straight time pay which the employee would have received if he had worked a standard n^umber of daily hours.
18*03 An employee who qualifies under Articles
lS.01	and 18.04 and is required to work on any of the abovenamed paid holidays will receive pay for all hours worked on such days at the rate of two (2) times the ^empl^oye's regular rate of pay in addition to his regular rate of pay to which he is entitled by Article 18.01.
Public Holiday for those other than day shift employees will be observed as
29
that shift which they nonnally would have had off when the plant is closed to observe the Public HoHday.
18.04	In order to be entitled to payment for a paid holiday, an employee must have worked his last scheduled shift immediately preceding and his first scheduled shift ^imediately following the holiday. An employee who is otherwise eligible hut fails to work either his shift before or shift following the holiday, due to sickness or accident, must provide a medical certificate in order to receive payment for the public holiday.
18.05	An employee who would otherwise qualify
for plant holiday pay as provided in Article 18.04, but who is absent and drawing sick benefit insurance or Workers' Compensation when a plant holiday occurs, will be paid the difference between the sick benefit or Workers' Compensation as the case my be, and eight (8) hours pay at his regular straight time rate. This provision will only apply when the ^employee is drawing weekly sick benefits (including the four ( 4) day waiting period that results in the employee qualifying for sick benefits), or if on Workers' Compensation, for a period not to exceed the	stipulated
by the sick benef i.t insurance plan:	hut
will be paid only after the ^employee's return to work.
18.An ^employee on layoff will be paid for the public holiday, provided he has worked at least twelve ( 12) days in the four ( 4 > weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
30
18..07	If one or more of the public holidays
mentioned in this Article occurs while an ^employee is away on a personal leave of absence in excess of fourteen {14) calendar days, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday or holidays.
ARTICLE 19	- VACATIOir
19.01	This Agreement acknowledges that the Company has the right to schedule vacation so as to efficiently maintain plant operations. Every reasonable effort will be inade to grant vacations at times requested by ^employees. It may be a two (2) week period or periods of one (1) week or total vacation, subject to the production requirements of the C^ompany.
(a)	During February, the vacation schedule will be posted in each department indicating the number of days each employee is eligible for and also the maximum number of ^employees eligible to be off at any one
(b)	Employees should signify their vacation time preference in writing to their Supervisor prior to April 1st in each year and these vacation requests shall be scheduled on the basis of departmental seniority.
(c)	employees may signify their vacation time preference in writing on a first
first serve basis to their Supervisor from April 1st to April 30th inclusive.
31
(d) Employees not having signified all or part	of their vacation time preference prior to May 1st in each year will be allotted available vacation time by their Supervisor.
(e)	A copy of the vacation schedule will r^emain posted throughout the vacation year.
(£) Vacation time shall not be accumulated from year to year and must be taken between April 1st of tbe vacation year and March 31st of the following year.
19.02	Vacations will be based on service computed to April 1st in the year in which the vacation is to be ^takan.	Employees will
be given their vacation pay at the time of taking their vacation. The vacation pay will only be for the ^amount of vacation taken at that specific time, unless the vacation is for less than one (l)	^we.
Vacation pay for a period of less than one ( l) week will be paid at the time an employee takes the r^emaining days of that ^^k's vacation. Each employee will become eligible for a vacation pay on the following basis:
(a)	Employees,	who on April 1st have
less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their gross earnings with the Company for the period of their employment during the preceding twelve (12) months and shall be given one-half (^) day of vacation for each full month of service.
32
(b)	Employees who on April 1st have completed one (l) year or more of continuous service (or ' whose seniority is equivalent to more than one (1) year) are entitled to two ( 2) weeks vacation and shall be paid four percent
(4%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous ^^f's vacation pay) as vacation ^pay.
(c)	Employees	who	on	April	1st	of	the
vacation year have completed five
(5) years of continuous service will receive three ( 3 ) weeks vacation and shall be paid six percent (6%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous ^^'s vacation pay) as vacation ^pay.
(d)	Employees	who	on	April	1st	of	the
vacation year have completed eleven (ll)	years	of	continuous	service
will	receive	four	( 4) weeks	vacation
and shall be paid eight percent (8%) of their gross earnings (which shall include the previous ^^'s vacation pay) as vacation ^pay.
(e)	Employees	who	on	April	1st	of	the
vacation year have completed twenty (20)	years	of	continuous	service
will	receive	five	(5) weeks	vacation
and shall be paid ten percent ( 10%) of their	gross earnings	(which shall
include the previous year's vacation pay) as vacation pay.
19.03	Any employee whose ^employment with the Company is terminated voluntarily, shall receive vacation pay as set forth in Article 19.02.
33
19.04	If a paid public holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with pay at a mutually convenient time.
19.05	It is the responsibility of the employee to request their vacation pay, in writing, to their Supervisor at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the last working day prior to the start of their vacation. Upon proper notice, the Company shall provide each employee with his vacation pay on the pay day immediately preceding his vacation .
ARTICLE 20	- BQTJJgPTIi HQMtPS
20.01	The Company shall provide reasonable space on bulletin boards, with adequate access for each division in the plants, for the posting of official union notices. All such notices shall be submitted to the Director of Human Resources, or designate, for approval prior to posting.
APTTrr.F. - CUQTHIHG & Torn, atxubmkte
21.01	The Company agrees to supply and launder as required:
White Smocks
Coveralls for designated employees.
The Company further agrees to supply and replace when worn out and turned in. the following articles where such articles are deemed necessary to perform the job:
34
Aprons
Gloves
Bead Gear
Preezer Clothing
Sleevelets
Wet Suits
Coats for designated areas
such shall r^emain the property of the Com^my and shall not be removed from the ^Company's premises and must be returned for a new issue or upon separation of the ^employee.
The above articles not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the ^employee.	.
21.02	The Company agrees to pay each employee except Sanitation ^employees, thirty dollars ($30.00) twice por year towards the purchase of safety footwear where such footwear is to be used at work. Sanitation employees will be paid forty dollars ($40.001 twice per year towards the purchase of safety footwear where such footwear is to "be used at work. This Article shall only apply to employees who have passed the probation period.
21.03	The Company agrees to pay each employee
in Group Classification 6,	7 , and 8,
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per year as a tool allowance . This tool allowance will be paid in January and shall only apply to employees who have passed the probation period effective the date of pa^yment.
35
22	- SAFETY AHP marjwi
22.01	A Safety Committee consisting of at least two (2) representatives of the bargaining unit and two (2) representatives of the Company, shall meet at least once per month and immediately after any serious accident. Minutes will be kept of each meeting.
22.02	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during. the hours of their ^emplo^yment. ^Employees will not be disciplined for refusing to perforn work they consider unsafe, until the plant Safety Committee investigates and considers it safe for the employee to do so.
22.03	An employee who is injured at work during working hours ^and is required to leave for trea^tment for such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his hourly rate of pay, unless a doctor states the employee is fit to return to work ^and the ^employee fails to return.
22.04	The Company encourages and welcomes recommendations on safety from the Union.
^RTI^CLE 23	-
23.01	(a) The Company agrees to continue to
pay premiums for the present Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dism^^^ument Policy to provide insurance equal to one and one-half (l%) times annual earnings to a maximum of $30,000.00. Effective June 1, 1990, to $35,000.00.
36
(b> Effective June 1, 1990, the Company agrees to pay premiums for a Life Insurance Policy for the ^employee's dependents as follows:
The	spouse -	$5,000.00
Each child of the
employee -	$2,500.00
23.02	The Company agrees to provide a Weekly Ind^emnity at no cost to employees on the following basis:
Sixty-six and two-thirds percent ( 66 2/3%) of weekly earnings to a maximum equivalent to the U.I.C. ceiling as at commencement of disability;
Payments commence first (1st) day in the event of accident:
Payments commence fourth (4 th) day in the event of sickness:
Payments ^^ronce first (1st) day in the event of hospitalization due to sickness;
Payments continue for a period of up to twenty-six ( 26) weeks.
23.03	The	Company	agrees	to	pay	one	hundred
percent (100%) of the premium cost of a Plan to provide prescription drugs to employees and their dependents at no cost.
23.04	The	Company	agrees	to	pay	one	hundred
percent (100%) of the premium cost of a Dental Plan for eligible ^employees. Effective June 1, 1990, the Dental Fees will be based on the 1988 O.D.A. Fee
37
23.05
23.06
23.07
ARTI^CLE
24.01
Schedule. All eligible seniority employees shall be required to participate in the Dental Plan.
The Company agrees to provide eye care in the amount of eighty dollars ($80.00) every twenty-four (24} months. Effective June 1r 1990, one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The Company agrees to pay premiums for its share of all benefit programs for three (3) months when an employee is absent due to illness, vacation or accident (including Workers' Compensation) .
The benefits provided by Article 23 apply only to employees who have completed the probationary period.
24 -	T.LBAVB
In the event of a death in the ^mediate family of an employee, the Company agrees to grant time off without loss of pey for up to three ( 3) days. In the event an employee qualifies for up to three (3) days bereavement leave with pey, said three ( 3) days shall be three ( 3) consecutive working days falling within the period inclusive from the day of death to the second day after the funeral , and at no other ^time.
If an ^employee is unable to attend the funeral, he shall be allowed one ( 1) day off with pey.
For the purpese of this Clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following:
38
mother, father, spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren
One ( 1)	^^'s leave, with pay, shall he
granted the bereaved employee for purposes of attending the funeral of
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-inlaw, and daughter-in-law
"Employee" shall mean a full-time employee of the Company who has completed his probationary period.
The employee shall be paid eight (8) hours pey at his regular rate while on bereavement leave.
An employee will not he eligible to receive payment under this Agreement for any period for which he is receiving other benefits in the form of vacation pay, specified holiday pay, sick benefits, or Workers' C^ompensation.
ARTTfTTJg 25	-	OF
25.01	When an ^employee's personal affairs make it desirable for him or her to be relieved of Company duties, leave of absence without pay may be granted for good and sufficient reasons. Each request will be handled on an individual basis depending upon the circumstances for the request and the production requirements of the company. However, application in writing with duplicate copy of same must be submitted to the Company. Leave of absence shall not he granted for the purpose of allowing
39
an employee to take another pesition temporarily, or to try out new work, or to venture into business for himself.
A copy of the application for the leave of absence will be given to the Union by the Company with notice whether leave of absence has or has not been granted and reasons for same outlined. Failure of the employee concerned to comply with the above requirements shall constitute loss of seniority, oursuant to Article 16.01.
When an employee returns to work, he will either be placed on his previous job or alternate work of a comparable nature.
25.02	Union business will	be considered a good
cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company as long as	it does	not interfere unduly
with the operations of the plant and after the Company has been given adequate advance notice.
25.03	It is understood that not more than two ( 2) employees will be absent at any one time.
25.04	An employee	who is	elected or appointed
to a full-time position with the Union shall, upon one <l) week's notice in writing, be	granted	a leave of absence,
without pay, for a period not to exceed the tern of this Agreement and upon one (1) week's	notice,	in writing, of his
desire to return to work with the Company, shall be placed in the position previously held or one at an equal rate of pay, retaining the seniority possessed at the time that such leave of absence granted.
40
This privilege shall be limited to one (l) ^employee.
25.05	Subject to the following conditions , the Company will grant a leave of absence, without pay, to a pregnant employee at her r^equest:
a)	Such employee must have one {l) ^^'s seniority :
b)	The Company will require a medical certificate of the ^employee's condition, together with the estimated day on which delivery will oc^cur:
c)	Leave will normally be granted for a period of seventeen (17) weeks at a time of the ^employee's choice.
Nothing in this section shall restrict the Company from requiring a pregnant employee prior to her confinement, to go on a maternity leave of absence if the Company determines she is incapable of adequately performing her job. When the employee returns to work, she will either be placed on her previous job or alternate work of a comparable nature .
26.01	An employee who is transferred to a different job within the bargaining unit shall be paid while so employed as follows:
(a) if the transfer is for the convenience of the Company and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the
41
^employee's	regular rate, he shall
receive his regular rate of ^pay:
if the transfer is for the convenience of	the ^employee,	or	to enable	him
to	avoid layoff,	and	if the	rate
of pay in the classification to which he	is transferred	is	less than	the
^employee's regular rate of pay, he shall receive the lesser rate:
if	the transfer is	to	a higher	rate
of	classification,	the	^employee	will
receive the higher rate of pay.
27.01	For the purpose of interpreting this Agree-^ment. the masculine gender. wherever used, shall mean and include the feminine gender end vice versa.
27.02	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to appoint or d^emote Lead Hands at eny time during this ^^^ement. If ^^ttted from this classification, the employee will no longer receive the p^remium. Lead . Rands shall be defined as a person who perfo^rms work,' transmits orders , assists other employees , and shall not have authority to hire, fire, or discipline other ^employees and shall be a Union m^^er.
27.03	^Management or employees shall not punch another ^employee’s time card at eny time.
27.04	In case of layoff or a short work day, the Chief Steward shall be the last person laid off, provided there is work available
(b)
(c)
27 -
42
which the Chief Steward is capable of performing.
27.05	Employees shall inform the Company, in writing, of their current mailing address and telephone n^aber and the Company shall be entitled to rely upon this info^rmation when administering pertinent Articles in the Collective Agreement.
27.06	Employees shall not be required to clean their aprons, sleeves, and gloves during their work break.
ART1CU8 28	- FRHSIOa
28-01 Effective February 8;	19a8';. the Company
agrees to contribute five cents (5$) per hour for all hours worked by employees who have obtained their seniority by February 7, 1988-
Effective February 8,	1989, the Company
agrees to contribute an additional five cents ( 56) per hour for all hours worked for employees who had obtained their seniority by February 7,. 1989.
Employees who obtain their seniority. snb- : sequent to February 7 of each year,' .. Will not be entitled for a pension comtributiol; on their behalf until Fabruary 8, following the date of obtaining their seniority.
There will be no increase in the amount of C^ompany contribution on behalf of an employee until after February 8, 1992.
28-02 The Company*s liability, present and future, with regard to the aforementioned Pension Plan is limited to the above noted contributions.
43
28.03	The Union agrees to provide the Company with annual audited financial statements for the Pension Trust and the Com^^ty's actuary shall be allowed annual access, on request, to the books, accounts, and records of the Trust ^md.
28-04	At the C^ompany's discretion, a Company representative will serve on the Board of Trustees for the D.P.C.W. Pension Fund.
MWffM 29	- GROUP CLASSIFICATIOHS
Group 1	— General
Group 2	* Quality Assurance, Scale Operator*, Material Handler, Cooler, Blender Operator, Foi:er Operator, Stretch Wrap Operator, and Boxing Machine Operator
3	- Deboning**, ' Hanging, Breaking Legs, Sausage Foi:ulators, Cook Roam operator, Tiromat Operator, Injector Operator, Portioning Blender Operator, Batter/-Breader Operator, Triangle Operator, and Fryer Operator
Graap 4	- Sanitation
Group 5	~ Shipper/Receiver and Q.A. Receiver
Group 6	~ Industrial Mechanic and Grade 111 Engineer
Group 7	- Licensed Millwright (rate only applies when the Company requires employees in this classification)
Group 8	- Licensed Electrician
*
Employees ^enployed in the Sausage Department on June 20,	1987, will receive
a RED CIRCLE rate ten cents (10$) above the Group l rate for the length of this ^^^ement. Employees who subsequently transfer to another department would cease to receive this RED CIRCLE rate .
Effective when using scale .
Effective when using mesh glove and knife.
ARncm 30 » naanci
30.01	This Agreement shall r^emain in full force effect ^ from February^8. Jl290,^ until May 30, 1991, and shall continue thereafter to automatically renew itself from year to year unless a notice of termination or amendment is given by either party to the other, in writing, not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) deys prior to date of expiration. If such notice is given, this Agr^^tent shall r^emain in force during the period of negotiations.
DATED AT	OONT^O, THIS 28th DAY OF
1990.
• m—nrmruT. wwEms nimnonL
anas. iooa ns________
George Root N. Leigh Folliott P. Rudelka
0. Smith M. Lucas
A Laing
Ron Springall R. Tucker s. Cole
45
SCHBPPUS mMm
VUUGB& AMD cuksamcmtm
	llar. 26/90	Oct. 1/90	Fob.4/91
11	$ 10.40	$ 10. 70	$ 10.95
12	10.S0	10.80	11.0S
Group 13	10..60	10.90	11.15
Group 14	10.65	10.95	ll.20
ts	11.10	11..40	11.65
^oup 16	12.25	12.90	13.40
17	14.85	15.45	15.95
^KUUp f8	15.90	16.20	16.40
Probationary ^employees'	rate will be fifty
cents ( 500	less than the applicable job
classification rate.
Lead ^Rands will receive forty-five cents C 454) per hour above the highest paid bargaining unit ^employee that he/she leads.
46
ttye Article 29	- fiWMP daaaificatioia
All existing bargaining unit jobs not mentioned in Article 29, are included in Group 1.
DATED 'IBIS 28th DAY OF ^JUIB, 1990.
Ron Springall ll. Tucker S. Cole l>. Smith M. LUC&&
... ^ing
George Root
N. Leigh Folliott
P. Kudelka
47
Re:	Article 5	- oonion Security
The Union agrees that any new employee refuse to join the Union for legitimate reasons (example, religious beliefs) wi 11 not tie required to jOin the Union. The ^^^^y wi 11 advise the Union, in writing, of the reason for such refusal within thirty (30) calendar days of his date of hire. An employee so affected, shall authorize the deduction of an amount equivalent to the amount of initi ati on fees.
DATED TSIS 28th DAY OF ^JUNE,. 1990,
! Mt
Springall
R.	Tucker
S.	Cole O. Smith M. Lucas A. Laing
George Root
N f Leigh Polliott
P. Kudelka
48
MB» PF HHa^BHHG
le:	Article 5	- Union Security
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of its computer tape regarding Union dues and initiation fee deductions and other such additional information identified by the Union during the course of negotiations.
DATED THIS 28th DAY OF ^JUNE, 1990.
Ron Springall
R.	TUcker
S.	Cole D* Smith M. Lucas A. Laing
ICR THE CQMBMBf
George Root
N. Leigh Polliott
P. Kudelka
49
i:e:	Printing of Collective Aqro^eemezats
The Co^^ny will reimburse the Union fifty percent ( 5 O % ) of the cost of printing this Collective Agreement, to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
DATED THIS 28th DAY OF	1990.
rot tbb xmxom
Ron Springall
R.	Tucker
S.	Cole D. ^uth M. Lucas A. Laing
George Root
N. Leigh Polliott
P. Kuclellta
UNION OR HIG
llPS
TION
Some f f believe that unions are j g:	higher education but 1	c uld	e
ur ei fi n the truth. Uni have .1 believed he zi k and ii< be open t II qualified s,	s of h , ::	I
ti> at I levels is a social investment i the future :t yi elds the ( '€ returns.
Scholarships c p The United Food and Commercial Workers have two scholarship rogr. open t be and their ren. The iterr >n Union annually i\ fs nearly $80,000 i 22 applicai ts ss i ie ic a I R h i 18 also d six William 3e	: in J j
every year to Canadian members and their children. These g are th $500 each.
U.F.C.W. Locals 175 members have i	frequent scholarship winners in * past and it i	>p j
that t ii j fort i continue. But i must thin I about it well ahead i ri i :ati ; for the Intel	Union . ilarships must be submitted
b IJ	31st of f i before vo I t
ei a s	I ifc For ! v
Beggs a1 howe you need	p! only bef re
S elite 111	of It year you first 11t r 111 or
i ill	^ th ere are a limited ir
of 01a	a^a a I c	wt needs d
/es r rlt be a r But yoi ev u if it’s r turn tc wiJ	n. you r} Cc or t re the
Union's iti 1 I	for stc
lHE (^OCA^mw. HEALlH & ^SAfETY /Cf
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guideto the Act (Bill 70) For details. refer to the Act itself., which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace
Employer's Dulles
Among other things the employer must
•	Provide information instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor
•	Co-operate with and assist the health andsafety com mittee and representative
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker
Supervisor's Duties
In stores the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager He must
•	Ensurethat the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment protective devices or clothing that is required
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actualdanger to health and safety
•	Provide written safety instructions where required
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner as above but they camot discipline workers who refuse for example. to wear safely equipment If a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager
Workers' Obligaliou
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor
Workers may not
•	Remove or turn off any safety device
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may
endanger yourself or another worker
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
It you encounter an unsafe condition at work your first obligation isto report itto your Supervisor Once you havedone that you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal He must then investigatethe matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Com mjttee} If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe you may continue to refuse to work provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard
At this point the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in While you are waiting for him the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal This second worker also has the same right to refuse The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work . subject to the Collective Agreement
The decision of the Inspector isfinal Although his order may beappealed you must returnto the job if the so orders pending the outcome of such appeal
WORKERS' COl\flNSAATOI
The Workers Compensation Board (WCB) is an employer-paid insurance program that protects workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WC6 benefits
What do I do if I llq • xcident atwark? All accidents evenminor ones must be reported to management immediately tfthe accident is serious enoughto leave work you must seek medlcal	•
possible Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have
What forms must be filled Ml to receive compensation?Two forms are essential in order to receive WCB benefits First the yellow "Empbyer'sReport ot Accident Industrial Disease' must be filled out by management if and only if
(a) You consult a doctor aboutyourwork-related disability and/ or (b) You lose work time ^^ed.the day of n.e acei^.
Please note that you do not have to actually losetime from work in order to initiate aWCB claim Even ifyou consult a doctorand are sent backto work thenexl day your employermustfiletheir report This is known as a No Lost Time claim
The second form is a pink form called "Doctor's First Report" There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitalswi 11 havethem as well This is filled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB
^bet are WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive90% of your netpre.-accident earnings WCB benefits are non-taxable Maximum insurable earnings are now $35,100 00 yearly cheques are sent every two weeks A normal accident claim will take from ten days to six wee:ks to proves before you begin receiving benefits, assuming tbetwo important forms are submitted right away
How long do WCB benefit Illt? Most people who have workplace accidentsare backto work withinfour weeks or less Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from. As long as you are judged to betotally disabledand the disability isconsideredttmww WCB benefits will continue without limitation. If you have a permanent disability, WCB will award you a small pension. dependingon what they assess to be your degree of disability.
What ff I have a health problem that is caused by my job but I didn’t have an accident II work? Back problems. tendonitis. carpal tunnel syndrome, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc.. are.just a few of the work-relateddisabilities suffered byUFCW members If you feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category. first consult your doctor. If he or sheagreesthat your problem is or is likelyto have been caused by your job. a Doctor’s First Report should be Submitted right away. Inform your employer of your doctor’s opinion and ask that the Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimate claim
What happens if my claim is turned down by the WC67 You can appeal an adverse decision bythe WCB The Unionwill assist you and represent you. without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free lhe Union employs WCB experts to help you
Wouldn't I be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases. NO However, if you have a non-accidental disability which requires you to take time off from work. consult the Union for advice
the WCB cover part-timers? Yes The same rules and benefits apply. regardless of the number of hours you work per week
What ifmy benefits are late or ae cutoff lor some reason? Contactthe Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence.
Remember: Neverfet management talk you out of filing a WCB daim. You may regret It later. your disability won’t go a1y. It is illegal lor management to interfere with your right to makeaWCB claim. If you have rx1y problems or concerns. contact the Union office.
BIMONTHLY GENERAL MEETINGS
T^.- F.r SIDres a
0 f L Bldg Auditorium A-1 15 Gervais 0- OO"n Mills
To^laldO Plants CAW Hall,
891 Wilson Ave. W., Oownsvlew
Stak Hause ^^MrnCenlre
Howden Recreation Centre Bramalea Ontario
Army & Navy Club 7 ^George Street Barrie
Orillia. Midland Keswick
Holiday Inn 40 Memorial 0-(Junctionl2) Orillia
Othm
CA.W Hal, 44 Bond St East Oshawa
Holiday Inn Oshawa Lindsay
Peterborough 401 Motor Hotel 150 Landsdowne St W <Hwy 28t
Lindsay Legion Hall York St ..Lite
Legion Hall Pinnacle St Belleville Kl1g1ton
Royal Cdn Legion Hall Er 9 64 Barrack St Kingston
Cornwall
Holiday Inn
Hamiltan f9d I Mi^^rn
Glassworkers Hall 787- Barton St E Hamilton
St.
C.AW Hall
124 BtnUng Rd , St. ^Calharines Mlestaoods
Trinity Club(Teamsters)
1194 Matheson Blvd Mississauga
CambridgeOept S11r1 A RatM1nl
Inn
Hwy No 24 Cambridge-Galt sound
Sun	IMolet
Owen
Tillsonllurg. Woodstock &imcoe
Community Centre Hardy Avenue Tillsonburg a Canadian Legion Simcoe
^Godlricl S^tnd
Salttord Valley Union Hail Hwy No 21 Goderich a Optimist Club Water SI Stratford
^CabcMo Club 2175 ^Pc:nrtSt.,
Windw
Caboto Club
2175 Parent St Windsor
L^dsn
L amptiohler Inn
591 Wellington Rd South London
Sarnia
Travefodge Motel Sarnia
Pizza Pizza Mmulfjns R^cmais II Spa Community Centre 519 Church St Toronto
Hamilton Dept Stores & Restaurants Plumbers & Pipefitters Union Hall Fennell Ave E Hamilton
Chatham &
CAW Hall Merritt St., Chatham
Leamington U F CW Hall
Erie St South Leamington
Huntsville Bracebridge Huntsville Legion Hall Bracebridge Legion Hall
Parry Sound Trappers Restaurant The Mall Parry Sound
Sudbury
Steelworkers Hall Frood St Sudbury
S i I I St Marie
Empress Motel Sault Ste Marie
Kapuskesinp
Civic Centre Kapuskasing Espanola
Knights ot Columbus Hall Espanola
North Bay Sturgeon Falls Emocre Motel North Bay
Kirkland Lake
Steelworkers Hall Kirkland Lake Thunder Bay
Lakehead Labour Centre Thunder Bay
Pembroke Deep River Legion Hall Pembroke
Otawa. Arnprior Smiths Falls Embassy West Motel Ottawa
Hawkesbury
Holiday Motel
Norandi
Henri Motel Noranda Que
He11st
Queens Motel
Slmce
Legion Hall
The above meeting places may be subject lo change upon notification.
^ BULLETIN BOARDS FOR UNION INFORMATION AND MEETING NOTICES
UNEMPLOYMENT
Unemployment Insurance i s not welfare It is a system of providing partial income replacementfor peoplewho have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer
Sy weekly premiums to the Unem to'yment insurance mmiSSiOO and you are entitled to Benefits il you meet certain eligibility requirements You should apply for U I benefits ifyou fall Into one of the following categories: Laid oft—11 you are' out of work dueto lay-off and youhave worked at least 10-14 weeks during the' last 52 weeks. you are eligible for benefits You receive no money for the first two weeks of lay-off and your benefits wi 11 continue for up to 52 weeks Your maximum benefit period may be less than 52 weeks. depending on a number of factors Dlschirgid or (lull-Same eligibility IUles as fof lay-off. but the two-^k waiting period can be ut^endl 10 eight weeks it you were fireo for jusicause Or quilwithouta good reason Vou may appeal an extension of your waiting
Sickness—You must have worked at least20 weeks during the last 52 and your benefits wi 11 continuefor a maximumof 15 weeks A doctor*$ report is necessary to obtain U.I Sickness benefits.
Prapnancf—1 5 weeks of benefits are payable when you take your maternity leave. provided you apply at the time ol leaving You must have worked 20 weeks in the last52 and there is the same two waiting period as that imposed CJl other claimants What you need to apply for U.I. bwefita:
•	A Record of EimIoyfflerit from the company If you have problems ootaining it inform your local Canada Employment and Immiaration Centre fCEIC).
•	An application tor benefits obtainable at CtlC offices
•	A doctor'* report tor sickness or maternity benefits also
obtainable at CEIC offices
If you have any questions or problems with U IC . call your local CEIC office If your problems continue. contact the Union Office
leriod.