COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
SHOPSY’S FOODS
Division of Thomas J. Lipton Inc. (Unox)
150 Bartor Rd., Weston, Ont. M9M 1H1
(hereinafter called “the Company”)
— and —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Locals 175 and 633 AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
WITNESSETH:
The Company and the Union hereto mutually agree as follows:
Article I
RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Locals 175 and 633, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in its plant in the Province of Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office, clerical and sales staff, plant protection persons, and the persons covered by the existing Collective Agreement. Part-time employees shall be covered by Articles of this Agreement as provided in Appendix “B”.
1.02	The Company agrees not to bargain individually or collectively with its employees.
<rd26i (03)
Name .......
Address.....
Phone ......
Soc. Ins. No... Work Address Work Phone .. Union Steward Phone ......
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. locals 175/633 61 International Blvd., Suite 302 Rexdale, Ontario MOW 6K4 Phone: (416) 674-0606 If calling from
outside the Metro Toronto area, you can call your Union office toll-free. If you live in the 416 area, call 1-800-387-4874.
If you live in the 519,613 or 705 area, call 1-800-387-4864.
UNITED FOOD 8 COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 165,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in the U.S.
UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This merger took place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup-tf Local 175/633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/833
Your local union, with over 40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
Local 175/633 is made up of former members of the Ontario Retail Council (Locals 175, 633, 725 & 1105P); Locals 116,125L, 479P, 460P, 485 and 1230 all from the old Amalgamated; and Locals 206, 233F, 409, 486 and 1979 from the old Retail Clerks. Your Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
LETTERFROM
THEPRESIDENT
U.F.C.W.
LOCALS 175/633
Dear Fellow Members:
This contract is probably the most valuable thing you own. It is a written guarantee-
of your income, benefits and job security. It gives you peace of mind because you know that you cannot lose your job arbitrarily. Non-union workers do not enjoy this security.
It allows you to plan for the future because you know what your income will be as much as two years in advance. Non-union workers can have their wages anti benefits cut at any time. This has happened quite often in recent years.
Please do not take the collective agreement for granted. Protect it as you would protect any valuable property. Do not let your contract rights be violated even in smal ways. Remember mat you can be disciplined by management for even small violations of their rules. Why should they be allowed to ignore a legal contract mat spells out your rights,
If you feel mat you are not being treated fairly by me company, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is trained by me Union to handle complaints and grievances. If your problem is a complicated one, a full-time Business Represen-BSlyo.ofJhni.mjo.njtanh? caned on at any time to assist you.
We should afi be proud dour union's achievements. We have proven many times mat employers can treat their workers fairfv and sdll run their businesses efficiently and profitably. Occasionally we will have disagreements, sometimes serious ones. But we can always resolve our differences through mutual respect and an agree ment everyone can live with.
In me United Food and Commercial Workers we are committed to job security Only your union can be relied on to protect your rights in employment Only your union can be counted on for help when you have problems with management Only your union is 100% dedicated to improving your wages, benefits and job security.
Keep up to date about legislation concerning Sunday work pay equity U.I.C. and pension, to name a few. Don't be afraid to write your legislators and voice your opinions. Believe me, it counts.
Your Union is now over 40,000 members. Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained and get what is rightfully ours in the future.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about me uwoo Tflis isjmur union and your opinion is what reallv, counts..
Fraternally yours,
Jim Crockett President Local 175.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Jim Crockett, Mississauga SECRETfUWJREASURER Robert Murphy, SL Catharines RECORDER
John DiNardo, Toronto
VtCE-MESBENTS
Douglas Abel,
RidtAlM^!\^^auga Rauben Anderson, London Antonio Araujo, Brampton Toni Armstrong, OriNa Larry Bam, Utopia Robert Bates, Amherstburg Reg Baughan, Hamlton Michael Brennan, Scarborough Robert Charron, Gatineau Catherine Ctermont, Hamilton Susan Colpitis, Oshawa Grant Cooper, Brampton Lea Corrigan, Kitchener Diana CragOL Thunder Bay Water Cucullch, Haniston Alex Davidson, Scarborough Nettie Oyria, Downsview Jack Facetta Orleans David Fox, Napanee
Michael J, Fraser. Thunder Bay John GaSarrt, Kitchener Sheila Grant Tweed D i e Haardeng, Durrovlle Karl Hamrralfambrokei Barry Haywood, Aurora Ronald Hughes, Slevensvitle Bit Kalka, Eagle River Phyllis Keily&ioura Michael Lucas, London Bruce MacDonald, Belleville Ken McCarvil, Nepean Morag McVYUliam, Frankford Delores MenelUondon GaiVn'Iilar., Benton Ian Miller, Deserooto Jim Montgomery, Welland Gerry Morris, Thunder Bay Frank Palme; Hamilton Helen Parts, Kitchener Carol Partridge; London Randal Rowel, Hensal Harry Randal, Hamilton ferry Rombough, Cavan Ron Roy, Mississauga it o Sp nngdii,"Knbnener Linda ferpsraJBjenheim
^nus^lternsA Baltimore Carmen Woodcock, Thunder Bay
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT	VICE-PRESCENTS:
A. G. Sherman, Irmerkip SECRETARWREASURER Don Morin, Garson RECORDS!
Floyd Gutchat Thorold
Gerald CliflordlOjmbedand Beach Bernies, Qox,Downsview Kart JJanoRsnamt; .3. Catharines
What You Get For Your Union Dues
Higher Ihtn average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionised workers make, on average. 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in tie same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens or thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense
tn getting you back to work Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing youfwork? Were your bumping rights ignored' Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat tor you. in a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
Problems with Workmen's Compensation crUIC? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies These services are free to you. should you ever need them Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help
Pinslms. Iistil Imirinci. Sick Psy. Disability Insurance, etc.
Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family Should they be unable to work because ot sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet the would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year idon't forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or "impulse" gifts.
YOUR OFFICERS ANO BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
JimCrectett
President Chief Executive
Bud Adam	Barry Bailey	Mll“ Fraser
Regional Director	Regional Director	Regional Director
YOUR OFFICERS AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
Wayne Hanley James Hastings John Hurley Business Agent Business Agent Coordinator, AAP Chairman	Organizing
Frank Kelly Warren Kennedy Jayaram Nair
Business Agent Business Agent Business Agent Miracle Food Mart
Joe O’Donnell' Dan Oniehuk Business Agent Business Agent Regional Chairman Northwest Region
Ian Reilly Crwrdinaior, Industrial & Service Division
YOUR OFFICERS AND RUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
C. W. Richardson	Jean-Guy Seguln	Denis Sexton
Organizer	Business Agent	Business Agent
Sarah Shartal	Harry Sutton
Research &	Business Agent
Benefits Officer
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected, front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Business Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. YourSteward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you stand up on your own two feet first!
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management ana if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Business Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Page
1	Recognition....,...............................
2	Preference.....................................
3	No Strike — No Lock-Gut........................
4	Union Security.................................
5	Grievance and Arbitration......................
6	Stewards.......................................
7	Discrimination.................................
8	Uniforms and Tools.............................
9	Workers’ Compensation..........................
10	Hours of Work.................................
11	Overtime......................................
12	Shift Premiums................................
13	Rest Periods..................................
14	Recognized Holidays...........................
15	Vacation..............................*.......
16	Seniority.....................................
17	Promotion.....................................
18	Demotion......................................
19	Leave of Absence..............................
20	Health and Welfare............................
21	Bereavement Pay................,..............
22	Working Conditions............................
23	Union Label...................................
24	Union Shop Cards..............................
25	Co-operation.......,..........................
26	Basic Hourly Rate of Pay......................
27	Term of Agreement.............................
Appendix “A” — Basic Hourly Rates of Pay....
Appendix “B” — Part-Time Employees............
Appendix “C” —Hours of Work...................
Letters of Understanding......................
1
2
3
3
6
9
11
n
12
13
13
15
15
16 16 18 21 23
23
24 28 28 28 28 29
34
39
41
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
SHOPSY’S FOODS
Division of Thomas J. Lipton Inc. (Unox)
150 Bartor Rd., Weston, Out. M9M IHI
(hereinafter called “the Company”)
— and —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Locals 175 and 633 AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
WITNESSETH:
The Company and the Union hereto mutually agree as follows:
Article 1
RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Locals 175 and 633, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in its plant in the Province of Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office, clerical and sales staff, plant protection persons, and the persons covered by the existing Collective Agreement. Part-time employees shall be covered by Articles of this Agreement as provided in Appendix “B”.
1.02	The Company agrees not to bargain individually or collectively with its employees.
- 1 -
1.03	The Company shall employ in its plant only members in good standing in the Union.
1.04	The Union will be advised of promotions of employees out of the bargaining unit, if an employee is promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit for a period of more than nine (9) months, the Company agrees that such person shall re-enter the bargaining unit as a new employee except he/she shall receive full credit for vacation entitlement.
1.05	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit will not perform the work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except for training, or where such work is For the purpose of investigation or experimentation.
1.06	The Union recognizes that the Company has the exclusive right to manage the business provided, however, that any such exercise of this right which is in conflict with any of the provisions of the other Articles of this Collective Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
1.07	The Company agrees that if it becomes necessary to move any production line out of the Bartor Road Plant, the Company will meet with the Union, prior to the moving of such line.
Article 2 PREFERENCE
2.01	The Company agrees that when it requires additional full-time help it will, in the first instance, apply to the Union for same. The Union agrees in such event to supply such help, if, for any reason the Union fails
-2-
to supply such help within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of such application, the Company may then obtain such help in the open market, provided, however, that such employees engaged in the open market shall, within fifty (50) days worked from the date of their employment, become members of the Union. The Company agrees to forward to the Union, each month, a list of new employees with their starting date and basic hourly rate of pay and also a list of employees terminated.
Article 3
NO STRIKE - NO LOCK-OUT
3.01	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes or lock-outs as long as this agreement continues to operate.
Article 4
UNION SECURITY
4.01	Subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, it is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement shall become members and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment.
4.02	The Company agrees that each employee, upon
employment and completion of his/her probationary period of employment will	required to sign an authori-
zation card directing the Company to deduct Union initiation fees and weekly dues from the first pay due and such dues weekly thereafter. Any such authorization shall take effect as of the next regular deduction date after it is received by the Company. The fees and dues shall be
3
forwarded to the Union monthly by the 15th of the following month.
4.03	The Union shall inform the Company, by written certification, of the amounts of weekly Union Dues according to the most recent such certification received. Such certification shall be given to the Company at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the effective date of any change.
4.04	The Company will, at the time of making such remittance hereunder to the Financial Secretary of the Union, to United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Suite 302,61 International Blvd., Rexdale, Ontario M9W 6K4, supply a statement showing the following information from whom pay deductions have been made.
(a)	All monthly dues for members to be submitted in alphabetical order with current address, postal code anj) Social Insurance Number.
(b)	Twelve (12) check-offs per year (Calendar months).
(c)	Monthly — New members to be listed in alphabetical order with Social Insurance Number and date of hire and starting salary.
Terminations or Resignations — to be listed in alphabetical order with current address, postal code, Social Insurance Number and date of termination or resignation.
Addresses to be updated as well as name changes, i.e., marriage and transfers, from one local to another to keep records current.
(d)	Each employee is responsible for promptly notifying the Company in writing of any change of name, address, phone number, marital status.
- 4 -
4.05	Part-time employees working on a temporary fulltime basis will be required to pay full-time Union dues.
4.06	The Company agrees to pay up to a maximum of five (5) employees on the Union Negotiating Committee for time spent on negotiations with the Company, during their scheduled hours, at their normal rates of pay.
4.07	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company, its agents and/or employees acting on behalf of the Company from any and all claims, demands, actions or causes of action-arising out of or in any way connected with the collection of such dues and initiation fees for Ifoiar members only.
4.08	(a) No permanent employee shall be discharged or disciplined without good and sufficient cause.
fbi The Company agyees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his/her record regarding working conduct, the Steward will he present as a witness. The-employee may request that the Plant Steward leave the meeting. In the event the Steward is not present, the condition will be brought to the attention of the employee. The meeting that becomes part of the employee’s record will be postponed until the Steward is available, If the meeting is held without the Steward, any conclusion, verbal or written, will he null and void. In the event a Steward has not been designated by the Union for the area as provided in clause 6.01, then the meeting between the employee and the Company representative shall be considered valid and becomes part of the employee’s record.
(c) As of the effective date of this Agreement, written Warning Notices on an employee’s record are to he withdrawn after one (1) year, provided there are no further
- 5 -
written Warning Notices given during the above-mentioned one (1) year period.
4.09	The Company agrees to send to the Union Office a complete seniority list with rates of pay, every three (3) months.
Article 5
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
5.01	The grievance procedure is designed to adjust complaints and grievances in an orderly manner and as quickly as possible. Any dispute or difference of opinion concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement shall constitute a grievance.
5.02	For a grievance to be considered and processed under this Article, it must be presented, in writing, within seven (7) calendar days after the alleged incident occurred.
5.03	Step 1
Employees who have a complaint or a question which they wish to discuss with the Company shall take it up with their supervisor. If after this discussion they believe they have a grievance, they shall submit it, in writing, to their supervisor. Grievors shall have the assistance of their Steward.
If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within seven (7) calendar days, the grievance shall be processed to Step 2 at any time within IMA vuoddqg jays thereafter.
-6-
step 2
The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the Department Superintendent. If a meeting is held between the Department Superintendent and the grievor, the Steward will be present. The Department Superintendent will give an answer, in writing, within five (5) working days. The grievance may be processed to Step 3 any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
Step 3
(a)	The aggrieved employee may present his/her written grievance to the Manufacturing Manager. If a meeting is held, the grievor and the Steward and/or the Business Representative will be present. The Manufacturing Manager shall give a reply, in writing, within five (5) working days. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within five (5) working days thereafter, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration, as provided in Step 4, any time within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. If the grievance is not taken to arbitration as herein provided, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled at the conclusion of Step 3, with the decision of the Manufacturing Manager being final and binding on the Union, the Company and the grievor. The time limits as prescribed above in Step 1. 2 and 3 mav be modified by mutual agreement, in writing to the Company and the Union.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree that either party has the right to file a policy grievance that may begin at Step 3.
Discharge or Suspension
In the case of a discharge or suspension, a grievance may be filed at Step 3 by an employee who feels he/she was unjustly dealt with. Such a grievance shall be filed
- 7 -
within seven (7) calendar days of the date of dismissal or suspension.
Step 4
The Company and the Union agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application
or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the steps outlined in this Article and which has not been settled, may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either the Company or the Union notifying, in writing, the other of such action.
5.04	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one (1) person appointed by the Company, one (1) person appointed by the Union, and a third person to act as Chairman agreed to by the other two (2 j members of the Board.
5.05	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the request by the Company or the Union to the other for a Board,
each shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
5.06	Should the persons appointed by the Company and the Union to act on the Board not agree on a third person within fifteen (15) working days of the notification period provided in clause 5.05. the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario shall be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairman.
5.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend, or to substitute anv provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Agreement.
- 8 -
5.08	The unanimous or majority decision, in writing, of the Arbitration Board with respect to the matters coming within the jurisdiction of the Board shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees.
5.09	The Company and the Union shall pay their own respective costs, and the fees and expenses of any witnesses and of their respective representatives, including appointees to the Board. The fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. The Company shall pay the grieving employee at his/her basic hourly rate for the duration of the arbitration meeting if die meeting was held during his/her regular scheduled working hours and only for such time he/she would have normally worked had the meeting not been held.
(b) The Union’s Business Representative shall be admitted during working hours, at a reasonable time, to interview employees on duty or to inspect working conditions. Such visits shall be arranged to cause a minimum of disturbance to the Company’s business and the Business Representative shall first report his/her presence on the occasion of each such visit to the Vice President Human Resources or, in his/her absence, the Manufacturing Manager or, in his/her absence, his/her delegated representative.
Article 6 STEWARDS
6.01	Eight (8) Union Stewards shall be designated by the Union for the following areas:
-9-
Kitchen		
Maintenance			 1 Steward
Shipping			1 Steward
Salads			 1 Steward
Packaging			 I Steward
Afternoon Shift			 2 Stewards
Night Shift		
6.02	If additional departments come into being, the Union may discuss with the Company the designation of additional Steward or Stewards and changes may be made by mutual agreement.
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of the Stewards and the areas they represent as well as of any changes in such persons as and when such changes occur.
6.04	The Union agrees that Stewards, like other employees, have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons snail not leave their regular duties without prior consent of their supervisor. In the event of them having to leave their regular duties or department for purposes of processing an employee complaint or grievance, they shall first obtain permission from their supervisor giving reasons for such request. When the business of the Stewards is completed, they will check in to their own department through their supervisor. The Union further agrees that Stewards shall not absent themselves from their regular duties for unreasonable lengths of time.
6.05	Union Stewards while attending meetings with Company representatives on Company property will be paid their basic hourly rate for the duration of the meeting if the meeting is held during their regular scheduled
- 10 -
working hours and for such time they would have normally worked had the meeting not been held.
6.06	The Company agrees that the Chief Steward has the right to leave the station of work after obtaining permission from his/her supervisor to investigate any grievance by his/her fellow steward or fellow workers.
Article 7
DISCRIMINATION
7.01	The Company agrees that it will not discriminate nor use intimidation or coercion against any employees by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin, position with or membership in the Union. The Union agrees that it will not discriminate nor use intimidation or coercion against any non-union employee by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin or position with the company.
Article 8
UNIFORMS AND TOOLS
8.01	The Company shall supply to its employees all tools, aprons, coats, etc. necessary for proper performance of their work. However, skilled trades maintenance department employees shall have worn out or broken tools replaced, such tools shall be turned into the department supervisor at the time of such request. Such employees shall exercise reasonable care in looking after the condition of their tools. An allowance of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) shall be paid on February 1st of each contract year to all such skilled trades maintenance department employees to replace any mislaid tools.
- 11 -
Effective February 1, 1990, one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per contract year.
8.02	Upon provision of receipts for the purchase of safety shoes by the employee, the Company agrees to pay up to sixty dollars ($60.00) per contract year for Safety Committee approved safety shoes for each fulltime, non-probationary employee. An exception to this will be that the Company will supply safety rubber boots to employees whose work functions necessitates same, as required.
Effective January 15,1990, sixty-five dollars ($65.00).
8.<S? \js? I'Efe Company wiil’pnmdfca clean two piece
freezer coat and gloves for the freezer person.
(b)	Parkas will be supplied to employees when assigned to work in freezer areas.
(c)	The Company agrees to supply outside Shippers with parkas.
Article 9
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
9. Jit Tihfc C.-ympuny shall, hscanwc “j.tfilletL	as to
afford its employees protection under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
9.02	If an employee is injured and is required to leave the plant for medical attention, he/she will be paid for the balance of his/her shift during which the accident occurred.
The Company agrees to have the injured employee accompanied to the doctor’s office or the hospital by an appropriate person as deemed necessary by the Company.
Article 10
HOURS OF WORK
10.01	(a) The regular work week for the day shift shall he forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day. See Hours of Work Scheduled at Appendix “C”.
(b)	The Company reserves the right to adjust the starting time of a shift for employees up to one (1) hour earlier or one (1) hour later as required. When it is necessary to adjust the starting time of a shift for employees, the Company will advise the employee(s) affected in the week prior to the change.
Employees required to report earlier than their regular starting time without twenty-four (24) hours notice will be paid time and one-half (1-1/2X) for all hours before their regular starting time on the first day.
Employees required to change the starting time of their shift by more than the one (1) hour provided above will be paid time and one-half (1-1/2 X) for the time in excess of one (1) hour.
(c)	Employees required to start before 5:30 a.m. will be paid fifty cents (50C) per hour for all hours worked before 5:30 a.m. in addition to their regular hourly rate.
Article 11 OVERTIME
11.01	Tie and one-half shall be paid for any or all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. When overtime is to be worked employees are to be informed before lunch break. For weekend overtime the Company will advise employees by lunch break on Friday.
11.02	(a) Employees whose normal work week is Monday to Friday called in to work on Saturday will be
- 13 -
guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate will become double time. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Sunday at the double time rate.
(b) Employees whose normal work week is Sunday VltiursukycaAkf in to'wuik wn'W rtiay'wdl'ife- guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate will be double time. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Saturday at the double time rate.
11.03	All work performed on a Recognized Holiday (or days celebrated in lieu thereof) shall be. paid (with a minimum of four hours) at double the regular rate of pay in addition to the day’s pay for such holiday.
11.04	All employees shall be required to work a reasonable amount of overtime and, if necessary, employees having least seniority shall be expected to work provided the employee is capable of performing such work.
11.05	(a) If overtime is required in the Maintenance and Sanitation department, the Company agrees that the employees who work in the area will work overtime Monday through Friday unless the employee-h*w other commitments and may not be able to work the overtime; however, on Saturday and Sunday the overtime will be on a rotation basis.
If overtime is required within the area, (other than Maintenance and Sanitation) the Company agrees that the overtime will be worked by qualified employees on a rotation basis, Monday through Sunday.
11.06	An employee who has returned to work after an absence resulting from illness or accident and who has
- 14 -
temporaiy physical restrictions to employment, will not be permitted to work overtime until such restrictions are removed by the employee’s family physician.
Article 12
SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01	The afternoon shift will carry a forty-five cent (45C) an hour premium.
12.02	(a) The night shift will cany a fifty cent (50C) an hour premium.
(b)	A seventy-five cent (75C) an hour shift premium, instead of forty-five cent (45C) an hour premium will be paid on Sunday for all hours worked between six p.m. and midnight for all employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday.
12.03	Night Shipping employees will have a guarantee of thirty-seven (37) regular hours worked minimum per week.
Article 13 REST PERIODS
13.01	The Company shall grant a fifteen (15) minute rest period as near as practicable to the middle of the first half and to the middle of the second half of the shift.
13.02	When an employee is required to work in excess of one and one-quarter hours beyond his/her regular scheduled quitting time, a fifteen mmute rest period, paid for by the Company shah be provided prior to the starting of the overtime shift. The Company further agrees
- 15 -
to supply a supper or four dollars and fifty cents ($4.50) in lieu of a supper, during the aforementioned rest period. Effective January 15,1990, five dollars ($5.00).
Article 14
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.01	There shall be eleven (11) recognized holidays as follows:
New Year’s Day Day after New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Employee’s Birthday Christmas Day Boxing Day
The Employee’s Birthday will be recognized for all employees at work or on the active payroll as at 1 May each year. The taking of this Holiday will not result in the full or partial reduction of any Company operations.
14.02	All employees shah be entitled to full pay for such holidays provided. However, no employees shall be entitled to be paid for such holiday if they absent themselves without good and valid cause on the day before or the day after such holiday.
Article 15
VACATION
15.01	Employees with less than twelve (12) months service as of May 1st shall receive vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of earnings from date of hiring to May 1st of current vacation year.
-16-
15.02	Employees with twelve (12) months or more of service as of May 1st shall receive two (2) weeks’ vacation with pay or four percent (4%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.03	Employees with five (5) years or more of service as of May J.st stall, receive three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay or six percent (6%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.04	Employees with ten (10) years or more of service as of May 1st shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay or eight percent (8%) of earnings, whichever is greater. '
15.05- Employees with eighteen (18) years or more of service as of May 1st shall receive five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay or ten percent (10%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.06	Employ ees with twenty-five (25) years or more of service as or May 1st shall receive six (6) weeks’ vacation with pay or-twelve percent (12%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.07	Vacations are to be taken between May 1st and the following April 30th, and shall not be carried from one vacation year to the next.
15.08	For the purpose of Article 15, employees who started to work on or before the 15th of May will be deemed to have started on the first of the month. Employees who started after the 15th day of May will be deemed to have started on the first day of the following month.
-17-
15.09	An employee who has four (4) weeks’ vacation entitlement or more, one of the weeks will be taken during the months of Januaty to April.
Article 16 SENIORITY
1601	Seniority in this Agreement shall be a plant-wide seniority from the day of last hire.
1602	(a) In the case of date duplication, an alphabetical list shall be prepared in accordance with the surname an&those at the top of the list shall be deemed to be hired
(b) The Company agrees to post the seniority list on the bulletin board every six (6) months.
1603	New employees hired by the Company will be considered as probationary employees until they have completed fifty (50) days worked during which time they may fee discharged or disciplined without recourse, to the Grievance Procedure. The Company will not discharge an employee for the purpose of enforcing an additional probationary period. Upon completion of the fiftieth worked day the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the regular seniority list.
1604	(a) In the event of a promotion, transfer, a reduction of staff or lay-off: or a rehiring of employees; the principle of plant-wide seniority shall govern the matter provided the employee is qualified to perform the work.
(b) An exception to 16.04 (a) will be that when an employee is temporarily displaced for one full shift or less, the principle of plant-wide shift seniority will apply.
- 18 -
(c)	Employees displaced will fill vacancies created by layoffs, in accordance with 16.04 (a) and (b) provided they are qualified to perform the work.
16.05	(a) In the event of layoffs, the Company undertakes to elite the use of part-time employees, provided there are full-time employees available who are qualified to perform the work.
(b)	The Company agrees that part-time employees will not be scheduled to work on a week-end when qualified full-time employees are available to work.
(c)	A full-time employee who chooses part-time employment, in lieu of layoff, will retain full-time seniority unless the employee refuses recall to full-time status. A part-time employee who refuses a recall to full-time status shall be governed by Appendix B Article 16 (c).
16.06	An employee reporting to work for his/her regular shift and is laid off or not required for any part of that shift due to a mechanical breakdown, shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours at his/her regular basic hourly rate except when the employee:
(a)	Has been given advance notice not to report to work.
(b)	Is prevented from working because of an act of God such as power failure, flood or fire.
(c)	Did not keep the Company advised of his/her current address and telephone number.
1607 Employees who because of work are to be laid off for a period of more than three (3) work days and who have:
(a) Less than one (1) year’s service shall receive one (1) week’s written notice or one (1) week’s basic pay in lieu of such notice.
-19-
(b) One (1) or more year’s service shall receive two (2) weeks’ written notice or two (2) weeks basic pay in lieu of such notice.
Copies of layoff notices shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees are to be laid off work. In the event of a layoff of three (3) work days or less, verbal advice shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees are to be laid off.
Layoffs of three (3) work days or less will not be given after written notice of a layoff of more than three (3) work days has already been given.
16.08	When recalling persons from layoff according to clause 16.04, the Company shall direct such persons by registered letter to the fast address appearing on the Company’s records to report to work. The person recalled shall report to work at the date and time specified in the registered letter or within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the registered letter, whichever is the later. In the event the person recalled is unable to report because of medically validated accident or sickness, or for any other valid reason, he/she shall be excused from such recall. In order to return to work, the person disabled shall provide acceptable medical evidence of physical ability to return to work.
16.09	An employee shall lose his/her seniority when:
(a)	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure.
(b)	He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employment.
(c)	He/she has been laid off continuously for a period of more than twelve (12) months.
(d)	He/she does not return to work from layoff as provided in clause 1608.
- 20 -
(e)	He/she is absent from work for three (3) working days without a good and valid reason.
16l10 Employees’ seniority will not be unreasonably terminated when they .remain, away from work because of sickness or disability, provided the Company is notified within a reasonable-&e. An employee-retiming from sick or disability leave after five (5) working days’ absence, must if requested by the Company, present a certificate from his/her physician stating the nature of the sickness and that the employee is fully recovered to perform his/her regular duties.-
16. d" When an employee :isTcquircu‘uu take time off from
work for personal reasons, he/she shall advise his/her immediate supervisor one (1) day before.
In the event of the permanent closure of all or part of the plant operations, terminated employees will receive severance pay in accordance with the terms of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
Article 17 PROMOTION
17.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix “A”.
17.02	(a) The Company will provide training oppottu-' nities to employees on a seniority basis, and when filling a-vacancy in a department, the Company will give the senior employee in the next lower-paid job classification the opportunity, provided he/she has the required skills and qualifications to perform the work.
(b) Should a job opening occur within any one job classification on the day or afternoon shift, any person on
-21-
the afternoon or evening shift within the same job classification will be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority to enter the day shift position, provided the employee has the required skills and qualifications to per-ftuL JkarX/csV TJv? exchange wsiV take place once the Company has had the opportunity to train replacement personnel.
17X)2 (c) The Company agrees to post on the bulletin board all full-time permanent vacancies and promotions.
17.03	(a) After clause 1702 has been complied with and a permanent vacancy exists in a department, such vacancy shall be posted for a period of four (4) working days. Interested employees shall submit an Application Form (obtained from their supervisor or the Human Resources Department) within four (4) working days of the posting. The Company will then give the senior employee, from among those who submitted Application Forms, the opportunity for such vacancy provided he/she has the required level of skill, ability, efficiency and the physical capability to perform the work.
(b) The name and the seniority date of the employee will be posted. A copy of such notice will be forwarded to the union
17.04	(a) When an employee is successful on a job posting, he/she shall maintain his/her existing rate unless the employee has had previous experience on the job, in which case he/she shall receive the job rate immediately. When an employee has maintained his/her existing classification rate he/she shall progress to the new job classification rate after successfully maintaining the new position for thirty (30) working days.
(b) An employee who is successful on a job posting and who maintains the position after thirty (30) working
-22-
days, will receive the new job classification rate retroactive to the first day of appointment of the position.
Article 18 DEMOTION
1801 In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix '‘A’.
18.02	This Article will be applied in conjunction with
17.02	(a), 17.02 (b) or 17.03 (a).
18.03	Employees wishing to bid on a lower-paid job vacancy will be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority, once every twelve (12) months maximum, to successfully bid up to two classification levels lower, provided they have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work. The exchange will take place once the Company has had the opportunity to tram replacement personnel.
Article 19
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	Employees may be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority, upon proper permission being obtained from the Company, and such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
19.02	In the case of pregnant females, leave of absence will be granted without loss of seniority to such persons provided that such employees shall return to work not more than sixteen (16) weeks following the birth of the child. The Company reserves the right to determine when it shall no longer be suitable for a pregnant female to continue work.
- 23 -
19.03	(a) In the event an employee is precluded from working his/her regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty or jury selection: or being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the Company agrees to make-up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty, jury selection time, or crown witness duty, and the amount the employee would have earned for working his/her regular shift or shifts.
(b)	In order to qualify for such compensation, the employee shall give seventy-two (72) hours’ prior notice to his/her supervisor for such jury duty, jury selection call, or subpoena as a crown witness and present evidence of the compensation received for such period.
Article 20
HEALTH AND WELFARE
20.01	The Company agrees to pay the full premium for all full-time employees and their dependents for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan plus coverage to provide semi-private hospitalization for all employees and their dependents.
20.02	It is further agreed that in the event of changes to the present premium that would result in a saving to the company, such saving will be used to purchase increased benefits for the employees.
20.03	(a) The company agrees to pay for weekly wage indemnity coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a fulltime employee’s basic weekly earnings, for a period of twenty-six consecutive weeks effective on the first day of an accident and the fourth day of an illness.
Effective 15 January 1988 employees with twenty (20) years’ service or more will be eligible for thirty-nine (39)
- 24 _
consecutive weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined above.
Employees who have used their weekly wage indemnity coverage and who are not eligible for Long Term Disability coverage, will be given the opportunity to apply for any U.I.C. sickness benefits to which they may be eligible under U.I.C. legislation.
NOTE: Company has no liability if U.I.G claims are denied or if granted, affect subsequent claims for U.I.C. unemployment benefits. Employees will still need to provide Company with regular medical evidence to support their continued absence. This provision can not be used when a WCB claim has been made or rejected.
(b) The Company agrees to pay for Long Term Disability coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a full-time employee’s basic weekly earnings, integrated with the indemnity payable by the Canada Pension Plan and Compensation Act commencing effective with the twenty-seventh week of absence due to illness/accident, provided the employee is totally disabled to perform any work, according to the rules and regulations of the insurers.
20.04	(a) The Company agrees to pay for a comprehensive drug prescription plan covering full-time employees and their dependents. The plan shall have ten dollars ($10X10) deductible for single coverage and twenty dollars ($20.00) deductible for family coverage.
(b) The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan (under the Major Medical Plan) providing a benefit of ninety dollars ($90.00) per person every two (2) consecutive years for each employee and his/her eligible dependents, for the purchase of frames, lenses, the fitting of prescription lenses and contacts when recommended by a physician or optometrist.
-25-
Effective January 15, 1990, one hundred dollars ($100.00).
20.05	(a) Effective the first of the month following ratification the Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar (Sl5,tXWj life insurance policy for all full-time employ&.
Effective 15 Januaiy 1990. in addition to the fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) life insurance policy the Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15j000) Accidental Death and Dismemberment policy..
(b) Upon retiring, employees shall receive from the Company eraltr:
(0 the sum of $1,500.00 or
(ii) A paid-up life insurance policy in the amount of $5,000.00.
20.06	Effective 15 January 1989 the Company agrees to contribute twenty-three cents (23C) per hour for regular hours worked by full-time employees into the Ontario Retail Employees Dental Benefit Trust Fund.
Effective 15 January 1990 the Company agrees to contribute twenty-five cents (25C) per hour for regular hours worked by full-time employees into the Ontario Retail Employees Dental Benefit Trust Fund.
20.07	(a) Effective 15 January 1989 twenty-seven cents (27C) per hour.
Effective 15 January 1990 thirty cents (30C) per hour. The Company agrees to contribute the above amounts for regular and overtime hours worked (minimum forty (40) hours for full-time employees) for each regular, non-probationary employee eligible under the rules govem-
_ 26 -
ing the pension plan, to the U.F.C.W. Ontario Retail Council Pension Trust Fund.
(b) The Company’s obligation with regard to the aforementioned pension plan is limited to the above-noted contributions.
20.08	(a) The Company shall continue to make a reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during the hours of their employment.
(b)	The Company agrees to establish an Accident Prevention Committee in an endeavour to provide safe work practices throughout the operation ana such Committee shall meet monthly. Five (5) of the persons of the Committee shall be employees and/or Union Stewards while the remaining persons shall be Company representatives.
(c)	It is the intention of the Company and the Union to resolve safety issues internally. However, the Company and the Union agree that any safety issues tabled at the Accident Prevention Committee which cannot be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union within a reasonable period of time, may be referred by either party to the Ministry of Labour.
20.09	Adequate rest rooms shall be provided and kept
heated and ventilated and in good, sanitary condition. The employees shall co-operate with the Company in keeping the rest rooms in clean and sanitary condition.
20.10	In the event an employee is required by the Company, the local Board of Health, or any governmental agency to take a medical examination, x-ray or other tests, such shall be arranged on Company time and at the expense of the Company.
-27-
Article 21
BEREAVEMENT FAY
21.01	The Company agrees to pay employees for three (3) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother, father, wife, husband, child, brother, sister. The Company further agrees to pay employees for two (2) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law.
Article 22
WORKING CONDITIONS
22D1 The Company agrees that its shop and factory shall be properly ventilated and maintained in a sanitary condition. The Union shall co-operate with the Company to practice good housekeeping methods.
Article 23 UNION LABEL
23.01	The Company agrees to put the Union label on all pickled, smoked meats, etc.
Article 24
UNION SHOP CARDS
24.01	The Union agrees to supply the Company with a display card which the Company agrees to exhibit in a prominent place in its shop or factory. Such card shall be the property of the union and shall be returned on demand.
- 28 -
Article 25 CO-OPERATION
25D1 The Company and the Union agree to work through a joint committee and endeavour to promote the sale of union-made delicatessen products whenever possible.
Article 26
BASIC HOURLY RATE OF PAY
26u01 (a) The Company agrees to grant a sixty cent (60C) an hour wage increase to all foil-time employees on the payroll at date of ratification retroactive to 15 January 1989 for all hours paid.
(b)	The Company agrees to grant a sixty cent (60C) an hour increase to all full-time employees on the payroll 15 January 1990.
(c)	The Company agrees to grant a sixty-five cent (65C) an hour increase to all full-time employees on the payroll 15 January 1991.
In the third year, the meat industry Cost of Living Agreement (COLA) will apply as follows:
If the Consumer Price Index (Canada — All Items — 1981 = 100) published on or about 15 December 1990 exceeds the index published on or about 15 December 1989, by more, than five percent (5 %), then effective 15 January 1991, all wage rates will be increased by a cost of living allowance equal to one cent (1C) for each full two (0.2) points of such excess.
(d)	New employees (except Maintenance employees) hired following the date of ratification shall be paid:
80% of their job rate for the first six (6) months of employment.
-29-
85% of their job rate for the second six (6) months of employment.
90% of their job rate for the third six (6) months of employment.
95% of their job rate for the fourth six (6) months of employment.
100% of their job rate after completion of twenty four (24) months of employment.
26l02 Full-time non-probationary employees who are required to perform work in a higher paid classification for at least two (2) hours per day will be paid the appropriate higher rate of pay for time so worked.
2603 Persons who are students who are temporarily employed during the peak periods (15 April — 15 September; 15 December — 15 January) will be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
First year employed......................$ 9.50
Second year employed.....................$10.00
Third year employed....................$10.50
Fourth year employed..................... 11.00
Article 27
TERM OF AGREEMENT
27.01	Except as specified, this Agreement shall take effect as nf the 15th day oflanuarv. 1989 and shall remain in effect until the 14th. tlay of January. 1992 and thereafter from year to year, unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of amendment, within the period of ninety (90) days before the anniversary date.
-30-
27.02	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and replaces all previous agreements, both written and oral.
On behalf of
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, Locals 175 and 633
Bill Edison Committee Member Grant Cooper Committee Member Vince Antonacci Committee Member Bob Rozak Committee Member S. Meral
Committee Member John DiNardo Business Representative
On behalf of SHOPSY’S FOODS
Division of Thomas J. Lipton Inc. (UNOX) 150 Bartor Road, Weston, Ontario M9M 1H1
Peter M clhit
Vice-President, Human Resources Normand Charron Manufacturing Manager Thomas M. Potocnik Planning Manager
Date Signed: April 15th, 1989.
- 31 -
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF FAY—' APPENDIX ''A1 DEPARTMENTS
IWk Hourly Races of Pay
Jan.	Jan.	Jan.		
15/99	15/90	15/9J	Kitchro	Packaging Dry Goods Handling Area, Frozen Foods Area, Plant Services Area. Sliced Meats Area. Wiener Packing Area
$17.10	$17.70	$18.35		
W
16.5S	17.15	17.80		
16.25	16.55	17.50		
13.55	16.15	16.80		
14.69	15.29	15.94	Smokehouse	
			Operator	
14.44	15.04	13.69	Formulator I	
14.26	14.86	15 51	Material Controller	Diy Goods Receiver
				Meat Receiver
14.12	14.72	15.37	Trimmer Formulator 2	
Salads Sanitation Shipping Maintenance
Electronic Technician, Electromcchanic Technician
Electrician, Mechanic AA
Mechanic A Mechanic B
Material
Controller
Frceznpenon
Formolator 2 Sanitation	Checker/ •
Worker	Shipper
Appendix “B”
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
The conditions of employment for persons employed for twenty-four (24) hours or less per week shall be as set out elsewhere in this Agreement except as provided hereafter in this Agreement.
Article 4
UNION SECURITY
4.03 The Company agrees to commence deducting Union dues from a part-time employee’s first pay cheque and each pay cheque thereafter. Union dues shall be two dollars and seventy-five cents ($2.75) a week for a part-tune employee who works less than twelve hours a particular week and three dollars and twenty-five cents ($3.25) a week for a part-time employee who works twelve or more hours a particular weelc.
4.09 (a) Non probationary part-time employees shall not be discharged ui frKtiqlinfti'wfoftotrf good ail'd sufficient cause.
Article 10
HOURS OF WORK
10.01	Not applicable.
Article 11 OVERTIME
11.01	Time and one-half shall be paid for any and all time-worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day and in excess
- 34 -
of twenty-four (24) straight time paid hours per week. When overtime is to be worked, employees are to be informed before lunch break.
Clauses 11.02 and 11.04 not applicable.
Article 12
SHIFT PREMIUMS Clause 12.02 not applicable.
Article 14
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
1402 In order to qualify for pay for the holidays provided in clauses 14.01, a part-time employee shah have:
(a)	Been in the employ of the Company for three (3) months or more immediately prior to a holiday.
(b)	Worked on at least ten (10) days during the thirty day period immediately preceding a holiday.
(c)	Worked his/her regular scheduled shift preceding and following a holiday.
14.03	Provided the conditions specified in clause 14.02 have been met, the number of specified holiday hours (to a maximum of eight) that a part-time employee shall be credited with in each instance, to be paid at his/her regular straight time basic hourly rate of pay, shall be determined by totalling the number of hours worked by the employee in the thirty day period immediately preceding the week of the holiday and dividing that total by the number of days worked in the same period.
- 35 -
Article 15 VACATIONS
Vacation pay shall be as provided in me laws (i.e., four percent) of the Province of Ontario.
Article 16 SENIORITY
(a)	part-time employees shall have a probationary trial period of forty-five (45) shifts of work.
(b)	A part-time employee re-classified to full-time on jobs involving the same skills, will not be required to serve a further probationary period. The confirmation as a fulltime employee is subject to the successful passing of the Employer’s standard medical examination.
(c)	A part-time employee m-classified to full-time employee, shall carry one-half (Vi) of his/her part-time seniority up to a maximum of four (4) years to his/her full-time employment (in other words, a maximum of two (2) years’ seniority as a full-time employee).
(d)	In the event of a reduction in the number of employees coveted by this Appendix, the employee with the least seniority shall be the first laid off followed by the employee with the next least seniority, provided the employees remaining have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work available.
(e)	When increasing the number of employees covered by this Appendix, persons on layoff having recall rights will be recalled according to their seniority provided such persons have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work available.
(f)	A part-time employee shall lose his/her seniority when:
-36-
1.	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure.
2.	He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employment.
3.	He/she has been laid-off continuously for a period of more than four (4) months.
4.	He/she does not return to work from layoff at the time required.
Article 17 PROMOTIONS
Not applicable.
Article 21
BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.01	The Company agrees to pay a part-time employee his/her basic pay, up to his/her scheduled hours, to attend the funeral of any of the family members as provided in clause 2101 of this Agreement, provided such day is a regular scheduled work day.
Article 26
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY
2601 (a) Those part-time employees who have completed their probationary period on or before the date of ratification (or prior to a peak period) will be paid under the part-time wage progression during peak and off-peak periods as defined in 2603. All other employees employed during peak periods will be paid under the student wage progression as defined in 2603.
- 37 -
(b) Part-time employees on the payroll at the date of ratification of this Agreement or employed thereafter, shall be paid the following basic hourly rates of pay retroac-
tive to 15 January 1989:	15 Jan. 1989	15 Jan. 1990
At date of employment After 6 months’ service	$10.00	$10.52
	10.50	11.02
After 12 months’ service	11.00	11.52
After 18 months’ service	11.50	12.02
- 38 -
APPENDIX “C” HOURS OF WORK
	Monday	Monday	Monday	Sunday
	to	to		to
Department	Friday	Friday	F & Y	Thursday
	(Day Shift)	(Afternoon Shift)	(Night Shift)	(Night Shift)
Grinding	6:30 - 15:00	15:00 — 23:30		22:00 — 6:30
Formulation	4:00 - 12:30	12:30 — 21:00		
	4:30 - 13:00	13:00 — 21:30		
| FAM Operator	5:15 — 13:45	13:45 — 20:15		
Salami Grinder I	5:30 — 14:00	14:00 — 20:30		
	6:00 — 14:30	14:30 — 21:00		
Smokehouse	6:00 — 14:30 *5:00 - 13:30	14:15 — 22:45	22:30 — 7:00	
Set-up Stuffing & Unmoulding	6:00 - 14:30	14:30 - 23:00		22:30 - 7:00
	6:30 - 15:00	16:00 — 12:30	22:30 — 7:00	
Stuffing	7:00 - 15:30	15:30 — 12:00		
Packaging	6:00 — 14:30	14:30 — 23:00		
	6:30 - 15:00	14:45 - 23:15		
	6:45 - 14:45	15:00 - 23:30		
	7:00 - 15:30	15:30 — 12:00		
	7:30 — 16:00	16:00 — 12:30		
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 19 HEALTH AND WELFARE Smoke — Free Facility
With the foil support of the Union and the Negotiating Committee the Company will designate the total facility at 150 Baitor Road, Weston as a tobacco smoke-free facility. This will take place in conjunction with the proposed plant and office expansion due to be operational during the second quarter of 1988,
Within eight (8) weeks from the date of ratification the Company will complete its investigation of the possibility of providing an interim non-smoking lunchroom area for interested employees aad fresm, te undimg, to the Union and Committee.
FOR THE COMPANY P. S. Mdlhit
FOR THE UNION J. DiNardo
- 41 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company recognizes employee concerns regarding job security. The Company and the Union understand the importance of the Company’s continued competitive position in the market place and its requirement for economic survival.
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees. However, it may be necessary to have work performed by outside services.
The relevant factors which the Company will consider before using outside services include: adverse effect on employees (i.e. lay-off), availability of required skills, urgency of the job; cost and economic factors.
If work performed by outside services results in layoff of any of the existing employees, the Union will have recourse to the grievance procedure.
FOR THE COMPANY
P. S. McTait
FOR THE UNION
J. DiNardo
- 42 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: WEEKEND OVERTIME FOR MECHANICS
1.	The parties agree that when the plant operates on a Saturday and/or Sunday, the mechanics who normally work in each operating-area will work overtime unless the employees notify the Company in advance that they have other committments.
2.	All weekend overtime will be posted on the maintenance board, normally by Thursday, by means of a log sheet onto which the mechanics will indicate their intent to work. Any refusal to work will be considered as being worked for overtime rotation purposes.
3.	If the plant is operating, the Company will allocate the qualified mechanics for the jobs to be done. Other required maintenance overtime will he done on a rotational basis by qualified mechanics.
4.	The parties also agree that the Company will keep posted the overtime for all mechanics and a revision will be done on a quarterly basis. Any imbalance in overtime will be made up, subject to business conditions, over the next quarterly period.'
Signed this 27th day of April 1989.
FOR THE COMPANY I? S. Mdlhit
FOR THE UNION J. DiNaido
- 43 -
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Some people believe that unions are prejudiced against higher education, utrtii -nthinny ~vouId be further from the truth. Unions have always believed that colleges and universities should be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers have two scholarship programs open to members and their children. The International Union annually awards nearly $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. UFCW Region 18 also awards six William Beggs’ Scholarships every year to Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. But you must think about it well ahead of time. Applications for the international union scholarships must be submitted bv December 31st of the year before vou elan to enter a post-secondary institution. For the Wm. Beggs’ award, however, you need apply only before September of the year you first enter college or university. Regrettably, there are a limited number of scholarships available, so everyone who needs and deserves one can’t be a winner. But you never know if it’% ym turn to win unless you try. CaJ/. v. write the Union’s Education Department for details.
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act (Bill 70). For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’s Outies
Among other things, the employer must.
•	Provide information, instruction training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
. Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard . Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safely committee and representative
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker.
Supervisor’s Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must
•	Ensure that the worker works ma sale manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must alsoensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment If a meat manager is unable to convince a tellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he o required to do so. he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers' Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers-may not
•	Remove or turn off any safety device
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker or
i The condition ot the workplace itself is hazardous
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal He .must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee) If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is sale, you may continue to refuse to work, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in While you are waiting for him. the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the lob was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement
The decision ot the Inspector is final Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if the so orders pending the outcome of such appeal.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
The Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) is an employer-paid Insurance program that protects workers against loss of income due to lob-related disabilities Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
mat ft I di III tan an accHont d wrtf All accidents, even minor ones, must be reported to management immediately If the accident is seriousenough to leavework. yai must seek mtdlcil attention at toon as possible. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace IS required by law to have
WhUtKipjanusi iui.fii.iAilguUp.i»rJtiXFj»n)nmt»ttt)n7 Two forms are essential in order to receive WCB benefits, first the yellow "Bubya-'i Report if Acddmt *• hdustrM Disuse" must be filled out by management if. and only if
(a) you consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or (bl Tm bss work time layml the day if tbs acdfeot
Please note that you do not have to actually lose time from work in order to initiate a WCB claim Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day. your employer must file their report This is known as a "No Lost Time’ claim
The second form is a pink form called "Ooctor's First let*!". There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well This is tilled out by your doctor at the lime of your first visit for your disability The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB
What are WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive 90% of your net pre-accident earnings. WCB benefits are non-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are now S35,100.00 yearly. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident cbm wit bks from ten days to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits,astuiminrithaUbe.twai'p'wf.Md .twins are submitted right away.
How long di WCB bsnaflts Iasi? Mist pnpla who bin warkpbca acddenta are back to work within four weeks or less. Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from. As long as you are Jodgadti be totally ifeaidad and the disability is considered timparary.
WCB benefits will continue without limitation If you have a permanent disability, WCB will award you a small pension, depending on what they assess to be your degree of disability.
Willi it I bm a health prabtam tbit It enutd by my job but I dids t bn an naddmt at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc., are.just a few of the work-
related disabilities suffered by UFCW members. If you feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category, first consult your doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is or is Tikely to have been caused by your job. a Doctor's First Report should be submitted right away. Inform your employer of your doctor's opinion and ask that the Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimate claim.
Kbit bipngi If my claim It tarnid diwo by tbi WCB? Tit cid
appeal an adverse decision by the WCB The Union will assist you and represent you, without charge Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you
WiDldp’t I bt bittir oft claiming tick pay? In most cases, NO However, if you have a non-accidental disability which requires you to take time off from work, consult the Union for advice.
■mb the WCB cnir part-timers? Yu The same rules and benefits
apply, regardless of the number of hours you work per week
Mat If my benefits are late r art cot iff far same reason? Contact the Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest contiden '
Remember: Was bt management tab yw ant if filing a WCB dabo Tip nay regret It later, when ymir disability won't go away. It is illegal tar management te interfere with ymr rltfit te make e WCB ctabn It yen have any prabtama ar cancarnt contact tbe tlnlan office.
BIMONTHLY GENERAL MEETINGS
Toronto food Stow 6 Matnteninee
0 FL Bldg. Auditorium AT.
15 Gervais Dr. Oon Mills
Toronto Plants CLAW. Hall.
891 Wilson Ave. W., Downsview Potidcroea Steak House Distribution Centre Howden Recrealion Centre Bramalea. Ontario 8errie
Army 4 Navy Club.
7 George Street Barrie Orillia. Midland. Keswick Holiday Inn.
400 Memorial Dr (Junction 121 Orillia Ottawa
CLAW. Hall, 44 Bond St East Ostiawa
Heyden-MacDoiuW
Holiday Inn Oshawa
Peterborough. Lindsay Peterborough 401 Motor Hotel 1500 Landsdowne St W (Hwy 281
Lindsay Legion Hall York St Bollevllle
Legion Hall Pinnacle St Belleville Kingston
Royal Cdn Legion Hall Br 9 64 Barrack SI Kingston
Cornwall
Holiday Inn
Hamilton Food 6 Maintenance
Glassworkers Hall 787 Barton St E Hamilton
SL Catharines
CLA.W. Hall
124 Bunting Rd„ SL Catharines Mississauga
Trinity Club (Teamsters)
1194 Matheson Blvd Mississauga
Cambridge Dept Stores & Restaurants Desert Inn.
Hwy No 24 Cambridge-Galt
Hanover, Own Sound Sun Gardens Motel Owen Sound
Tlllaonlwrg. Woodstock. Simcoe
Community Centre Hardy Avenue Tillsonburg or Canadian Legion. Simcoe
Goderich. Stretford
Sanford Valley Union Hall Hwy No 21 Goderich or Optimist Club.
Water St Stratford
Wndsor Food Stores
Caboto Club
2175 Parent SI, Windsor
Scherers. Wndsor Caboto Club
2175 Parent St Windsor London
Lamplighter Inn
591 Wellington Rd South London
Samla
Travelodge Motel Sarnia Pizza Pizza Mmuffina.
Romans II Spa Community Centre 519 Church St Toronto Hamilton Dept Stow 1 Restaurants Plumbers S Pipefitters Union Hall 300 Fennelt Ave E Hamilton
Chatham S Wallaceburg
CA.W. Hall Merritt SI, Chatham Leamington U F.C W Hall.
Erie St South Leamington
Huntsville. Bracabridge .. Huntsville Legion Hair ^ Bracebridge Legion Hall
harry bund
Trapper's Restaurant The Mall. Parry Sound Sudbury
Steelworkers Hall Fioon .S' -Sii/te'y Sault St Marie
Empress Motel. Sault Ste Marie
Kapuskasing
Cmc Centre Kapuskasing Espanola
Knights of Columbus Hall Espanola
North Bay. Sturgeon Falls Emoire Motel North Bay
Kirkland Laka
Steelworkers Hall Kirkland Lake Thunder Bay
Lakehead Labour Centre Thunder Bay
Pembroke. Oatp River Legion Hall Pembroke
Ittawa. Arnprior. SoOthi Fab
Embassy West Motel. Ottawa
Hawkttbury
Holiday Motel
Naranda
Henri Motel.
Noranda Oue Riant
Queen s Motet Slmcoe
Legion Hall
Tba abiya maatlng placai nay ba sabjact ta ebagga opu notification.
CHECK YOUR BULLETIN BOARDS FDR UNION INFORMATION ANO MEETINC NOTICES
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Unemployment Insurance is not welfare. It is a system of providing partial income replacement for people who have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer pay weekly premiums to the Unemployment Insurance Commission and you are entitled to benefits if you meet certain eligibility requirements. You should apply for U.l. benefits if you fall into one of the following categories: Laid off— If you are out of work due to lay-off and you have worked at least 10-14 weeks during the last 52 weeks, you are eligible for benefits. You receive no money for the first two weeks of lay-off and your benefits will continue for up to 52 weeks. Your maximum benefit period may be less than 52 weeks, depending on a number of factors. Discharged or Quit—Same eligibility rules as for lay-off. but the two-week waiting period can be extended to eight weeks if you werefired for just cause or quit without a good reason. You may appeal an extension of your waiting period.
Slcknaii-Ycu must have worked at least 20 weeks during the last 52 and your benefits will continue for a maximum of 15 weeks A doctor's report is necessary to obtain U.l. Sickness benefits.
Pregnancy—15 weeks of benefits are payable when you take your maternity leave, provided vou apply at the time of leaving. You must have worked 20 weeks in the last 52 and there is the same two week waiting period as that imposed on other claimants.
What you naad to apply lor U.l. hanefltt:
•	A Record of Employment from the company. If you have problems obtaining it, inform your local Canada Employment and Immigration Centre (CEIC).
•	An application for benefits, obtainable at CEIC offices.
•	A doctor's report for sickness or maternity benefits, also obtainable at CEIC offices
If you have any questions or problems with W.C.. call your local CEIC office, if your problems continue, contact the Union Office.