betw<
SOUR CC
coLL^mmU
AGREE
UO'
&
Of
/f
01
77
EMPLOYEES
‘Rombre
. D'EMPLOyIs SHOPSY'S y FOODS ■

vju^>
Division of Thomas J. Lipton Inc. {Unox}
2 Huxley Road, Weston, Ontario
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION Locals 175 and 633
o
. r,,
January 15,1987 — January 14,1989
<2 6^0.3,
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGE
1	Recognition............................1
2	Preference.............................2
3	NoStrike-No Lock-Out...................3
4	Union Security.........................3
5	Grievance and Arbitration..............5
6	Stewards...............................8
7	Discrimination....................... 10
8	Uniforms and Tools....................10
9	Worker's Compensation...............11
10	Hours of Work.......................11
11	Overtime..............................12
12	Shift Premiums........................13
13	Rest Periods..........................14
14	Recognized Holidays...................14
15	Vacation..............................15
16	Seniority.............................16
17	Promotion.............................19
18	Demotion..............................21
19	Leave of Absence......................21
20	Health and Welfare....................22
21	Bereavement Pay.......................26
22	Working Conditions....................26
23	Union Label...........................26
24	Union Shop Cards......................26
25	Co-operation .........................26
26	Basic Hourly Rate of Pay..............27
27	Term of AgreemenL.....................28
APPENDIX “A”
Basic Hourly Rates xft ?ay............30
APPENDIX "B"
Part-time Employees...................32
Article 3 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCK-OUT
3.01	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes or lockouts as long as this agreement continues to operate.
Article 4 - UN ION SECURITY
4.01	Subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, it is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement shall become members and remain members of the Union in good standing es a condition of employment.
402 The Company agrees that each employee, upon employment and completion of his/her probationary period of employment will be required to sign an authorisation card directing the Company to deduct Union initiation fees and weekly dues from the first pay due and such dues weekly thereafter. Any such authorisation shall take effect as of the next regular deduction date after it is received by the Company. The fees and dues shall be forwarded to the Union monthly by the 15th of the following month.
4.03	The Union shall inform the Company, by written certification, of the amounts of weekly Union Dues according to the most recent such certification received. Such certification shall be given to the Company at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the effective date of any change.
4.04	The Company will, at the time of making such remittance hereunderto the Financial Secretary of the Union, to United Food, and Commercial Workers international Union, Suite 302, bl International Blvd., Rexdale, Ontario M9W 6K4, supply a statement showing the following information from whom pay deductions have been made.
-3-
(a)	All monthly dues for members to be submitted in alphabetical order with current address, postal code and Social Insurance Number.
(b)	Twelve (12) check-offs per year (Calendar months).
(c)	Monthly — New members to be listed in alphabetical V.&Z Social Insurance Number and date of hire and starting salary.
Terminations or Resignations — to be listed in alphabetical order with current address, postal code, Social Insurance Number and date of termination or resignation.
Addresses to be updated as well as name changes, i.e., marriage and transfers, from one local to another to keep records current.
4.05	Part-time employees working on a temporary fulltime basis will be required to pay full-time Union Dues.
4.06	The Company agrees to pay up to a maximum of five (5) employees on the Union Negotiating Committee for time spent on negotiations with the Company, during their scheduled hours, at their normal rates of pay.
4.07	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company, its agents and/or employees acting on behalf of the Company from any and all claims, demands, actions or causes of action arising out of or in any way connected with the collection of such dues and initiation fees for Union members only.
4.08	(a) No permanent employee shall be discharged or disciplined without good and sufficient cause.
(b) The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his/her record regarding working conduct, the Steward will be present as a witness. The employee may request that the
-4-
Plant Steward leave the meeting. In the event the Steward is not present, the condition will be brought to the attention of the employee.The meeting that becomes part of the employee’s record will be postponed until the Steward is available. If the meeting is held without the Steward, any conclusion, verbal orwritten, will be null and void. In the event a Steward has not been designated by the Union for the area as provided in clause 6.01, then the meeting between the employee and the Company representative shall be considered valid and becomes part of the employee’s record.
(c) As of the effective date of this Agreement, written Warning Notices on an employee’s record are to bewithdrawn after one (1) year, provided there is no other written Warning Notice in the meantime and provided there has not been any prior written Warning Notice in the employee’s file.
4.09	The Company agrees to send to the Union Office a complete seniority list with rates of pay, every three (3) months.
Article 5 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
5.01	The grievance procedure is designed to adjust complaints and grievances in an orderly manner and as quickly as possible. Any dispute or difference of opinion concerning the interpretation,application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement shall constitute a grievance.
5.02	For a grievance to be considered and processed under this Article, it must be presented, in writing, within seven (7) calendardays after the alleged incident occurred.
5.03	Step 1
Employees who have a complaint or a question which they wish to discuss with the Company shall take it
-5-
up with their supervisor. If after this discussion they believe they have a grievance, they shall submit it, in writing, to their supervisor. Grievors shall have the assistance of their Steward.
if a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within seven <7) calendar days, the grievance shall be processed to Step 2 at any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
step 2
The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the department manager. If a meeting is held between the department manager and the grievor, the Steward will be present. The department manager will give an answer, in writing, within five (5) working days. The grievance may be processed to Step 3 any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
Step 3
(a)	The aggrieved employee may present his/her written grievance to the Plant Manager. If a meeting is held, the grievor and the Steward, and/or the Business Representative will be present. The Plant Manager shall give a reply, in writing, within five (5) working days. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within five (5) working days thereafter, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration, as provided in Step 4, any time within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. If the grievance is not taken to arbitration as herein provided, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled at the conclusion of Step 3, with the decision of the Plant Manager being final and binding on the Union, the Company and the grievor. The time limits as prescribed above in Step 1, 2 and 3 may be modified by mutual agreement, in writing of the Company and the Union,
-6-
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
SHOPSY'S FOODS
Division of Thomas J. Upton Inc. (Unox)
2 Huxley Road, Weston, Ontario
(hereinafter called “the Company”)
— and —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local 175 and 633
Chartered By the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and
Butcher )Wsv;lr.men^>f.cint,.,7 Ametica-f.EJ-O/l-CLC
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
WITNESSETH:
The Company and the Union hereto mutually agree as follows:
Article 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175 and 633, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in its plant in the Province of Ontario, save and except foremen,person above the rank of foremen, office, clerical and sales staff, plant protection persons, and the persons covered by the existing Collective Agreement Part-time employees shall be covered by Articles of this Agreement as provided in Appendix "B".
1.02	The Company agrees not to bargain individually or collectively with its employees.
1.03	The Company shall employ in its plant only members in good standing in the Union.
-1 -
1X34 The Union will be advised of promotions of employees out of the bargaining unit If an employee is promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit for a period of more than six (6) months, the Company agrees that such pwflQ.xhall re-enter the .harpairunq, unit .as. 3 new employee,
1X35 Employees excluded from the bargaining unit will not perform the work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except for training, or where such work is for the purpose of investigation or experimentat ion.
1.06	The Union recognize; that the Company has the exclusive right to manage the business provided, however, that any such exercise of this right which is in conflict with any of the provisions of the other Articles of this Collective Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
1.07	The Company agrees that if it becomes necessary to move any production line out of the Huxley Plant, the Company will meet with the Union, prior to the moving of such line.
Article2 -PREFERENCE
2.01	The Company agrees that when it requires additional full-time help it will, in the first instance,apply to the Union for same. If, for any reason the Union fails to supply such help within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of such application, the Company may then obtain such help in the open market, provided, however, that such employees engaged in the open market shall, within forty-five (45) days worked from the date of their employment, become members of the Union. The Company agrees to forward to the Union, each month,a list of new employees with their starting date and basic hourly rate of pay and also a list of employees terminated.
-2 -
(b)The Company agrees that the Union Business Agent has the right to file a policy grievance that may begin at Step 3.
Discharge or Suspension
In the case of a discharge or suspension, a grievance may be filed at Step 3 by an employee who feels he/she was unjustly dealt with. Such a grievance indli be filed within seven (7) calendar days of the date of dismissal or suspension.
Step 4
The Company and the Union agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the steps outlined in this Article and which has not been settled, may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either the Company or the Union notifying, in writing, the other of such action.
5.04	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one (1) person appointed by the Company, one (1) person appointed by the Union, and a third person to act as Chair-managreed to by the other two (2) members of the Board.
5.05	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the request by the Company or the Union to the other for a Board, each shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
506 Should the persons appointed by the Company and the Union to act on the Board not agree on a third person within fifteen (15) working, days of the notification period provided in clause 5.05, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario shall be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairman.
-7 -
5.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend,or to substitute any provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Agreement.
5.08	The unanimous or majority decision, in writing, of the Arbitration Board with respect to the matters coming within the jurisdiction of the Board shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees.
5.09	The Company and the Union shall pay their own respective costs.and thefees and expensesof any witnesses nesses and of their respective representatives, including appointees to the Board. The fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. The Company shall pay the grieving employee at his/her basic hourly rate for the duration of the arbitration meeting if the meeting was held during his/her regular scheduled working hours and only for such time he/she would have normally worked had the meeting not been held.
tb) The Union's Business Representative shall be admitted during working hours, at a reasonable time, to interview employees on duty or to inspect working conditions. Such visits shall be arranged to cause a minimum of disturbance to the Company's business and the Business Representative shall first report his/her presence on the occasion of each such visit to the Human Resources Manager or, in his/her absence, the Plant Manager or, in his/her absence, his/her delegated representative.
Article 6 - STEWARDS
6.01	Six (6) Union Stewards shall be designated by the Union for the following areas:
Kitchen
Maintenance
Shipping
Salads
Packaging
1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward
Evening Shift/Aftemoon Shift 1 Steward
GO2 If additional departments come into being, the Union may discuss with the Company the designation of an additional Steward or Stewards and changes may be made by mutual agreement
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of the Stewards and the areas they represent as well as of any changes in such persons as and when such changes occur.
6.04	The Union agrees that Stewards, like other employees, have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons shall not leave their regular duties without prior consent of their supervisor. In the event of them having to leave their regular duties or department for purposes of processing an employee com-
their supervisor giving reasons for such request When the business of the Stewards is completed, they will check-in to their own department through their supervisor. The Union further agrees that Stewards Shall not absent themselves from their regular duties for unreasonable lengths of time.
6.05	Union Stewards while attending meetings with Company representatives on Company property will be paid their basic hourly rate for the duration of the meeting if the meeting is held during their regular scheduled working hours and for such time they would have normally worked had the meeting not been held.
6.06	The Company agrees that the Chief Steward has
-9-
n
the right to leave the station of work after obtaining permission front hifJfrnr. f'Momao.roinve'tir^ip.anH grievance by his/her fellow steward or fellow workers.
Article 7 - DISCRIMINATION
7.01	The Company agrees that it will not discriminate against any employee by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin, position with or membership in the Union. The Union agrees that it will not discriminate against any non-union employees by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin or position with the company.
Article 8 - UNIFORMS AND TOOLS
8.01	The Company shell supply to its employees all tools, aprons, coats, etc. necessary for proper performance of their work. However, skilled trades maintenance department employees shall have worn out or broken tools replaced. Such tools shall be turned into the department supervisor at the time of such request. Such employees shall exercise reasonable care in looking after the condition of their tools. An allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid on February 1st of each contract year to all such skilled trades maintenance department employees to replace any mislaid tools.
8.02	Upon provision of receipts for the purchase of safety shoes by the employee, the Company agrees to pay up to fifty-five dollars ($55.00) per contract year for Safety, Committee approved safety shoes for each fulltime, non-probationary employee. An exception to this will be that the Company will supply safety rubber boots to employees whose work functions necessitates same, as required.
-10-
8.03	(a) The Company will provide a clean two piece freezer coat and gloves for the freezerperson.
(b)	Parkas will be supplied to employees when assigned to work in freezer areas.
(c)	The Company agrees to supply outside Shippers with parkas.
Article 9 -WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
9jOI The Company shall, become enrolled so as to afford its employees protection under the Worker’s Com-pensat ion Act.
9X32 If an employee is injured and is required to leave the plant for medical attention, he/she will be paid for the balance of his/her shift during which the accident occured.
Article 10 - HOURS OF WORK
(a)	The regular work week for the day shift shall be forty <401 hours per week, eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday inclusive, with a starting time of 7 :00 a.m. and quitting time 3:30 p.m. and the afternoon shift starting time: 3:30 p.m. quitting time 12 midnight except as provided in (b) below.
(b)	Hours of work for the Shipping department will be as follows: 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., or 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday to Friday for the day shift; for the afternoon shift: 6:00 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., Sunday through Thursday inclusive; for the night shift: 10:30 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday inclusive and Monday through Friday inclusive.
Hours of work for the Sanitation department will be -11 -
6:00 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. for the afternoon shift or 10:30 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. for the night shift Monday to Friday.
for the Maintenance night shift the hours will be 10:30 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Sunday to Thursday.
(c) The Company reserves the right to adjust the starting time of a shift for employees up to one and a half (1 1/2) hours earlier or one (1) hour later as required. When it is necessary to adjust the starting time of a shift for employees, the Company will advise the employee(s) affected in the week prior to the change.
Employees required to start before 5:30 a.m. will be paid fifty cents (504) per hour for all hours worked before 5:30 a.m. in addition to their regular hourly rate.
Article 11 -OVERTIME
11 .01 Time and one-half shall be paid for any or all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. When overtime is to be worked employees are to be informed before lunch break. For weekend overtime the Company will advise employees by lunch break on Friday.
11.02	(a) Employees whose normal work week is Monday to Friday called in to work on Saturday will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at a rate of time and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate will become double time. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Sunday at the double time rate.
(b) Employees whose normal work week is Sunday to Thursday called in to work on Friday will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of. time and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate will be double time. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Saturday at the double time rate.
-12-
11.03	All work performed on a Recognized Holiday (or days celebrated in lieu thereof) shall be paid (with a minimum of four hours) at double the regular rate of pay in addition to the day's pay for such holiday.
11.04	All employees shall be required to work a reasonable amount of overtime and, if necessary, employees having least seniority shall be expected to work provided the employee is capable of performing such work.
1105 (a) If overtime is required in the Maintenance and Sanitation department, the Company agrees that the employees who work in the area will work overtime Monday through Friday unless the employee has other commitments and may not be able to work the overtime; however, on Saturday and Sunday the overtime will be on a rotation basis.
(b)	If overtime is required within the area, (other than Maintenance and Sanitation) the Company agrees that the overtime will be worked by qualified employees on a rotation basis, Monday through Sunday.
1 \	vhahfev, returned to work after so
absence resulting from illness or accident and who has temporary physical restrictions to employment, will not be permitted to work overtime until such restrictions are removed by the employee’s family physician.
Article 12 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01	The afternoon shift will carry a forty-five cent (45tf) an hour permium.
12.02	(a) The night shift will carry a fifty cent (50#) an hour premium.
-13-
(b) A seventy-five cent <754) an hour shift premium, instead of forty-five cents (454) an hour premium will be paid on Sunday for all hours worked between six p.m. and midnight for all employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday.
12.03	Night Shipping employees will have a guarantee of thirty-seven (37) regular hours worked minimum per week.
Article 13 - REST PERIODS
13.01	The Company shall grant a fifteen (15) minute rest period as near as practicable to the middle of the first half and to the middle of the second half of the shift
13.02	When an employee is required to work in excess of one and onequarter hours beyond his/her regular scheduled quitting time, a fifteen minute rest period, paid for by the Company >haii be provided prior to the starring of the overtime shift The Company further agrees to supply a supper or four dollars ($4.00) in lieu of a supper, during the aforementioned rest period.
Article 14 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.01	There shall be eleven (11 ) follows:
New Year's Day Day after New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day
recognized holidays as
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Employee’s Birthday Christmas Day Boxing Day
The Employee’s Birthday will be recognized for all em-- 14 -
\
15.07	Vacations are to be taken between May 1st and the following April 30th, and shall not be carried from one vacation year to the next
15.08	For the purpose of Article 15, employees who started to work on or before the 15th of May will be deemed to have started on the first of the month. Employees who started after the 15th day of. May will be deemed to have started on the first day of the following month.
15.09	An employee who has four (4) weeks' vacation entitlement or more, one of the weeks will be taken during the months of January to April.
Article 16 -SENIORITY
16.01	Seniority in this Agreement shall be a plant-wide seniority from the day of last hire.
16.02	In the case of date duplication, an alphabetical list shall be prepared in accordance with the surname and those at t h • top o i the list shall be deemed to be hired first.
16.03	New employees hired by the Company will be considered as probationary employees until they have completed forty-five (45) days worked during which time they may be discharged or disciplined without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. The Company will not discharge an employee for the purpose of enforcing an additional probationary period. Upon completion of the forty-fifth worked day the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the regular seniority list.
16.04	(a) In the event of a promotion, transfer, a reduction of staff or layoff, or a rehiring of employees, the principle of. n)apt-wiriA.swjiOtit,v_sbaN jirwefn the
-16-
matter provided the employee is qualified to perform the work.
(b) An exception to 16.04 (a) will be that when an employee «, tfjnpor.ar.'J.y d'.vpi/S/vsi tnr. one full shift or less, the principle of plant-wide shift seniority will apply.
(c)	Employees displaced will fill vacancies created by layoffs, in accordance with 16.04 (a) and (b) provided they are qualified to perform the work.
16.05	(a) In the event of layoffs, the Company undertakes to eliminate the use of part-time employees, provided there are full-time employees available who are qualified to perform the work.
(b)	The Company agrees that part-time employees will not be scheduled to work on a week-end when qualified full-time employees are available to work.
(c)	A full-time employee who chooses part-time employment, in lieu of layoff, will retain full-time seniority unless the employee refuses recall to full-time status. A part-time employee who refuses a recall to full-time status shall be governed by Appendix B Article 16 (c).
16.06	An employee reporting to work for his/her regular shift and is laid off or not required for any part of that shift due to a mechanical breakdown, shall be paid a minimum of six 16) hours at his/her regular basic hourly rate except when the employee:
(a) Has been given advance notice not to report to
work
(b) IS prevented from working because of an act of God such as power failure, flood or fire.
- 17 -
reinstated through the grievance procedure.
(b) He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employ'
ment.
(c)	He/she has been laid off continuously for a period of more then twelve <121 months.
(d)	He/she does not return to work from layoff as provided in clause 16X18.
16.10	Employees’ seniority will not be unreasonably terminated when they remain away from work because of sickness or disability, provided the Company is notified within a reasonable time. An employee returning from sick or disability leave after five (5) working days'absence, must, if requested by the Company, present a certificate from his/her physician stating the nature of the sickness and that the employee is fully recovered to perform his/her regular duties.
16.11	When an employee is required to take time-off from work for personal reasons, he/she shall advise his/her immediate supervisor one (1) day before.
Article 17 - PROMOTION
17.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into department as per Appendix “A”.
17X12 (a) The Company will provide training opportunities to employees on a seniority basis, and when filling a vacancy in a department, the Company will give the senior employee in the next lower-paid job classification the opportunity, provided he/she has the required skills and qualifications to perform the work.
(b) Should a job opening occur within any one
-19 -
posting and who maintains the position after thirty (30) working days, will receive the new job classification rate retroactive to the first day of appointment of the position.
Article 18 - DEMOTION
18.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix “A”.
18.02	This Article will beapplied in conjunction with 17.02a), 17.02 b) or 17j03a)
18.03	Employees wishing to bid on a lower-paid job vacancy will be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority, once every twelve (12) months maximum, to successfully bid up to two classification levels lower, provided they have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work. The exchange will take place once the Company has had the opportunity to train replacement personnel.
Article 19- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	Employees may be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority, upon proper permission being obtained from the Company, and such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
19.02	In the case of pregnant females, leave of absence will be granted without loss of seniority to such persons provided that such employees shall return to work not more than sixteen (16) weeks following the birth of the child. The Company reserves the right to determine when it shall no longer be suitable for a pregnant female to continue work.
-21 -
19.03	(a) In the event an employee is precluded from working his/her regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty or jury selection, or being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the Company agrees to make-up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty, jury selection time, or crown witness duty, and the amount the employee would have earned for working his/her regular shift or shifts.
(b) In order to qualify for such compensation, the employee shall give seventy-two (72) hours’ prior notice to his/her supervisor for such jury duty, jury selection call, or subpoena as a crown witness and present evidence of the compensation received for such period.
Article 20 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
20.01	The Company agrees to pay the full premium for all full-time employees and their dependents for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan plus coverage to provide semi-private hospitalization for all employees and their dependents.
20.02	It is further agreed that in the event of changes to the present premium that would result in a saving to the Company, such savings will be used to purchase increased benefits for the employees.
20.03	(a) The Company agrees to pay for weekly wage indemnity coverage of sixty percent (60%) of a full-time employee’s basic weekly earnings, for a period of twenty-six consecutive weeks effective on the first day of an accident and the fourth day of an illness. Maximum benefit shall be the U.I.C. maximum for employees disabled on or after the date of ratification of the Agreement
-22 -
Effective date of ratification employees with twenty-five (25) years' service or more will be eligible for thirty-nine (39) consecutive weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined above. Effective i 6 January 1988 employees with twenty (20) years' service or more will be eligible for thirty-nine (391 consecutive weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined above.
Employees who have used their weekly wage indemnity coverage and who are not eligible for Long Term Disability coverage, will be given the opportunity to apply for any U.I.C. sickness benefits to which they may bs itSgibte ainstfl' A1..*.S. legislation.
NOTE: Company has no liability if U.I.C. claims are denied or if granted, affect subsequent claims for U.I.C. unemployment benefits. Employees will still need to provide the Company with regular medical evidence to support their continued absence. This provision can not be used when a WCB claim has been made or rejected.
(b) The Company agrees to pay for Long Term Disability coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a fulltime employee's basic weekly earnings, integrated with the indemnity payable by the Canada Pension Plan and Compensation Act commencing effective with the twenty-seventh week of absence due to illness/accident, provided the employee is totally disabled to perform any work, according to the rules and regulations of the insurers.
20-04 (a) The Company agrees to pay for a comprehensive drug prescription plan covering full-time employees and their dependents. The plan shall have ten dollars ($10.00) deductible for single coverage and twenty dollars ($20X10) deductible for family-coverage.
-23-
(b) The Company agrees to provide a vision cafe plan (under the Major Medical Plan) providing a benefit of seventy dollars ($70.00) per person every two (2) consecutive years for each employee and his eligible dependents, for the purchase of frames, lenses, the fitting of prescription lenses and contacts when recommended by a physician or optometrist
20X15 (a) Effective the first of the month following ratification the Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a twelve thousand dollar ($12X100.001 life insurance policy for all full-time employees.
(*V A*Jon- retiring, employees shall receive from-the Company either:
i)	the sum of $1,500.00 or
ii)	A paid-up life insurance policy in the amount of $5X100X10.
20X16 Effective 15 January 1987 the Company agrees to contribute eighteen cents (184) per hour for regular hpurs worked by full-time employees into the Ontario Retail Employees Dental Benefit Trust Fund.
Effective 15 January 1988 the Company agrees to contribute twenty cents (204) per hour for regular hours worked by full-time employees into the Ontario Retail Employees Dental Benefit Trust Fund.
20.07	(a) Effective 15 January 1987 twenty-three cents (234) par hour.
Effective 15 January 1988 twenty-five cents (254) per hour.
The Company agrees to contribute the above amounts for regular and overtime hours worked (minimum
-24-
forty (40) hours for full-time emDjovees) for each regular, non-probationary employee eligible under the rules governing the pension plan, to the U.F.C.W. Ontario Retail Council Pension Trust Fund.
(b) The Company’s obligation with regard to the aforementioned pension plan is limited to the above-noted contributions.
20.08	(a) The Company shall continue to make a reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during the hours of their employment
(b)	The Company agrees to establish an Accident Prevention Committee in an endeavour to provide safe work practices throughout the operation and such Committee shall meet monthly. Three (3) of the persons on the Committee shall be employees and/or Union Stewards while the remaining persons shall be Company representatives.
(c)	It is the intention of the Company and the Union to resolve safety issues internally. However, the Company and the Union agree that any safety issues tabled at the Accident Prevention Committee which cannot be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union within a reasonable period of time, may be referred by either party to the Ministry of Labour.
20.09	Adequate rest rooms shall be provided and kept heated and ventilated and in good, sanitary condition. The employees shall cooperate with the Company in keeping the rest rooms in clean and sanitary condition.
20.10	In the event an employee is required by the Company, the local Board of Health, or any governmental agency to take a medical examination, x-ray or other tests, such shall be arranged on Company time and at th« expense of the Company.
-25-
Article 21 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.01	The Company agrees to pay employees for three (3) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother, father, wife, husband, child, brother, sister. The Company further agrees to pay employees for two (2) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law.
Article 22 -WORKING CONDITIONS
22.01	The Company agrees that its shop and factory shall be properly ventilated and maintained in a sanitary condition, The Union shall co-operate with the Company to practice good housekeeping methods.
Article 23 - UNION LABEL
23.01	The Company agrees to put the Union label on all pickled, smoked meats, etc.
Article 24 - UNION SHOP CARDS
24.01	The Union agrees to supply the Company with a display card which the Company agrees to exhibit in a prominent place in its shop or factory. Such card shall be the property of the Union and shall be returned on demand.
Article 25 - CO-OPERATION
25.01	The Company and the Union agree to work through a joint committee and endeavour to promote the sale of
-26-
union-made delicatessen products whenever possible.
Article 26 - BASIC HOURLY RATE OF PAY
26.Q1 (a) The Company agrees to grant a fifty cent (504) an hour wage increase to all full-time employees on the payroll at date of ratification retroactive to 15 January 1987, except as detailed in the Letter of Understanding re Red-Circled Wage Rates.
(b)	The Company agrees to grant a fifty-two cent (524) an hour increase to all full time employees on the payroll 15 January 1988, except as detailed in the Letter of Understanding re Red-Circled Wage Rates.
(c)	New employees (except Maintenance employees) hired following the date of ratification shall be paid:
80% of their Job rate for the first six (6) months of employment
85% of their job rate for the second six (6) months of employment.
90% of their job rate for the third six (6) months of employment
95% of their job rate for the fourth six (6) months of employment.
. .	100% of their job rate after completion of twenty-
iouI (24) months oi employment.
26.02	Full-time non-probationary employees who are required to perform work in a higher paid classification for at least four (4) hours per day will be paid the appropriate higher rate of pay for time so worked.
- 27 -
?
On behalf of UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Locals 17S and 633
J. DiNardo
T. Weeks B. Rozak V. Antonacci G. Cooper
On behalf of SHQPSY'S FOODS Division of Thomas J. Lipton Inc (UNOX)
2 Huxley Road Weston, Ontario
P.S. McTait T. Thomson P. Walmstey
29-
APPENDIX "A" BAS
Basic Hourly Rates of Pay
Jan. Jan. Kitchen	Packaging Salads
15/87	15/88
1522	15.74			
14.92	15.44			
1357	14.09	Trimmer Smokehouse Operator		
1352	1354	Sausage Maker 1		
13.14	13.66	Sausage	Dry Goods	Area
		Maker II	Receiver	Supplier
		Receiver Area Supplier	Area Supplier	
1350 1352 S		a u s a g e	Tow Motor	Formuiator
		Maker iii	Operator	Retort Op. Tow Motor
				Operator
1253	1355		Inventory Controller	
12.62 13.14 Salami			Sausage Stuffer Pkg.	
		Stuffer	Pkg.	Machine
		Frank-O-Mat	Machine	Operator
		Operator	Operator	Heavy
		Heavy	Wiener D.“"Wwici	General
		General Labour	Heavy General Labour	Labour
1252	13.04		Sllcer Operator	
12.42	1254	Light	Light	Light
		General	General	General
		Labour	Labour	Labour
-30-
fURLY RATES OF PAY
PARTMENT
anitation Shipping	Maintenance
Electrician, Mechanic AA Mechanic A Mechanic B
Freezerperson
Sanitation	Checker/
Worker	Shipper.
Inventory
Controller
Heavy
General
Labour
APPENDIX "B”
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
The conditions of employment for persons employed for twenty-four (24) hours or less per week shall be as set out elsewhere in this Agreement except es provided hereafter in this Agreement
Article 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.03 The Company agrees to commence deducting Union dues from a part-time employee’s first pay cheque and each pay cheque thereafter. Union dues shall be three dollars and seventy-five cents (S3.75) a week for a part-time employee who works less than twelve hours a particular week and four dollars and twenty-five cents ($4.25) a week for a part-time employee who works twelve or more hours a particular week.
4.09 (a) Non-probationary part-time employees shall not be discharged or discplined without good and sufficient cause.
Article 10 - HOURS OF WORK
10.01	Not applicable.
Article 11 - OVERTIME
11.01	Time and one-half shall be paid for any and all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day and in excess of twenty-four (24) straight time paid hours per week. When overtime is to be worked, employees are to be informed fee'rc/ie'lUnc/r break.
-32-
Clauses 11.02 and 11.04 not applicable.
Article 12 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
Clause 12:02 not applicable.
Article 14 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.02	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays provided in clauses 1401 ,a part-time employee shall have:
(a)	Been in the employ of the Company for three (3) months or more immediately prior to a holiday.
(b)	Worked on at least ten (10) days during the thirty day period immediately preceding a holiday.
(c)	Worked his/her regular scheduled shift preceding and following a holiday.
14.03	Provided the conditions specified in clause 1402 have been met, the number of specified holiday hours (to a maximum of eight) that a part-time employee shall be credited with in each instance, to be paid at his/her regular straight time basic hourly rate of pay, shall be determined by totalling the number of hours worked by the employee in the thirty day period immediately preceding the week of the holiday and dividing that total by the number of days worked In the same period.
Article 15 - VACATIONS
Vacation pay »haii be as provided in the laws (i.e., four percent) of the Province of Ontario.
-33-
Article 16 -SENIORITY
la) Part-time employees shall have a probationary trial period of forty-five (45) shifts of work.
(b)	A part-time employee reclassified to full-time on jobs involving the same skills, will not be required to serve a further probationary period. The confirmation as a full-time employee is subject to the successful passing of the Employer’s standard medical examination.
(c)	A part-time employee reclassified to full-time employee, shall carry one-half (1/2) of his/her part-time seniority up to a maximum of four (4) years to his/her full time employment (in other words, a maximum of two (2) years’ seniority as a full-time employee).
(d)	In the event of a reduction in the number of employees covered by this Appendix, the employee with the least seniority shall be the first laid off followed by the employee with the next least seniority, provided the employees remaining have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work available.
(e)	When increasing the number of employees covered by this Appendix, persons on layoff having recall rights will be recalled according their seniority provided such persons have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work available.
(f)	a part-time employee shall lose his/her seniority when:
1.	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not re-instated through the grievance procedure.
2.	He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employment.
-34-
3.	He/she has been laid-off continuously for a period of more than four (4) months.
4.	lie/she does not return to work from layoff at the time required.
Article 17 - PROMOTIONS
Not applicable.
Article 21 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
21 .01 The Company agrees to pay a part-time employee his/her basic pay, up to his/her scheduled hours, to attend the funeral of any of the family members as provided in clause 21 .01 of this Agreement, provided such day is a regular scheduled work day.
Article 26 - BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY
26.01 (a) Those part-time employees who have completed their probationary period on or before the date of ratification (or prior to a peak period) will be paid under the part-time wage progression during peak and off-peak periods as defined in 2603. All other employees employed during peak periods will be paid under the student wage progression as defined in 260.31
(b) Part-time employees on the payroll at the date of ratification of this Agreement or employed thereafter, shall be paid the following basic rates of pay retroactive to 15 January 1987 :
15 Jan. 1987	15 Jan. 1987
At date of employment	$10.00	$10.52
After 6 months’service	$1050	$1102
After 12 months’service	$11.00	$1152
After 18 months' service	$11.50	$1202
35-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company recognizes employee concerns regarding job security. The Company and the Union understand the importance of the Company’s continued competitive position In the market place and its requirement for economic survival.
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees. However, it may be necessary to have work performed by outside services.
The relevant factors which the Company will consider before using outside services include: adverse effect on employees (i.e. lay-off), availability of required skills, urgency of the job; cost and economic factors.
If work performed by outside services results in lay-off of any of the existing employees, the Union will have recourse to the grievance procedure.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
P.S. McTait
J. DiNardo
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 19 HEALTH AND WELFARE
Smoke-Free Facility
With the full support of the Union and the Negotiating Committee the Company will designate the total facility at 2 Huxley Road, Weston as a tobacco smoke-free facility. This will take place in conjunction with the proposed plant and office expansion due to be operational during the second quarter of 1988.
Within eight <81 weeks from the date of ratification the Company will complete its investigation of the possibility of providing an interim non-smoking lunchroom area for interested employees and present its findings to the Union and Committee.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
P.S. McTait	J.DiNardo
38