SOURCE (jO . -			
EFF.			Ob f 0/ ozXst..
TERM.	9/		
No. OF EMPLOYEES			
NOMIRE d'employEs			
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 1st day of June, 1989.
BETWEEN:
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED (hereinafter calied the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 175, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
(hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE I:	RECOGNITION
l.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole
collective bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at the City of Brampton, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during- the school vacation period.
ARTICLE II:	RF.T.ATTONSHTP
2.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that any present
employee of the Company covered by this Agreement may become a member of the Union if he wishes to do so, and may refrain
2
from becoming a member of the Union if he so desires. ^ew employees who have completed their probationary period will be required to join the Union as a condition of employment.
2*02	The Company and the Union agree that there will be
no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by either of them or by any of their representatives or members because of an employee's membership or non-membership in the Union or because of his activity of lack of activity in the Union.
2.03	It	is agreed that	the Union and the	employees will
not	engage	in Union activities, except as provided in this
Agreement, during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Superintendent.
ARTICLE III:	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.0l	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the
management of	the plant and	direction of the	working force
are	fixed	exclusively	in the Company	and, without
restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order and efficiency;
(b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer,
suspend and	rehire employees,	and to
discipline or discharge any employee for just
J
cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided:
(c)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided that when new rules are enacted, a copy shall be given to the committee and an opportunity given to them to make representations;
(d)	determine the nature and kind of business
conducted by the Company, the kinds of locations of plants, equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of production, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the express provisions of this Agreement.
J.02 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreed that breach of any of the Plant Rules, or of any of the provisions of this Agreement, shall be deemed to be sufficient cause for discipline or dismissal of an employee; provided that nothing herein shall prevent anemployee going through the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE IV:	PLANT committee
4.0l	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to
appoint or otherwise select a plant committee which shall be composed of not more than nine (9) stewards, four (4) from
4
the day shift, three ( J) from the second shift, one ( 1) from the third shift and one ( 1) Chief Steward. All stewards shall have seniority with the Company, and shall be regular employees of the Company during their time of office. The name and area of each of the stewards and the name of the Chairman of the Plant Committee, from time to time so selected, shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward orchairman until it has been so notified.
4.02	The parties mutually agree that there shall be a Employee/Employer Relations Committee composed of no less than two (2) representatives of the Employer and two (2) representatives of the Union, who shall meet once monthly for the purposes of consultation and communication of information on matters of mutual concern relating to day-to-day working problems.
4.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to co-operate with the stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this Agreement.
4. 04 ■ The Union' undertake; to seiCUre from its officers, stewards and members, their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity.
5
4.05 The privileges of stewards to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend to Union business is granted on the following conditions:
(a)	such business must be between the Union and the Management. Employees having grievances cannot discuss these with the stewards in working hours, except in the case of a discharged or suspended employee to whom an steward shall be immediately available provided a steward is in the plant:
(b)	The	time shall be devoted to	the prompt
handling of necessary Union business;
(c)	The	steward concerned	shall	obtain the
permission of the foreman concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld;
(d)	The time away from productive work shall be reported in accordance with the time-keeping methods of the department in which the steward is employed;
(e)	The	Company reserves the	right to	limit such
time	if it deems the	time so	taken to be
excessive.
4.06 The Company will provide appropriate locker or filing space for the Chief Steward to retain necessary union papers and material.
4.07(a) In the event an employee is to be suspended or terminated while at work he shall be entitled to the presence of the shift steward at the time of the suspension or termination.
(b) In the event an employee is suspended or discharged while at work he shall be given an opportunity to interview
6
his steward in the private for fifteen (15) minutes priorto leaving the plant except where the suspension or discharge is the result of a violent incident.
(c) The Company will provide written reasons for the disciplinary suspension or discharge of an employee who has completed his probation period within two (2) working days of the discipline .
ARTICLE V; GRTF.VANCF. PROCEDURE
s.01.	The parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is
of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement as quickly as possible.
5-02	No grievance shall be considered where the
circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (5) full working days before the filing of the grievance.
5.03	Grievances properly arising under this Agreement
shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
STEP NO. 1;	The aggrieved employee shall present his
grievance orally or in writing to his foreman. He shall have the assistance of his steward if he so desires. The foreman shall give his decision within three ( 3) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If the
7
foreman’s decision is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
STEP NO. 2:	Within three (3) working days after the
decision is given at Step So. l, the aggrieved employee nay, with or without his steward, present the grievance (which shall be reduced to writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company) to the Plant Manager, who shall consider it in the presence of the person or persons presenting same and the foreman, and render his decision in writing within three (3) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached, then the grievance may be presented as follows :
STEP NO. 3;	Within three (3) working days after the
decision is given under Step No. 2 the aggrieved employee may submit his grievance to the General Manager and the employee, accompanied by	the Chairman of the Plant
(Committee	and his steward, shall meet as promptly as
possible with the General Manager and such other person(s) as Management may desire, to consider the grievance. At this stage they may be accompanied by a full-time representative of the Union if his presence is requested by either party. The General Manager will render his decision in writing within three (3) working days following such meeting.
8
5.04	If final settlement of the grievance is not reached
at Step No. 3, and if the grievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement, then the grievance may be referred in writing by either party to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VI below at any time within ten (10) working days after the decision is given under Step No. 3, and if no such written request for arbitration is received within the time limited, then it shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
5.05	Work load grievances and grievances not processed within the time limit set forth or not signed by an employee may be considered in the Grievance Procedure but in no event will be subject to arbitration.
5.06	A Union policy grievance which is defined as an
alleged violation of this Agreement concerning all or a number of the employees in the bargaining unit or in regard to which a number of employees have signified an intention to grieve,	may be brought forward by the Union Grievance
Committee, in writing at	Step No. 1 of the Grievance
Procedure at any time within five (5) full working days after the circumstances giving rise to such policy grievance occurred and if it is not settled at this stage, it may go to Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure and ultimately to a Board of Arbitration in the same manner as a grievance of an employee.
9
ARTICLE VI: ARRTTRATTON
6.0l	Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the Grievance Procedure outlined in Article V above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
6.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as Chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board.
6.03	Within five (5) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee.
6.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agre on a third person within seven (7) days of the notification mentioned in 6.03 above, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairman.
6.05	The decision of the Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner shall be binding on both parties.
10
6. °6	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power
to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to	substitute any new provisions for any existing
provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
6.07	Each of the parties to this Agreement will bear the
expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it; and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman.
ARTICLE VII:	MANAflF.MF.NT GRIEVANCES
7.01	Any grievance instituted by management may be
referred	in writing to the Plant Committee within five (5)
full working days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, and the Plant Committee shall meet within three (3) working days thereafter with management to consider the	grievance,	together with a
full-time representative of the Union if his presence is requested by either party.	If final settlement of the
grievance is not completed within three (3) working days of such meeting, the grievance may be referred by either party, to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VI at any time within ten (10) working days thereafter, but not later.
ARTICLE VIII:	DISCHARGE CASF.S AND DISCIPLINARY RECORDS
8.0l
A clain by an employee, who has completed the
ll
probationary period, that he has been discharged or suspended for more than three (3) days without just cause shall be treated as a	grievance if a written statement of such
grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager at Step No.2 of the Grievance Procedure within three (3) working days after the employee ceases working ' for the company. such special grievances may be settled by:
(a)	confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee: or
(b) reinstating	the employee	with full
compensation for time lost; or
(c)	any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties or the Board of Arbitration.
It is agreed and understood that suspensions for three (3) days orless shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of Article V of this Agreement.
8.02	After discipline has been imposed, in the event an
employee does not repeat any further misdemeanor of a similar nature for which the discipline was imposed for a continuous period of nine (9) months thereafter, then that original discipline which was imposed nine (9) months earlier will be destroyed.
ARTICLE IX:___NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
9.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by
this Agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling
12
of grievances the Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
9.02	The Company shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or discipline may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article V above.
9.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
9.04	The Union agrees that' it will not involve any employee of the Company or the Company either directly or indirectly in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer. The Company will not require an employee to cross a legal picket line to deliver product to the struck premises.
ARTTCT.E X:	WAGES
10.01	Schedule "A" hereto headed Skill grades and Wages
is hereby made a part ofthis Agreement.
10.02
New Operations
When a new operation constituting a new job which
13
is covered by the terms of this Agreement is established by the Company, the Company shall determine the skill grade level for such new operation and notify the Union of the same.
If the Union challenges the skill grade level, it
i
shall have the right to request a meeting with the Company to negotiate the appropriate skill grade level.
Such request shall be made in writing within ten (10) working days after receipt of notice from the Company of such new operation and grade level.
If notice requesting a meeting is not received within ten (10) working days	of the date	of the notice from
the Company,	the skill grade 'level	in the Company's
notification for the operation will be the agreed level for the operation.
If the parties are unable to agree, the dispute concerning the	new grade	level may	be submitted to
arbitration as	provided in this Agreement if submitted
within fifteen (15) days of the meeting.
The decision of the Board shall be confined to establishing the appropriate skill grade level for the operation within the scheme of the skill grades set out in the schedules to this Collective Agreement taking into account reasonable and practical comparisons therein.
14
ARTICLE XI:	SHIFT PREMIUMS
11. 01 (a) Effective on the date of ratification, a shift premium of forty (40) cents per hour shall be paid for all standard hours worked on a regular afternoon (second) shift and fifty-five (55) cents per hour for all standard hours worked on a regular night (third) shift.
(b)	Effective June 1, 1990, a shift premium of sixty (60) cents per hour shall be paid for all standard hours worked on a regular night (third) shift,
(c)	To qualify for a full shift premi um on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, a employee must work fifty (50%) percent or more of his standard eight (8) hours on his respective shift.
(d)	For the purposes only of application of the fifty percent-rule in Article 11.01(c),
(i)	hours worked between 3:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. are afternoon or second shift hours: and
(ii)	hours worked between 11:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m. are night or third shift hours .
ARTICLE XII:	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended
to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
15
12.02	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours per week, comprised of five (5) eight (B) hour days.
12.03(a) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for all hours
worked	on Saturday and in ’excess of forty (40) hours per
week or	eight (8) hours per day and double the employee's
regular	hourly rate for all hours worked on Sundays.
(b)	Overtime at the rate of double the employee’s
regular hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked by the employee in excess oftwelve (12) consecutive hours on a shift .
(c) For the purposes of application of overtime rates for employees regularly working. the night shift (third shift):
12.04	(i)	Saturday will be considered to commence at that time on Saturday when the regular Friday night shift has ended. (ii)	Sunday will be considered to commence twenty-four hours after the co^encement of Saturday under (i) above and will run for a further period of twenty-four hours from that time . Overtime premiums shall not be paid more than once
for any hour worked, and there shall be no pyramiding of overtime .
16
l2.°5 The Company will continue to provide an unpaid one-half (1/2) hour meal break approximately half-way through each shift.
ARTICLE XIII: VACATIONS WTTH PAY
13.01	All employees who have acquired one (l) year's seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any year shall receive two (2) weeks' vacation with pay at a time convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation payfour (4t) percent of such employee’s earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.02	All employees who have acquired five (5) years' seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any year (or within 60 days of May 1st in any year) shall receive three (3) weeks' vacation with pay at a time convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay six (6t) percent of such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
J:.3. 03 (a) All employees who have acquired ten (10) years' seniority with the Company prior to May lst in any year (or within 60 days of May lst in any .year) shall receive four (4) weeks' vacation with pay at a time or times convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay eight (St)
17
percent of such employee’s earnings for time actually worked for the Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.04	All employees who have acquired nineteen ( 19)
years’	seniority with the Company prior to May 1st in any
year (or	within sixty (60) days of May 1st in any year) shall
receive five (5} weeks’ vacation with pay at a time or times convenient to the company and shall receive as vacation pay ten (10%) percent of such employee’s earnings for time actually worked for the company during the twelve months i^ediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.05	An employee who has ceased to be employed by the
Company,	other than being discharged for cause, before
receiving	his vacation pursuant to the provisions of this
Article	shall be entitled to receive vacation pay in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Employees shall receive an estimated amount of vacation pay at the time of taking vacation in proportion to
the time	taken.
	The balance of vacation pay shall be paid by
October 31st.
13.06	Where a plant holiday falls within an employee’s
annual vacation, the employee may elect to take an additional day’s vacation or receive payment for the day in
lieu.
18
If the employee elects to take an additional day's vacation, he shall notify his supervisor in writing prior to going onvacation. Such day shall be scheduled at a mutually agreeable time.
If an employee fails to notify his supervisor, he shall be paid for such plant holiday which occurs during the vacation period.
During those months other than June to September, an employee may elect to have the additional day’s vacation added to his vacation period providing he requests this in writing within a reasonable time prior to going onvacation. (The "additional day” represents the plant holiday which falls within an employee’s vacation.)
13.07	Employees should signify their vacation time preferences in writing to the Plant Supervisor by the 1st day' of April each year.
Subject to the efficient operation of the plant, vacations will be considered on the basis of seniority.
The final vacation schedule will be posted on the bulletin board by May 15th.
13.08	Employees who have signified pursuant to Article 13.07 a vacation time preference during the months June to September will be granted two (2) weeks vacation during
19
prime vacation months or June to September inclusive. In recognition, however, of the fact that the Company's busiest production season falls within that same period, such vacations for those employees will be limited so that no more than ten (lO.\) percent of the employees within a department will be off for the same oran overlapping period of time except as may be designated by the Company in its discretion.
Subject to the foregoing ten (lOt) percent rule set out earlier, more senior employees who require extended trips will be granted preference to the extent of four (4) weeks vacation.
13.09	No employee who is entitled to take two (2) weeks or more vacation time off during the vacation year shall take less than two (2) weeks vacation time off during that vacation year, May 1st to April 30th; no employee who is entitled to take less than two (2) weeks time off during a vacation year shall take less than the whole of his vacation time off during that vacation year, May 1st to April 30th.
13.10	The term "earnings" as used in this Article 13 for the purposes of vacation pay calculations shall have the same meaning as the term "wages" used for the same purposes in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario but shall also include vacation pay previously received during the prior vacation year and those o. H. r. P. premiums paid by
20
the employer during the previous vacation year which are taxable as a benefit in the employee's hands.
ARTICLE XIV:	PLANT HOLIDAY
14.01	The following plant holidays, regardless of when they fall, will be granted with pay to all employees who have completed their probationary period :
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Remembrance Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
One-half day before New Year’s Day
One-half day before Christmas Day
Payment for such holidays shall be based on the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours he would normally have worked on such day. Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday .
14.02	In order to be entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked the full working day immediately preceding the holiday and the full working day immediately following the holiday unless absent with permission of Management or for reasons beyond his control.
21
14.03	If an employee works on one of the above-named plant holidays, he shall receive payment at time and one-half for the hours actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
14.04	The Company agrees to pay employees collecting Indemnity Insurance or Compensation Benefits, the difference between such payments and regular holiday pay.
ARTICLE Xv:	SENIORITY
15.01(a) Seniority, as referred to in this Agreement, shall mean	length of continuous service in the employ of the
Company and shall be on a departmental and plant-wide basis.
(b)	For purposes of clarification and purposes of application of seniority, the following departments shall prevail:
A.	Cooked Boning (including the Kitchen)
B.	Raw Boning (including Emulsion and Inspection)
C.	Portioning, Shaping and Finger Cutting
D.	Shipping ( including Truck Driver)
E.	Receiving
F.	Breaded Lines (including Mixers)	.
G.	Clean Up (Sanitation and Janitorial)
H.	Maintenance
I.	Deli Operations (Turkey Roll, Roast Forming, Smoke House & Vacuum Pack)
J.
Pack Out
22
K. Meat Preparation (Cooler, Massage Room, Injector,
Hydraflaker)
When applying seniority, drivers will only be laid off or sent home after completing their day's run and having returned to the plant.
(c)	When layoffs of less than one full day occur, department seniority shall prevail, providing those retained can perform the required work satisfactorily. When less than one hour's work remains in a department, the Company will' not be required to apply seniority.
(d)	An employee with plant seniority who desires transfer to another department or job may submit a written application to the superintendent; If later a vacancy occurs in that department those with application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority, provided they possess the necessary qualifications, an employee being transferred shall be given a reasonable amount of time to prove their ability. This clause only applies to employees who have attained seniority, but which is less than six (6) months.
15.02	An employee will be considered on probation for the
first forty (40) working days, including statutory holidays as provided, and will have no seniority rights during that period.	After forty (40) vorking days’ service, his
2)
seniority shall date back to the day on which his employment began. The dismissal,	lay-off or failure to recall after
lay-off of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance.
15.03	Seniority lists will be revised each four (4)
\
months; a copy of the list will be posted in the plant and a copy sent to the Union office. If an employee does not challenge the position of his name on the seniority list within the first five (5) working days from the date his name first appears on a seniority list, provided he is at work when the list is posted, then he shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing. In the event the employee is not at work he must object to his seniority standing within five (5) working days from the date he returns to work.
l5.04(i) Layoffs shall be based upon the following factors:
(a)	seniority; and
(b)	skill and efficiency.
Where the qualifications in factor (b) are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
Bumping may occur in only the following circumstances: an employee who has completed the probationary period and who is faced with the loss of his normal job as a result of the permanent elimination of the operation he normally performs, may, where skill and
may,
24
efficiency are relatively equal displace the most junior employee in an equal rates skill grade if available, or, if not available, then in the next lower skill grade level.
(ii)	As agreed between the Union and the Company on
February 27, 1986, when layoffs occur, employees hired on the same day in	the same year will be laid off in
alphabetical order:	surname	will be 'taken into
consideration.
15-05	Seniority shall accumulate in the following
circumstances only:
(a)	when off the payroll	due to lay-off,
sickness, or accident in which case seniority will continue to accumulate for a period of time equal to one year or the length of the employee's seniority whichever is the shorter;
(b)	when off the payroll due to personal leave of
absence, then seniority will continue to accumulate for the first thremonths of such leave;
(c)	when absent on vacation oron plant holidays;
(d)	when actually at work for the Company.
15.°6	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall
cease to be employed by the Company when he:
(a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company;
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration:
(c)	is off the payroll for a continuous period of twelve months, provided that in the event an employee is receiving Workers' Compensation
25
payments such period shall be a continuous period of twenty-four months;
(d)	fails to report for work within two (2) working days after being notified by the Company following a lay- off, unless absent for a reason satisfactory to the Company:
(e)	fails to return to’ work upon the termination of an authorized • leave of absence unless a reason acceptable tio the Company is given; and
(f)	accepts gainful employment while on a leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the company in writing.
15.07 In the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this Agreement, and is later placed in a position within the scope of this Agreement, he shall retain the seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such supervisory or confidential capacity up to a maximum of six (6) months.
15.08 It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change in address. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employee .
15.09(a) Any employee's reinstatement after sick leave will be conditional on his suppiying, when requested, a certificate from a physician that he is fully recovered from the sickness which caused his absence. The said employee on return to work will be returned to his regular job at the
26
appropriate rate, provided he is able to do the required work satisfactorily.
(b)	The Company shall bear the costs should it
require an employee to be examined by a physician designated by the Company, such costs to include the costs of the examination, tests, and reports made by the physician to the Company. (The Company's obligations regarding costs does not extend to the annual physical by the Department of Health for all employees).
15.10	Overtime on Saturdays. Sundays or Holidays
(a)	When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary throughout the period of Monday to Friday inclusive, it will be assigned to employees on the same shift who are performing the work required, provided they are ready and available for such work.
(b)	For Skill Grades I and II, when Saturday, Sunday or holiday overtime work is required, where skill and efficiency to perform the available work are relatively equal, it will be assigned to more senior employees in the plant who normally work on the shift the work is to be performed.
Provided that in the case of available overtime work involves raw-boning (which falls within Skill Grade II) or portioning of meat (Skill Grade I), in order to be qualified for the overtime work the employee must have also
27
passed the necessary skill test application to either raw-boning or portioning of meat as the case may be within the twelve month period immediately preceding the overtime assignment.
Except in cases of emergency, the Company agrees to schedule a day shift before scheduling an afternoon shift.
(c)	In all other Skill Grades, available overtime work on Saturday, Sunday or holidays will be assigned to senior employees who normally perform the work on the shift available,
(d.) These provisions do not apply to employees classified in Maintenance Grades.
(e)	Any employee who is offered overtime work and refuses shall be deemed to have waived or abandoned his entitlement to overtime .
(f)	Where an employee works overtime on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday at an operation having a skill grade level and rate lower than his regular skill grade level and rate, the lower skill grade level and rate shall apply for that work notwithstanding any other provisions of the Collective Agreement (that is, no rate maintenance in this situation).
28
15.11 (a) The term '•vacancy" for the purpose of this Article shall be defined as an opening in the departmental seniority list where the number of persons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein due to an employee's transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department and the duration of which is expected to exceed fifty (50) working days. The vacancy will be posted for three (3) working days throughout the factory. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees throughout the factory who have more than six (6) months seniority. Only applications received in writing within five (5) working days from the date of the posting will be entertained:	and the company
will announce the results of the postings within ten (10) working days of the date the original posting was made.
(b) In making. a transfer, seniority will govern -where skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an application if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein continued will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.
29
(c)	The job vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therein, will not be subject to posting.
(d)	An employee who is successful on a posted vacancy may not apply for. another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the employee.
(e)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the department he worked in immediately proceeding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that department except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other department. Such employee may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months.
(f)	In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
(g)	The changes made in Articles 15.10 and 15.11(d) are to become effective in the next week following the date of ratification of this Agreement.
15.12 Transfers
(a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred for a continuous period of one (1) hour or more during a shift to
30
an operation in a Skill Grade which has a higher rate ofpay than his regular Skill Grade will receive the equivalent rate of pay in the higher grade for all continuous hours worked in the shift at the higher Skill Grade.
(b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred for a continuous period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less to an operation in a Skill Grade which has a lower rate of pay than his regular Skill Grade shall continue to receive his regular rate up to the end of that thirty day period while working in that lower Skill Grade.
(c)	In the case of transfers of a permanent nature to a lover Skill Grade, an employee will receive the appropriate rate of pay for that lower Skill Grade to which he has transferred.
ARTICLE XVI; BULLETIN BOARDS
16.0l	The Company agrees that the Union shall have the
use of a notice board for the posting of Union notices. All
such notices prior to posting must have the approval of management.
ARTICLE XVII:	SAFETY AND HF.AT.TH
17.0l(a) The Company shall make provisions for safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment,
3l
protective devices on machinery and other devices which the Company deems necessary to properly protect employees from inj^ury, shall be provided to the Company. The Company agrees to provide an adequately equipped first-aid room where employees may receive proper first-aid. Such facilities to be located in an area in '.the plant where it is easily accessible to all employees.	The Company will provide a
person holding a current first-aid diploma to assist employees requiring first-aid and to keep the room adequately equipped.
(b)	The Company shall provide two (2) pairs of safety boots to each employee per year. The type of shoe is to be selected by the Safety Committee. Employees receiving payment for safety footwear shall not have income tax deducted.
(c)	The Company will provide a suitable two piece suit for the men working regularly in the freezers.
17.02	There shall be a Safety Co^^ttee comprising of up
to four (4) representatives appointed by Management and four (4) representatives (at least one to be selected from each shift) appointed by the Union.
The Safety Co^nrttee shall meet monthly provided that the committee itself may unanimously waive the meeting for any given month provided that no sore than two ( 2)
32
consecutive monthly meetings may be waived. Minutes shall be kept of each meeting.
The parties agree that a schedule setting out the monthly dates for meetings of the Health and Safety Committee will be established annually in advance.
17.03	The Company will instruct its supervisors to rotate
jobs within the same job classification and department which are usually tiresome due to exceptional conditions or circumstances.
ARTICLE XVIII:	LEAVF, OF ABSENCE
18.01(a) The Company may grant leave of absence up to four ( 4)	weeks if an employee requests. it in writing from the
Management and if the leave is for good reason and does not unreasonably- interfere with the efficient operation of the -plant. The Company will reply to such request in writing within five (5) working days of the date of receipt of the request orsooner if possible.
In emergency situations (eg. death in an employee’s family) the Company will respond promptly and in such cases both the request and the response may be verbal.
(b) The company will •grant leave of absence without pay to not more than two (2) employees to attend Union conventions and conferences for a period or periods not
34
employee's absence on the previous day or if the failure to provide work is due to causes beyond the Company's control.
ARTICLE XXI:	RF.RFAVF.MFNT PAY
21.01	In the event of the death of a member of an
employee's family, the employee will be granted a leave of absence for a reasonable tine and will be reimbursed for time necessarily lost from work up to a maximum of three (3) days.	This allowance will only be made where the
circumstances require the employee's absence from work, the term "member of an employee's family" means a husband, wife, child, or parent, brother, sister, mother-in-law, or father-in-law. A one ( l) day leave of absence will be granted in the event of the death of an employee's grandparent or grandchild.
21.02	If an employee is unable to attend the funeral of a member of his "family", he is not required to work on the day of the funeral and he shall receive eight (8) hours pay for that day, if lost time is involved.
21.03	The Company may require that satisfactory evidence of bereavement be furnished by anemployee in the event of a claim under this Article XXI.
ARTTCLF, XXII:	STT.K AND WELFARE PLANS
22.01(a) During the lifetime of this Agreement, the Company
35
\{ i 11 contribute one hundred ( lOOt) percent of the billed premiums of O.H.I.P. with respect to all employees who have attained seniority on a single basis or a family basis, whichever is applicable provided that any female employee is not covered by her spouse under the appropriate regulations of O.H.I.P.
(b)	The Company will pay one hundred (100\) percent of the billed premiums of the Weekly Indemnity and Life Insurance Policy on behalf of employees who have attained seniority, and are eligible in accordance with the terms of the said Policy, which Policy shall provide the following benefits:
(i) The Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be amended following ratification of this Agreement for employees who thereafter commence a new absence from work in circumstances where they qualify for Weekly Indemnity Benefits.
The Weekly Indemnity Plan will provide a maximum coverage of twenty-six (26) weeks and shall continue to provide a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to sixty-six and two-thirds (66	2/3%)
percent of earnings to a maximum of two hundred ($200) dollars for employees who qualify thereunder. If the Unemployment Insurance Plan sixty-six and two-thirds (66 2/3%) percent increases over two hundred ($200) dollars, the maximum will be increased to match the Unemployment Insurance Commission Plan.
The Plan shall operate on the first day of accident, the first day of hospitalization and the fourth (4th) day of illness, provided the employee sees the doctor within a three day period of absence.
36
The Plan wil1 'also be amended to incorporate the following principles:
A.	The "weekly earnings" of an errployee for
the purposes of calculation of a week of
indemnity allowance will be the average weekly earnings of the employee in the twenty (20) weeks. immediately preceding the date the paid disability be^&s, provided that, there will be excluded from the twenty (20) weeks those weeks for which the employee:
1.	was	receiving WCB	benefits;
2.	was receiving	weekly indemnity
benefits;
3.	was	on vacation	leave;
4.	was	laid off.
B.
Successive periods of disability shall be considered as one period ofdisabi Lity, .... iess the employee returns to work and completes at least four (4) complete consecutive weeks of
active and full time service before comiencement of the later disability or unless
the later disability is due to caus.es wholly different from those of the prior (disability and commences after the employee has returned to work.
(Therefore:	l) the waiting period will not be
required. again:	and 2) onlv the unused
balance of the twenty- six (26) weeTcs of
benefits will be available to the employee.)
(ii) Effective on ratification of this Agreement,
$25,000 LIFE INSURANCE coverage for all eligible employees and the plan to continue to provide for Double Indemnity. Effective June l, 1990 the above noted amount will be amended to read $30,000.
Cheques are mailed to the Claimant as soon as is reasonably possible after it is received from the insurance
company in the Company office. Appropriate income tax will be deducted so that the cheque from the insurance company will be net of income tax.
37
(c)	The Company shall assume the cost of a $10 single
and	$20 family deductible Extended Health Care Plan
including semi- private hospital coverage for all eligible employees.
(d)	The Company will continue to pay the premiums for eligible employees in respect of the Basic Dental Plan with Rider I based on the 1984 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees provided that the existing Plan is upgraded effective within one (1) month of the date of ratification to the 1988 o. D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective June 1,	1990, the existing Plan will be
upgraded to the 1989 O. D.A. Schedule of Fees.
(e)	The Company will continue to pay the premiums for eligible employees in respect ef the existing Eye Care Plan provided that the existing -Plan shall be up-graded effective within one (1) month of ratification to provide a subsidy of up to $100 every twenty-four months with no deductible.
22.02	Premiums for Benefits
The Company agrees to continue to pay the premiwns for the various health and welfare benefits provided for in Article 22 of this Agreement on behalf of eligible employees for a period of one month only after such employee ceases to be actively and continuously at work.
38
That period of one month will be extended to three months only where the employee is not actively and continuously at work as a result of being entitled to and while receiving Weekly Indemnity benefits pursuant to the Company Plan.
Furthermore that period of one month will be extended to twelve months Only where the employee is not actively and continuously at work as a result of being entitled to and while receiving Workers’ Compensation benefits due to an accident at the plant.
A return to active work for a period of less than thirty (30) continuous working days shall not be considered a return to active and continuous work for the purposes of reinstating the Company’s obligations to pay premiums for benefits as provided for in this Article.
ARTICLE XXIII - U.F.C.W. PENSION PLAN
23.01(a) Effective June l, 1989, the Company agrees to contribute twenty-two (22) cents per hour for all regular hours worked by non-probationary employees eligible under the rules governing the U.F.C.W. Pension Plan. Effective June 1, 1990 the pension contribution described herein will be increased to twenty-five (25) cents per hour. Effective January 1, 1991 the pension contribution described herein will be increased to twenty-seven (27) cents per hour.
39
(b)	The Company’s liability present and future with regard to the aforementioned Pension Plan is limited to the above-noted contributions.
(c)	The Union agrees to provide the Company with annual audited financial statements for the Pension Trust and the Company actuary shall’ be allowed annual access on request to the books, accounts and records of the Trust Fund.
ART TCTF X.X.TV - GENERAL
24.01	Tn the event of a discharge, suspension for more than three (3) days or layoff of an employee for a period in excess of one day, the Company will advise the Plant Chairman and the Union office of such event .
24.02	The Company will not assign work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit to foreman to the extent that as a result employees in the bargaining unit are 1 a id off, sent home without completing their normal day’s work or deprived of overtime.
24.03	For all drivers who have completed their probationary period, the Company will provide a uniform as follows: 2 pairs of pants, 3 shirts, 2 jackets, l hat.
ARTTCLF. XXV - COST OF LTVTNFl
25.01
Employees who have completed their probationary
40
period will be provided a cost-of-living allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) The cost-of-living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1981)	(198l=100) and hereafter
referred to as the C.P.I.
( b) The May 1989 C.P. I.. published June 1989 will be used as the base index for the period May 1,	1989 to July 31, 1989 and adjustments in
the cost-of-living allowance will be made quarterly at the following times:
Effective Date
of Adjustment_________Index__________Published
Aug.	26,	1989	July	1989	Aug.	1989
Nov.	25,	1989	Oct.	1989	Nov.	1989
Feb.	24,	1990	Jan.	1990	Feb .	1990
May	26,	1990	Apr.	1990	May	1990
Aug.	25,	1990	July	19 9 0	Aug.	1990
Nov.	24,	1990	Oct.	1990	Nov.	1990
Feb.	23,	1991	Jan.	1991	Feb .	1991
May	25,	1991	Apr.	1991	May	1991
( c) The cost-of-living allowance shall be adjusted at the rate of one ( l) cent for each .35 increase or decrease in the C.P.I.
(d)	Payment of the allowance will be made quarterly to
each employee calculated on the basis of the applicable cost-of-living allowance for the total number of hours worked by the employee during the quarterly period in respect of which the allowance is payable.
(e)	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be
made due to any revision that may later be made in the published figures for the C.P.I. on the basis on which the allowance has been determined.
( f) The Company agrees to post a notice on the bulletin board announcing changes from time to time in the cost-of-living allowance being paid.
41
25.02 Retroactivity of C.O.L.A,
Any cost-of-living allowance resulting from amended Article 25.01 will be paid retroactively to May 28, 1989 only for employees of record on the ratification date of this Agreement and only for hours actually worked.
ARTICLE XXVI:	UNION SECURITY’
26.01	During the lifetime of this Agreement the Company
shall deduct from the pay of all employees who have acquired seniority covered by this Agreement on the first pay day of each calendar month the sum of $???? and shall remit same prior to the end of such month to the Financial Secretary of the Union. The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of those employees who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union. The Company shall further deduct from the pay of all new employees when they attain seniority the duly authorized fee in accordance with the Union Constitution.
ARTICLE ^XXVII:	T^ERMINATION
27.0l	This Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect from June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1991 and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter unless in any year not more than sixty days, and not less than thirty days, before
42
the day of its termination, either party shall furnish the other with notice of, or proposed revision of, this Agreement.
27.02	Retroactivity
(a)	Notwithstanding the stated effective date of this
Agreement, it is understood and agreed between the parties that all improvements herein stipulated over those set out in the	previous Agreement shall be effective from the
ratification date	of this Agreement unless otherwise
specified herein.
(b)	An adjustment of wages of seventy-two (72) cents per hour representing thirty-two (32) cents of C.O.L.A. folded-in and forty (40) cents in wage increase will be paid retroactively for all hours worked up to forty hours per week since June 1, 1989 to employees of record on ratification of this Agreement. All hours worked in excess of forty hours per week by those employees will be paid for on the basis of time and one-half, that is, at one dollars and eight cents ($1.08) (72 cents + 36 cents) per hour worked.
(c)	It is understood that increases in wage rates on Schedule "A” as a result of classification or grade level adjustments will not be made retroactive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the party of the first part and the party of the second part have caused their proper officers
4 3
t o affix their signatures the day and year first above
written.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175I A.F.L. , C.I.6V.' ,,C.L.C
&
3
AM=

7? es.

44
SKILL
GRADES
Grade I Grade II
Grade III
8CHEDPLE ”A”
SKILL GRADES AND WAGES
(Effective after 40 working days with the Company)
RATES PER HOUR
EFFECTIVE
ON EFFECTIVE
_________________________________RATIFICATION JUNE 1/90
All operations not listed in
higher skill grades	$10.60	$11.00
Raw Boning (Removal of Meat
from carcasses or parts)	$10.95	$11.35
Hanging
Tending Circular Cut-up Saw
Pulling Skin on line
Packing on Raw Boning line and in the Portioning room involving work in progress	.
Inventory control clerk
Wing Splitting
Quality Control (laboratory)
Meat Shovellers (Finger line, Formax line, Roast line)
Stuffing Rolls (Use Hetman Machine stuffing and clipping)
Dry Warehousing Control Major $11.50	$11.90
Clean up and Sanitation (not janitorial or garbage)
Cooked Chicken Breaking
45
RATES PER HOUR
SKILL
GRADES
EFFECTIVE
ON EFFECTIVE RATT FT f. AT TON .TTTUB 1/ 9 0.
Grade III Line Supplying (not simply	$11.50	$11.90
operating Power Hand Truck)
Massage Room Control
Cooler Warehousing Control
Machine and/or Line Operating (required to maintain, adjust and operate) one of the following machines and/or lines:
K.F.C. Line
(a) Operating the K.F.C.line or complex which includes breading, batter, predust and batter mixer machines
(b)	Operating the formax machine
(c)	Op erating the C02 preblend
massage machine
Patty Lines
(a)	Operating a patty line w complex which includes breader, batter, and formax machines
(b) Operating the C02 preblend
massage machine
Finger Line
(a) Operating the Finger’ making line or complex which includes the batter, breader, predust and
batter mixing machines
Frier Line
(a) Operating the Frier Line or complex
46
RATES PER HOUR
EFFECTIVE
SKILL	ON EFFECTIVE
GRADES_____________________________________RATIFICATION__sUZHB_2-/90
Grade III (b) Operating the batter/
breading line or complex $11.50	$11.90
Grade III Emulsion Machine Operating Silent Cutter Operating
$11.50	$11.90
Grade IV Cook Room Control
Freezer Warehousing
Grade V
$)	-6'- J. ^
Sifeip{iing/Re<5eiving	\
fl{-	- - LnM
Grade VI	Track Driver/sMff^v
fl""- S IlP.
Grade VII Maintenance ITT - flandyman
Grade VIII Experienced and skilled
Mechanic not holding current papers
Grade IX Experienced and skilled
tradesman holding current papers in a required trade
Grade X
Electrician
$11.75
$12.00
$12.25
$13.32
$15.00
$16.25
$17.25
$12.15
$12.40 $12.65 $13.72 $15.40
$16.65
$17.65
47
MAINTENANCE APPRENTICES
Enrolled in a Certificate Course in a Required Trade
On Ratification	June 1, '1990
1st Year	2nd Year
Active Service Active Service
$11.17
$12.12
1st Year	2nd Year
Active Service Active Service
$11.57
$12.52
3rd Year	4th Year
Active Service Active Service
3rd Year	4th Year
Active Service Active Service
$13.62	$14.62	$14.02	$15.02
(a) The starting rate will be fifty (50) cents less than the applicable full rate for the skill grade until completion of the probationary period.
In the case of Rawboning (Skill Grade II), employees will receive thirty-five (35) cents less than the applicable probationary rate or thirty-five (35) cents less than the full rate for the skill .grade, whichever applies, until they qualify by passing the necessary skill test.
(b)	Upon becoming a journeyman, a maintenance apprentice w.ill be regrouped to the appropriate skill grade.
(c)	Lead Hand Rates:	The Company may appoint lead hands
who will receive seventy-five (75) cents above the rate for their skill grade while so acting. Lead Hands shall be a member of the bargaining unit and as such shall not have the power to hire, fire, or discipline.
GALco x
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
Head Office: 318 Orenda Road. Bramalea. Ontario. Canada LOT 1G1
Tel: (416) 793-5757 Fax: (416) 7932513
Maritime Ofce: PO Box 335. Moncton. N.B., Canada EtC 8L4 Tel: (506) 854-9460
November 8, 1989
Mr.
Business Representative United Food & ^Comnercial Workers Suite 302
61 International ^wlevard Rexdale, Ontario M9W 6K4
Dear Mr.
Re:	Attendance Programs
In the event the	presses to in^^t:roduce a new Atte^odance	it
Will di^^ns the matter with the F.mployee-F.mployer Relations ^Colittee prior to impl^ementation.
very truly
GALCO FOO^/PROOU^TS LIMITED
Per:	Bernard Kuperberg
Production Manager/
GALCOx'
FOos®
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
Head Ofice: 318 Orenda Road. Bramalea, Ontario, Canada L6T 1G1
Tel: (416) 793-5757 fax: (416) 793-2513
Maritime Ofice: P.O. Bow335,Moncton,N.B. Canada E1C6L4 Tel: (506)854-9460
November 8, 1989
Mr. Bar Sutton Business Representative United Food 8 ^Conmercial Workers Suite 302, 61 inte^rnational Boulevard Rexda1 e, Ontario M9W 6K4
Dear Mr. Sutton:
Re:	Temporary Positions
We wish to confirm our understanding that the Company will post certain t^po^rary ^raiti^K nich	available in the plant.
The posting itself will have the word "’^TEMPORARY POSITION" clearly
stated.
Positions made available due to vacation schedule are not considered 'TEMPORARY POSITION" and therefore will not be posted.
Where the Company wishes to fill a temporary vacancy which it reasonably anticipates will exceed twenty working days in Grade II or a higher grade, it will post the position, as a y'TEMPORARY POSITION" provided:
{ i) only persons from the same shift may apply;
(ii)	the procedure in Article 15.11 -of the Collective Agreement will be followed:
(iii)	the Company can fill in its discretion any such vacancy until the selection process is complete;
(iv)	it is understood that Article 15.11 (d) does not apply to temporary
(v)	Article 15.11(C) will be amended for temporary positions so that only the original va^^ry will be ^retod by the ^^^; ood
(vi)	Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Collective	a
successful applicant from a higher grade will get the pay rate for the lower grade nich he has bid.
Y^^ very troly,
Head OlhceO'8 Orcnda Road, Brama^a. Ontario, Canada L6T 1G1
GALCO FOOD	Tel. (416) 793-5757Fax: (416) 793-2513
PRODUCTS LIMITED Maritime OlhcePOBox 33S. Moncton, N.8.,Canada E1C8L4 Tel: (506) 854-9460
FOODS^
November a, 1989
Mr. Harry Sutton Business Representative United Food & Commercial Workers Suite 302
61 International Boulevard Rexdale, Ontario M9W 6K4
Dear Mr. Sutton:
In the event there is an error in any employee's pay chegue to the extent of four (4) hours pay or more, the Company upon being advised °f the error, will correct the same as soon as reasonably practical by separate cheque to the employee.
Yours very truly,
Re :	Pay Cheques
GALCO FO<	TEO
Per:	Bernard Kuperberr'
Production Manager