AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
i -I ’*> >
F.W. Fearman Company, limited
AND
local PI 227 of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Region 18, AFL-C.I.O. and the C.L.C.
NOVEMBER 15,1991
,	00263 (04)
ARTICLE
INDEX
DESCRIPTION
PAGE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Purpose .................
Recognition ............
Union Security .........
Management Functions . .
Discrimination .........
Stewards and Committees Grievance Procedure ....
................2
..................2
...................3
...................4
...................4
...................5
.................6
Arbitration ........................................8
No Strike No Lockout...............................9
Seniority...............................
Vacancies .............
Temporary Transfers ....................
Leave of Absence .......................
General ................................
Statutory Holidays .....................
Vacations with Pay .....................
Rates of Pay, Hours of Work, Overtime
Rates and Conditions ...................
Welfare Programme.......................
Tool Allowance Maintenance Department..
Duration of Agreement...................
Schedule "A "
Statutory Holidays ....................
Schedule "0"
Vacations with Pay ....................
Schedule "C"
Rates of Pay, Hours of Work, Overtime
Rates and Conditions ..................
Schedule "D"
Welfare Programme .....................
Appendix “A "
Conditions for Refrigerated Truck Drivers
. 9 15
17
18 19 24 24
24 24 24 : 24
27
29
31
37
41
1
THIS AGREEMENT made this 15th day of November A.D., 1991.
BETWEEN:
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC.
(Hereinafter referred to as the Company)
AND
LOCAL P1227 of THE UNITED FOOD AND
COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION 18, AFL-C.I.O. and the C.L.C. (Hereinafter referred to as the Union)
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The Company and the Union each agree that the purpose and the intent of this Agreement is to promote co-operation and harmony, to recognize mutual interests, to provide a channel through which information and problems may be transmitted from one to the other, to promote efficiency and service, and set forth herein the basic agreement controlling rates of pay, hours of work, dispute procedures, and conditions of employment.
1.02	There shall be no effort by either signatory to misinterpret, read into, or delete from any of the provisions of this agreement.
1.03	Therefore, this agreement between the Company and the Union, signed by the accredited officials of both parties, has been mutually agreed upon, and the terms laid out shall be carried out in letter and spirit by both parties.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent of all employees ofFearmans Fresh Meats
2
working at, working in and out of its plant at Appleby Line, Burlington, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff, students employed during the school vacation period and Operating Engineers.
2.02	For the purpose of clarification, employees working in the first aid area of the plant are considered as part of the office staff by the parties to the agreement.
2.03	Part-time and students shall be continued to be treated and used in the same manner as during the
. previous collective agreement. However, it is not the . i I intention of the Company to use part-time or students for the purpose of reducing overtime. Supervisors will not normally perform any work performed by bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY	,
i
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct weekly from each | employee in each calendar month the regularweekly I Union dues, and to remit such monies to the Finan-1 cial Secretary of the Local before the fifteenth day of the following month in which such deductions were made. A list showing the names of the employees from whom such monies were deducted shall accompany each monthly check-off cheque. The Union agrees to notify the Company of the amount of dues to be deducted.
In addition to the regular dues, twice the regular weekly Union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding until all delinquent weeks have been accounted for.
3.02	The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee, who at the date of
^ i the signing of the Agreement was a member of the
3
Union in good standing, shall maintain such membership.
Employees hired on or subsequent to the date of the signing of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union within ninety (90) days following the date of their employment, and shall thereafter maintain membership in the Union in good standing. The Company will procure from such new employees the necessary membership applications, and membership in the Union shall be granted within the above mentioned ninety (90) day period.
For the purpose of this Agreement, employees who are or who become members shall be deemed to maintain their membership in the Union in good standing provided they pay, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the regularly prescribed initiation fee, regular Union dues, and periodic assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
Special assessments, if levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union, will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notifications from the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	The Union recognizes that the Company has the exclusive right to manage the business and to exercise all of the prerogatives of management, except those specifically delegated to the Union in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 ■ DISCRIMINATION
5.01	No person shall be refused employment or in any manner be discriminated against or coerced, restrained or influenced on account of membership or non-membership in any labour organization.
4
5.02	Any representative of the International Union, upon permission from the main office of the Company and by appointment, may enter the Company's premises in the administration of this Agreement, provided he does not interfere with the employee's duties to his employer.
ARTICLE 6 - STEWARDS AND COMMITTEES
6.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from the Union membership, stewards, who will comprise a plant committee, one of which will be the chief steward who will be the chairman of the said committee. The Company will recognize the said committee for the purpose of handling any grievance arising out of the administration of this collective agreement.
6.02	A list of the stewards appointed, or otherwise selected, shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union, in writing, of any change to this list. The Union will be informed promptly of other than temporary changes in supervision.
6.03	The Union agrees that no person shall be appointed or otherwise selected as a steward unless he or she has attained plant seniority twelve (12) months prior to the appointment or selection.
6.04	The Company recognizes and agrees that members of the Plant Committee and Committee Chairmen (Pension Committee, Health & Safety Committee and Compensation Coordinator) are required from time to time to investigate and process grievances or discuss with Supervisors other matters affecting employees. When it becomes necessary for a Committeeman to leave his/her job during working hours to attend these matters, they will give Supervisors as much advance notice as possible, at which time
5
Supervision will make arrangements for the Committeeman to be relieved within one hour after receiving such notice. The Committeeman must advise his/her Supervisor as to what the general nature of business is and how much time they require. The Union agrees that there will not normally be duplications of duties or responsibilities of its Stewards and Officers,
\	however, it is recognized that there may be times
when, because of circumstances, the Union or the Company may deem it necessary to have more than one representative attend to the matter. The Committeeman must inform the appropriate Supervisor of the department into which he is entering.
6.05	An employee shall be accompanied by a Steward, or Chief Steward, or President, when being interviewed in the presence of a Foreman or Company Supervisor, where a matter is being discussed that could lead to discipline.
6.06	Chief Steward and President will be working steady day shift.
ARTICLE 7 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Grievances arising under the Agreement shall be adjusted and settled as follows:-Step 1 The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance in writing at a meeting with his immediate department Supervisor, and shall have his Steward present.
If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within forty-eight (48) hours, the grievance may be presented as follows at any time within the forty-eight (48) hours thereafter.
Step 2 The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance to the Personnel Manager, Department Supervisor and the Plant Superintendent, or the Assistant Superintendent, and shall be represented
6
by the Chief Steward and the Department Steward. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within forty-eight (48) hours, the grievance may be presented as follows at any time within the forty-eight (48) hours thereafter. Policy Grievances shall be presented at Step 2. Step 3 The aggrieved employee may present his grievance to a Vice-President of the Company and a Committee composed of Chief Steward, Steward from the Department, and President. The Interna tional Representative of the Union may be in attendance. Should no settlement satisfactory to the employee be reached within forty-eight (48) hours, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration as hereinafter provided.
7.02	It is understood that the Company or the Union may bring forward as a grievance any complaint arising out of the application of this Agreement.
7.03	In this article, agrievance shall consist of any dispute concerning interpretation, application, “or administration”, or alleged violation of any clause in this Agreement. If any question arises as to whether a particular dispute is or is not a grievance within the meaning of these provisions, the question may be taken up through thegrievance procedure and determined, if necessary, by arbitration. There shall be an earnest effort on the part of both parties to settle such grievances promptly through the grievance procedure.
7.04	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred, or was known, more that three (3) full working days before the filing of the grievance.
7.05	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all steps of the grievance procedure outlined above, and which has not been settled to the satisfaction of the employee, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration at the request of either of the parties hereto within five (5) working days from decision referred to in Article 7.01, Step
3.
8.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union, and third person to act as Chairman, agreed to by the other two members of the Board.
8.03	Within forty-eight (48) hours of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
8.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third person within seven (7) days of the notification mentioned in 8.03 above, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario shall be asked to nominate a third party to act as Chairman.
8.05	The decision of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding on both parties.
8.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
8
An Arbitrator shall have the power to modify any penalty imposed by the Company.
8.07	Each of the parties to this Agreement will bear the expense of the Arbitrator appointed by it; and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman.
8.08	No person shall be selected as Arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 9 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	During the term of this Agreement there shall be no
lockout by the Company, or any strike, sitdown, slowdown, work stoppage, or suspension of work, either complete or partial, for any reason by the employee.	i/>
9.02	Employees covered by this Agreement shall have’ 1 the right to refuse to cross a legal picket line. If the i Union requests, in writing, the Company will not j handle meat or meat products arising from a legal j labour dispute.
ARTICLE 10 -SENIORITY
10.01	Seniority in this Agreement shall mean length of
uninterrupted service. There shall be two types of seniority:
(a)	Departmental Seniority-the date uninterrupted that the employee last commenced to work in the department, and;
(b)	Plant Wide Seniority the date of last hire.
10.02	In case of date duplications, an alphabetical list shall be prepared in accordance with the surname and those at the top of the list shall be deemed to be hired first. When two or more employees start in a new department on the same date, the employee with the
9
highest plant seniority shall be deemed to be starting first. The Company shall prepare seniority lists showing the employees' plant and department seniority, revised each six months, and a copy of the revised list shall be delivered every six months to the President of the Local, the Chief Steward, and Department Stewards, and a copy will be sent to the Union Office.
10.03	New employees hired by the Company shall be considered as probationary employees until they have completed ninety (90) calendar days of employment in any twelve (12) month period, during ,which time he may be discharged or disciplined without recourse to grievance procedure. The employer may not discharge the employee for puri poses of enforcing additional probationary period.
Upon completion of the ninetieth (90) calendar day, the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the regular seniority list as of the date of the commencement of his probationary period.
The Company agrees that should an employee be terminated between the 60th and 90th day, the Union will be supplied with the information surrounding the dismissal, and the subject will be open for discussion with the Union.
10.04	Seniority rights will cease for any of the following reasons:
(a)	If an employee voluntarily quits.
(b)	If the employee is discharged and the decision is not reversed through Grievance Procedure.
(c)	If the employee is absent from work for three (3) working days without securing leave of absence from his Foreman, unless reasons satisfactory to the Company for such absence are supplied.
(d)	If an employee has been laid off and fails to
return within five (5) working days after he has
10
been notified to do so by registered mail to his last known address with the Company, unless reasons satisfactory to the Company are supplied. (It shall be the employee's responsibility at all times to keep the Company informed as to his current home address.) The Company shall then inform the Union Office of the change.
(e)	If the employee is laid off twelve (12) consecutive months.
(f)	Employees off on compensation shall continue to retain their seniority while absent.
(g)	Employee’s seniority will not be terminated when they remain away from work because of sickness or disability, provided the employee notifies the Personnel Department, or First Aid Attendant, within three (3) working days. An employee returning from sick or disability leave after five (5) working days absence, must, if requested by the Company, present a certificate from his or her Physician stating the nature of the sickness and that the employee is reasonably recovered to fully perform the duties of his job. The employees on authorized sick or disability leave will only accumulate seniority on the following basis:
Length of Employee's Service Over 6 months
Allowable Break
Time equivalent to length of service not in excess of 36 months. An employee who returns to work within the time of an allowable break shall retain the seniority he had at the time he was laid off and accumulate additional seniority for the period of the lay-off.
10.05	The Company agrees to adjust its seniority lists to reflect the following departments:
1.	Beef Cutting, Beef Cooler.	07
11
2.	Overwrap.
3.	Hog Kill.
4.	Hog Cut.
5.	Manufacturing.
6.	Sausage.
7.	Packaging.
8.	Rendering/Sewage.
9.	Janitor.
10.	Maintenance.
11.	Clean Up.
12.	Laundry.
13.	Dry Goods Warehouse.
14.	Shipping.
15.	Delivery.
10.06	Those promoted to supervisory positions or posi-
tions not subject to this Agreement, will retain their seniority after promotion for a twelve (12) month period only. If demoted for any reason, the time served in the supervisory position shall be included in their seniority rating. Such employee shall forfeit any and all recourse to the grievance procedure as outlined in this Agreement, should he subsequently be discharged in such a position beyond the jurisdiction of this Agreement. If an employee is promoted to a supervisory position and such supervisory position is subsequently abolished, such employee will revert to his former position without loss of seniority. Employees reverting to their former positions as provided herein shall be required, as a condition of continued employment, to apply for membership in the Union.
Reduction in Working Force
10.07	Two types of lay-offs are recognized by the Company:
(1) A temporary lay-off of no longer duration than six (6) consecutive days when the employee is
12
08
10
12
15
20
25
30
37
40
50
55
60
70
80
so informed at the time of lay-off, in any twelve (12) month period. A temporary lay-off to apply only to a lay-off of one complete department. (2) An indefinite lay-off, with the employee at the time of lay-off being so informed.
(a)	The Company agrees to give ninety-six (96)
hours notice, excluding weekends, to the Chief Steward and the employees con,) •,	cerned, unless prevented by Acts of God or
causes beyond the control of management.
(b)	The Chief Steward and the Department Steward shall be given a list ninety-six (96) hours in advance, excluding weekends, of employees to be laid off or recalled, unless prevented by Acts of God or causes beyond the control of management.
10.08	In the event of a temporary lay-off, no employee may invoke his plant seniority unless the period set out in Article 10.07(1) has expired.
10.09	When an indefinite lay-off occurs, the Company
agrees to lay-off the most junior employee in the Plant, provided that the employees remaining have skill, competence, and efficiency to do the work. Employees affected by the lay-off then have the right to displace the most junior employee in their department using their departmental seniority.
To fill such vacancies in different areas, the Company will transfer the most junior employees in the department on the shift where the shortage of work occurred according to their seniority, providing the employees remaining in the department have the skill, competence, and efficiency to do the work. When conditions in the above three paragraphs have been met, any employee laid off on his shift may invoke his plant seniority to displace the most junior employee working in the plant.
13
Having the skill, competence, and efficiency to do the work, as indicated in this Agreement, means to qualify reasonably quickly for the required work. Those who can qualify reasonably quickly will be entitled to a trial of six (6) working days in an eight (8) day period.
10.10	In the case of a reduction in a department, an
employee taking a position in his home department will get the job classification rate. An employee taking a job in other than his home department will get the starting rate for the job unless he has had previous practical experience in the classification. In such case, the employee shall receive the job classification rate.
10.11	For the purpose of this Collective Agreement, every employee shall have departmental seniority in one department only, except where an employee is transferred due to a department closure or lay-off. In such case, the employee reserves the right to return to his home department within twelve (12) months of the date of the original transfer when a position becomes available, provided he has the skill, competence, and efficiency to do the job. If he refuses the position, he forfeits his seniority in his old department. Departmental seniority in the new department is lost when the employee returns to his home department. The classified department of each employee on the signing of the Collective Agreement shall be his or her department for the purpose of departmental seniority.
i
Increase in Working Force
10.12	Employees will be recalled in reverse order of lay-off.
10.13	(a) Employees possessing departmental seniority
in the department on the shift in which the staff is being increased, will be recalled in the
14
reverse order to that in which they were laid off, provided they can perform the required work satisfactorily.
(b)	A laid off employee must take the first job open in his department on his shift or his employment will be terminated, unless due to physical difficulties the employee cannot do the job and both the Union and Company agree that the employee is exempt.
(c)	Prior to any outside hiring, laid off employees must accept the job opening on their shift, or their employmentwill be terminated, unless due to physical difficulties the employee cannot do the job and both the Union and Company agree that the employee is exempt. Unskilled employees will not be recalled for skilled classifications.
10.14	In the case of a recall, an employee taking a job in his home department will get the job classification rate. An employee taking a job in other than his home department will get the trainee rate (2 increments below job rate) for the job, unless he has had previous practical experience in the classification, at such time the employee shall receive the job classification rate.
10.15	The Company will operate 3 steady shifts; Days,
Afternoons and Nights. All employees will remain in their current shifts, unless a vacancy occurs and they have successfully bid on that vacancy. When a vacancy occurs which is normally a rotating shift job, the Company agrees to fill such vacancy as a steady non-rotating shift.
ARTICLE 11 -VACANCIES	“
11.01	When a vacancy occurs in a department, a department job vacancy will be posted over the department time clock for a period of forty-eight (48) hours. The
15
job will be filled by the bidder with the greatest departmental seniority who has the skill, competence, and efficiency to perform the work. If no bid is received from an employee of that department, the job vacancy, with the job rate, will be posted on the main bulletin board for a period of ninety-six (96) hours. The job will be filled by the bidder with the highest plant seniority who is able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. If no employee working or laid off on the plantwide seniority list bids the job, the most senior laid off employee will be recalled, as covered in 10.13(c). Bid slips must be signed and dated, and time punched, to be honoured.
11.02	When a job vacancy occurs and it is known it is for a temporary period, the job posting shall so designate.
11.03	When an employee successfully bids a new job, he shall maintain his existing rate, unless the employee has had previous experience on the job; in that case, he shall receive job rate immediately. When an employee has maintained his existing classification rate, he shall progress to the new job classification rate within thirty (30) working days.
11.04	When an employee successfully bids down on a new job, he shall receive the training rate (two (2) increments below job rate). He shall progress to the new job classification within thirty (30) working days. If the employee has had previous practical experience in the classification, he shall receive the classification rate.
11.05	An employee who successfully bids a new job shall not bid on a further opening for a three month period.
11.06	An employee selected on this basis will be given an opportunity of fulfilling the duties of the new position during a reasonable trial period of thirty (30) working days. If the employee fails to meet the requirements
16
of the job at any time during the trial period, he will be returned to his former job.
If the employee wishes to relinquish the position within eleven (11) working days, he may do so, and return to his former job.
11.07	An employee who successfully bids a new job will be placed on the new job not later than two (2) weeks where practical.
ARTICLE 12 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
12.01	It is not the intention of the Company to utilize
temporary transfers to transfer anyone for more than four (4) weeks.
12.02	An employee on temporary transfer shall retain his seniority in his home department during the period of the transfer. For temporary transfers from one department to another, the Company will transfer the employee with the least departmental seniority who has the skill to do the job. An employee who, because of skill and competence, is temporarily transferred on a repetitive basis, may register his objection to such repetitive transfers to the Personnel Manager and Chief Steward, in which case the Company will, subject to seniority, have four (4) weeks to obtain a replacement who can perform the work satisfactorily or to train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify reasonably quickly for such temporary transfers.
12.03	Any employee transferred shall receive the rate of pay of the job he is transferred to, but not less than his regular job rate. Payment to the employee of the job rate shall not be used as evidence in assessment of skill, competence, and efficiency in other provisions of the Collective Agreement.
17
12.04	If the Company makes a transfer, employees in the home department with the most seniority will be given the first choice to fill the transfer. Employees transferred in the home department will be paid the rate he is transferred to, but not less than his regular job rate when such transfer is caused by a shortage of work.
ARTICLE 13 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01	In an attempt to give all employees an opportunity to enjoy vacations during the summer months, leaves
\ of absence will not be granted from June 15 to September 15. The Company may grant leaves of / absence, without pay, to any employees for legitimate personal reasons for up to two (2) months, including vacation period. The Company will notify the Union, in writing, of all such leaves of absence, along with the name of the person the leave was granted to. If an employee was denied leave of absence, the Company will notify, in writing, the employee and the Union, the reason for denial. During such leave, the employee will accumulate seniority. Employees should notify the Company as soon as possible of an intended application.
13.02	If an employee uses his leave of absence for any other purpose than for which it was granted, he shall be deemed to have resigned. Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, to try out new work, or to enter into business for himself.
13.03	An employee who may be elected or appointed to a full time position with the Union upon proper notice,
' • to be agreed upon by Management, shall be granted leave of absence without pay, not to exceed one (1) year. While on such leave, he shall retain any accumulated seniority. Upon one (1) month’s notice of a desire to return to work for the Company, he shall
18
be placed on his job previously held, or one of equal pay, providing he is physically fit and capable of performing the work.
13.04	An employee who finds it necessary to apply for a leave of absence as a result of her pregnancy will, upon presentation of a medical certificate denoting her fitness for work and within three (3) months following delivery of such child or children, be reinstated and given credit for service accumulated. Such reinstatement shall take place within one (1) month following notice of her desire to return to work, subject to seniority and ability to perform the required work satisfactorily.
ARTICLE 14-GENERAL
14.01	A separate enclosed bulletin board will be made
available and marked “Union” for the purpose of posting notices which have been approved by the Company. The Company shall provide an additional bulletin board for the Traffic Department.
14.02	It is agreed that neither party to this agreement shall enter into any agreement or contract with the employees which conflicts with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
14.03	An employee who is required to work more than one and one-half (1 -1/2) hours overtime in any day, shall receive a meal allowance of $6.00.
14.04	The Company agrees to give to all employees
covered by this agreement two (2) coffee breaks in each shift, one in the first half and one in the second half of the shift, of fifteen (15) minutes duration each, and every two (2) hours thereafter when working, except where the employee is provided with a hot meal. These coffee breaks shall be as close as possible to the middle of the shift, and will be staggered where practical.
19
14.05	The Company will allow employees reasonable time for sharpening tools that are required to perform the work assigned to them, which shall be scheduled or handled by the Foreman the same as any other assignment of work for which he is responsible. It is the responsibility of the Company to provide workable tools.
14.06	All scabbards, sticking and rib knives, whetstones, steel, mesh gloves and neoprene aprons, will be supplied by the Company. Loss of the above equipment is the responsibility of the employee and the employee will be charged with the replacement cost. All hooks are to be supplied where the Company requires them to be used.
The Company will pay eighty-five percent (85%) of the cost of all other knives used. The Company will supply safety rubber boots upon presentation of worn out boots. The Company will attempt to maintain a stock of regular knives used in the industry for the employees' purchase.
14.07	Safety equipment and devices required by Law, or recommended by the Safety Committee, will be provided by the Company at no expense to the employee, subject to the provisions of the Collective Agreement in force.
14.08	Any employee, upon request, will be supplied with a white jacket or smock, and pants (except maintenance). Maintenance men will be supplied with coveralls and cotton gloves. Sizes shall be on the basis of small, medium, or large. The Company will keep a sufficient supply in stock.
14.09	The Company agrees to continue its existing practice for the supply of smocks and freezer coats.
14.10	Employees working on the kill shall have the right to , wash up at basins in the kill work areaduring working
hours.
20
14.11	The Company will allow employees a reasonable
time for changing clothing and equipment necessitated by changing working conditions.
14.12	Employees injured on the job will be supplied
transportation to the Company Doctor, or to their own Doctor if they so desire, and will be driven home if unable to continue work.
14.13	When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral and for two (2) other days to be taken not later than two (2) days following the day of the funeral, provided that such payments are made only in respect of absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate rolativo shall bo one of the following: Mother, Father, Wife, Husband, Daughter, Son, Father-In-Law, Mother-in-Law, Sister, Brother, Grandparents (both sides of the family), Grandchildren, and Step-parents. Tho guaranteed weekshall be reduced proportionately to the number of days taken off.
14.14	When an employee is notified of a death of an immediate relative and is unable to attend a funeral, he shall receive sixteen (16) hours pay (two days) at his regular rate provided that such payments are made only in respect of absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following:- Mother, Father, Wifo, Flusband, Daughter, Son, Father-inLaw, Mother-in-Law, Sister, Brother, Grandparents (both sides of the family). Grandchildren, and Stepparents. The guaranteed week shall be reduced proportionately to tho number of days taken off.
14.15	All conditions contained herein shall apply to the
truck driver where applicable. Attached hereto in Appendix A are conditions for truck drivers only.
21
14.16	Lead hands shall be defined as a person who performs work and directs work of others, and shall not have authority to hire, fire, suspend, or otherwise penalize other employees, and he shall be a Union member.
Lead hands will not receive preferential treatment where daily overtime is concerned, or daily hours worked when a Supervisor is present in the department. Lead hand jobs will be posted, but seniority, skill and competence, and attitude will be equal criterion for selection.
14.17	If an employee is called for Jury Duty or required under a subpoena as a crown witness while on the active payroll on his normal working day, the Company agrees to pay the equivalent of an eight (8) hour day at straight time less the amount received for Jury Duty pay or crown witness fees. The weekly guarantee will be reduced an equivalent of eight (8) hours for each day spent on Jury Duty or appearing as a crown witness.
14.18	(a) Warnings on an employee record are to be
withdrawn after one (1) year, provided there is no other warning or has not been any other warning in the employee's file.
(b) No disciplinary action shall be considered when the circumstances giving rise to it were more than three (3) full working days after the facts occurred, or were known.
14.19	The Union, the Chief Steward, and the Department Steward, will be notified in writing of all written reprimands, dismissals, and quitting, of Union employees not later than 24 hours from the time of occurrence.
14.20	The Company, in addition, will provide freezer
employees with thermal undercoats if requested.
22
Employees with more than six (6) months seniority shall be eligible to receive a quilted vest or liner for use on the job. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who require a vest or liner shall purchase such clothing through the Company and shall be reimbursed the full cost of such purchase on attainment of six (6) months seniority. Employees will again become eligible for replacement vests or liner 18 months from the date they last received a vest or liner, providing they present the worn out vest or liner to the Company. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
Freezer employees will be provided with freezer boots upon request at no cost, but, such employees shall not be eligible for the boot allowance for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of issue. Employees who work the majority of their time in a dry area and have more than six (6) months seniority, who purchase approved safety shoes for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of up to fifty-five dollars ($55.00) toward such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who so purchase such shoes shall be reimbursed up to fifty-five dollars ($55.00) toward such purchase on attainment of six (6) months seniority. For a subsequent purchase, the employees will again become eligible for this allowancg.one (11) year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Effective November 15, 1992 boot allowance will be increased by five dollars ($5.00) to sixty dollars ($60.00). Effective November 15, 1993 boot allowance will be increased by five dollars ($5.00) to sixty-five dollars ($65.00).
14.21	The Company and the Union agree to carry on with the Management-Employee Committee. The Committee shall meet on request of either party and at least once each month for the purpose of discussing all matters of mutual concern.
23
ARTICLE 15 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
15.01	The Company agrees to abide by the statutory
holiday provisions which are set out in Schedule “A” and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
16.01	The Company agrees to abide by the Vacations with Pay provisions which are set out in Schedule "B" and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17 ■ RATES OF PAY, HOURS OF WORK,
OVERTIME RATES & CONDITIONS
17.01	The Company agrees to abide by the provisions as set out in Schedule "C" which forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 18 - WELFARE PROGRAMME
18.01	The Company agrees to abide by the provisions as set out in Schedule "D" which forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 - TOOL ALLOWANCE - MAINTENANCE DEPT.
19.01	Employees of the Maintenance Department shall, upon presentation of required tools broken on the job, or worn out required tools, receive replacement tools. Such replacement shall be limited to those tools specified by the Company as being required and shall. in addition, be limited to a maximum replacement cost of one-hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per Contract year. A new employee in the Maintenance Department shall beeligible for full tool allowance as of each January 1 st.
ARTICLE 20 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
20.01	The term of this Agreement shall continue in effect for a period of three (3) years from the fifteenth day
24
(15) of November, 1991 to the fourteenth day (14) of November, 1994, and shall continue automatically thereafter for periods of one (1) year unless either party notifies the other, in writing, within the period of sixty (60) days prior to the annual expiration date, that it desires to amend the Agreement.
20.02	Negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days following notification of amendment, as provided in the preceding paragraph.
20.03	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties, or until Conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date should first occur.
25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed by the duly authorized representatives as of the date and year first above written. FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
R. Kingdon	R. Pollock
J. Hoshowsky	J. Fernandes
K. Lucyshyn	F. Costa
J. Vandervelde
J. Hough
J. Hoebink
26
SCHEDULE ‘A’
This is Schedule “A” referred to in Article 15 of the Collective
Agreement.
1.	The Company will pay to all employees eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s classification rate (not including any premium rates), except:-
(a)	Probationary Employees
(b)	Those on leave of absence
(c)	Layoff
(d)	Absences due to illnesses for a period in excess of four (4) days prior to or after the date of such holiday. For statutory holidays as designated below:
2.
New Year's Day Victoria Day Dominion Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday Civic Holiday Christmas Day Boxing Day
In addition to the Public Holidays set forth in Schedule “A”, commencing in 1985, employees on the payroll as of February 1st each year shall be granted two Individual Holidays to be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Individual Holidays shall not be granted during the period of June 15th to September 15th. Should the company be required by law to observe any holiday other than those listed in Schedule “A”, such holiday shall replace one of these Individual Holidays. Where, in the absence of such legal requirement, Heritage Day is commonly observed as a holiday by a major customer, then the Company shall observe Heritage Day as a holiday in place of one of these Individual Holidays.
To qualify for plant holiday pay, an employee must have worked a scheduled shift in the twenty-four (24)
27
hours immediately before the holiday and a scheduled shift in the twenty-four (24) hours immediately following the holiday, unless reasons for absence satisfactory to the company have been established. A scheduled shift is a shift the employee normally works or a shift the employee has agreed to work on or during the holiday period.
3.	Any employee whose shift begins before 8:00 p.m. and is required to work on any of these holidays, shall receive time and one half the normal rate for all hours worked on that shift. Any employee who begins work at 8:00 p.m. or after and is required to work on any of these holidays shall receive time and one half the normal rate for his actual time worked on the holiday in addition to the holiday pay.
4.	If any of these holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed, and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will be observed in lieu of the Monday. If any of these holidays fall on a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed, and where Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday will be observed in lieu of Friday.
5.	When a Statutory Holiday falls within a employee's vacation period, the employee may, at the reasonable convenience of management, elect to take one (1) additional day off with pay in lieu of the holiday. Arrangements for the extra day off must be made with the supervisor prior to commencement of holidays. The additional day off must be taken not later than 30 days.
6.	When a Statutory Holiday falls on the employees regular day off (excluding Saturday or Sunday), he or she will observe the next day as a Statutory Holiday.
7.	If the company requires work to be performed on any of the Statutory Holidays, the Company will advise the employees at least three (3) working days in advance.
28
SCHEDULE "B"
This is Schedule "B" referred to in Article 16 of the Collective
Agreement.
1.	The Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the Company more than six (6) months, but less than one (1) year, as of July 1st, one (1) weeks vacation, and to pay the employee four percent (4%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year.
2.	The Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the Company one (1) year as of July 1st, in any one (1) year, two (2) weeks vacation and to pay the employee four percent (4%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year.
3.	The Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the Company five (5) years as of July 1st, in any one (1) year, three (3) weeks vacation, and to pay the employee six percent (6%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year.
4.	The Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the Company ten (10) years as of July 1, in any one (1) year, four (4) weeks vacation, and to pay the employee eight percent (8%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year.
5.	Effective November 15, 1991 the Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the Company nineteen (19) years as of July 1 st, in any one’ (1) year, five (5) weeks vacation, and to pay the employee ten percent (10%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year. Effective November 15, 1992 the Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the
29
Company eighteen (18) years as of July 1 st, in any one (1) year, five (5) weeks vacation, and to pay the employee ten percent (10%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year.
6.	The Company agrees to grant to all employees in the employ of the Company twenty-five (25) years as of July 1 st, in any one (1) year, six (6) weeks vacation, and to pay the employee twelve percent (12%) of the pay received by the employee for all work done by him in the working year.
7.	The vacations must be taken at a time mutually agreed upon by the Company and the employee, and shall be non-cumulative. All vacations booked must be taken. All other vacation will be on a first-come, first-served basis.
8.	An employee who quits or is discharged, shall receive the vacation pay in accordance with his length of service as stated above. He shall receive four percent (4%), six percent (6%), eight percent (8%), ten percent (1 0%), or twelve percent (12%), respectively, of his earnings since the termination of his last previous vacation.
9.	The employees’ Vacation Schedule will be posted each year from March 1 st to April 1 st in each department, during which time employees shall indicate the period desired. The Company will approve and post in each department, the vacation schedule by the 15th of April, which will be by plant seniority in the Department.
10.	Pay received for Public Holiday shall be considered as hours worked.
11.	The Company will attempt to grant all employees vacation during prime time. A minimum of 15% will be allowed vacations in any department at the same time.
30
SCHEDULE "C"
This is Schedule "C" referred to in Article 17 of the Collective
Agreement.
RATES OF PAY
. 1. The Company agrees to provide a list of all employees in job classifications by May 30th and November 14th in every year to the Chief Steward and the Union. The Company will also advise the Chief Steward and the Union Office in writing of changes that occur.
2.	Effective November 15,1991, the base rate shall be
increased by sixty cents ($.60) tp $14.98) ,	..
Effective November 15,1992, the base rate shall be increased by sixty cents ($.60) to $15.58.
Effective November 15,1993, the base rate shall be increased by sixty cents ($.60) to $16.18.
If the Consumer Price Index (Canada All Items 1981 =100) published on or about October 31,1993,
^ j exceeds the Index published on or about October 31, 1992, by more than five percent (5%), then, effective November 15, 1993, the base rate will be increased by a cost of living allowance equal to one cent ($.01) for each full two (.2) points of such excess.
The job classification rate shall be 9 cents ($.09) per bracket.
3.	In cases where an employee regularly works on more than one (1) job classification, he shall be paid his actual time worked in the highest classification plus the remainder of his time on the next highest classification rate.
4.	Lead Hands shall receive a maximum equivalent to the shift premium on their classification rates.
5.	Employees, when called for work, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at the regular
31
hourly rate. Employees who leave of their own accord when work is available will not receive this guaranteed minimum four (4) hours pay.
6.	When as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment a job IS discontinued, and the incumbent is transferred to a lower rated job, or when the incumbent of a job that is reduced in value following a technological innovation, continues on the changed job, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of twelve (12) months, followed by a reduction of two (2) job classes for the next twelve (12) months, including layoff, provided that the employee does not decline an opportunity to subsequently transfer to a job rated higher than the job or jobs he is performing.
7.	When a job changes and its group level is reduced, and the incumbent on the original job remains on the changed job, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of twelve (12) months, followed by a reduction of two (2) job classes for the next twelve (12) months, including layoff, provided that the employee does not decline an opportunity to subsequently transfer to a job rated higher than the job or jobs he is performing.
HOURS OF WORK
All hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be overtime and be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). Work performed on Saturdays, Sundays, and scheduled days off, shall be paid for at time and one-half (1-1/2) the employee’s classification rate, regardless of the hours worked on the day, or hours worked during the week.
The Company will pay double time for the first Sunday worked resulting from a shift change, providing the change has occurred more than once in a twelve (12) month period. Employees will be entitled to forty-eight (48) hours notice of a change of schedule, excluding weekends.
32
SHIFT PREMIUM
All hours worked on the second and third shifts shall receive a shift premium of forty-five cents ($.45) per hour commenc- / ing on November 15,1991.	/
All hours worked on the second and third shifts shall receive a shift premium of fifty-five cents ($.55) per hour commencing on November 15, 1993.
STARTING RATE
The starting rate for new employees shall be seventy-five percent (75%) of the base rate for the first twenty-four (24) months of employment.
7*
New employees will receive seventy-five percent (75%) of the classification rate up to and including class eight (8) for the first twenty-four (24) months of employment and one hundred percent (100%) of the classification rate for class nine (9) or higher.
OVERTIME
Overtime shall be distributed equally where possible among ail employees normally performing such work on the job where overtime is necessary. Overtime will be voluntary on scheduled days off.
EMERGENCY CALL IN
An hourly rated employee who, after leaving the company premises, is specially called in at any time outside his normal working hours, shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall, nevertheless, be paid for a minimum of five (5) hours at time and one-half (1-1/2) for the time spent on the emergency work outside his scheduled hours.
GUARANTEED MINIMUM WEEK
Hourly-rated full time employees who are scheduled to work and who are at work at the commencement of their scheduled work week (5 consecutive days) are guaranteed
33
a pay equal to thirty-seven (37) hours at the regular rate per week. New employees hired after November 15, 1991 shall have a guaranteed work week equal to thirty (30) hours for the first twenty-four (24) months of employment. Should the lack of work be attributable to Acts of God or causes beyond the reasonable control of management, this guarantee will be reduced by the number of hours lost due to the Acts of God or causes beyond the reasonable control of management. Each hour of overtime worked during a minimum week will be credited as one (1) hour against this guarantee. To qualify, employees must be available and willing to accept such work as may be provided for them. An employee refusing to accept work as available after losing three (3) hours off his scheduled work week shall have his guarantee reduced by the number of hour refused. Any employee who is tardy or absent from work on any day or any part of a day that he is scheduled or directed to work shall have his guarantee reduced by the time so lost.
An employee who is employed after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed a fraction of the number of hours worked which the number of days remaining of the payroll week is of his scheduled work week.
Statutory holiday pay or holiday pay other than the agreed public holidays observed by agreement, or as required by law during any week where the minimum guarantee week is effective, shall be considered as part of and included in the pay for the minimum week.
Any guarantee in this Agreement refers in weekly guarantees and not in any way to daily guarantees. Any person excluded from this Collective Agreement who subsequently comes within the scope, does not qualify for the guarantee prior to his coming into the unit.
JOB CLASSIFICATION
The Company agrees that there will be no alterations or changes in the job classifications and bracket rates of any persons currently employed by the Company and that their
34
rates of pay shall be maintained, except as hereinafter provided.
In the event that the employer believes that a classification and/or bracket rate is inappropriate, the Company shall proceed as follows:
(a)	When there is a vacancy in a classification and/or bracket rate that the company considers inappropriate or a substantial change in job content, the Company shall notify the Union of its desire to change the classification and/or bracket rate prior to filling the vacancy. The Company shall advise the Union of both the reason for the proposed change and the proposed bracket rate and/or classification.
(b)	If the Union does not accept the Company's position, the parties shall meet and negotiate the classification and/or rate. The parties agree to waive any job posting procedures pending the completion of negotiations. The Union shall be permitted reasonable access to all areas of the plant in order to prepare for such negotiations, upon prior approval of the Company.
(c)	If the parties cannot agree on the classification and/or rate within fifteen (15) working days of the notification referred to in (a) above, or such longer period as mutually agreed to, either party may refer the matter to arbitration pursuant to Article 8 of the Collective Agreement.
(d)	Each party shall advise the other, in writing, of its position as to whether there should be a change and if so, the amount of the change, together with the reason therefor within ten (10) working days of the naming of its nominee, or such longer period as mutually agreed to. Either party may alter, amend, or expand its position by providing notice, in writing,
35
to the other at any time up to seven (7) days prior to any arbitration hearing.
(e)	Pending the completion of the arbitration proceedings, the vacancy may be filled in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement. Applicants shall be advised that the vacancy is being filled at the rate proposed by the Company but that such rate is subject to negotiation/arbitration. Any increase above the rate implemented by the Company shall be retroactive to the date of the filling of the vacancy.
(f)	In establishing the rate of pay for a classification and/or bracket rate, the E5oard shall do so only by comparing such classification and/or bracket rate with other such classifications and/or bracket rates within the plant. The Board’s decision shall be limited to the area of dispute and the wage rate it establishes for the job classification and/or bracket rate shall be so as to maintain the wage rate relationship and internal balance which the parties have established through their negotiations.
(g)	The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall apply only to the person filling the vacancy but shall not apply to any other employee in the classification and/or bracket.
(h)	The Company will supply the Union with an up-to-date classification list. This list will include the employee's name, job description, rate, department, and seniority, up to the level of General Labourer.
36
SCHEDULE "D"
This is Schedule "D" referred to in Article 18 of the Collective Agreement:
1.	Any regular full time employee is initially eligible for coverage when his records with the Company on the first (1 st) day of any such month show that he has had not less than six (6) months of credit service and is working.
2.	Employees lose their eligibility for all coverages when their records with the Company show:
(a)	They have quit.
(b)	They have failed to return to work when
recalled, in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
(c)	When they have been on leave of absence or on layoff for ninety (90) days, from the first of the month following their leave of absence or layoff.
(d)	When they have been absent in excess of
twenty-one (21) consecutive months or length of service, whichever is less, due to sickness or noncompensable accidents.
(e)	The employee is on pregnancy leave and has
not returned four (4) months from the first (1st) day of the month following the grant of pregnancy leave.
(f)	Employment with the Company has been terminated.
3.	There is an obligation upon the employee to complete all initial eligibility requirements of the insurer. Any cost to the employee for subsequent forms requirements that are required to maintain the same with the insurer in order to be eligible for, and the maintenance of, the benefits available under the provisions of the Collective Agreement will be reimbursed 100% by the Company upon presentation of receipts.
37
COVERAGE
4.
(a)	Life Insurance:- $30,000.00 for all employees.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment:-
$30,000.00 for all employees.
(c)	Weekly Accident and Sickness:-
Effective the first day of the month following ratification, the Company agrees to purchase through an Insurance Carrier, a weekly Accident and Sickness Plan. The conditions of the Plan to be as follows:
(i)	Coverage first day accident, fourth day sickness. The three day waiting period will be waived in respect to an employee who is hospitalized.
(ii)	Service Scale for Duration of Payments (as of November 15th in every year):
3 months to 5years service-i 7weeks 5 years to 1 Oyears service-26weeks 10 years to 15years service-39weeks Over 15 years-52weeks
(iii)	Weekly Accident and Sickness Amounts:-
(a)	Effective January 1, 1992 - $410.00
November 15, 1991 will receive seventy-five percent (75%) of the above rate for the first twenty-four (24) months of eligibility. Employees covered under the memorandum of settlement dated January 11,1991 will receive eighty percent (80%) of the above rate for the first twelve (12) months of employment and ninety percent (90%) of the above rate for the following six (6) months.
(b)	Major Medical Plan:-
Detailed coverage is listed in Booklet
38
supplied by the Great-West Life Assurance Company Plan C.
(c)	Ontario Hospital Insurance (O.H.I.P.)
Ward Coverage.
(d)	Dental Plan:
The fee guide will be updated to the most current suggested fee guide available for dental services provided by General Practitioners, Ontario Dental Association. Detailed coverage is listed in Booklet supplied by The Great-West Life Assurance Company.
(e)	Vision Care Plan:
Effective November 15,1991 the maximum benefit is $125.00 in any two (2) years.
Detailed coverage is listed in Booklet supplied by The Great-West Life Assurance Company. Effective November 15, 1993 the maximum benefit is $130.00 in any two (2) years. Detailed coverage is listed in Booklet supplied by The Great-West Life Assurance Company.
. (iv) Employees will be given at least one (1) week’s notice in writing before benefit payments cease.
5.	Coverage in sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and(e), will be paid 100% by the Company, in accordance with Clauses 1,2, and 3.
6.	Company Pension Plan:-
Effective November 15., 1991. the Company Pension Plan has been revised to provide a monthly benefit of twenty-two dollars ($22.00) per year of future service with an employee contribution of four dollars ($4.00) per week. For every year of past service, to February 18, 1991, a monthly benefit is provided
39
equal to twenty-two dollars ($22.00) per year, or the pension benefit previously earned by an employee under the previous Pension Plan format.
Effective November 15,1992 the Company Pension Plan has been revised to provide a monthly benefit of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per year of future service with an employee contribution of four dollars ($4.00) per week. For every year of past service, to February 18, 1991, a monthly benefit is provided equal to twenty-five ($25.00) per year, or the pension benefit previously earned by an employee under the previous pension plan format.
Effective November 15,1993 the Company Pension Plan has been revised to provide a monthly benefit of twenty-eight dollars ($28.00) per year of future service with an employee contribution of four dollars ($4.00) per week. For every year of past service, to February 18, 1991, a monthly benefit is provided equal to twenty-eight ($28.00) per year, or the pension benefit previously earned by an employee under the previous pension plan format.
Early Retirement
Optional retirement from age 62 by active employees with a minimum of 10 years seniority at the employee’s monthly entitlement of Company Pension or $500.00, whichever is greater, until age 65.
After age 65, the employee’s monthly Company Pension will be paid, together with the employee's Canada Pension Plan entitlement. Detailed coverage is listed in Booklet supplied by The Great-West Life Assurance Company.
The Company will arrange for OHIP coverage by early retirees until age 65 at no cost to the employee.
40
APPENDIXA
CONDITIONS FOR REFRIGERATED TRUCK DRIVERS
1.	-EQUIPMENT
1.01	It is to the mutual benefit of the Company and the employee that employees shall not operate vehicles which are not in a safe operating condition and not equipped with heavy appliances required by Law. It shall be the duty of the employees to report promptly, in writing, to the Company all defects in equipment. It shall be the duty of the Company to maintain all vehicles in a safe operating condition, in accordance with the Department of Transport regulations. The maintenance of equipment in sound operating condition is not only a function, but a responsibility of management. The employer shall not require employees to take out on the streets or highways any vehicle that is not in safe operating condition.
1.02	The Company shall not compel any driver to operate a vehicle in excess of the legal load limits.
1.03	It is agreed that a form shall be supplied to the driver on which to report defects in equipment, with sufficient copies so that one (1) can be held available for the driver and so that the office of the Company will have a copy of this report on file. A bad order form, when made out by the driver, will be signed by a representative of the Company. When a unit is bad ordered for legitimate reasons that make the vehicle unsafe for use, it shall be tagged and the keys removed and given to the Dispatcher or Traffic Manager, along with the bad order report. No driver or Company representative will remove the tag until the repair work is completed.
1.04	It is agreed that the Company will endeavour at all times to keep speedometers in proper working order.
41
1.05	For the purpose of processing specific grievances or disputes, the Union may have access to trip sheets, tach cards relating to the specific grievance only.
1.06	The Company will provide in writing to the department Steward and safety representatives, all information concerning accidents that could lead to discipline not later than four (4) working days from the time the accident occurred.
Trucks will be equipped with the following as available:
1.	CB radios.
2.	Air rides for tandems.
3.	Safety stands for trailers.
2.	-UNIFORMS
2.01	Uniforms to be supplied once a year to be paid eighty-five percent (85%) by the Company, together with a $7.00 weekly cleaning allowance, in accordance with present Company practice.
2.02	A driver shall, upon attaining sixty (60) day probationary period, once a year be eligible for a uniform. A uniform consists of :-5 Short sleeved shirts 2 Pair pants regular weight 2 Unlined jackets 5 Long sleeved shirts 2 Ties - clip on back Ties to be worn as posted 2 Pair summer weight pants 1 parka coat shall also be provided and shall be replaced upon obsolescence. A jacket liner will also be supplied at the request of the driver.
2.03	The Company shall provide heavy smocks and pants for drivers and keep same in good condition. White cotton gloves are to be supplied to drivers at the gate in the same manner as smocks are supplied.
42
-GENERAL
3.
3.01	The Company shall endeavour at all times to arrange runs in a manner that will give preference to senior drivers. In order to qualify for a long-haul trip, a driver must be off duty at least eight (8) hours prior to dispatch time.
3.02	Drivers dispatched on long haul regular delivery trips of 200 miles or more one (1) way, may be required to take eight (8) consecutive hours off for layover. The purpose of the layover is to enable the driver to engage lodging for the night and to ensure the driver returns to the plant rested and properly dressed.
3.03	The Company agrees to make arrangements for layover drivers at specific motels, where the driver is to stay. The driver will be informed as to what motel he is to stay at prior to dispatch time, whenever possible.
Drivers shall receive $6.50 for breakfast expenses incurred on a layover. For meals eaten while away from the plant on a layover, a driver shall receive $6.50 allowance for every five (5) hours while booked on. All layover drivers must take at least half an hour (1/2) for meals, and at no time will the meal time exceed one (1) hour. On layovers only, the evening meal allowance will be $10.00. As of November 15, 1993 the breakfast and layover meal allowance will be increased by fifty cents ($.50) to seven dollars ($7.00) and the evening meal allowance will be increased by fifty cents ($.50) to $10.50.
Meal Allowance for long haul to be paid prior to dispatch time.
3.04	All drivers must be given dated receipts for all monies leaving the plant. Drivers must unload their returns off trucks on returning to the plant at night. In case of product coming in from freezer storage at the end
43
of a scheduled day, the Company will provide assistance for the driver to unload.
3.05	Drivers must be given dated receipts for all monies turned in to the Company.
3.06	Drivers will not be required to tow or push vehicles.
3.07	Drivers will be notified of their dispatch eight (8) hours prior to dispatch time, except in cases where it is not possible. In such cases, runs will be allocated according to seniority where the employees concerned can perform the work. The most junior man must take the run.
3.08	All drivers must take at least one half hour (1/2) for lunch-time and at no time will the lunch exceed one (1) hour.
3.09	Drivers shall not be charged for loss or damage to equipment unless clear proof of negligence is shown. In the event of such loss or damage, the Company shall have up to fifteen (15) days from the date of loss or damage to register a claim with the employee. Before the employee signs a damage authorization to deduct a claim, he shall have seven (7) days to register a grievance should he fail to agree with the Company's claim. In the event the grievance is not filed within seven (7) days, the Company may deduct the amount of the claim. The Company may lodge a claim for loss or damage up to and including twenty dollars ($20.00).
3.10	Trucks will be assigned to drivers. In the case of a breakdown, and the truck is tied up at the home terminal: drivers will use spare or rental trucks until such time as the regular vehicle is roadworthy.
3.11	It will be the responsibility of each driver to ensure that the tachograph is inserted daily and the clocks be set at the proper time.
44
3.12	On a layover run where the driver will be back to the plant within the twenty-four (24) hour period allotted on the tach, a driver does not have to change the tach card. The tachograph should show no movement while the driver is off duty. Drivers will ensure that charts are replaced so that they do not overrun.
3.13	The tachograph will not be opened between book-on and book-off periods.
3.14	The route reports must be properly completed daily.
3.15	No driver shall be permitted to allow anyone except employees of the Company, who arc on duty, to ride in his truck, except by written authority of the employer.
3.16	In the event of a serious accident involving a driver while on duty, the Company shall do the following:-
(a)	Traffic Manager advises Wife of the driver.
(b)	Arrange transportation of Wife to the City where driver is if he is admitted to the hospital, and pay for one (1) round trip fare.
(c)	Arrange accommodation and pay for up to three (3) days.
(d)	Company to arrange and pay for expenses
incurred in returning the driver to home base.
No staff or salaried personnel to drive a truck for the purpose of normal delivery and pick-up of Company product.
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between:
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC. (Hereinafter referred to as the Company)
And:
LOCAL P1227 OF THE
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, AFL - C.I.O. &THE C.L.C. (Hereinafter referred to as The Union)
It is the policy of the Company to reduce incidence and ultimately eliminate all industrial accidents by the use of every reasonable precaution, and by the aggressive promotion of safety practices in the workplace.
The health and safety of all employees is a major concern of the Company's management. Working safely on the job is one of the most important responsibilities of each employee. In order to achieve this, the Company is committed to a strong Health & Safety Program for our employees, in conjunction with the Union, and guarantees that within six months the following will take place:
1.	A joint Health&Safety Committee will be formed with ‘ members from both Union and Company, to meet a \ minimum of once per month, to discuss and take
action on Health & Safety matters.
2.	A Safety Officer will be engaged by the Company to administer our Program.
3.	The Company will take minutes of all Health &Safety Meetings, and copies will be provided to the Union Office and the Health & Safety Committee members.
46
4.	The Committee will be allowed access to all information allowed by Law, for discussion at Health & Safety Meetings.
5.	The Company further agrees to discontinue the practice of calling sick or compensation employees, provided the employee has made the Company aware of their condition, and the employee must call in at least once per week to update the Company on their condition.
6.	The Company agrees to inform the Health & Safety Committee of all compensable accidents on a regular basis, and supply an Accident Report.
7.	The Company agrees that within reason, a Union representative on the Health & Safety Committee will be allowed time to investigate a serious or fatal accident. Before entering a Department, the Safetyman must inform the Supervisor of that Department, and before leaving his Department, the Safetyman must inform the proper Supervisor so that a replacement can be made.
8.	The Company will provide up to 15 days per year, with pay, for Union representatives to attend Safety j Seminars, etc. Not more than 2 people from one Department, and not more than 5 days for each individual, on the recommendation of the Safety
‘ I Committee
9.	When an employee is injured due to a compensable accident, the Company will immediately inform the Union’s Compensation Co-ordinator, or in his absence, an appropriate Union representative. When it has been processed, a copy of Form 7 regarding said accident will be supplied to the Union's Compensation Co-ordinator, or in his absence, an appropriate Union representative.
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC. (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
And:
LOCAL P1227 OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, AFL-C.I.O. &THE C.L.C. (hereinafter referred to as the Union)
Whereas the above parties have entered into a collective agreement operative from November 15,1991 to November
14, 1994;
And whereas the Company and the Union further agree the following is their intent, and shall be considered as part of the collective agreement:
1.	The Company and the Union undertake to form a Pension Committee to meet for the purpose of discussing the existing Pension Plan as well as pension plan improvements in the future. The Pension Committee will consist of not more than three members from the Union and not more than three Company representatives.
2.	The Company agrees that any surplus generated in the Company Pension Plan will be used to further improve employee pensions.
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC. (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
And:
LOCAL P1227 OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, AFL-C.I.O. &THEC.L.C. (hereinafter referred to as the Union)
The Company agrees to give preference of employment to
Members of the U.F.C.W. who seek employment at the Burlington location.
Preference being defined as: Applications for new employment from U.F.C.W. members will be given preference when equal skills and work record are satisfied. The Company will not discriminate against U.F.C.W. members who were active in the Union in their past employment.
All rates and conditions that apply to new employees will be applicable to new U.F.C.W. employees.
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC. (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
And:
LOCAL P1227 OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, AFL-C.I.O. &THE C.L.C. (hereinafter referred to as the Union)
The Company assures the Union thatthere are no immediate plans for expansion outside the Appleby Line Plant. The Company agrees to notify the Union three (3) months in advance should any plans develop during the course of this Collective Agreement.
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC. (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
And:
LOCAL P1227 OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, AFL-C.I.O. &THEC.L.C. (hereinafter referred to as the Union)
PLANT CLOSURE AND SEVERANCE:
The Company will assure the Union that unless caused by “Acts of God” or conditions beyond the control of Management, that the existing work force will not be permanently reduced for the term of this Agreement.
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
FEARMANS FRESH MEATS A DIVISION OF FEARMANS INC. (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
And:
LOCAL P1227 OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, AFL-C.I.O. &THE C.L.C. (hereinafter referred to as the Union)
It is not the intention of the Company to contract out bargaining unit work, but the parties recognize that the Company must be competitive to survive. The Company agrees to limit contract work to present practice unless forced by unforeseen competitive situations which the Company will agree to discuss with the Union for mutual resolve, three (3) months prior to any action or commitment. The Company will further agree to abide by the P.S.S.I. arbitration award, specifically Paragraph 9, Sections A and B, for the term of the Collective Agreement.
52