THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF THE 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1992. BETWEEN :
SOURCE	l \ V			
Iff.	'h		Oi	Oj
TERM.	(} , 'i -■>			■Tl
No. Of tMttOVffS		..l\’ \\p		
NOMIW B'CMllQYfs		l. '■ J •		
-AND-
BETTER BEEF LIMITED
hereinafter referred to as the "Company"
OF THE FIRST PART
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WO^RKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION 18, A.F.L., C.I.Q., C.L.C. ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 617P
hereinafter referred to as the "Union"
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01	The company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent of all its employees at 781 York Road, Guelph, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff.
1.02	During the term of this Agreement, the Company wi 11 not bargain with or enter into a Collective Agreement with any other trade union on behalf of or binding upon the employees in the bargaining unit or Clny of them. ,
ARTICLE 2 PURPOSE
2.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish collective bargaining relations between the company and the union, to continue the cooperation and spirit of good will between the company and its employees, to provide machinery for the prompt 'disposition of grievances arising under this Agreement and to set forth negotiated acnditions of employment for a 11 employees who are subject to the. provisions of this Agreement. The union recognizes that i.n order to provide a pro per relationship between the parties, the companynmusti be kept in a strong competitive market position, which means it must produce at the best possible efficiency and lowest,cost, consistent with fair labour standards, and the Union agrees to cooperate with the company in attaining such objectives.
2.02	Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and working conditions depends updr'l sound and efficient; operation of th.: business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times:
(a)	to maintain an improved quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials or time;
00266 (04)
(c)	to assist in keeping the Company’s premises clean and tidy;
(d)	to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
ARTICLE 3 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	Except as and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Company and remain exclusively within the rights of the Company and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's rights shall include:
(a)	The right:	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to make,
alter and enforce, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices to be adhered to by its employees; to discipline and discharge employees for proper cause;
( b)	The right:	to select;, hire and control the working force and
employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, layoff, recall, suspend employees; to plan, direct and control operations; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit;
( c)	The right to determine:	the location and extent of its operations
and their commencement, expansion, curtailment or discontinuance; the direction of the working forces; the products to be processed; the standards of production; the contracting out of work; the schedules of work and of production; the number of shifts; the methods, processes and means of performing work; the job content and requirements; quality and quantity of standards; the qualifications of employees, the use of improved methods, machinery and equipment; whether .there shall be overtime work and who shall perform such work., subject to the provisions of Article .1.4 herein; and how many shall operate or work on any job, operation, machine or product line; the administration of the Company's pay system; which jobs shall be incentive jobs and which jobs shall not; the number of hours to be worked; starting and quitting time. And generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company.
3.02	Supervisors will not normally perform work performed by bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 4 REPRESENTATION
4.01	The Union ^y designate and the Company will recognize one steward
for each department, as well as a chief steward. Such departmental stewards must be employees of the department which they have been designated to represent. As well, the Union may designate and the Company will recognize a grievance committee comprised of four (4) Employees as follows,
(a) the Local President
	(b)	the Chief Steward (c)	the Recording Secretary (d)	the applicable employees steward. No one shall be eligible to serve as steward or grievance committeeman unless he is an employee of the Company and has at least six (6} months' seniority.
4.02	The Company agrees to post an up to date list with names of supervisors in each department and a copy given to the Union. Otherwise, the employees shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until they have been so informed.
4.03	The Union will inform the Company in writing of the identity of all stewards and grievance committee members and the department which each steward represents and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
4.04	For the purpose of this Agreement the plant grievance committee and the stewards together with the officers of the Local Union shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that, this Agreement is faithfully carried out. The Company hereto agrees that it will faithfully carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
4.05	Stewards, members of committees and Union officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and such persons shall not leave their regular duties without requesting and obtaining the'permission of their foreman or immediate supervisor and such permission will not be withheld for more than (1) one hour. When resuming their regular duties, they shall report to their foreman or immediate supervisor and will give a reasonable explanation with respect to their absence, when requested to do so.
4.06	Warnings on an employee's record are to be withdrawn after one (ll calendar year.
4.07	If it becomes necessary to reprimand an employee which will be recorded then the employee will be accompanied by his/her department steward.
ARTICLE	5 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5,01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most important matters in the successful administration of the Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure as hereinafter set forth shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt dispos.ition, decision and £inal settlement of a grievance arising with respect to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation
3
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
STEP
STEP
of this Agreement and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever the term "grievance procedure" is used in this Agreement it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement.
The Company shall.be under no obligation to consider or process any grievances unless such grievance has been presented to the Company at Step 1 of the grievance procedure, within (5) five days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based, were known or should have been known by the grievor. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been presented late, the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall he deemed to mean "working days", i.e. exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or the holidays set out in Article 16 hereof.
No employee shall have a grievance until he has discussed his complaint with his immediate supervisor. If the employee's immediate supervisor does not promptly settle the matter to the employee's satisfaction, an employee's proper grievance may be processed as follows:
NO. 1
If an employee has a grievance, the grievance shall, within the five (5) days referred to in Article 5.03 hereof, be presented to his departmental supervisor. The employee will have his steward or the Chief Steward, as the case may be, accompany him to see the departmental supervisor. The departmental supervisor shall give the grievor a written reply as soon as possible but not later than three (3) days after such discussion. If the departmental supervisor's reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within (5) five days of the departmental supervisor's answer, but not thereafter.
N0.2
At this step the grievance shall be reduced to writing and presented to the Plant Manager, within the aforesaid five (5) days of receipt of the departmental supervisor's written reply, but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify the facts giving rise to the grievance, the section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated, the relief requested and shall be signed by the employee and counter signed by his Union.
4
A meeting will be held between the Chief Steward together with the grievor involved and the Plant Manager. together with other representatives of management within three (3) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager shall give his written reply to the Chief Steward within five (5) days of such meeting.
If the Plant Manager's reply is not satisfactory to the Chief Steward, the next step must be taken within five (5) days after the delivery of the Plant Manager's reply to the Chief Steward but not. thereafter.
STEP NO. 3
At this step, the Union shall within the aforesaid five (5) days, notify the President in writing of its desire to appeal the decision of the Plant: Manager to step 3.
Within ten (10) days thereafter, a meeting w i 11 take place between the grievance committee (which may he accompanied by the Union representative) and a management committee. The grievor shall be present if requested by either party. The company shall deliver its decision in writing to the Chief Steward within ten (10) working days of such meeting.
STEP NO. 4
In the event the grievance is not s ett l ed at Step 3, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within ten (10) days from delivery of the decision a t step 3 t o the Chief Steward, but not thereafter.
If a request for arbitration is not so given within such ten (10) day period, the decision at Step 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to this Agreement and upon any employee involved.
The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party's nominee to the Board.
The recipient of the notice shall within ten (10) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of its appointee to the arbitration board. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, as soon as possble, appoint a third person who shall be a chairman.
If the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limit the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall, if requested within ten (10) days from the expiry date upon which the two (2) appointees are t o appoint a chairman (but not thereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
5.06	Thearbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall
issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shal I be the decision of the arbitration board. but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
5
5.07
The board of arbitration shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistant with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, not to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbitrate specified in Step 3 of Article 5.05 hereof.
5.08	Each party hereto shall bear its own costs incidental to any
such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two (2) parties hereto.
5.09	The time limits and other procedural requirements set out. in this Article 5 are mandatory and not merely directory. Therefore, failure to put a grievance in writing at the proper step in accordance with the requirements hereof shall be deemed a complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance by the grievor. Any grievance not appealed from one step of the grievance procedure to the next within the specified time limit shall be deemed to be abandoned. No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times specified.
5.10	A grievance which has been disposed of pursuant to the grievance provisions of this Agreement shall not again be made the subject matter of a grievance. This clause shall not preclude a different grievance from being filed respecting similar but different circumstances. The Union shall have the right to withdraw the grievance at any stage of the proceedings.
5.11	A decision or settlement reached at any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure both the company management and the union representatives who past on the same as provided herein shall, after ratification, sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was.
Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
5.12	When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by a board of arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be at the employee's straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums, for such hours as the employee would have worked for the company or for the holiday pay to which he would have been entitled if the violation had not occurred, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any monies the employee received during such period.
6
5.13
Union Policy Grievance Or Company Grievance
ARTICLE	A Union policy grievance or a Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be. in writing within ten (10) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall. take place within the framework of Step 3 of Article 5.05. The Company or the Onion, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting. If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance must be submitted to arbitration within ten (10) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sections of this Agreement shall he followed. It. is expressly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 5.13 may not be used by the Onion to institute a grievance directly affecting an employee or employees which such employee or employees could themselves institute and the provisions of Article 5.05 hereof shall not thereby be bypassed. 6 NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
6.01	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement i s iri operation neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in o r call or encourage any strike, picketing, sitdown, slowdown, or any suspension of or stoppage of or interference with work or production which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall there be any sympathy strikes and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
6.02	Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct sh a 11 be subject to disc i p lin e up to and incI uding discharge.
6.03	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the employees will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension thereof until all of the conciliation provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been fully exhausted.
6.04	The Company agrees that no truck driver shall be required to cross a legal picket line.
ARTICLE	7 UNION SECURITY
7.01	The Company agrees that:
(a)	All employees who are presently members of the Union shall maintain their membership in the Union by having their regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted to the Union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
7
(b)
(c)
7.0	2
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
ARTICLE
8.01
All employees who are not members of the Union shall not be required to join the Union, but shall have an amount equivalent to regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted to the Union in acccordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
All employees hired after the date of this Agreement, shall he required, upon completion of the first thirty (30) calendar days' service, to become members of the Onion by tendering the Union initiation fee in the amount so determined by the Constitution and shall maintain their membership in the union by having their regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted t o the union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
The Company agrees to deduct regular monthly union dues, special assessments uniformly levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union, upon written notification from the Union. Twice the regular monthly union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding from the first pay and remit to the union on or before the last day of the month.
The Company will at the time of making such remittance to the Union. specify the employees from whose pay check deductions were made and the reason why no deductions were made for that month.
The Company also agrees to fill out the forms for new employees called back from the layoff as supplied by the union and submit; these forms with the first check-off to the union office.
The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless against any claim which may arise from complying with the provisio n s of t his A r t i cle.
The use of the masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered to also include the feminine.
At the discretion of the Company, the Company will provide paid educational leave for employees for improvement of skill levels pertaining to the work place or for improving levels pertaining to health and safety.
When as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or a job is discontinued and the incumbent is transferred to a lower rated job according to his seniority, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years.
8 DISCRIMINATION
The company recognizes and will, not interfere with the right of its employees to become members of the Union and will not discriminate against, interfere with, restrain'or coerce employees because of membership in the Union. The Union agrees that neither the On-ion nor its members w ill intimidate or coerce employees into membership and also that it w ill not solicit membership, collect dues, distribute Union information or hold meetings on Company
n
property.
8.02	The Company agrees to permit the Union to post notices of meetings and legitimate Union business but not political m atte r s on a bulletin board designated by the Company for such purposes. It is agreed however, that such notices must first be approved by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE	9 SENIORITY
9.01	An employee will be considered ,) probationary employee until he has been employed by the Company for ninety (90) calendar days. During such probationary period he will have no seniority rights but once seniority is acquired :it w i 11 be regarded as having started from the date upon such probationary period commenced. The Union w i 11 not question the lay-off or dismissal of any probationary employee. nor shall such lay-off or dismissal he the subject of a grievance.
9.02	The Company will furnish the Union with a seniority list of all union employees. Such list w ill show the employee's seniority and the department in which the employee holds such seniority. The seniority list shall be revised once every two (2) months and a copy supplied to the Union.
9.03	For the purpose of applying the seniority provisions of this Agreement, such seniority provisions shall be applied first by department and then plant-wide, and only to the extent expressly provided in this Agreement but will not he used for the purpose of I ay - off.
9.04	In case of promotion or increase or decrease of the work force the 'following factors sha 11 be considered:
(a)	skill. competence, efficiency and qualifications:
(b)	reliability;
(c)	se niority. Where as between employees the facts in (a) and (b) are relatively equal in the judgement of the Company, the senior qua!ified employee sha 11 be selected. "Promotion" as used in this Agreement. sha11 be deemed to mean a permanent transfer to a job carrying a higher rate of pay or range of rates.
9.05	The appointment or selection of employees for supervisory positions, full time union positions or for any position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement,. If any employee on the seniority list is so transferred or appointed and later, within one (1) year of the Company or the employee's request. is transferred back to a position which ia governed by this Agreement, then he shall be
q
9.06
(a)
(b)
(c>
(d) ( e)
( f)
9.07
9.08
credited with seniority based upon his total length of service with the Company from the date on which he was last hired.
An employee shall Lose all seniority and service rights if:
an employee voluntarily quits;
an employee is discharged for cause and is not reinstated under the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement;
a person on lay-off fails to return to work within •ten (J.0) days after the Company's notice of recall is sent by registered mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on the Company's records, or if the person within two 12) days after such notice of recall is so sent fails to notify the Company of his intention to return to work;
an employee is laid off for a period in excess of one I1) year;
if an employee absents himself from work for two 12) consecutive working days without a reason satisfactory to the Company;
if an employee fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of any leave granted to him unless he is excused by the Company.
Sick Leave
An employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job for more than two (2) work days, shall upon furnishing evidence satisfactory to the Company of such illness or injury, which may include examination by a Company appointed physician, be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such sickness or injury except that at the end of twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with less than three (3) years' seniority, or twenty-four (24> months in the case of an employee with three (3) years or more seniority, of continuous absence because of such illness or injury the employee's employment and seniority may be terminated. The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability from time to time as required by the Company. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability as required will result in the termination of the employee's employment and seniority.
Before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must present a doctor's certificate stating that he has recovered sufficiently both physically and mentally, to be able to return to his regular job classification or other available work and perform such job in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with sick leave.
It shall be the duty of the employee or laid off person to notify the Company promptly, in writing, of any change of address. If an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company
i n
9.09
will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records.
When an employee is notified that he is being laid off he shall, at that time, attend at the Company's office and ensure that the Company's records correctly set, out his address and telephone number.
(a)	The Company agrees to give seniority employees three (3) working days notice of lay-off or pay for that portion of such three (3) working days for which notion is not given except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown.
(b)	Lay-off
Subject to the terms of Article 9.04 herein, seniority employees shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority.
(c)	Job Posting
If a permanent job above class 6 (class 6 or class 7 will not be posted) becomes vacant, the Company will post the job within three (3) working days for a period of three (l) working days. The notice shall set out a job description, classification and wage rate.	AJl jobs will be posted
firstly in the department concerned and if it is not filled then the job will be posted. plant wide. The following is a list of the departments for. job posting.
1.	Kill Floor
2.	Cutting Room (BoneRoom)
3.	Cooler
4.	Hamburger Room
5.	Pickle Plant
6.	Roast Beef
7.	Shipping/Receiving
8.	Fancy Meats (Intestine Foot Room)
9.	Sanitation
10.	Maintenance
11.	Truck Drivers (shuntman)
12.	Stationary Engineer
13.	Packing
14.	Sundry
The Union will be notified of the successful employee.
During the three (3) days of posting the Company may temporarily fill the job as it deems proper. In filling the vacancy, the Company will apply the provisions of Article
9.04	hereof. It is expressly understood that the Company shall not be confined to the applicants in filling the vacancy. If there are no qualified applicants the Company may fill a job vacancy from any source. An employee who is eligible for any job vacancy pursuant to the terms of Article 9.04 hereof may be allowed a trial period of up to
n
thirty (30) working days in the relevant job to enable management to determine whether the employee w ill be able to perform in that job to the Company's quality and quantity of standards.
If such employee does not qualify during the trial period, he shall forthwith be returned to his original job.
The Company will notify the Union of the selected employee at least one day before the job is to be started.
It is expressly understood that no successful job applicant pursuant to this Article 9.09 (c) may bid on another job posting Cor a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days after the closing date of the original job posting.
ARTICLE 10 TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
10.01	<\n employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher rated job (a higher rated job shall include a job whereby the range of rates is higher than the range of rates in the job from which the employee is temporarily transferred) shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is tansferred. If the rate of the job to which an employee is temporarily transferred other than as a result of exercising his seniority during a lay-off or at an employee's
request, is less than the rate of his regular job he shall be paid the rate of his regular job during the period of such temporary transfer, Where the transfer results from the exercise of seniority during lay-off or as a result of employee's request, he shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is transferred.
It is the responsibility of the department supervisor to issue the proper rate.
10.02	PERMANENT TRANSFER
If a plant seniority employee desires a transfer to another department, he may submit a written application to the Plant Manager. If later a vacancy occurs in that department, those who have such application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority provided they possess the necessary qualifications for it and can qualify reasonably quickly. Such transfers will be effected as soon as satisfactory replacement can he found.
10.03	When a temporary transfer is made from one department to another the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the employee to do the required work satisfactorily. .
Where an employee is permanently transferred to another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his previous department because of his qualifications to perform the work he may express his dissatisfaction with such
1 '1
10.04	transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer. If an employee is assigned t.o an afternoon shift, he may apply to be transferred to another shift. If a job is available on the desired shift and more than one person is applying for that position, the individual who <:an perform the job and with the most seniority will be granted the transfer.
ARTICLE 11 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	Requests for leave of absence must be made to the plant manager, and if granted, such leave.of absence will be confirmed in writing. A leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested in writing by the employee on the form provided for such purposes and consented to in writing by the plant manager, covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. Leave of absence shall be permissive only and shall be without pay or any other form of compensation.
11.02	Normally, a leave of absence will not be granted for a period in excess of three (3) months.
ARTICLE	12 BEREAVEMENT
12.01	In the case of death in the immediate family, (defined as wife, husband, children, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law) an employee with seniority will be granted up to three (3) consecutive days off work with pay providing such days off are regular working days and providing the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangements.
12.02	In case of death of a stepmother, stepfather, grandchildren, grandparent, brother in law, or sister in law of a seniority employee, such employee shall be granted one (1) day off with pay provided such day is a regular working day and provided the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangement s.
ARTICLE	13 JURY DUTY
13.01 ( i)	An employee with established seniority,who is called to and reports for jury duty shall he paid by the Company the difference between the employee's base rate exclusive of premiums for the number of hours up to eight, (8) that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and the amount that .he is paid for his jury duty. In order to be eligible for payment hereunder the employee must: give the Company notice within one <J) day of his receipt of his
13
( i)
call for jury duty and;
(ii) re port for work. when not required for actual jury duty as soon as possible and work the balance of his schedule time.
ARTICLE 14 HOURS OF-WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The provisions of this Article 14 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed to be a guarantee of or limitation upon the hours of work to be done per day or per week or otherwise, nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
14.02	Except for truck drivers, the normal work week will be composed of forty (40) straight.time hours worked from Monday to Friday.
The Company wi11 make every possible effort to retain the existing shift schedule. In the event that a shift change becomes necessary the Company will give seven (7) days notice of such change to all involved employees. If such notice is not given, the involved employee shall receive payment of time and one half as a basis, rate for all hours worked within the received period of notice. Any hours worked before a regular scheduled shift will be considered overtime hours, The Company wi11 ensure that every employee has a minimum of 8 hours off between each shift.
(ll The Company has the right to schedule inplant maintenance employees from Tuesday to Saturday according to seniority. Employees with the most seniority will have first choice of the new shift.
(2)	If an employee's regular day off in place of Saturday falls on a week day, he shall he paid time and one-half (1 l/21 the regular rate for hours worked on such a day.
(3)	This shift will consist of two employees.
14.03	Except for truck drivers an employee shall be paid overtime at a rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) the employee's straight time rate of pay exclusive of premiums for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in the day.	•
14.04	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 l/21 of the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time on Sunday.
14.05	An employee who performs work on one (1 ) of the holidays designated in Article 16 hereof, shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) plus holiday pay and such work shall be at the discretion of the Company and the employee involved.
14.06	It is recognized that the Company will from time to time require overtime work and the Union agrees that employees shall perform such overtime work. An employee who wishes to be excused from an overtime assignment shall in support of his request, furnish the Company with a bonafide reason. The Company's decision upon the
14
	request will not be made in an arbitrary manner. Overtime after 5 hours a week will be voluntary. The Company agrees to give notice of anticipated overtime the day before the day upon which the overtime will be worked except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown beyond the reasonable control of the Company. The Company will endeavor as far as practicable to equitably allocate overtime work among qualified employees who presently and normally perform the job or dominant portion of the work required. Non bargaining unit supervisory personnel shall not perform overtime work while qualified bargainig unit employees who would normally perform such work are available save and except for emergencies, instructional or training purposes.
14.07	In no case will there be a duplication or pyramiding of overtime or any other premium compensation.
14.08	Each employee shall receive a fifteen (15) minute break during each half of each shift, at a time to be designated by his foreman. If overtime is more than one hour, a 15 minute coffee break will be given to the employees.
14.09	Employees shall receive a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch period.
(a)	20 minutes paid lunch for maintenance only.
(b)	If an employee is required to work overtime the Company will after two hours work make a hot meal available with no cost to the employee. If no hot meal is available the employee will receive $6.00 in lieu thereof.
14.10	An employee who properly reports for work as scheduled or as directed, unless he has been notified in advance not to report, will receive at least four (4) hours' work at his straight time base hourly rate or shall be paid for four (4) hours at his straight time base hourly rate, exclusive of premiums, except in cases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility breakdown, inclement weather.
14.11	The Company will provide a reliefman in the cutting room and kill floor.
14.12	Call-in Pav An employee called back to work: after having completed his regular shift and left the plant premises, shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at the employee's straight time rate unless he works to his scheduled starting time.
14.13	Weekly Guarantee
(a)	The Company agrees to guarantee every employee in every week of employment, thirty seven (37) hours' pay at a regular rate subject
1 5
to the following provisions. Overtime, off-shift premium and weekend premium shall not be considered when calculating what guarantee, if any, is to be paid.
(b)	The guarantee referred to herein shall be reduced by the number
of hours for which an employee is not eligible for payment of wages. This will include tardiness, or absence from work on any day or part of a day, quitting or hiring during the week, being engaged in a stoppage of work, suspension or dismissal or being on lay-off,
14,14 Straight tune and overtime hours will he totalled separately by the supervisor.
ARTICLE 15 PAY ON DAY OF INJURY
15.01 An employee who is injured during working hours while properly
performing his duties of employment and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physician shall be paid for the time lost on the day he was injured at his regular straight time hourly rate.
The number of hours paid on the day of injury will equal the number of hours worked by his department on the day of his injury.
ARTICLE 16 DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
1.6.01
16.02
An employee who has completed ninety (90) calendar days with the Company will be compensated for time lost as a result of one (1) of the following holidays being observed.
Compensation shall be equivalent to eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's regular rate, provided he complies with the qualifications set forth in this Article 16.
The designated holidays are:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Dominion Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday
In addition to the above, each employee who is scheduled to work on the day before Christmas and New Year's Day and works up to five ( 5> hours w.Lll be paid eight l hours for that day.
In addition to the above, once each year an employee who has attained seniority as of January 1, shall be entitled to a personal day off with pay excluding the months of June, July and August, to be arranged at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the immediate supervisor.
In order to qualify for payment for any of the holidays designated in this Article 16.01, (except for the floater) the employee must work the full scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately
16
	prior to and the full scheduled shift on the declared work day i^ediately following the holiday except where the employee requests and is granted, prior to the holiday, permission in writing to be absent on one (1) only of the qualifying days.
16.03	When any of the above-noted holidays, referred to in Article 16.01 fall on Saturday or Sunday, the Friday preceding or Monday following shall be deemed to be the holiday for purposes of the Agreement.
16.04	If an employee is being paid sick benefit or compensation on a statutory holiday, the Company agrees to pay the difference between sick benefits or compensation pay and the regular eight <8l hours earnings for that day.
ARTICLE	Jim VACATION WITH PAY
17.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to an annual vacation in accordance with the following schedules:
(a)	€or employees with less than one (1) year of seniority 4%.
(b)	one (1) year's seniority but less than five (5) year's seniority as at March 31st of each year - two (2) weeks @ 4%.
(c)	five (5> year's seniority but less than ten (l0) years' seniority as at March 31st of each year - three (3) weeks @ 6%.
(d)	ten (10) year's seniority but less than fifteen (15l years' seniority as at March 31st of each year - four (4) weeks @ 8%.
(e)	fifteen (15) years' seniority or more as at March 31st of each year - five (5) weeks @ 10%.
(f)	Vacation Bonus 5-10 years $50.03 per week 10-15 years $100.00 per week 15 years or more $150.00 per week
17.02	An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason shall receive vacation pay for the period to which he is entitled.
17.03	The Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacation at times requested by employees. Senior employees in each department should be given preference wherever possible. Employees eligible for vacations shall be notified of their vacation periods as far in advance as possible.
ARTICLE Jim SAFETY AND
18.01	The Company shall continue its practice of making reasonable provision for safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. The Union agrees to co-operate with Management concerning health and safety of its employees.
17
18.02	No employee sha 1 1 continu e t o refuse to use or op erate an y machine , device or thing or to work in the work place after the employer has, pursuant to Section 3 (ll investigated the report in the presence of the employee and the department steward, if available, where the Company either disputes the report or takes steps to make the machine, device or thing or the place safe, or comply with the Industrial Safety Act, 1971, as amended from time to time. This Article 18.02 is made pursuant to Section 3 (c) of the Act respecting Employee's Health and Safety and all references contained herein are made pursuant to such Statute.
18.03	A joint health and safety committee shall be constituted of an equal number of representatives of management and of the Union which shall identify potential danger, institute means of improving health and safety of employees, including health and safety programs. The committee shall meet at least once a month. Time spent on such meetings is to be considered time worked. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employer and the Union.
18.04	The Company will ensure that all. its foremen and supervisors will co-operate fully with the safety committee in compliance with provincial regulations to investigate accidents.
18.05	The joint health and safety committee and the representatives thereof shall have full access to accident reports and other health and safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports, and data provided to and by Worker's Compensation Board and the government or i ts agencies.
ARTICLE	19 WELFARE
19.01	The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee, one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of the Group Insurance Plan providing the following coverage:
(a)	Life Insurance: all employees will be covered for one (1) times their annual income to a maximum of $25,000.00;
(bl	Accidental Death & Dismemberment: $25,000.00 maximum per employee ;
(c)	Lonq-Term Disability: seventy per cent: (70%) of an employee's monthly income to a maximum of $1,500.00. The non-evidence maximum is $1,500.00. Such payment shall be with respect to sickness or accident not covered by Worker's; Compensation and shall. be payable after one hundred and twenty (120) days of disability from sickness or accident and w i11 continue to aye sixty-five (65) or prior to recovery.
(d)	Major Medical Plan, Including Druqs: $10,000.00 maximum per employee.
.l9.02	The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee .
18
( i >	one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of a Weekly Indemnity Plan on the basis of 1-8-13, providing for benefits equalling sixty-six and two thirds per cent (66 2/3%) of earnings up to a maximum of four hundred and twenty five dollars ($425.00) per week subject to the following: to assist in defraying some of the costs of the implementation of this plan, the Company will be entitled to the entire twelve-twelfths (12/12) applicable rebate and/or premium reduction on Unemployment Insurance Commission payments which might accrue as a result of the implementation of the various benefits covered by this Collective Agreement.
19.03	The company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee one hundred per cent (J 0 0 % l of the cost of the Employer Health Tax.
19.04	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in the Group Insurance Plan, such benefits and plans are necessarily qua]ified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contractors of insurance. The terms of any contract issued in respect hereof by any Insurance agency or governmental agencies shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent of benefits and conditions.
19.05	Dental Plan - The Company agrees to keep in effect a Dental Plan equal to Blue Cross No. 7 with the full cost paid by the Company. Benefits - Dental effective January 1, 1992 current fee schedule (1990 ). Dental effective January 1, 1993 current fee schedule ( 1991.) •
19.06	Pension Plan - The Pension Plan instituted in 1982 will continue on. As of March 1, 1992 the company will contribute $12 per week on behalf of all employees entitled to be members of the pension fund. The employees in the pension fund will be required to match the $12 weekly contribution but will be allowed an excess weekly contribution up to their legal maximum per year as determined by Revenue Canada.
19.07	The Company and the employee's contribution into the Pension Plan will not be affected by increases or decreases in the Canada Pension Plan . Vision Care - Upon presentation of a receipt for eye glasses or contact lenses the Company will pay up to a maximum of $200.00 in any two year per i.od per family. Family is defined as on the registered TDl Form.
kO o CO	The employer agrees that when an insurer carrying plans referred to
19
in this Artcle 19 is changed, any new plan thereby established shall provide equivalant or superior coverage to the previous Plan,
19.09	No grievance may be processed in support of a claim or dispute in respect of the Group Insurance Plan and the decision of the insurer or governmental agency involved will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon the employee affected thereby.
19.10	If an employee is on leave for Workers' Compensation, Long Term Disability, Maternity, Compassionate Leave, etc. it is the workers' responsibility to contact his supervisor at regular intervals to keep him advised of his illness and his expected date of return to work.
ARTICLE	2 0 WAGES
20.01	Attached to and forming part of this Collective Agreement is Schedule "A” Wages and Classifications. As agreed on January 7, 1981, in the event that a new job classification or a flat rate trip is introduced into the plant, the Company will establish and put into effect a new classification and a rate covering the job in question and notify the Chief Steward of the Local Union. If the Union requests management to negotiate the rate and they are unable to agree on a classification rate for the new job the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance.
20.02	An employee who is displaced from his job as a result of technological changes shall have an opportunity to fill any vacancy for which he has seniority and which he is able to perform and if there is no vacancy shall have the right to displace employees with less seniority provided he is able to perform the job.
20.03	The company will pay every employee that worked for the company on February 19, 1992 and is still working for the company on January 1, 1993, $1,000.00. This payment will be made the first payroll in January 1993.
ARTICLE	21 CLOTHING
2J .01	The Company will supply laundered outer work clothing, oilskins, aprons and maintenance coveralls to employees. Such apparel remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee.
21.02	The Company shall. furnish all knives, steels, wetstones, meat trimmer hooks, scabbards, mesh gloves, which are necessary for the work of the employees using them subject to the establishment of regulations to prevent abuse. Such tools remain the property of the Company. When employees are requesting a new knife or s i mi l a r tool referred to herein. the worn or broken tool must be turned in at the time of replacement. Further, if the incidents or type of wear or breakage indicates unreasonable or abusive use of the
20
equipment, the employee may, at the option of the Company, be required to pay for the replacement, item.
21. 03 The Company will reimburse up to $200.00 per year for tools subject to presentation of broken or new tools and receipts for purchases of same.
21104 The Company will pay each employee on the payroll. on January 1 and July 1 of each year the amount of $90.00 each time for the purpose of obtaining safety footwear.
ARTICLE. 22 TRUCK DRIVERS 2 2.01 2 2.02
The normal week for truck drivers shall be a forty (40) hour week.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/21 of the truck driver's straight time rate of pay calculatd on an hourly basis, shall he paid for all hours worked in an excess of ten (10) in a day or forty (40) in a week.
22.03	The Company shall continue its existing practice with respect; to room and board for truck drivers on overnight runs. The company will supply each driver with a wallet credit card.
22.04	The Company will provide to truck drivers a six dollar ($6.00) meal allowance after ten (10) consecutive hours in a day and for an additional 2 hours the Company will supply a $6.00 meal allowance.
22.05	The Company shall endeavor at all times to arrange runs on the basis of the stated preference of seniority drivers, having due regard to the efficient operation of the Company.
22.06	Any driver who is on a long haul out of town and is paid a flat rate will be paid hourly rate after 4 hours waiting time which includes driving breakdown and unloading time.
22.07	The company agrees to allow up to 2 drivers to take vacation during prime time.
22. 08 During the term of the contract.,the company and the union will discuss the possibility of a driver/safety bonus program.
ARTICLE
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
Electrician
fully qualified with provincial certificate
Maintenance (Millright) Welder) Plumber
fully qualified with provincial certificate
Refrigeration Operator - fully qualified with provincial certificate
$17.00
$17.00 $17.00
21
Truck Mechanic - fully qualified with
provincial certificate	$17.00
Maintenance Mechanic - without certificate	$16.35
1.	All other employees working in the maintenance department will be Red Circle.
2.	New employees hi red in the Maintenance Department wil1 have the proper provincial certificate.
3.	The starting rate for new employees in the Maintenance Department will be $1.00 below the job rate for the first 6 months. After 1 year's service, the job rate will be paid.
4.	The company and the union will establish an Apprenticeship system under the guidelines of the Government Training Branch.
5.	The hours of work for the refrigeration operators will be outlined in a Letter of Understanding which will be part of this Collective Agreement.
23.02	APPRENTICES!!! P PROGRAM
The company and the union will establish an Apprentice and Refrigeration Training Program. Any opening will be posted on the plant bulletin boards.
1.	Employees who are interested and have Grade 12 education, may apply.
2.	The employee with the most seniority and the proper education will be asked to write an entrance test at an established College or Tradeschool.
3.	The employee who passes the test will be enrolled in the program as outlined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Skills Training Division.
4.	The apprentice is expected to attend proper night classes or fulltime day classes at a college.
5.	If the apprentice attends day classes he will apply for U.I.O. and the company will make up the difference of his wages.
6.	Employees who qualify for the program will be paid as outlined in the Apprenticeship contract but no employee will have to take reduction in wages .
7.	Employees who do not: fulfill their obligation under their Apprenticeship contract will be transferred back into the plant operation.
8.	The union will be informed of all apprentices put into the program and will be the co-signer of any arrangement.
9.	If the company cannot find a qualified employee in the plant, it has
22
the right to recruit from any other source.
ARTICLE 24 DURATION
24.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the first day of January 1992 and remain in full force and effect and shall not be reopenable save and except otherwise expressly provided, until the 31st day of December 1993 and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing as provided in Article
24.02	hereof of its desire to negotiate amendments to this Agreement.
24.02	Notice that. amendments are required shall only be given during the period of not more than three (3) months and not less than one (1) month prior to the 31st day of December, 1993 or similar annual periods thereafter. If no tic" of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either party in accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to meet for the purpose of negotiations.
DATED AT GUELPH, THIS

DAY OF
I
'7
191 //
BETTER BEEF LIMITED	ONITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION. REGION 18, &-V-T.-r in. 1 nniwn C.L.C. ON BEHALF QF TTS LOCAL 617P
Harriet MaffClean Wilson
21
SCHEDULE A
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
WAGES
C ategory
1	17.00
2	16.35
3	1.5 .70
4	14.15
5	13.10
6	12.00
7	11.00
All new employees will start at $10.00 per hour and will reach their appropriate category rate evenly over the next 24 months.
All current employees whose wages are affected as a result of a change of job classification or wage rates will be red circled for the term of this agreement unless they voluntarily accept another job.
Students	$7.00
Students employed for the school vacation period (June, July, August) are not considered full time employees and will have t o re-apply after Labour Day for full time status.
Truck Drivers
Tractor	$647.	,00
Tandem	$647 .	,00
Stan dard	$620.	,00
FIat Rates 1992-1993		
Montreal	$358.	,00
O ttawa	338.	,00
Quebec City	441.	, 00
Trois Rivier Que.	387.	, 00
Fredericton N.B.	684.	, 00
Chicago Ill.	443	, 00
Milton, Penna.	397,	.00
Lebanon. Penna.	443	.00
?rankford, New York	397,	.00
Warren, Michigan	249.	.00
Cincinnati, Ohio	443	.00
Jo/est Chester	443.	. 00
Jersey City	443,	.00
New York	443,	.00
24
Devault, Penna	443.00
Phi IadeIphia, Penna	443.00
Albany, New York	420.00
Sudbury and Peddle	397.00
The company will pay drivers who are paid a flat rate per trip to the province of Quebec, an additional $25.00 .for each extra delivery above their flat rate.
CLASSIFICATIONS
HAMBURGER ROOM PATTY ROOM STEAK ROOM, ROAST BEEF Class .1
Formulator
K-Pack operator, formax operator Roast beef, AEW automatic saw
Class 2 Class 3 Class 4 Class 5
Trim steaks, weigh steaks or fresh vac-pac meats
Class 6 Load chiller, operate vat dumper & grinder; finished box handler
Class 7 Make boxes, label boxes, load boxes, strap boxes, load roll. stock machine, operate press general
CUTTING DEPARTMENT
Class 1 Large Jones saw. break primals
Class 2 Pull tenderloin, bone butts, pull tips, bone ribs, bone necks, blades, pull clods, drop fu11 rounds
Class 3 Diamond cut hinds, small saw, trim tenders, bone strips, t r i m strips and shortloin, trim butts, bone aich bone, sp lit hips, pull heel and trim outside, roast beef, bone and trim shoulders, bone x-rih and short rib, trim chx rolls, bone points, final trim on point
Class 4 Put sides on rail, drop fronts, combo cuts, trim flapmeat, trim flank steak, bone & trim steak tai I, bone hind & front shank, peel tips, bone & trim flank, bone braising rib, trim fat caps & cap meat, trim clods, trim chx flats, trim chx short rib, rough trim points, trim trim
Class 5 Check trim fronts and hinds, hang hips, trim skirts, trim pectoral, trim heels, core sample
Class 6 Transfer onto boning I ines. pick bones, cut bones, core sample helper
25
Class 7
Janitor
SANITATION Class 1
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 3 Class 4 Class 5	Set up
Class 6 Class 7	Sani tation
SUNDRY Class 1 Class 2 Class 3	Receiver dry goods
Class 4	Wash wheels kill
Class 5	Laundry room, soap & towel dispensers, wheels to wheel room shaker plant, truck wash, receiver dry goods helper
Class 6	Yard man
GLOBAL Class 1 Class 2 Class 3	Lead hand
Class 4	Saw
Class 5 Class 6 Class 7	Finished product
2fi
MDB
C I ass 1
C I ass 2
Class 3 Class 4 C I ass 5	Machine operator
Class 6 Class 7	Filling boxes, putting them in the freezer
KILL FLOOR
Class 1	First leg, second leg
Class 2	Skin flanks, open up fronts. skin necks & shanks. eviscerating, splitting saw, sticking
Class 3	Hide pullers, cut off tail and fat, weigh scale, bone heads. clean heads/jaws, save hearts etc., run intestines
Class 4	Knocking, cut hung/cut tail, brisket saw, push weasens, drop heads, drop kidney fat, pull jaws, save edible fat, shackling
Class 5	Cut horns/ears, lips, cut feet, tie weasens/-help heads. drop jawls/tongue, drop cheeks/tongues, drop bungs, neck trim/windpipes, trim heads/save tongue
Class 6	Cattle chaser (outside & inside). transfer first leg. transfer second leg, front trim, hip trim. front shank trim, hind trim. loin trim, tail t r i m , whizknife channel fat, railing cattle in the cooler, operate tripe wash machines. mountain chain. cut scalps, weasand meat and pancreas and other glands.
Class 7	Put on plastic, wash heads, hind wash, front wash. shrouding. save animal food, save intestines, clean floor, large intestines
FANCY MEATS, INTESTINES AND F'OOTROOM Class l
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 3	Scaling
Class 4	Trim tongues, cheekmeat, hanging tenders, trim hearts. tai Is
Class 5	Skin and deveine livers
27
Class 6 Class 7
PACKING Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 Class 4
Class 5 Class 6 Class 7
SHIPPING
Class 1 Class 2
Class 3 Class 4 Class 5 Class 6 COOLER Class 2 C I ass 5 Class 6
Operate Strichler machine and small saw, strap and load boxes on skid, vac pac product, fresh livers, hearts, hanging tenders, tongues, cheekrneat, lips, feet, tails
A 11 work in intestine room except Strichler machine, all work in footroom except small saw; wrapping tongues, packing spinal cords, sweetbreads, animal food, make boxes and general labour
Lead Hand
Scale ful l boxes, scale and handle full combo's, keep goer
Vac pac operator, box maker operator, box closer operator, cryovac operator
Boxloading, box labelling, box handling, moving skids Trim line, transfer, bagging, boneguarding,
Clean up
DEPARTMENT
Dispatch peddle, inventory control fresh, lead hand, inventory control frozen, finished dispatch (warehouse)
Night inventory fresh/scale man, export freezer nights
Box handler, swinging beef
Lead hand
Saw cattle
Shrouds, rolling beef, move beef in sales cooler, take beef out, hang beef