THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OE THE 1st: DAY OE JANUARY 01, 1994
BETWEEN :
BETTER BEEF_ LIMITED
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OE THE FIRST PART -AND-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION 18 A . F . L. ,. C, I . 0_,, 0 ._L . C_. ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 617 P
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
00266 (05)
i
3
4
f>
7
8
9
1 0
.!. .1
I 2
1 :j
14
1. f>
] c;
i v
1 8
1 9
20
21
22
2 3
2 4
INDEX -
RECOGNITION
PURPOSE
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGI1TS
REPRESENTATION
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
NO STRIKES OR EOOKOtJTS
UNION SECURITY
DISCRIMINATION
SENIORITY
TEMPORARY TRANSFEEG LEAVE OF ABSENCE BEREAVEMENT JURY DUTY
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
PAY ON DAY OF INJURY
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
VACATION WITH PAY
SAFETY f. HEALTH
WELFARE
WAGES
CLOTHING
TRUCK DRIVERS
MAINTENANCE
DURATION
SCHEDULE "A" WAGES AND CLASH IN'ICI
0
R
10 12 13 13 1 3 1 !)
15
16 ] 7 18
1	1 19 ?O 21 22 US
2	3
ARTICLE 1	RKCOGN1TION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent of all its
employees at 701 York Road, Guelph, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office', and sales staff.
1.07	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will not bargain
with or enter into a Collective Agreement with any other trade union on behalf of or binding upon the employees in the bargaining unit or any of them.
ARTICLE 2 PURPOSE
7.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish collective
bargaining relations between the Company and the Union, to continue the cooperation and spirit of good will between the Company and its employees, to provide machinery for the prompt disposition of grievances arising under this Agreement and to sot forth negotiated conditions of employment for al). employees who are Subject to the provisions of this Agreement. The union recognizes that in order to provide a proper relationship between the parties, the Company must he kept in a strong competitive market position, which means it must produce at the best possible efficiency and lowest cost, consistent:	with fair labour standards, and the Union agrees to
cooperate with the Company in attaining such objectives.
7.07	Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and working
conditions depends upon sound and efficient:	operation of the
business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times;
(a)	to maintain an improved quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials or time;
(c)	to assist in keeping the Company's premises clean and tidy;
(d)	to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
ARTICLE 3 RESERVATION _OV_ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	Except as and to the extent specifically modified by this
Agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Company and remain exeliisively within the rights of the Company and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's rights shall include:
(a)	The right:	to maintain order, discipline arid efficiency; to
make, alter and enforce, from Lime to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices to be adhered to by its employees; to discipline and discharge employees foi proper cause;
(b)	The right:	to select, hire and control the working force and
employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify,
I
3.0?.
ARTICLE 4.01
4.02
4.03
] ay-off, recall, suspend employees; Lo plan, direct:	and
control oper'citions; to select and retai.n employ les for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfoi employees into the bargaining umL;
(c)	The right io determine:	the location and extent oi ils
operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment or discontinuance; the direction of the working forces; the products i o be processed; the standards of production; the contracting oui of work; the schedules of work arid oi production; the number of shifts: the methods, processes and means of performing work; the job content and requirements; quality arid quantity of standards; the qualifications of employees, Lhe use of improved methods, machinery arid equipment; whether there? shall he overtime work and who shall perform such work, subject Co the provisions of Article 14 herein; and how many shall operate oi work on any job, operation, machine or product line; the administration of the Company's pay system; which jobs shall be incentive jobs and which jobs shall not; the numboi of hours to he worked; starting and quitting time. And generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the. Company.
Supervisois wall not normally perform work performed by bargaining nn.i1 employees.
REPRESENTATION
The Union may designate and the Company will recognize one steward for each department, as well as a chief steward. Such departmental stewards must be employees of the department which they have been designated to represent. As well, the Union may designate and the Company will recognize a grievance committee comprised of four (4) Employees as follows:
(a)	the Local President
(b)	the Chief Steward
(c)	1 he Recording Secretary
(d)	the applicable employees s»teward.
No one shall be eligible tri serve as steward or grievance committeeman unless he is an employee of the Company and has at least six (6) months' seniority.
The Company agrees to post an up to dote list with names of supervisors in each departmeni arid a copy given io the Union. Otherwise, the employees shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until they have been so informed.
The Union will inform the Company in writing of the identity of all stewards and grievance committee members and the department which each steward represents and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
4.0 4
4.0'
4.06
4.07
ARTICLE
6.01
ii.OZ
6.01
fox t hc» purpose of tills Agreement the plant grievance committ.ee and the stewards together with the officers of the Local Union shall be deemed to he officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree (.hat the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithlully carried out . The Company hereto agrees that it. will faithfully carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement .
Stewards, members of committees and Union officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and such persons shall not leave their regular duties without: requesting and obtaining the permission of their foreman or immediate supervisor and such permission will not be withheld for more than (1) one hour. When resuming their regular duties, they shall report to their foreman or .immediate supervisor and will give, a reasonable explanation with respect: to their absence, when requested to do so.
Warnings on an employee's record are to be withdrawn after one (]) calendar year.
If ll becomes necessary to reprimand an employee which will be iocxnded then the employee will be accompanied by his/her dopar linent steward.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The grievance procedures herein provided lor art! amonc/ the most impoi t'ant mattery in the successful administration of the Agreement. Tlie Company and the Union therefore agree i hat the designated grievance procedi re as hereinafter set forth shall servo as arid constitute the solo and exclusive means Lo be; utilized by 1 he grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement oi a grievance arising/ with respect io the interpretation, application, administration or alleged vi olntinn of this Agreement and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever’ the term "grievance procedure" is used m this Agreement it shall be considered as including Liu; arbitration procedure.
"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement.
The Company shall be under no obligni ion io consider or process any grievances unless such grievance lins been presented to the Company at Step 1 of the grievance procedure, within (i>) five days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based, were, known or should have been known by the grievor. However, if the Company does consider oi process a grievance which has been presented late, the Company shall not bo estopped oi precluded at any stage from taking tho position that the grievance is late arid not arbitrable.
The Company will notify the Union, as soon an investigation has been completed, a8 to what disciplinary action might be taken. Not longer than 5 days.
i
5.04
5.05
If a supervisor fails to reply to the Grievance, the Grievance will proceed tu the next step.
All time limits referred Lo in the grievance; procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean "working clays", i.e. exclusive of Saturday. Sunday or the holidays sel out m Article 16 hereof.
No employee shall have a grievance until he has discussed his complaint with his immediate supervisor. If the employee's immediate supervisor does not promptly settle the matter to tho employee's satisfaction, an employee's proper grievance may he processed as follows:
STEP NO. 1
If an employee has a grievance, the grievance shall, within tho five (5) days referred io m Article 5.0.1 hereof, bo presented tu his departmental supervisor. Tho employee will have his steward oi the Chief Steward, as the case may be, accompany him to sec. tho departmental supervisor. The departmental supervisor shall give the griovor a written reply aw soon as possible but not later than three (3) clays after' such discussion. If the departmental supervisor's reply is not satisfactory to the; grievor, the next step must bo taken within (5) five days of tho departmental supervisor's answer, but not thereafter.
STEP NO. 2
At this step the grievance shell be reduced to writing and presented to the Plant Manager, within the aforesaid five (5) days of receipt of the departmental supervisor's written reply, but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify the facts giving rise to the grievance, the section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated, tho relief requested and shall be signed by the employee and counter signed by his Union.
A meeting will he held between tho Steward and Chief Steward together with the grievor involved and the Plant Manager, together with other representatives of management within three (3) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Plant- Manager. The Plant Manager Shall give his written reply to the Chief Steward within five (5) days of such meeting.
If the Plant Manager's reply is not satisfactory to the Chief Steward, the next step must bc> taken within five (5) days after the delivery of the Plant Manager's reply to the Chief Steward but not thereafter.
STEP NO. 3
At this step, the Union shall within the aforesaid five (5) days, notify the President in writing of its desire to appeal the decision of the Plant Manager to step 3.
Within ten (10) days thereafter, a meeting will take place between the grievance committee (which may be accompanied by the Union
4
lopjosentati ve) am] a management committee. The grievor shall bo present it requested by cither party. The Company shall deliver ils decision in writing to the Chief Steward within ten (10) working days ol such meeting.
STKP NO. ‘\
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step 3, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of Hit; grievance, by giving notice in writing to the other party within ten (10) days from delivery of the decision at step 3 to the; Chief Steward, but not thereafter.
If a request for arbitration is not so given within such ten (10) day period, the decision at: Step 3 shall be final and binding upon boLh parties to this Agreement and upon any employee involved.
The notice; to arbitrate shall contain Liu; name and address of idle moving party's nominee to the hoard.
The. recipient of the notice shall within ten (10) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of its appointee to the arbitration boaid. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, as soon as possible;, appoint a third person who shall lie nelia i mviu. If the two (3) appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limit the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall, if requested within ten (10) days from the expiry date upon which the two (2) appointees are to appoint, a chairman (but not thereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified person to bn chairman.
The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall he the decision of the arbitration board, but. if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
The board of arbitration shall not he authorized to make any dec i si ion inconsistent with the. provisions of this Agreement., nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, not to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbitrate; specified in Step 3 of Article 3.03 hereof.
Mach party hereto shall bear its own costs .incidental to any such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of l he board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the t wo (2) pni t: i os hereto .
The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 3 are mandatory and not merely directory. Therefore, failure to put. a grievance in writing at the proper step in accordance with the requirements hereof shall bo deemed a complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance by the grievor. Any grievance not appealed from one step of the grievance procedure to the next: within the specifies] time limit shall he deemed to be abandoned. No mattei may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times specified.
5.10
5.11
5. 17
A grievance which has been disposed oi pursuant to the grievance provisions of 1 his Agreement shal] not again bo made the subject mat Lei of a grievance. This clause shall not preclude a different grievance from being filed respecting similar but different circumstances. The Union shall have the right to withdraw the grievance at any stage of ihe proceedings.
A decision or settlement readied at any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon fill parties; hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not bn subject Co reopening by any pc\rt:y except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure both the company management and the union representatives who pass on the same as jirovided herein shall, alter ratification, sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was. Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant lo the grievance procedure.
When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by a board of arbitration on the bosin that the employee i s entitled i o he reimbursed far wages lost as a result: of action on the part of the company in violation of this Agreement;, such reimbursement shall be at the employee’s straight time day work hourly rate exclusive; of any premiums, for such hours as the employee would have worked for the company os for the holiday pay to which tic would have been entitled if t:lio violation had not occurred, buL there shall lie subtracted there from any monies the employee received during such period.
Union Policy Grievance Ox Company Grievance
5.13	A Union policy grievance or a Company grievance may he submitted to
the. Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing within ten (10) days from the Lime the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall bo held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within t tin framework vi Step 3 of Article !i .05. The Company oi the Union, as the case; may hr;, shall give its written decision within three (3) days oi such meet i ng.
if the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance must: be submitted to arbitration within ten (10) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sections of this Agreement shall be followed.
it is expressly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 5.13 may not he used by the Union to institute a grievance directly ifiecting an employee or employees which such employee oc employees could themselves institute and the provisions of Article 5.05 hereof shall not thereby be bypassed.
6
ART 1 f. MO STRIKED OR LOCKOUTS
0 . il 1	’i'Ji* * Union undertakes and agrees t hat while; this Agreement:	in in
operation neither Lhe Union noi any employee .shall lake* part in or nail ox encour aye; any sit like, picketing, sitdown, slowdown, 01 any suspension of. or stoppage ot or interference with work or product ion which shall in any way affect the; operations of the Company, nor shall there?, he; emy sympathy strikes ami the; Company agrees that it will not. engage. j.n any lockout: during the term of Lhi s Aq? eement.
6.02	Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct shall
lie subject to discipline: up to and .including discharge;.
b.03	The Union agrees that, no strike vote of the; employees will lie; taken
during Uu; term of this. Agreement or during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension thereof until all of the conciliation provisions of Lhe? Ontario Labour Relations Act have been fully exhausted.
6.04
The Company agrees that no truck driver shall be required to cross a legal picket line.
ARTICLE 7 UNION SECURITY
7.01	The Company agrees that:
(a)	All employees who are presently members of the Union shal. maintain their membership in the Union by having their recjula' monthly union duos deducted from their pay and remitted to tin Union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b)	All employees hired at Lor the date: of this Agreement, shall b< required, upon completion of t:ho. first thirty (30) calendar days service, to become members of the Union by tendering the Unioi initiation fee in the amount so determined by the Constitution ant shall mainLain their membership in the union by having thei. regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted t( the union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
7.02	The. Company agrees to deduct, regular monthly union due?;, spaeia. assessments uniformly levied in accordance with the Constitutioi and By-laws of the Union, upon written notification from the Union Twice tin? regular monthly union dues shall he deducted in any one check-off where the employee? was absent or had insufficient pay ir the check-off immediately preceding from the first pay and remit te the union on or before the. last day of the month.
7.03	The Company will at the time o:l: making such remittance to th< Union, specify the employees from whoso pay check deductions wer< made and the. reason why no deductions were made, for that month. The Company also agrees to fill out the forms for new employees callec back from Lhe layoff as supplied by the union and submit those forms with the first check-off to the union office.
7.04	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless against any claim which may arise from complying with the
provisions of this Article
7.0!)	The use or the masculine gender m this agreement shall bo
considered io also include the feminine.
'7.06	Ai the discretion of tho Company, the Company will provide paid
educational leave for employees for improvement of skill levels pertaining io the work place >:c for improving levels pertaining to health and safety.
7.07	When as a direct result of Che introduction of new equipment, or a
job is discontinued and the incumherit is transferred to a lower rated job according to his seniority, his rate shall riot he reduced for a period of three (3) year's.
ARTIC LE B	D1SCRIMINATION
8.03	l‘lie company recognizes and will not interfere with the right of its
employees to become members of the Union and will riot discriminate against, interfere with, restrain or coerce employees because of membership in the union. Tlie Union agrees that neither the Union nor its members will intimidate or coerce employees into membership and also that it will not solicit membership, collect dues, distribute Union information or hold meetings on Company property.
8.0?.	The Company agrees to permit the Union Lo post notices oi meetings
and legitimate Union business hut not political matters on a bulletin board designated by the Company for such purposes. It is agreed however, that such notices must first he approved by the Company, which approval shall not. be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01	An employee will he considered a probationary employee unti 1 he has been employed by the Company for ninety (Y0) calendar days. During such probationary period he will have no seniority rights but once seniority is acquired it will be regarded as having started from the date upon such probationary period commenced. The Union will not question the lay-of€or dismissal of any probationary employee, nor shall such lay-off or dismissal be the subject of a grievance.
9.02	The Company will furnish the Union with a seniority list of all union employees. Such list will show tho employee's seniority and the department in which the employee holds such seniority. The seniority list shall be revised once every two (?.) months and a copy supplied to the Union.
9.03
In case of job posting, increase or decrease of the work force the following factors will he considered:
(a)	Seniority;
(b)	Reliability;
(c)	Capability.
8
Li H and C uru reasonable the sernor employee will be given the opportunity to qualify for the jub as outlined in Article; 9. OB
9.0‘S
9.06
An employee shall lose all senioiily anil nmvico rights if;
(a)	an employee; voluntarily quits;
(b)	an employee is di scharqod lor cause and is not. reinstated under Idle provisions of Idie grievance and arbi Li.aL.Lon j> r oe.edur c> of' this Agreement;
(e) a [K;n;on on lay-off Tails to return to work vjil.hin lam (10) days after. the Company's; no l ice of recall is sent by registered mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on The Company's records, or. if the person within two (2) days alter such notice, of recall is so sent fails t:o notify the Company of his intention to return to work;
(d) an employee is laid off for a period in excess of two (2) years;
(o ) ii an employee absents hintsel T irom work tor two (2) consecutive working days without a reason satisfactory to the Company;
(I.) if an employee fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of tiny leave, granted to him unless he is excused by the Company.
'the appointment. or selection oi employees for supervisory positions, full, time Union positions or lor any position which is not. subject to the provisions of this Agreement; is not covered by this Agreement. Tf any employee on the seniority list is so •transferred or appointed and later, wiidii.it one (1) year of the Company or the employee’s request:, is transferred back to a position which is governed by this Agreements then he shall be credited with seniority based upon his total length of service with i:he Company from the date on which he was last hired.
Hick heave
An employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job for more than two (2) work days, shall upon furnishing evidence satisfactory to the Company of such illness or injury, which may include examination by a Company cippointod physician, he. granted a sick leave for thci duration of the period of his disability due to such sickness or injury except that at idle end of twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with less than three (J) years' seniority, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with throe (2) years or more seniority, of continuous absence because of such illness or injury the employee’s employment and seniority may be terminated. The employee shall luinish supplementary medical evidence of disability from time to Lime as required by the Company. Failure to furnish suedi evidence of disability as required will result in the termination of the employee's employment and seniority, before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must prese.nl a doctor's certificate
9
staling that ho. has recovered sufi icio.nl ly both physically arid mentally, Lo be able to return to his regular job classification oi other available work and perform such job in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards. The? Company reserves the rigid to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with sick leave.
9.07	It: shall bo the duty of the employee or laid off person to notify
the Company promptly, in writing, of any change of address. If an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company will not he responsible for failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records.
When an employee is notified that ho is being laid off he shall, at that time, attend at the Company's office and ensure that the Company's records correctly set. out. Iris address and telephone number.
9 . OB	(a) The Company agrees to give seniority employees three (3)
working days notice of lay-off cr pay for that port inn of such throe (3) working days for which notice, is not given except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown.
(b)	lay-off
Subject to the terms ai Article 9.03 hcioin seniority employees shall be laid oil m mversi order of seniority
(c)	Job Posting
If a permanent job becomes vacant above Class fJ7, the Company will post the job within three (3) working days for a period of three (3) working days. The job will be awarded within three (3) working days. The notice shall set out a job description, cl ass 1 f icatioxi and wage rate, the Union will be notified of the successful employee. During the three (3) days of posting the Company may temporarily fill the job a it deems proper. In filling the vacancy, the Company will apply the provisions of Article 9.03 hereof. It ls expressly understood that the Company may fill a job vacancy from any source. An employee who is eligible for any job may be allowed a trial period of lip to ten (10) working days in the relevant Job to enable management to determine whether the employee will be able to perform in that job to the Company's quality and quantity standards. If such employee does not gualify during the trial period, he shall forthwith he returned to his original job.
The Union will be notified of the successful employee. During the three (3) days of posting the Company may temporarilyf 111 the job as it deems proper In filling the vacancy, the Company will apply the provisions of Article 9.03 hereof. It is expressly understood that the Company shall not be ctnf ined to the applicants in CLLLkng the vacancy. If there are no
10
9.09
qualified applicants the Company may fill a job vacancy from any source. An employee who is eligible for any job vacancy pursuant to the terms of Article 9.0.3 hereof may bo allowed a trial period of up to ten (10) working days in the relevant job to enable management to determine whether the employee will he able to perform in that job <;o the Company1 h quality and quantity of standards.
If such employee does not qualify during the trial period, he nhall forthwith be returned to hiR original job.
The Company will notify the Union of the selected employee a t least one day before the job in to be started.
It is expressly understood that, no buccbsb±‘u1 job applicant pursuant to this Article !).0R	(c) may bid on another job
posting for a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days after the closing date of the original job posting.
(d)	If the employee performs the work without further training he will be paid the proper rate.
(e)	All poatinge to be signed by the Steward in the department in which the vacancy occurs.
Temporary Job Postings:
Any vacancy which is the result of sicknoso, accident, oi leave of absence, and which i s known t o he more that 30 days, will be posted in the department.
After six months the temporary posting will tie reviewed with the department Steward.
ARTICLE 10	' L' EM I10 RA_R Y _TRANS PER H
10.01	An employee who ls temporarily transferred (transfernot to exceed more than thirty (30)working days) i o a highoi rated job {a highei rated job shall include a job whereby the range of rates is higher than the range of raies in the job from which the employee is temporarily transferred) shall be paid the rate of the job to which he in transferred. If the rate of the job in which an employee in temporarily transferred other than os a result of exercising his seniority during a lay-off or ai an employee's request, is less than the rait? of his regular job lie shall be paid the rate of his regular job during the period of such temporary transfer. Where the transfer results from the exercise of seniority during lay-off or as a result of employee's request, he shall bo paid the rate or the job to which lie is transferred.
It is the responsibility of the depaitmeui supervisor to issue the proper rate.
10.02	When a temporary transfer is made from onO department to another the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the reguirements of the business and the ability of the employee to do the reguired work satisfactorily.
Where an employee is awarded a permanent Job in another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his previous department because of his gualifications to perform the work he may express his dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can Satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer.
10.03	If an employee is assigned to an afternoon shift, he may apply to
be transferred to another shift. If a job is available on the desired shift and more than one person is applying for that position, the individual who can perform the job and with the most seniority will be granted the transfer.
ARTICLE, 11 LEAVE OE ABSENCE
11.01	Requests for leave of absence* must be made to the plant manager, and if granted, such leave of absence will be conf irmed i n wr.i t ing . A leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested in writing by the employee on the form provided for such purposes and consented to in writing by the plant manager, covering a permitted period of time lor personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. Leave of absence shall be permissive only and shall be without pay or any other form of compensation.
11.02	Normally, a leave or absence will not he granted for a period m excess of three (3) months.
12
ARTICI,K 1/ bENKAVFMFNT
17.01	In 1 hi; cfise o3 death in the* immed i a to family, (defined an wife,
husband , eh i 1 d r. un , mother, J a t:lit*i , In other , s L nte i , mot hm:- in- 1 fiw, j hit he i i n- 1 avj ) an employee with sonioiily will be. granted up to three ( H ) consneulive. days off work wi t h pay providing such days oi 1 are regular woiking days and providing the. employee attends the tuner at and/or: is involved in making funeral arrangements.
17.0/	Tii ease of death of a stepmother, stopfathej, grandchildren,
gi tindparont, hrothe r - in-1 aw, nr sisl.ej- in- law of a seniority employee, such employee shall, be granted one (1) day off with pay provided such day is a regular 'working day and provided the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in mailing funeral a r r. myomonIs.
ART If lib d JURY DUTY
15.0.1	An employee with establ ished seniority who is milled to and reports
J’or jury duty shall be paid by the Company the difference between the employee's base rate exclusive of premiums for 1.he number of hours up to eight (8) that, he otherwise would have been scheduled I < i woi k and the amount that he :i s paid for his jury duty. In order to be eligible for payment hereunder the employee, must :
(i)	give the Company notice within one (1) day ol. his receipt. u1 his call for Jury duty and;
( ii) report for work when not required tor aclual jury duty as soon as possible and work the. balance o I: bis schedule time.
ARTICLE 14 HOURS OK WORK AND 0VKKTTMI-:
14.01	Tlu* piovisions of this Article 14 are for the purpose of computing
overtime and shall not. be construed to be a guarantee of m. limitation upon the hours of work to be done per day or per week or otherwise, nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
14.011	FIxee.pt for truck drivers, the normal work week will bn composed of
forty (40) straight: time hours worked from Monday to Friday.
The Company will make every possible effort to retain the existing shift schedule. In the event that a shift: change becomes necessary the Company v/ilL give seven (7) days notice of such change to all involved employees. If such notice is not given, the. involved employee shall receive payment: of time and one half as a basis, rate tor all hours worked within the received period of notice. Any hours worked before a regular scheduled shift will be considered overtime hour?;. The Company will, ensure that every employee has a minimum of 8 hours off between each shift.. 1
(1) The Company lias the light to schedule in-plant maintenance employees from Tuesday to Saturday according to seniority. Employees with the most, seniority will have first choice, of
t he new shiJ1 .
(2)	it an employee's reguliir day off m place of Saturday falls on a week day, he shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/?.) the regular rate for hours worked on such a day.
(3)	l'hi:; shift will consist of two employees.
Mxcept for truck drivers an employee shell 1 he paid overtime ai a rate of time and one-halt (1 1/21 the employee's straight time iate oi pay exclusive of premiums for all hours worked in excess ~r eight (8) in the day.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time on Sunday.
Ai employee who performs work on one (1) of the holidays designated in Article 16 hereof, shall be paid at a rate of time and one-halt (1 1/2) plus holiday pay and such work shall he at the discretion of the Company and the employee involved.
It is recognized that the Company will from time Lo time require overtime work and the Union agrees that employees shall perform such overtime work. An employee who wishes i o he excused from an overtime assignment shall in support of his request, furnish the Company with a bonafide reason. The Company's decision upon the request will not lie made in an arbitrary manner. Overtime after 5 hours a week will be voluntary. The Company agrees to give notice of anticipated overtime the day before the clay upon which the overtime will be worked except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown beyond the reasonable conti-ril of the Company. The Company will endeavour as far as practicable io equitably allocate; overtime work among qualified employees who presently and normally perform the job or dominant portion of the work required. Non bargaining unit supervisory personnel shall not perforin overtimework while qualified bargaining unit employees who would normally perform such work are available save and except for emergencies, instructional or training purposes.
In no case will there be a duplication or pyramiding of overtime or any other premium compensation.
Mach employee shall receive a fifteen (15) minute break during each half of each shift, at a time to be designated by his foreman. TJ overtime is more than one hour, a 15 minute coffee break will be; given to the employees.
Mmployees shall receive a one-half (1/?.) hour unpaid lunch period.
(a)	20 minutes paid lunch for maintenance only
(b)	If an employee is required io work overtime the Company will after two hours work make a hot meal available with no cost io the employee. If no hot meal is available the employee will receive $10.00 in lieu thereof.
An employee who properly reports for work as scheduled or as directed, unless ho has been notified in advance not to report,
14.11 1 A. 12
14 . T!
14.14
ARTICLE
1 !j . 01
ARTICLE
i g . a j
will nu'.i’ivu at least four. (4) hours' work at: his s I. raigh l: limn base hourly rate or shall ho paid for four (4) hours at his straight t i mo bast’, hourly rate, exclusive of premiums, except: in eases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment., power' or other' utility breakdown, incleme.nl. weal her.
The Company will provide a relief-man in the cutting room and kill 1loor.
Cal 1 - i n l’ay
An employee called back to work after having completed his regular shift and left, the plant premises, shall be given a minimum of four
(4)	hours' pay at: the employee's straight time rate unless he. works to his scheduled siartiny time.
Weekly Guarantee
(a)	The Company agrees to guarantiee every employee in every weak of employment, thirty seven (37) hours' pay at a regular rate subject to the following provisions. Overtime, off-shift premium and weekend premium shall not. bo considered when calculating what guarantee, if any, is to be paid.
(b)	The guarantee, referred to herein shall be reduced by ttie
number of hours for which an employee is not eligible for payment of wages. This will include* tardiness, or absence from work on any day or pari, of a day, quitting or hiring during the week, being	engaged in a stoppage of work,
suspension or dismissal or being on lay-off.
Straight time, and overtime hour’s will be totalled separately by idle supervisor.
1 r:	PAY ON DAY OF INJURY
An employee who is injured during working hours while properly per forming his dut.ies of employment: and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physicicin shall be paid lor the time lost on the day Ire was injured at his regular straight time hourly rate.. The number, of hours paid on the day of injury will equal the number of hours worked by his department on the day of his injury.
1G DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
An employee who has completed ninety (90) calendar days with the Company will he compensated for time lost as a result of one (1) of the following holidays being observed. Compensation shall Ire equivalent to (right (8) hours' pay at. the employee's regular rate, provided he complies with the qualifications set forth in this Article 16.
The. designated holidays are:
New Year's Day	Labour Day	Good Friday
Thanksgiving Day	Victoria Day	Christinas Day
Dominion Day	Uoxing Day	Civic Holiday
1 b
In addition to the above, each employee who ik scheduled to work on the day before Christmas and New Year's Day and works up to five
(5)	hours will be paid eight (0) hours for that day. The parties agree that the 5 hour provision is intended to ensure that tile clean up crew is finished work early on the evening of these holidays and therefore will only apply when December 25 and January 1 falls on Tuesday thru Friday.
I.n addition to the above, once each yoai an employee who has attained seniority (with completion of tho ninety (90) calendar day probation period) . shall be entitled tu a personal day off with pay excluding the months of June, July and August. Lo be arranged at time mutually agreeable between l ho employee and the Immediate suporviso,.
f.n order Lo qualify for payment foi any of the holidays designated in this Article 16.01, (except for the floatei) the employee must work the full scheduled shift on the declared woik day immediately prior to and the full scheduled sliifi on the declared work day immediately following the holiday except where the employee requests and is granted, pri.oi to the holiday, permission m writing tu be absent on one (1) only oi the qualifying days.
When any of the above-noted holidays, referred to in Article; 16.01 fall on Saturday or Sunday, tho Friday preceding or Monday following shall be deemed to be the holiday foi purposes of tho Aqreemon l:.
If an employee is being paid sick benefit or compensation on a statutory holiday, the Company agrees io pay the difference between sick benefits or compensation pay and the regular eight (0) hours earnings fm 1 hat day.
ARITCLK .17
VACATION WITH PAY
Senior ity employees shall be entitled to an annual vacation in accordance with the following schedules:
(a)	for employees with less than one (1) year of seniority 4».
(b) one (II year's seniority but less than five (5) year's seniority as at March Mist of each year - two (2) weeks 0 4?;.
c)	five (5) year’s seniority but less than Len (10) years;1
seniority as at March 31st of each year - throe (3) weeks 0
69..
(d) ten (10) year's seniority but: less Lhan fifteen (15) years' seniority as at March 31st of each year - four (4) weeks 0 Bo.
(e) fifteen (15) years' seniority or more as at March 31st each year - five (5) weeks 0 10%.
16
17.07. 17.03
( f ) Vacation IlonuB
3 10 years $30.00 per week
10- 13 years $100.00 poi week
Hi years m more $130.00 per week
An employe?© whose employment is terminated for any reason shall receive vacation pay for the period Lo which he is entitled.
The. Company will make ri sincere effort to grant vacation at times roguesied by employees. Employee can choose their entire Vacation entitlement during first pick by their seniority position. Only two (2) weekB can be chosen between May 15th and Sept 15th. Vacation time selected between may 15th and Sept 15th must be taken. Employees eligible for vacations shall be notified of theii vacation periods as far in advance as possible.
AKTICLK 10 HAl'KTY AND HEALTH
10.01	The Company shall continue. Its practice, of making reasonable provision fur safety and health of its employees during the hours of t.ho.ir employment. The. Union agrees to co-operate with Management: concerning health and safety of its employees.
10.02	No employee shall continue Lo refuse? to use or operate any machine,
device or thing or to work iri the work place after the employer has, pursuant to Section 3 (1) investigated the report in the presence, of the employee and the department, steward, if available, where? the Company either disputes the report or Lakes steps to make tin? machine, device? or thing or the place safe, or comply as per Safety Legislation , as amended from time to Lime. This Article?
13.02	is made? pursuant to Section 3	(e) of the Act respecting
Employee's Health and Safety iiud all references contained herein arc; made pursuant to such StatuLe.
in.O I	A joint health and safety committee shall he constituted of an
equal number of representatives of management, and of the Union which shall identify potential danger, institute means of improving he.; a 1th and safety of employees, including health and safety programs. The committee shal l, meet at least once a month. Time spent on such meetings is to be considered time worked. Miimt.es shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employc?r and the Union.
Ui.04	The Company will (insure? that all its foremen and supervisors will
co-operate fully with the safety committee in compliance? with provincial regulations to investigate accidents.
13.03	The joint health and safety committee and the representatives
thereof shall have full access to accident, reports and other health and safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports, and data provided to and by Worker’s Compensation Unanl and the government or its agencies.
17
ARTICLE 19 WELEARE
19.01	Tho Company ayruos to pay on behalf of each seniority employee,
one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of the Group Insurance Plan providing the following coverage:
(a)	Life Insurance:	all employees will he covered for one (1)
times their annual income 1:0 a maximum oi $40,000.00;
(b)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment :	$40,000.00 maximum per
employee;
Refer to the Benefits Booklet for you entitlement.
(e) Long-Term Disability:	seventy per cent (70%) of an employee's
monthly income to a maximum of $1,500.00. The non-evidence maximum is $1,500.00. Such payment shall he with respect to sickness or accident not covered by Worker 's Compensation and shall be payable after one hundred and twenty (120) days or disability from sickness or accident and will continue to ago sixty-five (65) car prior to recovery.
(d) Major Medical Plan, Including Drugs:	$10,000.00 per employee.
19 .0?
19.03
19.04
19.06
'Plie Company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee, one hundred per cent (100%)of the cost of a Weekly Indemnity Plan on the basis of 1-3-13, providing for boneiits equalling sixty-six and two thirds per cent (66 2/3%) of earnings, subject to the fol lowing:
(i) to assist in defraying some oi the costs ol the implementation of this plan, the Company will be entitled Lo the; entire twelve-twelfths (12/1?.) applicable rebate and/or premium reduction on Unemployment Insurance Commission payments which might accrue as a result of the implementation of the vaiions benefits covered by this Collective Agreement.
The Company agrees to pay on behalf oi each seniority employee one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of the Employer Health Tax.
Notwithstanding anything lo the contrary cant lined in this Agreement or m the Group Insurance Plan, such benefits and plans are necessarily qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contractors of insurance. The terms oi any contract issued in respect hereof by any insurance agency or governmental agencies shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees tor benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent Of benefits and conditions.
Dental Plan - The Company agrees to keep in effect a Dental Plan equal bo Blue Cross No. 7 with Lhe full cost paid by tho Company.
Benefits - Dental effective January 1, 1994 current, fee schedule (1992) .
10
Dental effective January 1, 199!) current fee schedule (1993). Dental effective January 1995 current foe schedule (1994).
19.06	Pension Plan -• The Pension Plan i iis l i lu ted in 1982 will continue
on. As of January 1,	1994 the company will contributo $18 per
week on hehnLf of all members of the pension fund. The employees in the pension fund will be enquired to match the $18 weekly contribution but will be allowed an excess weekly e.outr(butinn up to Lheir legal maximum pur year as determined by Kovonue Canada. The* Company and the? employee’s contribution into the Pension Plan will not be affected by increases or decreases in the. Canada Pension Plan.
19.07	Vision Carr* - Upon presentation oi a receipt for eye glasses or coni act 1 onset; the Company will pay up to a maximum of $200.00 in any two year period per family. Fnmi 1 y is defined as on the registered TD1. Form.
19.08	The employer agrees that when an insurer carrying plans referred to in this Article 19 is changed, any new plan l hereby established shall provide equivalent, or superior coverage to the previous Plan.
19.09	po grievance may be processed in support: of a claim or dispute in respect of the (Jioup (nsurnnee Plan and the decision of the insurer or' govei rnuental agency involved will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon the employee affected thereby.
19.10	If rin employee is on leave for Workers1 Compensation, bong 'form Disability, Maternity, Compassionate Leave, etc. it is the workers’ responsibility to contact, his supervisor at regular intervals to keep him advised of his illness and his expected date of return Lo wort:.
AKT I Clip: 20 WAC.ftS
20.01	A! tached to and forming part ol this Collective Agreement is Schedule "A" Wages and Classifications. An agreed on January 7, 1981, in the event that a now job classification or a flat rata; t.i ip is infrocUicc.d into the plant, the; Company will establish and put into effeef a new classification and a rate covering the job lu quest ion arid notify the. Chief Steward of the Local Union. If the Union requests management, to negotiate the rate and they arc; unable Li) agree on a classification rate for tire new job tile disputed rate aiul/nr classification may be treated ns a grievance.
20.02	An employee who is displaced from his job as a result of Leehnologi.cn] changes shall have an opportunity to fill any vacancy for which lie has seniority and which he is able to perform and if there is no vacancy shall have the. right to displace, employees with less semiority provided he j.s able to perform the job.
AKTLCLi: 21 CLOTHING
21.01	Tire. Company will supply laundered outer work clothing, oilskins,
aprons and maintenance coveralls to employees. Such apparel remains tiles property of the Company and must be returned for new
21.07
21.03
21.04
ART I Cl.)-22.01 22.02
22.03
22.04
22. Of) 22.06
22.07
issue, or upon separat i.on oi the employee.
The Company shall furnish all knives, .stools, wet-stones, meat trimmer hooks, scabbards, mesh gloves, which are necessary for the work of tho employees using them subject to the establishment ol regulations to prevent abuse. Such tools remain the property of the Company. When employees are requesting a new knife or similar tool referred to herein, the worn or broken tool must bo turned m al the time of replacement. Further, if the incidents or type of wear or breakage indicates unreasonable or allusive use Of the equipment, the employee may, at the option of the Company, be required Lo pay for the replacement item.
The Company wi 11 reimburse up to $200.00 pen year for tools subject lo presentation of broken or new tools and receipts for purchases of same.
'Clic Company will pay each employee on the payroll on January 1 and July 1 of each year the mount of $90.00 each time for the purpose of obtaining safety footwear.
22 TRUCK DRIVERS
The normal week for truck drivers shall be a forty (40) hour week.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-huff (1	1/2) of the truck
driver's straight time rate of pay calculated on an hourly basis, shall be paid for all hours worked in an excess of ten (10) in a day oi forty (40) in a week.
The Company shall continue its existing practice with respect to room and board for truck drivers on overnight runs. The company will supply each driver with a wallet credit card.
The Company will provide io truck drivers a tori dollar ($10.00) meal allowance after ten (10) consecutive hours in a clay and for an additional 2 hours the Company will supply ii $10.00 meal allowance.
The Company shall endeavour ai: all times to ai-range runs on the basis of the stated preference of seniority drivers, having due regard io the efficient operation of the Company.
Any driver who is on e long haul out of town and is paid a flat rate will be paid hourly rate after 4 hours waiting time which includes driving breakdown and unloading Lime.
The company agrees to allow up Lo 2 drivers to take vacation during prime time.
20
MAINTENANCE
article: 23
23.01
MAINTENANCE :	fully qualified with provincial certificate as
follows for the following positions:
1994	- $17.65
1995	- $18.05
1996	- $18.55
Electrician fully qualified with provincial certificate
Maintenance (Millwright) welder) Plumber fully qualified with provincial certificate
Refrigeration Operator - flully qualified with provincial certificate
Truck Mechanic - fully qua l L f iliid with provincial certificate Maintenance Mechanic ~ without certificate a8 follows:
1994	- $16.75
1995	- $17.15
1996	- $17.65
1.	Ail other employees working \n the maintenance department will be Red Circle.
2.	New employees hired in the Maintenance Department will have the proper provincial certificate.
3.	The starting x'ate tor new employees in the Maintenance Department will he $1.00 below the job rate for the first 6 months, After 1 year's service, the job rate will be paid.
A. The company and the union will establish on Apprenticeship system under the. guide] i rren; of the Government Training branch.
5. The hours of work loi the? l e £ r Lge: a t i on operators will be outlined in a Letter of Understanding which will bo part of this Collective Agreement,
23 .01	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
Tile company and the union will establish an Apprentice and Refrigeration Training Program. Any opening will bo posted on the plant bulletin boards.
1.	Employees who are interested end have Grade 12 education, may apply.
2.	The employee with the most seniority and the proper education will be asked to write an entrance test at an established College or Trades School.
3.	Tho employee who passes Idle test will be enrolled in the
21
program as outlined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Skills Training Division.
The apprentice is expected to attend proper night classes or full- time day classes at a College.
If the apprentice attends day classes he will apply tor U.I.C. and the company will make up the difference of his wages.
Employees who qualify toi the program will lie paid ils outlined m the Apprenticeship contract hut no employee will have tu take reduction in wages.
Employees who do not fulfil their obligation under theii apprenticeship contract will be transferred back into the plant operation.
Tlie union will be informed of all apprentices put into the program and will he the co-signer oi any arrangement.
It the company cannot rind a qualified employee in the plant, it lias the right to recruit from any other source.
ARTICLE 7A
DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective on the first day of January 1, 1994 arid remain in full force and effect and shall not be re-openable save and except otherwise expressly provided, until the 3lBt day of December 1996 and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual period:!, of throe (3) years each, unless either party notifies the other in writing as provided in Article
24.02	hereof of its desire to negotiate amendments to this Agreement.
Notice that amendments arc required shal I only be given during Lhe period of not more than three (3) months and not less than one (1) month prior to the 31st day of December", 3.996 or similar annual periods thereafter. If notice of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either party in accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to moot for the purpose of negotiations.
DATED AT GUELPH, THIS 24 day OF February_ BETTER BEEF LIMITED
19_94_.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION, 18J_A.F. L. t _C. I .0. , C.L.C.
OH BEHALF OF. ITS LOCAL 6J71'
For the Company Benny DeJonge lorno Goldstein Steve Szulxi
For the Union
Todd Klime/.uk Steve Devine Brian Reid Julius I loch ink Nelson Howard G.W. Myers
SCHKDUI.K A WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
WAGES
All wages will be increased as .Hollows
Year 1 - .40 Year 2 - .40 Year 3 - .SO
Category:
Year 1
Year 2	Year 3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
17.40	17.80	Ifl.30
16.75	17.15	17.65
16.10	16.50	17,00
14.55	14.95	15.45
13.50	13.90	14.40
12.40	12.80	13.30
11.40	11.00	12.30
START
10.40	10,00	11,30
STUDENTS	7,40	7,90	0,30
All new employees will start al $10,40 per hour and will reach their appropriate category rate evenly over the next 24 months.
All current employees whose wagen are affected as a result of the 1991 - 1993 Collective Agreement will be red circled for the term of this agreement unless they voluntarily accept another job.
Students
Students employed for the school vacation period (May 15th to Sept 15th) are not considered full time employees and will have to re-apply after. Sept 15th for full time status.
Truck Drivers
Year
Year 2 Year 3
1ractor	$663.00
Tandera	$663.00
Standard	$636,00
3 month
probationary $600 ,00
$679.00 $679 . 00 $652,00
$616.00
$699.00 $699,00 $672.00
$636,00
The drop rate for trips in Quebec will be raised from $25,00
to $30.00
23
CANADA
F1 at_ RatGs 1993-1994
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
Amos, Qua.
Deberfc, N.S, Edmunston, N.B.
Fredericton N.B. Halifax, N.S. Moncton, N.B. Montreal
North Bay Peddle
Ottawa
Perth N.B.
Quebec City
S t. Andrews. N,B,
Sudbury
Trois Riviere Que.
$397.00
820.00
575.00
701.00
872.00
367.00
347.00
629.00
452.00
800.00
308.00
397.00
$406.00
840.00
589.00
718.00
893.00
376.00
355.00
644.00
463.00
819.00
315.00
406.00
$418.00
865.00
606.00
739.00
919.00
387.00
365.00
663.00
477.00
843.00
324.00
418.00
USA
Year__l Year _2 Year 1
Albany, New York Boston, MA Chicago IL Cincinnati, OH Columbus, OH Devault, PA Dixon, IL
Frankford, New York Green Bay, WI Harrlston, PA Hartford, CT Hazeltoo, PA Jersey City Lebanon, PA Manchester, NH New York City Pensauken. NO Philadelphia, PA Scranton, PA Versailles, OH Warren Michigan Detroit Washington, DC Wisconsin (Butler)
$431.00
475.00
454.00
454.00
429.00
454.00
474.00
407.00
554.00
429.00
454.00
454.00
454.00
454.00
496.00
454.00
454.00
454.00
429.00
429.00
255.00
454.00
474.00
$441.00
486.00
465.00
465.00
439.00
465.00
486.00
417.00
567.00
439.00
465.00
465.00
465.00
465.00
508.00
465.00
465.00
465.00
439.00
439.00
261.00
465.00
485.00
$454.00
501.00
479.00
479.00
452.00
479.00
500.00
429.00
584.00
452.00
479.00
479.00
479.00
479.00
523.00
479.00
479.00
479.00
452.00
452.00
269.00
479.00
499.00
$30,00 per extra drop
The company will pay drivers who are paid a flat rate per trip to the province of Quebec, an additional $30,00 for each extra delivery above their flat rate
CLASS IFICATIONS
HAMBURGER ROOM PATTY ROOM STEAJ<_HOOM, ROAST_ BEEF Class 1
Class ?	Formulator
Class 3	K-Puck operator, formax operator
Class 4	Roast beef, AEW automatic saw
Class 3	Trim steaks, weigh steaks or fresh vac-pac moats
Class A	[,oa<l chiller, operate vat dumper hi grinder: finished box handler
Class 7	Make boxes, label boxes, loud boxes, strap boxes, load roll stock machine, operate press general
CUTTING DEPARTMENT
Class 1	Large Jones saw, break primals
Class 3	Pull tenderloin, bone butts, pull tips, bone ribs, bone necks, blades, pull clods, drop full rounds
Class 3	Diamond cut hinds, small saw, trim tenders, bone strips, trim strips and shortloin, trim butts, bone aich bone, split hips, pull hoel and trim outside, roast beef, bone and trim shoulders, bone x-rib and short rib, trim ehx rolls, bone points, final trim on point
Cia:;:; 4	Put sides on rail, drop fronts, combo cuts, trim flapmeat, trim flank steak, hone U ti im steak tail, bone hind L front shank, peel tips, banc W trim flank, bone braising rib, trim fat caps hi cap meat, trim clods, trim chx flats, trim chx short rib, rough trim points, trim trim
Class f>	Check trim fronts and hinds, hang hips, trim skirts. trim pectoral, trim heels, core sample
Class G	Transfer onto boning lines, pick bones, cut bones, core sample helper
Class 7	Jan j. tor
SANITATION Class 1
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 1	Set up
Class 4	
2 5
Class 5
Class 6 Class 7	Sani 1 at ion
SUNDRY Class 1 Class 2 Class 3	Receivoi dry goods
Class 4	Wash wheels kill, receiver dry goods helper
Class 5	Laundry room, soap & towel dispensers, wheels to wheel room, shaker plant, truck wash,
Class 6	Yard man
GLOBAL Class 1 Class 2 Class 3	Lead hand
Class 4	Saw
Class 5 Class	Firii shed produet
Class 7	
MDD Class 1 Class 2	
Class 3 Class 4 Class 5	Machine operator
Class 6 Class 7	Filling boxes, putting them in the freezer
26
KILL FLOOR Class 1 F Class 2
1 eg, second 1 eg
Skin flanks, open up fronts, skin splitting saw, sticking
eks & shanks,
/ i scerat. ing,
Hide pullers, cut off tail and fat, weigh scale, bone heads, clean heads/jaws, save hearts etc., run intestines, open fronts, skin f routs
Knocking, cut hung/cut tail, brisket saw, push \ heads, drop kidney fat, pull .jaws, save edible fat,
jasands, drop shack 1ing
tie weasands/help heads, drop drop bungs, nock trim/windpipes,
Cul horns/oars, lips, cut feet, jowls/tonyue , drop cheeks/tongues, trim hoads/save tongue
Gallic; chaser (outside &. inside), transfer first leg, transfer second leg, front trim, hip trim, front shank trim, hind trim, loin trim, tail trim, whizknifo channel fat, railing cattle in the cooler, operate tripe wash machines, mountain chain, cut scalps, weasand meat and pancreas and other glands, save animal food, save omasum and hang tripe, open paunch, cut scalps, trim omasum, save intestine, trim fat from tripe, work seacum.
Put on plastic, wash heads, hind wash, front: wash, shrouding, save animal food, save intestines, clean floor, large intestines.
FANCY MEATS, INTESTINES AND FOOTROOM Class 1 Class Class Class Class Class
Loud hand Sealing
Trim /cmgues, eheekmeat, hanging tenders, trim hearts, tails Skin and de-vein livers
Operate Strichlei machine and small saw, strap and load boxes on skid, vac pac product, fresh livers, hearts, hanging tenders, tongues, eheekmeat, lips, feel., tails
All work in intestine room except Striehler machine, all work in footroom except small saw; wrapping Longues, packing spinal cords, sweetbreads, animal food, make boxes and general labour
packing
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
Lead Hand
Scale full boxes, scale and handle full combo's, keep goer
Class 4
Class 5 Class U Class 7
Vac pac operator, box makos operator, box closer operator, cryovac operator
box loading, box labelling, box handling, moving skids Trim lino, transfer, bagging, boneguarding,
Clean up
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT Class 1
Class 2 Dispatch peddle, inventory control fresh, lead hand, inventory control frozen, finished dispatch (warehouse)
Class 3 Night inventory fresh/scale man, export person, freezer person
Class 4
Class 5 Box handler, swinging beer Class 6
COOLER Class 2 Class 5 Class 6
Lead hand Saw rattle
Shrouds, rolling beef, move beef in sales cooler, take beef out. hang beef