QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LTD.
TORONTO, ONTARIO
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
Effective:
November 1, 1991 to October 31, 1994
INDEX
Article Page
Bereavement...................... 14.8
Clothing Change.................. 14.6
Court Appearance................. 14.14
Duration......................... 21
Grievances....................... 7
Health & Safety.................. 15
Health & Welfare	Plan.......... 18.1
Holidays......................... 11
Hours of Work &	Overtime...... 10
Injury Shift Guarantee........... 14.9
Job Posting...................... 20
Labour Management Committee...... 16
Laundry Service.................. 14.1
Leave of Absence................. 14.2
Letters of Intent................ _
Management Rights................ 4
Meal Allowance................... 14.11
Miscellaneous.................... 14
Night Premium.................... 9
No Discrimination................ 5
No Strikes & Lockouts............ 6
Object........................... 2
Pregnancy Leave.................. 14.13
Recognition...................... 1
Remembrance Day.................. 14.15
Rest Periods..................... 14.7
Schedule “A”..................... 18.1	29,
Seniority........................ 12
^ ^ to to to	tO tO	CO to to to
INDEX (Continued)
	Article Page	
Sharpening Tools		14.5	24
Supplies (Clothing & Safety Boots).	14.10	25
Tool Allowance		14.12	27
Union Notices		17	29
Union Security		3	3
Vacations		13	20
Wages		8	10
Weekly Pay Guarantee		19	30
APPENDIX “A”
Toronto Abattoir Ltd.
The following changes or additions apply when interrupting this agreement for the members of the union employed at Toronto Abbattoir Ltd.
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.1	addition It is understood that laundry room em-
ployees are included in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 7 - SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
7.2	change The union agrees to appoint or elect a
maximum of seven (7) stewards.
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY
12.1	addition The seniority of employees of the previ-
ous company shall date from October 1, 1960.
ARTICLE 16 - LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
16.1	change The parties will establish a labour
management committee consisting of representatives from both parties. Once established the committee will determine its own agenda and procedure of operation.
ARTICLE 17 - UNION NOTICES
17.1	change The company will provide the union with a bulletin board.
Any disagreement between the parties because cf these changes or additions, the signed collective agreement expiring October 31, 1994 will be used to settle the disagreement.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Entered into as of the 14th day of December, 1991 between
QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LTD., TORONTO, ONTARIO
(hereinafter called “the Company”)
— and —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following agreement:
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
*1.1 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all employees of the Company in Metropolitan Toronto (including Scarborough, Mississauga and Brampton), save and
- 1 -
except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff, stationary engineers and persons primarily engaged as their helpers in the Boiler Room. For the sake of clarity, it is understood that maintenance employees are included except employees who may maintain and operateair and refrigeration compressors (snow man).
1.2	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
(i)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or employees on a new job, or instructing employees.
(ii)	For the purpose of taking an employee’s place temporarily in such cases as failure to show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reasons, is temporarily absent from thejob, or to help relieve a back log, or unexpected emergent scheduling conditions.
It is further understood that foremen with a unit of ten people or less will be able to perform the same work that is performed by the people in the unit.
Non-union personnel may also be permitted to do the same work as the bargaining unit for a period of three months, provided that time is used to train personnel to become supervisors.
Foreman will not work on overtime unless an employee scheduled to work on overtime does not report.
1.3	The use of the masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
- 2 -
ARTICLE 2 - OBJECTS
2.1	The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment; and to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.1	Payment of Dues
The Company agrees to deduct from each employee’s pay on each pay day, and in the case of new employees beginning with their fourth (4th) week’s pay the regular Union dues, and will transmit the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of each month.
3.2	Assessments
Special assessments if levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
3.3	Initiation Fee
The Company agrees that upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed membership card it will deduct from the wages of employeesjoining the Union after ratification of this agreement the initiation fee due from him to the Local Union on the first pay
— 3 —
day of the following calendar month, and shall remit the same to the Financial Secretary cf the Local Union on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the calendar month.
3.4	Membership
The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this agreement was a member in good standing shall maintain such membership.
Employees hired on or subsequent to the date of the signing of this agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union within sixty (60) days following the date of their employment, and shall thereafter maintain membership in the Union in good standing. The Company shall procure from such new employees the necessary membership application, and membership in the Union shall be granted within the above mentioned sixty-day period.
For the purpose of this agreement, employees who are or who become members shall be deemed to maintain their membership in the Union in good standing provided they pay in accordance with the provisions cf this agreement the regularly prescribed initiation fee, regular monthly dues, and periodic assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
ARTICI I 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the
— 4 —
employment, direction, promotion, transfer, la^-cffof employees, and suspension or discharge cf employees forjust cause, shall be vested in the management of the Company.
4.2	The Union acknowledgesthat it is the exclusive function of the Company also to establish reasonable plant rules not inconsistent wiili the provisions cf this agreement to govern the conduct of tie employees. The Union will be consulted and informed cf the issuance of such rules,
4.3	The Union also acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to determine the products to be handled, produced or manufactured, schedules of production, and the methods, processes and means at production or handling.
ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION
5.1	It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Union or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity or lack of activity, membership or non-membership in the Union, or due to any political affiliation, race, colour, or religion. It is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation for members, collection of dues, or other Union activity during working hours except as permitted by this agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Ccnpany,
5
nor shall any of its activities be so held at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 6 - NO STRIKES AND
NO LOCKOUTS
6.1	In view of the orderly procedure herein set out for the settlement of grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or refusal to work or continue to work by employees, in combination or in concert, or in accordance with a common understanding, or a slow-down or other concerted activity on the part of employees designed to restrict or limit output.
ARTICLE 7 - SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
7.1	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot.
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a maximum of sixteen (16) Stewards as follows:
Quality Meat Milliken
Mississauga
10
3
3
The Company agrees to recognize such Stewards, provided they are regular employees of the Company, to deal with matters affecting employees in this plant.
6
A list cf these Stewards will be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union, in writing, of any change in this list.
7.3	(a) The Union also agrees to appoint or elect a grievance committee of not more than three (3) regular employees of the Company to deal with questions which may not be decided in Steps (a) or (b) described in Clause 7.4 below. A list of grievance committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately in writing of any change in this list.
(b) The Company will pay members of the grievance committee at their regular rate for time spent in meetings of the grievance committee with management representatives. This payment shall be limited to twenty-four (24) hours of grievance committee meetings per year.
7.4	Alleged grievances shall be dealt with progressively in the following manner:
(a)	Between the aggrieved employee and the foreman. The employee may be accompanied by his Steward if he so desires. If the grievance affects the rate of pay of an employee, the Steward shall be informed. The foreman on rates of pay grievances shall be allowed three (3) working days to answer such a grievance.
(b)	Between the Steward or the Chief Steward and/or the Union President and the Plant Superintendent and one other member of his staff. If the grievance is not settled at this stage there may be a request
— 7 -
from either party to hold a next-step meeting. After such request the meeting should be held within three (3) days, and if either party requests an extension of time it shall be granted.
(c) Between the grievance committee and the Manager or his designated representative and other representatives of the management as required by the Company. A National Representative of the Union may be called in if desired by either party. Grievances presented at this stage shall be in writing. The aggrieved employee or employees and the foreman may be present during the above three steps if so desired by the Company.
7.5	If settlement is not reached by the above procedure, the grievance shall be referred by the Union or by the Company to an arbitration committee of three members; one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company, and a third, who shall act as chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. Upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee. If it fails to do so within the two (2) weeks, its nominee will be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for Ontario.
A decision of a majority of the arbitrationcommittee shall be deemed to be a decision of the committee. In reaching its decision the committee shall be governed by the provisions of this agreement. Decisions rendered
- 8 -
by the arbitration committee shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned. The Company and the Union agree each to bear an equal share of expenses incurred by reason of the employment of a third member of an arbitration committee.
7.6	If either the Company or the Union alleges violation of the agreement through action of the officials of either, the grievance may be dealt with through the grievance procedure established by this article beginning with sub-section (c) of Clause 7.4.
7.7	When a grievance which affects the rate of pay of an employee is settled, and as a result of such settlement the employee receives an increase in his rate, the increase shall be paid retroactively to the date on which the complaint was first submitted to the Company in writing or, if an error, the date on which the error occurred. This retroactivity, however, shall be limited to ninety (90) calendar days.
7.8	If an employee is dismissed or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall promptly notify a member of the grievance committee who shall, within three (3) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal or suspension by the aggrieved employee, notify the Manager in writing, stating the ground of objection to the dismissal or suspension. The dismissal or suspension shall then constitute a grievance, and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure set out above beginning with sub-section (c) of Clause 7.4. If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed or
- 9 -
suspended, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation as may be deemed fair in the circumstances. To ensure prompt handling of any such grievance, except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, not more than five (5) working days shall be allowed for consideration under each successive step until the matter is brought to arbitration.
A Steward or Union representative, when available, will be present when an employee receives a written warning or his suspended or discharged.
The Company will notify the Steward, or his designated representative, within one (1) working day if a regular employee is discharged or suspended.
If requested by an employee and with reasonable notice, an employee will be allowed to see his/her file.
7.9	A Union Steward may discuss with the foreman direct matters which may affect the welfare of the department as a whole even though at the time same may not constitute a grievance.
7.10	The Company will provide an enclosed area for the Union filing cabinet.
ARTICLE 8 - WAGES
*8.1 Employees, other than A and B Mechanics, may be hired at a rate equal to 75 % below the rate of the group to which they are assigned. Thereafter, they will be given an increase equal to 80 % of the assigned rate
- 10 -
at six (6) months, 85 % of the assigned rate at twelve (12) months, 90% of the assigned rate at sixteen (16) months, 95% of the assigned rate at twenty (20) months and receive the rate of the group assigned after twenty-four (24) months; A and B Mechanics may be hired at a rate of $1.00 per hour below the rate of the group to which they are assigned. Upon completion of their probationary period, they will be paid the rate of the group assigned.
Effective November 1, 1991 on the completion of twenty-four (24) months service the minimum wage rate shall be $15.56 per hour.
Effective November 1, 1992 on the completion of twenty-four (24) months service the minimum wage rate shall be $16.16 per hour.
Effective November 1, 1993 on the completion of twenty-four (24) months service the minimum wage rate shall be $16.76 per hour.
NOTE: Employees with less than twenty-four (24) months of service as of November 1, 1991 and on any November 1st thereafter, will only receive a percentage of the above-mentioned wage increases as outlined in Article 8.1.
8.2	Employees permanently or temporarily transferred for five (5) days or more to a job on a higher group shall be paid the rate of the new group.
8.3	Employees transferred to a lower group shall be paid the rate of the new group.
- 11 -
8.4	All red circle rated employees shall retain such rates until voluntarily transferred to a higher or lower group.
8.5	All employees will be classified in accordance with the agreed “Classification Schedule” and shall be paid in accordance with the “Wage Schedule”.
Schedule “B” hereto headed “Classification Schedule” and “Wage Schedule” is hereby made a part of this agreement.
8.6	Employees’ pay cheques will be provided in envelopes, unless an emergency condition exists.
*8.7 If the Consumer Price Index (Canada - All Items - 1981 = 100) published on or about October 14, 1993 exceeds the index published on or about October 14, 1992 by more than five percent (5%), then effective November 1, 1993 the base rate will be increased by a cost-of-living allowance equal to one cent (1C) for each full two points (.2) of such excess.
ARTICLE 9 - NIGHT PREMIUM
*9.1 Effective as of the date of ratification the Company agrees to pay a premium of forty-five cents (45C) per hour to all employees working on a second or third shift. This premium shall not be considered as part of such employee’s basic rate. Effective November 1, 1993 the above premium will be increased to fifty cents (50C) per hour.
12
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.1	(a) The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours, five (5) days at eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday. The normal production schedule shall be Monday through Friday. It is understood, however, the foregoing does not prohibit the Company from constructing a five-day work week commencing on a day other than Monday.
(b)	The normal daily hours of work shall be scheduled ty the Company and posted, except that normal day shifts shall not commence earlier than 6:00 a.m. and finish not later than 5:00 p.m.
10.2	(a) If an employee reports to work at his regularly scheduled time and there is no work available for him on his regularjob, he will be given four (4) hours’ work at some other job or four (4) hours’ pay at his applicable hourly rate unless he has received previous notification not to report for work. This clause will not apply if work is not available as a result of causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
(b) An employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, is called to return to the Plant for an emergency shall be paid for a minimum of four (4)hours at his regular rate.
10.3	(a) Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the employee’s hourly rate.
13
(b)	Work performed on Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the employee’s hourly rate.
(c)	Work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of double the employee’s hourly rate.
(d)	Employees who normally work on Saturday and/or Sunday shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on their sixth shifts, and double the employee’s regular rate for all work on their seventh shifts.
(e)	When by reason of a late start it is necessary to work beyond the normal quitting time, the Company agrees to pay time and one-half for all work performed beyond 5:00 p.m. even though the employee may not have worked eight (8) hours; this benefit will not apply on Mondays or in cases of severe snow storms.
The Company similarly agrees to pay to an hourlyrated employee one and one-half times his regular rate for all work performed prior to 6:00 a.m.
10.4	The Company will give, if practical, twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of a change in a regular scheduled shift.
10.5	The lunch period shall be one (1) hour, and any time worked during this hour will be paid for on the basis of one and one-half times the regular rate. Such work shall be scheduled only in emergencies.
10.6* Notice of overtime to be given before lunch break.
— 14 —
Employees desiring to leave at the normal quitting time shall request the foreman no later than 10:00 a.m. of the day on which they desire not to work overtime. Such permission shall be granted if reasonable excuses are given.
10.7	Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among those employees normally performing the work.
10.8	If by necessity an hourly-rated employee is required to work in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
ARTICLE 11 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
11.1	The Company agrees to pay all employees for eight (8) hours at Their regular rate of pay for each of the nine (9) holidays listed below regardless of the day on which they fall. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday:
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday
In addition to the foregoing, two (2) floater holidays will be granted. However, these floating holidays will not apply to any employee during the first year of that employee’s employment. The date of observance of these holidays will be determined by mutual agreement
15 -
between the parties. It is understood that no floating holiday will be allowed during the month of December of each year and employees who do not take their floating holidays shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at their regular rate for each holiday not taken.
11.2	In the event that the Government declares Heritage Day to be a statutory holiday, then it will replace one of the two floating holidays. The granting of such holiday with pay will be subject to the same conditions which govern the pay of other holidays.
11.3	An employee shall not be eligible for pay for such holidays if he:
(a)	was hired less than four (4) weeks prior to the holiday;
(b)	is absent on the work days immediately preceding or next following any holiday. However, if an employee has taken absent due to certified illness or injury, or with the permission of the Company, or for good cause due to circumstances beyond his control, on either or both of the work days immediately preceding or next followingthe holiday, he shall be considered eligible for pay for such holiday.
(c)	is on a leave of absence after the third week.
11.4	An employee who is receiving W.C.B. or Weekly Indemnity benefits during the period when a plant holiday falls shall receive only the amount of pay by which the pay for the holiday exceeds such Weekly Indemnity benefit or W.C.B. payment for that day.
- 16 -
11.5	If hourly -rated employees do perform work on any of the nine (9) plant holidays listed above, they shall receive, if eligible, holiday pay, and shall, in addition, be paid two (2) times their regular rates for all hours worked on such days.
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12.1	New employees will be considered probationary employees for the first sixty (60) days worked of their employment and during their probationary period such employees, who will be entitled to no seniority, may be dismissed or laid off at the discretion of the Company. At the end of the probationary period the employee will be entered on the seniority list as of the date of original hiring. Employees laid off during their probationary period who are recalled within thirty (30) calendar days, will retain their original hiring date. If recalled after thirty (30) calendar days, they will start back as a new employee.
12.2	Promotions will be made on the basis of ability. When two or more employees are considered by the Company to possess sufficient ability, then seniority will be the governing factor, and the Company will not exercise its discretion in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
12.3	Seniority records will be posted on the bulletin board and revised each six (6) months. A copy of the seniority list shall be given to the Local Union President. Effective November 4, 1986, if more than one
— 1/ —
employee is hired on the same day, their names shall be placed on the seniority list in alphabetical order using their surnames.
12.4	Seniority service records shall be considered broken when an employee voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, or is discharged for cause, or has been out of employment with the Company for one (1)year or longer, or is absent without notifying the Company for more than two (2) working days, unless excused ty the Company.
12.5	In the event of a lay-off due to lack of work, the Company will endeavour to give the employees affected five (5) days’ notice. The President of the Local Union will also be given notice of lay-offs.
12.6	On reducing the working forces, seniority shall govern. An employee who is laid off in his own department will be assigned to anotherjob, due consideration being given to skill, experience, and the time required to learn the job.
12.7	Recall from lay-offs shall be based on seniority; the last hired shall be the first laid off and the last to be laid off shall be the first to be recalled, due consideration being given to skill, experience, and the time required to learn the job.
12.8	In the event of a temporary interruption of work schedules, the Company will make every reasonable attempt to equalize the work available among employees who are currently performing the same kind of work but it is understood that this equalization of
- 18 -
work will not be applied where special skills and experience are required, nor shall it apply in the case of part shifts. It is understood that in its attempt to equalize the available work the Company will not be bound by Clause 12.6 above.
12.9	Any employee who has been notified by registered letter at his last known address to return to work and within three (3) days has failed to do so, or failed to contact the office, shall be considered to have quit his employment voluntarily and his seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is sent to any employee by registered letter, a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union Committee.
12.10	One employee, who may be elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union, upon proper notice to be agreed upon by management, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed the life of this agreement. Upon one week’s notice of his desire to again return to work for the Company, he shall be placed on his job previously held, or one of equal pay, without loss of seniority, provided he is physically fit and capable of performing the work. Leave of absence under this clause will be granted by management in writing.
12.11	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, he shall not lose his seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his absence, or to one of equal rating, provided he is capable of performing former duties. In the case of
- 19 -
such absence it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reasons for absence and how long he expects his absence will last.
12.12	Where an employee within the bargaining unit accepts a position outside the unit, plant seniority shall be maintained for nine months, at which time it will be determined by the Company if he or she is to return to the bargaining unit. It is understood that this clause applies only to personnel hired by the Company after March 1, 1983. An employee transferred to the bargaining unit who was hired prior to March 1, 1983 will retain his or her full seniority. Company employees who have never been part of the bargaining unit can only be transferred into the bargaining unit as a new employee.
12.13	Shift preference for the same work will be determined by seniority except for the starting up of a new line where training is required. In this case, exceptions to the seniority privilege will apply for six (6) weeks unless determined otherwise by the parties. An employee must work in the department for three (3) consecutive months before he/she can exercise his/her right under this clause, also, the employee must have worked the consecutive previous three (3) months on the shift that he/she desires to leave.
ARTICLE 13 - VACATIONS
13.1	Vacations will be based on service with the Company computed to July 1st in the year in which the vacation is to be taken.
- 20 -
13.2	All employees on the Company’s payroll for a period of less than twelve (12) months prior to July 1st in any year shall be entitled to vacation pay at the rate of 4% of such employee’s earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately prececing July 1st in that year in accordance with the Employment Standards Act, 1968, as amended.
13.3	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have one (1) year or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to two (2) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 4% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.4	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have five (5) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 6% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.5	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have ten (10) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to four (4) week’s vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 8% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.6* Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have nineteen (19) years or more
- 21 -
of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to five (5) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 10% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year. Effective July 1, 1994 the above mentioned nineteen (19) years changes to eighteen (18) years.
13.7	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have twenty-five (25) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to six (6) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 12% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.8	Total earnings shall include regular pay, overtime pay, night shift premium and vacation pay, but exclude Workers’ Compensation payments.
13.9	An employee who is discharged or quits without notice shall receive, with his last pay before leaving the plant, vacation allowance in accordance with the Provincial Government regulations with respect to the Employment Standards Act, 1968, as amended. An employee who resigns after giving one (1) week’s notice shall receive vacation pay in accordance with his qualifications, i.e., 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12%.
13.10	Vacations may be granted at any time subject to the demands of the business but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at times requested by employees, in Order of seniority all employees shall select their vacations prior to February
- 22 -
28 of each year and the department vacation list shall be posted by March 15 of each year. Holidays scheduled must be taken and cannot be cancelled.
13.11	(a)* Employees shall take their vacations in the year in which they become eligible for it. Vacations shall not be accumulated from year to year.
(b)* Employees who have not taken their vacation time off by December 1st in any calendar year will receive their vacation pay owing in the first full week of December.
13.12	If a paid plant holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, the Company will either aUcw the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay or make payment for the holiday.
ARTICLE 14 - MISCELLANEOUS
14.1	Present laundry service for employees shall be maintained.
14.2	When an employee’s personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved temporarily from Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond regular vacation to which an employee is entitled, may be granted for good and sufficient reasons.
Seniority shall accumulate during a leave of absence.
14.3	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, to try out new ventures, or to venture into business for himself.
- 23 -
14.4	Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and confirmed in writing by the Company.
14.5	The Company shall allow employees reasonable time for the sharpening of tools.
14.6	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
14.7	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each during the morning and afternoon as scheduled by the Company. Employees shall be granted an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period if scheduled to work two f2,)hours or more of overtime.
14.8	Bereavement Pay
(a)	In case of death in the immediate family, an employee who has acquired seniority will be allowed up to three (3) consecutive work days ofF without loss of pay, provided the days off are his scheduled working days and provided the employee attends the funeral.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandmother and grandfather.
(b)	A seniority employee will be allowed leave with pay for the day of the funeral of a member of the immediate family if the employee is unable to attend the funeral.
24
(c) An employee who attends the funeral of a sister-in-law or brother-in-law shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will only be made if the day of the funeral is the employee’s regular work day.
14.9 Injury Shift Guarantee
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for hours he would have worked but were necessarily lost on the day on which the accident occurred and/or up to three (3) subsequent absences within six (6) weeks of the date of the accident if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department but, if such is not possible, then by a Company Representative. Amounts received under Workers’ Compensation for such time shall be deducted from benefits due under this section.
14.10 (a) The Company will furnish employees with seniority, knives, steels, oilskins, whetstones, scabbards, aprons, rubber gloves, and rubber boots specified by the Company as required for work in accordance with the following:
(i)	New employees will be charged for the above tools but will be reimbursed after their probationary period.
(ii)	Employees must return worn or damaged tools and equipment before being supplied with replacements.
25
Failing to return such worn or damaged tools and equipment, the employee will be charged for the full replacement value.
(iii)	An employee who attempts to return another employee’s tools or equipment for replacement purposes will be subject to instant dismissal.
(b)	Launderable work clothing, gloves, hairnets and head coverings specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to the employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and, except with permission, shall not be removed from the Company’s premises and must be returned when worn out or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned will be paid for by the employee. The Company will make the necessary arrangements for the laundering of washable clothing.
*(c) Employees may purchase from where they choose, up to two pair of Safety Boots per year. The Company may share in a third pair if, in its opinion a third pair is necessary. Effective as of date of ratification the Company will reimburse employees who purchase Safety Boots to a maximum of $45.00 per pair. Effective November 1, 1992, the maximum amount will be increased to $50.00 per pair. Effective November 1, 1993 the maximum amount will be increased to $55.00 per pair. The Company will contribute $55.00 effective date of ratification; $60.00 effective November 1, 1992 and $65.00 effective November 1, 1993, twice a year towards the purchase of freezer boots to those employees classified as freezer personnel.
26
14.11* Employees who are scheduled to work overtime after working ten (10) hours or more will be provided with a meal or granted a meal allowance of $5.00.
14.12* Tool Allowance
Effective January 1, 1992 Tradesman or other skilled trades workers with one (1) or more years of seniority in the mechanical department shall receive a tool allowance as follows:
Class “A” and “B”	— $150.00 per year
Class “C”	— $ 85.00 per year
This tool allowance shall be used for the purposes of replacing broken or worn out tools, or to purchase tools that are necessary to perform the jobs to which they are assigned.
This tool allowance shall be paid in advance in the month of January; employees who leave the service of the Company before December 31 shall reimburse the Company on a pro-rated basis.
14.13	Pregnancy Leave
Requests for leave of absence because of pregnancy will be granted if accompanied by a written note from the attending physician. The leave of absence and return to work shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Ontario Ministry of Labour.
14.14	Appearance in Court
An employee summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty, or one who has been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness, shall be paid the
— 27 —
difference between what he would have earned for his scheduled hours at his paid rate and the court fee received. Employees should notify their foreman as soon as possible after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness.
The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment under this section. The employee will come to work during those regular hours that he is not required to attend court.
14.15	The Company will observe a two (2) minute silence for all employees on “Remembrance Day”.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.1	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. All such protective devices shall remain the property of the Company.
15.2	The Company and the Union will each appoint respective members to a safety committee (not more than two (2) members from each party). The committee’s function will be to assist the management in promoting safety and industrial hygiene in the plant and carrying out a reasonable accident prevention program by such means as periodic plant inspection,, etc.
ARTICLE 16 - LABOUR MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
16.1	The parties will establish a Labour Management Committee consisting of three (3) members appointed by the Company and three (3) members appointed by the Union. The Committee will meet once (1) a month during working hours. Once established, the Committee will determine its own agenda and procedure.
ARTICLE 17 - UNION NOTICES
17.1	The Company will provide the Union with a bulletin board at each of its three (3) locations. During the life of this agreement, the Company agrees to permit Union officers, who are employees of the Company, to post notices of Union meetings or of other matters of interest to Union members, provided all such notices are first approved by the Manager.
The Company will provide the Local Union President with a lock and key for the bulletin boards.
ARTICLE 18 - HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN
18.1	The Company and the Union agree to the Health and Welfare Plan as contained in Schedule “A" attached to this agreement.
29
ARTICLE 19 - WEEKLY FAY GUARANTEE
19.1	The Company guarantees to each employee with seniority pay equivalent to thirty-eight (38) hours of work ± the employee’s regular rate cf pay for each week of work. Such guarantee shall be reduced by any or all of the following:
(a)	Each hour of overtime worked shall reduce the pay guarantee at the employee’s regular rate of pay.
(b)	Statutory holiday pay during any such week will be considered as part of and included in the pay guarantee. If any such holiday is worked the pay guarantee shall be reduced by double the employee’s regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
(c)	For all time lost by the employee due to lateness or absence from work.
(d)	For refusing to perform the work assigned, in accordance with 19.2 below.
19.2	It is understood that the Company shall be free to distribute work within all departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, provided the work does not involve extreme changes in working conditions.
ARTICLE 20 - JOB POSTING
20.1* When a permanentjob vacancy occurs within a department, employees within that department shall be permitted at their request to be considered for the
- 30 -
.. . .
vacancy under the conditions outlined in the provisions of Section 12.2. When a vacancy within a department cannot be satisfactorily filled from within the department affected, the Company will post notice of vacancy throughout the plant for a period of five (5) work days and employees will be considered under the conditions outlined in the provisions of Section 12.2.
In the event that an employee is absent due to sickness, accident or vacation when a vacancy is posted, the Steward may apply on behalf of such employee so that the employee may be considered for the position, provided that he or she returns to work within a reasonable period of time. An employee on leave of absence shall be excluded from the job posting clause.
The Company will not be required to consider an employee who has been transferred as a result of the provisions of this clause within the previous six (6) months.
New employees will be excluded from the job posting clause for the first year of their employment.
Employees with less than three (3) years’ seniority with the Company can only bid for a job opening in his group or in a group of a higher pay than their own.
ARTICLE 21 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
21.1* This agreement shall be in full force and effect from November 1 1991 to and including October 31, J§2^L-and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice in writing of termination or of
— 31 -
amendment not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration.
21.2	During the period ofnegotiationsresulting from any cf the provisions above, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
"Signed this 7th day cf April, 1992.
QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LTD.
Frank A. Powell D. Schwartz S. Dutsas
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS Jordan Filpe A. Rego M. Maciel C. Bonello
32
SCHEDULE ‘‘A”
HEALTH WELFARE AND PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to pay the premium for the Health and Welfare Plan referred to in the agreement which provides the following benefits to all employees with seniority in accordance with the rules and regulations of the carrier.
Life Insurance and A.D. &. D. — $25,000 * Effective January 1, 1992 Life Insurance and A.D. & D. increases from the above mentioned $25,000.00 to $30,000.00.
Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefits (payable 1st day of accident or, if hospitalized, 4th day of illness for two weeks and from the 18th week until the 37th week inclusive):
The weekly benefit will be maintained at the U.I.C. maximum.
Note: Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefits will be claimed by the employee from the 3rd week to the 17th week inclusive.
Major Medical Plan (employee and dependants)
The Company agrees to provide a maj or medical plan with Semi-Private hospital coverage:
$10.00 per year deductible	paying 100% of
(single)	balance of eligible
$20.00 per year deductible	expenses
(family)
33
Dental Plan (employee and dependants)
*Effective January 1, 1992	— 1991 O.D.A. Schedule
*Effective November 1, 1992— 1992 O.D.A. Schedule *Effective November 1, 1993— 1993 O.D.A. Schedule
Employees will not be eligible for the Dental Plan until the first of the month following their completion of six (6) months’ service.
*The Plan will provide coverage for crowns and caps on a 50% co-insurance basis.
*Vision Care Plan (employees and dependants)
Effective January 1, 1992, $125.00 maximumper person each twenty-four (24) months.
Effective January 1, 1994, the maximum is increased to $130.00.
*L,T.D. — Maximum $1,100.00 per month.
Employees will not be eligible for the L.T.D. Plan until the completion of one year’s service.
*PENSIONPLAN — Effective date of ratification, the Company will contribute twenty-nine cents (290) per hour — maximum forty (40) hours — into the fund for those employees with two or more years’ seniority. This contribution will be increased to thirty-two cents (320) effective November 1, 1992, and thirty-five cents (350) effective November 1, 1993.
*EffectiveJanuary 1st of each year, the employees may contribute up to the maximum amount allowed under the Pension Plan.
34
LETTER OF INTENT
November 1, 1991
Mr. Charles Bonello
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
2297 St. Clair Avenue West
Toronto, Ontario
M6N 1K9
Dear Mr. Bonello:
In the event that Canada Packers declares Heritage Day as a holiday in addition to its two floating holidays during the term of its current collective agreement, then it is agreed that the Company will do likewise.
Yours truly,
S. Dutsas,
Personnel Manager
35
LETTER OF INTENT
November 1, 1991
Mr. Charles Bonello
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
2297 St. Clair Avenue West
Toronto, Ontario
M6N 1K9
Dear Mr. Bonello:
It is understood that for the purposes of interpreting Section 1.2, that when the Burger and Sausage Departments at Milliken are supervised by one foreman, then these departments will be considered as one department.
Yours truly,
S. Dutsas,
Personnel Manager
36
LETTER OF INTENT
November 1, 1991
Mr. Charles Bonello
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
2297 St. Clair Avenue West
Toronto, Ontario
M6N 1K9
Dear Mr. Bonello:
It is understood that the Company will provide the Union with a copy of the statement received from its carrier showing the deposits made for the Pension Plan on behalf of the Union members.
Yours truly,
S. Dutsas,
Personnel Manager
37
LETTER OF INTENT
November l, 1991
Mr. Charles Bonello
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
2297 St, Clair Avenue West
Toronto, Ontario
M6N 1K9
Dear Mr. Bonello:
Further to our discussions at our past set of negotiations, it is understood that temporary vacancies created as a result of absenteeism due to sickness or accident, which is expected to be at least four wedcs in duration, notice of such vacancies will be posted on the Ccnpany bulletin board. Only one subsequent vacancy will be posted as a result of the foregoing.
Upon the completion cf this process, the employees will revert to their original positions.
Yours truly,
S, Dutsas,
Personnel Manager
38