between
SHOPSY’S FOODS A Member of Maple Leaf Foods Inc. 150 Bartor Road, Weston, Ontario
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC Locals 175 and 633
Expiry Date: January 14,1997
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 ■ RECOGNITION...........
ARTICLE 2 - PREFERENCE............
ARTICLE 3 -NO STRIKE-NOLOCK-OUT---
ARTICLE 4 -UNION SECURITY.........
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
ARTICLE 6 - STEWARDS .............
ARTICLE 7 - DISCRIMINATION .......
ARTICLE 8 ■ UNIFORMS AND TOOLS ...
ARTICLE 9 -WORKERS' COMPENSATION--
ARTICLE 10 • HOURS OF WORK ..
ARTICLE 11 - OVERTIME........
ARTICLE 12 • SHIFT PREMIUMS .
ARTICLE 13 - REST PERIODS....
ARTICLE 14 • RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 15 -VACATION.........
ARTICLE 16 • SENIORITY.......
ARTICLE 17 -PROMOTION.,......
ARTICLE 18 - DEMOTION........
LEAVE OF ABSENCE . . .
ARTICLE 19
ARTICLE 20
ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
HEALTH AND WELFARE
BEREAVEMENT PAY . . . WORKING CONDITIONS
ARTICLE23 - UNION LABEL.......
1
2
2
2
3
5
6 6 7
7
8 9 9
9
10
10
13
14 14 14 16 17 17
- n -
ARTICLE 24 - UNION SHOP CARDS............................ 17
ARTICLE 25 - CO-OPERATION................................ 17
ARTICLE 26 - BASIC HOURLY RATE OF PAY.................... 17
ARTICLE27 - TERM OF AGREEMENT............................ 19
APPENDIX "A-1" - BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY............... 20
APPENDIX "B" - PART-TIME EMPLOYEES........................ 21
APPENDIX "C" - HOURS OF WORK ............................ 24
APPENDIX "D" - DRIVERS ................................... 25
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING............................... 32-37
MEMORANDA CF AGREEMENT................................. 38-41
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
SHOPSY’S FOODS
A Member of Maple Leaf Foods Inc.
150 Bartor Road, Weston, Ctatario (hereinafter called "the Company")
• and •
UNITED POOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL-CIO-CLC, Locals 175 and 633
Chartered By the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and
Butcher Workmen of North America, AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinafter called "the Union")
WITNESSETH:
The Company and the Union hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175 and 633, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for a 11 employees of the Company in its plant in the Province of Ontario and all truck drivers of the Company employed at and out of Metropolitan Toronto, save and except foremen, supervisory persons above ■the rank of foremen or supervisory office, clerical and sales staff, plant protection persons and brokers. Part-time employees shall be covered by Articles of this Agreement as provided in Appendix "B",
1.02	The Company agrees not to bargain individually or collectively with its employees.
1.03	The Company shall employ in its plant only members in good standing in the Union.
1.04	The Union uD. be advised of promotions of employees out of the bargaining unit. If an employee is promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit for a period of metes than nine (9) months, the Company agrees that such person shall re-enter the bargaining unit as a new employee except he/she shall receive full credit for vacation entitlement.
1.05	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit will not perform the work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except for training, or where such wade is for the purpose of investigation or experimentation,
1.06	The Union recognizes that the Company has the exclusive right to manage the business provided, however, that any such exercise of this right which is in conflict with any of the provisions of the other Articles of this Collective Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
1.07	The Company agrees that if it becomes necessary to move any production line out of the Bartor Road Plant, the Company will meet with the Union, prior to the moving of such line.
2
ARTICLE 2 • PREFERENCE
2.01	The Company agrees that when it requires additional full-time help it will, in Ihe fist instance, apply to the Union for same. The Union agrees in such event to supply such help. If, for any reason the Union fails to supply such help within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of such application, the Company may then obtain such help in the open market, provided, however, that such employees engaged in the open market shall, within fifty (50) days worked from the date of their employment, become members of the Union. The Company agrees to forward to the Union, each month, a list of new employees with their starting date and basic hourly rate of pay and also a list of employees terminated.
ARTICLE 3 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCK-OUT
3.01	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes cr lock-outs as long as this agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	Subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, it is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement shall become members and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment.
4.02	The Company agrees that each employee, upon employment and completion of his/her probationary period of employment will be required to sign an authorization card directing the Company to deduct Union initiation fees and weekly dues from the first pay due and such dues weekly thereafter. Any such authorization shall take effect as of the next regular deduction date after it is received by the Company. The fees and dues shall be forwarded to the Union monthly by the 15th of the following month.
4.03	The Union shall inform the Company, by written certification, of the amounts of weekly Union Dues according to the most recent such certification received. Such certification shall be given to the Company at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the effective date cf any change.
4.04	The Company will, at the time of making such remittance hereunder to the Financial Secretary of the Union, to United Ebod and Commercial Workers International Union, 2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario, L5N 2K7, supply a statement showing the following information firm whom pay deductions have been made.
(a)	All monthly dues for members to be submitted in alphabetical order with current address, postal code and Social Insurance Number.
(b)	Twelve (12) check-offs per year (Calendar months).
(c)	Monthly - New members to be listed in alphabetical order with Social Insurance Number and date of hire and starting salary.
Terminations or Resignations • to be listed in alphabetical order with current address, postal code, Social Insurance Number and date of termination or resignation.
- 3 -
Addresses to be updated as well as name changes, i.e., marriage and transfers, from one local to another to keep records current.
(d)	Each employee is responsible for promptly notifying Ihe Human Resources Department of the Company in writing of any change of name, address, phone number, marital status.
4.05 Part-time employees working on a temporary full-time basis will be required to pay full-time Union Dues.
4.06	The Company agrees to pay up to a maximum of six (6) employees on the tlhcn Negotiating Committee for time spent on negotiations with the Company, during their scheduled hours, at their normal rates of pay. The Union Negotiating Committee wi 11 be comprised of no more than one (1) member from each department to a maximum of six (6) employees.
4.07	The Union shall indamify and save harmless the Company, its agents and/or employees acting on behalf of the Company from any and all claims, demands, actions or causes of action arising out of a: in any way connected with the collection of such dues and initiation fees for Union members only.
4.08	(a) No permanent employee shall be discharged or disciplined without good and sufficient cause.
(b)	(i) The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that
becomes part of his/her record regarding working conduct, the Steward will be present as a witness. The employee may request that the Steward leave the meeting.
(ii)	In the event the Steward is not present, the condition will be brought to the attention of the employee. The meeting that becomes part of the employee’s record will be postponed until the Steward is available.
(iii)	If the maiing is held without the Steward, any conclusion, verbal or written, will be null and void except when 1he employee requests the steward to leave.
(iy) In the event a Steward has not been designated by the Union for the area as provided in clause 6,01, then the meeting between the employee and the Company representative shall be considered valid and becomes part of the employee’s record,
(c)	As of the effective date of this Agreement, written Warning Notices on an employee’s record are to be withdrawn after one (1) year, provided there are no further written Warning Notices given during the above-mentioned one (f) year period.
4.09	The Company agrees to send to the Union Office a complete seniority list with rates of pay, every three (3) months.
ARTICLE 5 • GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
5.01	The grievance procedure is designed to adjust complaints and grievances in any orderly manner and as quickly as possible. Any dispute or difference of opinion concerning the
-4-
interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement shall constitute a grievance.
5.02	For a grievance to be considered and processed under this Article, it must be presented, in writing, within seven (7) calendar days after the alleged incident occurred.
5.03	Step 1. Employees who have a complaint or a question which they wish to discuss with the Company shall take it up with their supervisor. If after this discussion they believe Ihey have a grievance, they shall submit it, in writing, to their supervisor. Grievors shall have the assistance of their Steward.
If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within seven (7) calendar days, the grievance shall be processed to Step 2 at any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
Step 2. The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the Department Superintendent, If a meeting is held between the Department Superintendent and the grievor, the Steward valL be present, The Department Superintendent will give an answer, in writing, within five (5) working days. The grievance may be processed to Step 3 any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
Step 3, (a) The aggrieved employee may present his/her written grievance to the Manufacturing Manager. If a meeting is held with management representatives, the grieyor, Steward and/or Chief Steward and/or the Business Representative will be present. The Manufacturing Manager shall give a reply, in writing, within five (5) working days. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within five (5) working days thereafter, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration, as provided in Step 4, any time within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. If the grievance is not taken to arbitration as herein provided, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled at the conclusion of Step 3, with the decision of the Manufacturing Manager being final and binding on the Union, the Company and the grieyor, The tine limits as prescribed above in Steps 1, 2 and 3 may be modified by mutual agreement, in writing of the Company and the Union.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree that either party has the right to file a policy grievance that may begin at Step 3,
Discharge or Suspension. In the case of a discharge or suspension, a grievance may be filed at Step 3 by an employee who feels he/she was unjustly dealt vriih. Such a grievance shall be filed within seven (7) calendar days of the date of dismissal or suspension.
Step 4. The Company and the Union agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the steps outlined in this Article and which has not been settled, may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either the Company or the Union notifying, in writing, the other of such action.
- 5 -
5.04	The Beard cf Arbitration will be composed of one (1) person appointed by the Company, one (1) person appointed by the Union, and a third person to act as Chairman agreed to by the other two (2) members of the Board.
5.05	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the request by the Company or the Union to the other for a Board, each shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
5.06	Should the persons appointed by the Company and the Union to act on the Board not agree on a third person within fifteen (15) working days of the notification period provided in clause 5,05, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario shall be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairman,
5.07	The Beard of Arbitration shall not have any jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend, or to substitute any provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Agreement.
5.08	The unanimous or majority decision, in writing, of the Arbitration Board with respect to the matters coming within the jurisdiction of the Board shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees.
5.09	(a) The Company and the Union shall pay their own respective costs, and the fees and expenses of any witnesses and of their respective representatives, including appointees to the Board. The fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. The Company shall pay the grieving employee at his/her basic hourly rate for the duration of the arbitration meeting if tie meeting was held during his/her regular scheduled working hours and only for such time he/she would have normally worked had the meeting not been held.
(b)	The Union’s Business Representative shall be admitted during working hours, at a reasonable time, to interview employees on duty or to inspect working conditions, Such visits shall be arranged to cause a minimum of disturbance to the Company’s business and the Business Representative shall first report his/her presence on the occasion of each such visit to the Vice President Human Resources or, in his/her absence, the Manufacturing Manager or, in his/her absence, his/her delegated representative.
ARTICLE 6 - STEWARDS
6.01 Ten (10) Union Stewards, including the Chief Steward, shall be designated by the Union for the following areas;	_________________
Kitchen	1 Steward
Maintenance	1 Steward
Shipping	1 Steward
Salads	1 Steward
Packaging	1 Steward
Afternoon Shift	2 Stewards
Night Shift	1 Steward
Drivers	1 Steward
-6-
6.02	If additional departments come into being, the Union may discuss with the Company tie designation of-additional Steward or Stewards and changes may be made by mutual agreement.
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, upon elections of the names of the Stewards and tie areas they represent as well as of any changes in such persons as and when such changes occur.
6.04	The Union agrees that Stewards, like other employees, have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons shall not leave their regular duties without prior consent of their supervisor, In the event of them having to leave their regular duties or department for purposes of processing an employee complaint or grievance, they shall first obtain permission from their supervisor giving reasons for such request. When the business of the Stewards is completed, they will check-in to their own department through their supervisor. The Union further agrees that Stewards shall not absent themselves firm their regular duties for unreasonable lengths of time.
6.05	Union Stewards while attending meetings with Company representatives on Company property will be paid their basic hourly rate for the duration of the meeting if the meeting is held during their regular scheduled working hours and for such time they would have normally worked had the meeting not been held.
6.06	The Company agrees that the Chief Steward has the right to leave the station of work after obtaining permission from his/her supervisor to investigate any grievance by his/her fellow steward or fellow workers. The Chief Steward will be given copies of all written warnings.
ARTICLE 7 - DISCRIMINATION
7.01	The Company agrees that it will not discriminate nor use intimidation, harassment, or coercion against any employees by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin, position with or membership in the Union. The Union agrees that it will not discriminate nor use intimidation, harassment or coercion against any employees by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin or position with the company or non-membership in the Union.
ARTICLE 8 - UNIFORMS AND TOOLS
8.01	The Company shall supply to its employees all tools, aprons, coats, etc. necessary for proper performance of their work. However, skilled trades maintenance department employees shall have worn out or broken tools replaced, Such tools shall be turned into the department supervisor at hie time of such request. Such employees shall exercise reasonable care in looking after the condition of their tools. An allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be paid by separate cheque on February 1st of each contract year to all such skilled trades maintenance department employees to replace any mislaid tools.
8.02	Upon provision of receipts for the purchase of safety shoes by the employee, the Company agrees to pay up to seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per contract year far Safety Committee approved safety shoes for each full-time, non-probationary employee. An exception to this will be that the Company will supply safety rubber boots to employees whose work functions necessitates same, as required.
-7
8.03
(b)
(c)
(d)
ARTICLE 9 - WORKERS ' COMPENSATION
9.01	The Company shall, become enrolled so as to afford its employees protection under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
9.02	If an employee is injured and is required to leave the plant for medical attention, he/she will be paid for the balance of his/her shift during which the accident occurred.
The Company agrees to have the injured employee accompanied to the doctor's office or the hospital by an appropriate person as deemed necessary by the Company.
ARTICLE 10 • HOURS OF WORK
(a)	The Company will provide a clean two piece freezer coat and gloves for Ihe freezerperson.
Parkas will be supplied to employees when assigned to wcric in freezer areas. The Company agrees to purchase six (6) additional freezer coats for the maintenance department.
The Company agrees to supply outside Shippers with parkas.
Effective one (1) month after ratification, the Company will provide thermal vests to permanent employees in the following areas;
1.	Packaging
2.	Pre-blend
3.	Trimming
10.01	(a) The regular work week for the day shift shall be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day. See Hours of Work Scheduled at Appendix "C".
(b)	The Company reserves the right to adjust an individual's starting time up to 1 hour earlier
or 1 hour later as required. When it is necessary to adjust the starting time for the employee, the individual will be advised in the week prior to the change.
Employees who are required to make the above change and are not advised the week prior will be paid 14 times their regular hourly rate for all hours worked before then-regular starting time or all hours worked beyond their regular finishing time on the first day.
Employees required to change their regular starting time by more than 1 hour will be paid 14 tines for the time worked i n excess of 1 hour. This payment will continue for as long as he/she is required to start at the new starting time or until the new schedule is agreed to by the Union and established in Appendix "C". Where the individual’s starting time is temporarily changed by more than 1 hour due to a staff reduction, vacation or absenteeism coverage, the above 14 time penalty will not apply.
-8-
(c)	Employees required to start before 5:30 a,m, will be paid fifty cents (500) per hour for all hours worked before 5:30 a,m, in addition to their tegular hourly rate.
ARTICLE II - OVERTIME
11.01	Time and one-half shall be paid for any or all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. When overtime is to be worked employees are to be informed before lunch break. For weekend overtime the Company will advise employees by lunch break on Friday.
11.02	(a) Employees whose normal work week is Monday to Friday called in to work on Saturday will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate will become double time. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Sunday at the double time rate.
(b) Employees whose normal work week is Sunday to Thursday called in to work on Friday will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate wi 11 be double time. A minimum of four (4) hours wi 11 be guaranteed on a Saturday at the double time rate.
11.03	All work performed on a Recognized Holiday (or days celebrated in lieu thereof) shall be paid (with a minimum of four hours) at double the regular rate of pay in addition to the day’s
pay for such holiday.
11.04	All employees shall be required to work a reasonable amount of overtime and, if necessary, employees having least seniority shall be expected to work provided the employee is capable of performing such work.
11.05	(a) If overtime is required in the Maintenance and Sanitation department, the Company agrees that the employees who work in the area will work overtime Monday through Friday unless the employee has other commitments and may not be able to work the overtime; however, on Saturday and Sunday the overtime will be or a rotation basis.
(b)	If overtime is required within the department, (other than Maintenance and Sanitation) the Company agrees that the overtime will be worked by qualified employees from the department shift seniority list on a rotational basis. The Company mil establish 2 overtime lists:
1.	Monday to Friday
2.	Weekend
(c)	Temporary transfers of an employee vaH not affect the opportunity for such employee to perform overtime work in their department.
11.06	An employee who has returned to work after an absence resulting franillness or accident and who has tstpcasny physical restrictions to employment, will not be permitted to work overtime until such restrictions are removed by the employee’s family physician.
9
ARTICLE 12 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01	The afternoon shift will carry a forty-five cent (450) an hour premium.
12.02	(a) The night shift will carry a fifty cent (500) an hour premium.
(b) A seventy-five cent (754) an hour shift premium, instead of forty-five cent (450) an hour premium will be paid on Sunday for all hours worked between six p.m, and midnight for all employees regularly scheduled to wok on Sunday.
12.03	Night Shipping employees will have a guarantee of thirty-seven (37) regular hours worked minimum per week.
ARTICLE 13 - REST PERIODS
13.01	The Company shall grant a fifteen (15) minute rest period as near as practicable to the middle of the first half and to the middle of the second half of the shift.
13.02	When an employee is required to work in excess of one and one-quarter hours beyond his/her regular scheduled quitting time, a fifteen minute rest period, paid for by the Company shall be provided prior to the starting of the overtime drift. The Company further agrees to supply a supper or six dollars ($6.00) in lieu of a supper, during the aforementioned rest period.
ARTICLE 14 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.01	There shall be eleven (11) recognized holidays as follows:
New Year’s Day	Civic Hobday
Good Friday	Labour Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
Floating Day at Chris tmas/New Ifear	Boxing Day
Floating Day	
The Floating Day w i 11 be scheduled during the calendar year upon a request by the employee and subject to the needs of the operation. The Floating Day will be recognized for all employees at work or on the active payroll as at May 1st each year.
14.02	All employees shall be entitled to full pay for such holidays provided. However, no employees shall be entitled to be paid for such holiday if they absent themselves without good and valid cause on the day before or the day after such holiday.
lo-
ARTICLE 15 - VACATION
15.01	Employees with less than twelve (12) months service as of May 1st shall receive vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of earnings from date of hiring to May 1st of current vacation year.
15.02	Employees with twelve (12) months or more of service as of May 1st shall receive two (2) weeks’ vacation with pay or four percent (4%) cf earnings, whichever is greater.
15.03	Employees with five (5) years or irace of service as of May 1st shall receive three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay or six percent (6%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.04	Employees with ten (10) years or more of service as of May 1st shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay or eight percent (8%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.05	Employees with eighteen (18) years or irate of service as of May 1st shall receive five
(5)	weeks’ vacation with pay or ten percent (10%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.06	Employees with twenty-five (25) years or note of service as of May 1 st shall receive six
(6)	weeks’ vacation with pay or twelve percent (12%) of earnings, whichever is pater.
15.07	Vacations are to be taken between May 1st and the following April 30th, and shall not be carried from one vacation year to the next.
15.08	Ebr the purpose of Article 15, employees who started to work on or before the 15th of May will be deemed to have started on the first of the month. Employees who started after the 15th day of May will be deemed to have started on the first day of the following month.
15.09	An employee who has four (4) weeks’ vacation entitlement or irate, one of the weeks wi U be taken during the months of January to April.
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
16.01	Seniority in this Agreement shall be a plant-wide seniority from the day of last hire.
16.02	(a) In the case of data duplication, an alphabetical list shall be prepared in accordance with the surname and those at the top of the list shall be deemed to be hired first.
(b) The Company agrees to post the seniority list on the bulletin board every six (6) months.
16.03	New employees hired by the Company w i 11 be considered as probationary employees u±il they have completed fifty (50) days worked during which time they may be discharged or disciplined without recourse to the Grievance Procedure, The Company vill not discharge an employee for the purpose of enforcing an additional probationary period. Upon completion of the fiftieth worked day the employee shall be either discharged cr placed on the regular seniority list.
■ 11 •
16.04	(a) In the event of a promotion, transfer, a reduction of staff or lay-off, or a rehiring of employees; the principle of plant-wide seniority shall govern the matter provided the employee is qualified to perform the work
(b)	The exceptions to 16.04 (a) will be that when employees are temporarily displaced for up to three (3) work days due to lack of work the principle of plant shift seniority will apply. When reducing staff due to lack of work for a period of two (2) hours or less remaining in the shift, tiie principle of department shift seniority will apply.
(c)	Employees displaced will fill vacancies created by lay-offs, in accordance with 16.04 (a) and (b) provided they are qualified to perform the work.
(d)	When it can be determined that a temporary vacancy which is necessary to fill due to an absence of an employee will exist for a period of more than three (3) work days, the Company will provide full consideration to seniority and qualifications on a departmental basis.
16.05	(a) In the event of lay-offs, the Company undertakes to eliminate the use of part-time employees, provided there axe full-time employees available who are qualified to perform the work.
(b)	The Company agrees that part-time employees will not be scheduled to work on a week-end when qualified full-time employees are available to work.
(c)	A full-time employee who chooses part-dme employment, in lieu of lay-off, wi 11 retain full-time seniority unless the employee refuses recall to full-time status. A part-time employee who refuses a recall to fhll-time status shall be governed by Appendix B Article 16 (c).
16.06	An employee reporting to work for his/her regular shift and is laid off or not required for
any part of that shift due to a mechanical breakdown, shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours
at his/her regular basic hourly rate except when the employee:
(a)	Has been given advance notice not to report to work.
(b)	Is prevented from working because of an act of God such as power failure, flood or fiie.
(c)	Did not keep the Company advised of his/her current address and telephone number.
16.07	Employees who because of a lack of work are to be laid offfor a period of more than
three (3) work days and who have:
Less than five (5) years’ service shall receive two (2) days’ written notice or two (2) days’ basic pay in lieu cf such notice.
(b) Five (5) or more but less than ten (10) years’ service shall receive one (1) week’s written notice or one (1) week’s basic pay in lieu of such notice.
12
(c) Ten (10) or more years’ service shall receive two (2) weeks’ written notice or two (2) weeks’ basic pay in lieu of such notice.
Copies of lay-off notices shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees arc to be laid off work.
In the event of a lay-off of three (3) work days or less, verbal advice shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees are to be laid off.
Lay-offs of three (3) work days or less will not be issued to an individual who has received written notice under Article 16.07(a), (b) or (c) above.
16.08	(a) When recalling persons, a laid-off employee will be entitled to be recalled for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of lay-off in accordance with clause 16.04. The Company shall direct such persons by registered letter to the last address appearing on the Company’s records to report to work. The person recalled shall report to work at the date and time specified in the registered letter or within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the registered letter, whichever is the later. In the event the person recalled is unable to report because of medically validated accident or sickness, or for any other valid reason, he/she shall be excused film such recall. In order to return to work, 1he person disabled shall provide acceptable medical evidence of physical ability to return to work.
(b) Where an employee moves to anotherjob because of a lay-off, he/she shall be returned to the position he/she held before the lay-off prior to any employee on lay-off being recalled to fill the position.
16.09	An employee shall lose his/her seniority when:
(a)	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure.
(b)	He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employment.
(c)	He/she has been laid off continuously for a period of more than twelve (12) months.
(d)	He/she does not return to work from lay-off as provided in clause 16,08.
(e)	He/she is absent from work for three (3) working days without a good and valid reason.
(f)	He/she is unable to return to work due to disability and has expired their entitlement to weekly wage indemnity coverage or temporary total disability Workers’ Compensation payments or forty-eight (48) months has expired since their last day at work, whichever is the greater period of time, The 48-month period will commence effective April 9, 1992.
16.10	Employees’ seniority will not be unreasonably terminated when they remain away from work because of sickness or disability, provided 1he Company is notified within a reasonable time. An employee returning from sick or disability leave after five (5) working days’ absence, must, if requested by the Company, present a certificate from his/her physician stating the nature
- 13 -
of the sickness and that the employee is fully recovered to perform his/her regular duties or defined modified duties.
16.11	When an employee is required to take time-off from work for personal reasons, he/she shall advise his/her immediate supervisor one (1) day before.
In the event of the permanent closure of all or part of the plant operations, terminated employees will receive severance pay in accordance with the terms of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 17 - PROMOTION
17.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix "A".
17.02	(a) The Company will provide training opportunities to employees on a seniority basis, and when filling a vacancy in a department, 1he Company will give the senior employee in the equivalent or a lower-paid job classification the opportunity, provided he/she has the required skills and qualifications to perform the work.
(b)	Should a job opening occur within any one job classification on the day or afternoon shift, any person cn the afternoon or evening shift within the same job classification will be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority to enter the day shift position, provided the employee has the required skills and qualifications to perform the work. The exchange will take place once the Company has had the opportunity to train replacement personnel.
(c)	The Company agrees to post on the bulletin board all full-time permanent vacancies and promotions.
17.03	(a) After clause 17.02 has been complied with and a permanent vacancy exists in a department, such vacancy shall be posted for a period of four (4) working days. Interested employees shall submit an Application Form (obtained from their supervisor or the Human Resources Department) within four (4) working days of the posting. The Company will then give the senior employee, from among those who submitted Application Forms, the opportunity for such vacancy provided he/she has the required level of skill, ability, efficiency and the physical capability to perform the work.
(b) The name and the seniority date of the employee will be posted. A copy of such notice vail be forwarded to the Union.
17.04	(a) When an employee is successful on a job posting, he/she shall maintain his/her existing rate unless 1he employee has had previous experience on the job, in which case he/she shall receive the job rate immediately. When an employee has maintained his/her existing classification rate he/she shall progress to the new job classification rate after successfully maintaining the new position for thirty (30) working days.
• 14 •
(b) An employee who is successful on a jcb posting and who maintains the position after thirty (30) working days, will receive the newjob classification rate retroactive to the first day of appointment of the position.
ARTICLE 18 - DEMOTION
18.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix "A".
18.02	This Article will be applied in conjunction with 17.02 (a), 17.02 (b) or 17.03 (a).
18.03	Employees wishing to bid on a lower-paid job vacancy wi 11 be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority, once every twelve (12) months maximum, to successfully bid up to two classification levels lower, provided they have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work. The exchange will take place once the Company has had the opportunity to train replacement personnel.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	Employees may be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority, upon proper permission being obtained from the Company, and such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
19.02	In the case of pregnant females, leave of absence will be granted without loss cf seniority to such persons provided that such employees shall return to work not more than sixteen (16) weeks following the birth of the child, The Company reserves the right to determine when it shall no longer be suitable for a pregnant female to continue work.
19.03	(a) In the event an employee is precluded from working his/her regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty or jury selection, or being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the Company agrees to make-up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty, jury selection time, or crown witness duty, and the amount the employes would have earned for working his/her regular shift or shifts.
(b) In order to quality for such compensation, the employee shall give seventy-two (72) hours' prior notice to his/her supervisor for such jury duty, jury selection call, or subpoena as a crown witness and present evidence of the compensation received for such period.
ARTICLE 20 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
20.01	The Company agrees to pay the full premium for all full-time employees and their dependents for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan plus coverage to provide semi-private hospitalization for all employees and their dependents.
20.02	It is further agreed that in the event of changes to tie present premium that would result in a saving to the Company, such saving will be used to purchase increased benefits for the employees.
- 15 -
20.03	(a) The Company agrees to pay for weekly wage indemnity coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a hill-time employee’s basic weekly earnings, for a period of twenty-six consecutive weeks effective on tie first day of an accident and the fourth day of an illness.
Employees with twenty (20) years’ service or more will be eligible for thirty-nine (39) consecutive weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined above.
Employees who have used their weekly wage indemnity coverage and who are not eligible for Long Terra Disability coverage, will be given the opportunity to apply for any U.I.C, sickness benefits to which they may be eligible under U.I.C. legislation.
NOTE: Company has no liability if U.I.C. claims are denied or if granted, affect subsequent claims for U.I.C. unemployment benefits. Employees will still need to provide Company with regular medical evidence to support their continued absence. This provision can not be used when a WCB claim has been made or rejected.
(b) The Company agrees to pay for Long Term Disability coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a full-time employee’s basic weekly earnings, integrated with the indemnity payable by the Canada Pension Plan and Compensation Act commencing effective with the twenty-seventh week of absence due to iJJness/accident, provided the employee is totally disabled to perform any work, according to the rules and regulations of the insurers.
20.04	(a) The Company agrees to pay for a comprehensive drug prescription plan covering full-time employees and their dependents. The plan shall have ten dollars ($10.00) deductible for single coverage and twenty dollars ($20.00) deductible for family coverage.
(b) The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan (under the Major Medical Plan) providing a benefit of one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) per person every two (2) consecutive years for each employee and his/her eligible dependents, for the purchase cf frames, lenses, the fitting of prescription lenses and contacts when recommended by a physician or optometrist.
Effective January 1, 1995, one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00).
20.05	(a) The Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000.00) life insurance policy for all full-time employees.
In addition to the fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) life insurance policy the Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) Accidental Death and Dismemberment policy.
(b) Upon retiring, employees shall receive firm the Company either:
i)	the sum of $1,500.00, or
ii)	a paid-up life insurance policy in the amount of $5,000.00,
- 16 •
20.06	The Company agrees to contribute twenty-five cents (250) per hour for regular hours worked by full-time employees into Ihe Ontario Retail Employees Dental Benefit Trust Fund.
20.07	(a) The Company agrees to contribute thirty-five cents (350) per hour for regular and overtime hours worked (minimum forty (40) hours for full-time employees) for each regular, non-probationary employee eligible under the rules governing the pension plan, to the U.F.C.W, Ontario Retail Council Pension Trust Fund or equal or better pension plan ie, Canadian Commercial Workers’ Industry Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P,).
Effective January 15, 1995, increase the above amount to 380/hour.
Effective January 15, 1996, increase the above amount to 400/hour.
(b) The Company’s obligation with regard to the aforementioned pension plan is limited to the above-noted contributions.
20.08	(a) The Company shall continue Id make a reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during the hours of their employment.
(b)	The Company agrees to establish an Accident Prevention Committee in an endeavour to provide safe work practices throughout the operation and such Committee shall meet monthly. Five (5) of the persons on the Committee shall be employees and/or Union Stewards while the remaining persons shall be Company representatives.
(c)	It is the intention of the Company and the Union to resolve safety issues internally. However, the Company and the Union agree that any safety issues tabled at the Accident Prevention Committee which cannot be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union within a reasonable period of time, may be referred by either party to the Ministry of Labour,
20.09	Adequate rest rooms shall be provided and kept heated and ventilated and in good, sanitary condition. The employees shall oo-cperate with the Company in keeping the rest rooms in clean and sanitary condition,
20.10	In the event an employee is required by the Company, the local Board of Health, or any governmental agency to take a medical examination, x-ray or other tests, such shall be arranged on Company time and at the expense of the Company.
ARTICLE 21 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
21,01	The Company agrees to pay employees for three (3) working days time cff in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother, father, wife, husband, child, brother, sister. The Company further agrees to pay employees for two (2) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law.
■ 17 -
ARTICLE 22 • WORKING CONDITIONS
22.01	The Company agrees that its shop and factory shall be properly ventilated and maintained in a sanitary condition, The Union shall co-operate with the Company to practice good housekeeping methods.
ARTICLE 23 - UNION LABEL
23.01	The Company agrees to put the Union label on all pickled, smoked meats, etc.
ARTICLE 24 - UNION SHOP CARDS
24.01	The Union agrees to supply the Company with a display card which the Company agrees to exhibit in a prominent place in its shop cr factory. Such card shall be the property of the Union and shall be returned on demand.
ARTICLE 25 - CO-OPERATION
25.01	The Company and the Union agree to work through a joint committee and endeavour to promote the sale of union-made delicatessen products whenever possible.
25.02	The Company and the Union agree to participate in a Labour-Management Committee which will meet to discuss naLlas of mutual concern. An agenda outlining subjects to be discussed will be provided by the parties to each other prior to the date of the meeting.
The Committee vi]l be comprised of three Union representatives and three Management representatives who will meet on a monthly basis. Meetings will normally be held during the day shift and employees attending the nesting will suffer no loss of pay while attending.
ARTICLE 26 • BASIC HOURLY RATE OF PAY
26.01	Appendix " A-l" - Basic Hourly Rates of Pay will apply to those employees on the payroll as of July 23, 1994,
Appendix "A-2"- Basic Hourly Rates of Pay will apply to those employees hired subsequent to July 23, 1994,
26.02	The starting rate for new employees (except maintenance employees) hired prior to July 23, 1994 will be as follows:
"	$10,00 per hour for the first six months of employment.
■ Upon the completion of six months of employment the rate wi 11 be increased to 85% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-l".
•18*
* Upcn tie completion of twelve months of employment the rate will be increased to 90% cf their job rate listed in Appendix
’	Upon the completion of eighteen months of employment the rate will be increased to 95 %
of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-1".
■	Upon tie completion of twenty-four months of employment the rate will be increased to 100% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-1".
The starting rate for new employees (except maintenance employees) hired on or subsequent to July 23, 1994 will be as follows:
'	$ 10,00 per hour for the first six months of employment.
■	Upon the completion of six months of employment the rate will be increased to 85% cf their job rate listed in Appendix 'A-2".
■ Upon the completion of twelve months of employment the rate will be increased to 90% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-2".
" Upon 1he completion of eighteen months of employment the rate w i 11 be increased to 9 5 % of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-2".
’ Upon tie completion of twenty-four months of employment the rate v£H be increased to 100% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-2".
26.03	Full-time non-probationary employees who are required to perform work in a higher paid classification for at least one (1) hour per day will be paid the appropriate higher rate of pay for time so worked.
26.04	Persons who are students who are temporarily employed during the peak periods (15 April • 15 September; 15 December • 15 January) will be paid in accordance vifti the following schedule:
First year employed	$ 9,50
Second year employed	$10.00
Third year employed	$10.50
Fourth year employed	$11.00
26,05	The Company agrees to provide a $500 lump sum payment, less deductions, to those regular full-time employees who are on the payroll and actively at work as of July 23, 1994, Those regular full-time employees who were on the payroll but not actively at work as of July 23, 1994, who return to work prior to January 14, 1995 will be entitled to a lump sum payment, The amount of payment will be $500 reduced by 1/12 times $500 for each full month of absence cr lay-off between January 15, 1994 and the date of return to wade.
- 19
ARTICLE 27 • TERM OF AGREEMENT
27.01	Except as specified, this Agreement shall take effect as of the 15th day of January, 1994 and shall remain in effect until the 14th day of January, 1997 and thereafter from year to year, unless either party gives to the other party notice m writing of cancellation or of amendment, within the period of ninety (90) days before tie anniversary date.
27.02	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and replaces all previous agreements, both writbai and oral.
Agreed this
day of May, 1995
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCALS 175 AND 633____________
FOR SHOPSY’S FOODS.
A MEMBER OF MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC., ISO BARTOR ROAD .WESTON. ONTARIO
Len Rothwell
20
APPENDIX "A-l"
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY For Full-time Employees Hired Before July 23, 1994
APPENDIX "A-2"
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY For Full-time Employees Hired On or After July 23, 1994
Kitchen	Packaging	a«i»k	Sanitation	Shipping	Maintenance	Dry Goods	Drivers	Effective 7/23/94	Effective 1/15IK	Effective 1/15/96
					Electronic Technician Electromechanic lecnrocon			$19.55	$19.70	$1995
					Electrician Mechanic AA			$19.00	$19.15	$19.40
					Mechanic A			$18.70	$18.85	$19.10
					Mechanic B			$18.00	$18.15	$18.40
Smokehouse Operator								$12.88	$13.01	$1398
							Tractor/ Trailer Driver	$12.67	$12.82	$13.07
Material Controfer Meat Receiver	MaterU Controlar	UimLi Cdntralar wwvaimvT		Freezer Person		Dry Goods Receiver		$1254	$12.69	$12.94
							Truck Driver Shunter	$12.52	$12.67	$12.92
Trimmer Formulator2 Machine Operator	Packaging Machine Operator Slicer Operator	Formu(ator2	Sanitation Worker	Checker/ Shipper				$1253	$1258	$12.83
Frank-O-Malic Operator	"Wiener Peeler							$12.30	$12.45	$12.70
HQL, LQL	HQL, LQL	HQL, LQL	HQL					$12.15	$12.30	$1255
• 21 •
APPENDIX "B "
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
The conditions of employment for persons employed for twenty-four (24,hours or less per week shall be as set out elsewhere in this Agreement except as provided hereafter in this Agreement,
ARTICLE 4 • UNION SECURITY
4.03 The Company agrees to commence deducting Union dues from a part-time employee's first pay cheque and each pay cheque thereafter, Union dues shall be two dollars and seventy-five cents ($2.75) a week for a part-time employee who works less than twelve hours a particular week and three dollars and twenty-five csits ($3,25) a week for a part-time employee who works twelve or moce hours a particular week.
4.09	(a) Non probationary part-time employees shall not be discharged or disciplined without
good and sufficient cause.
ARTICLE 10 • HOURS OF WORK
Clause 10,01 • Not applicable.
ARTICLE 11 • OVERTIME
11.01	Tine and one-half shall be paid for any and all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day and in excess of twenty-four f24;ktraight time paid hours per week. When overtime is to be vockEd, employees ate to be informed before lunch break.
Clauses 11,02 and 11,04 - Not applicable.
ARTICLE 12 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
Clause 12 • Not applicable.
ARTICLE 14 • RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.02	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays provided in clauses 14,01, a part-time employee shall have:
(a)	Been in the employ of the Company for three (3) months or more immediately prior to a holiday.
(b)	Worked an at least ten (10) days during the thirty day period immediately preceding a holiday.
(c)	Worked his/her regular scheduled shift preceding and following a holiday.
- 22 -
14.03	Provided the conditions specified in clause 14,02 have been met, the number of specified holiday hours (to a maximum of eight) that a part-time employee shall be credited with in each instance, to be paid at his/her regular straight time basic hourly rate of pay, shall be determined by totalling the number of hours worked by the employee in the thirty day period immediately preceding the week of the holiday and dividing that total by the number of days worked in the same period.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
Vacation pay shall be as provided in the laws (i.e., four percent) of the Province of Ontario. ARTICLE 16 • SENIORITY
1(a)	Part-time employees shall have a probationary trial period of forty-five (45) shifts of
work.
(b)	A part-time employee re-classified to full-time onjobs involving the same skills, will not be required to serve a further probationary period. The confirmation as a full-time employee is subject to the successful passing of the Employer’s standard medical examination.
(c)	A part-time employee re-classified to full-time employee, shall carry one-half (1/2) of his/her part-time seniority up to a maximum of four (4) years to his/her full-time employment (in other words, a maximum of two (2) years’ seniority as a full-time employee).
(d)	In the event of a reduction in the number of employees covered by this Appendix, the employee with the least seniority shall be the first laid off followed by the employee with the next least seniority, provided the employees remaining have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work available.
(e)	When increasing the number of employees covered by this Appendix, persons on lay-off having recall rights will be recalled according to their seniority provided such persons have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work available.
(£) A part-time employee shall lose his/her seniority when:
1.	He/she is discharged by tine Company and is not re-instated through the grievance procedure.
2.	He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employment.
3.	He/she has been laid-off continuously for a period of more than four (4) months.
4,	He/she does not return to work from lay-off at the time required.
ARTICLE 17 ■ PROMOTIONS
Clause 17 - Not applicable.
23
ARTICLE 21 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.01	The Company agrees to pay a part-time employee his/her basic pay, up to his/her scheduled hours, to. attend the funeral of any of the family members as provided in clause 21.01 of this Agreement, provided such day is a regular scheduled work day.
ARTICLE 26 - BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY
26.01	(a) Those part-time employees who have completed their probationary period on <x before April 9, 1992 (brprior to a peak period) vzQl be paid under the part-time wage progression during peak and off-peak periods as defined in 26.04. All other employees employed during peak periods will be paid under the student wage progression as defined in 26.04.
(b)	Part-time employees on the payroll at April 9,1992 cc employed thereafter, shall be paid the following basic hourly rates of pay:
At date of employment	$10.52
After 6 months' service	$11.02
After 12 months’ service	$11.52
After 18 months’ service	$12.02
- 24 -
APPENDIX "C" HOURS OF WORK
Department	Mon.-Fri. (Day Shift)	Mon.-Fri. (Noon Shift)	Mon.-Fri. (Night Shift)	Sun.-Thur, (Night Shift)
Grinding	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		22:00-6:30
Formulation	3:00-11:30 4:00-12:30 4:30-13:00	12:30-21:00 13:00-21:30		
FAM Operator	5:15-13:45	13:45-22:15		
Salami Grinder	5:30-14:00 6:00-14:30	14:00-22:30 14:30-23:00		
Smokehouse	6:00-14:30 *5:00-13:30	14:15-22:45	22:30-7:00	
Set-up Stuffing & Unmoulding	6:00-14:30	14:30-23:00		22:30-7:00
Sanitation	6:30-15:00	16:00-00:30	22:30-7:00	
stuffing	7:00-15:30	15:30-00:00		
Packaging	6:00-14:30 6:30-15:00 6:45-15:15 7:00-15:30 7:30-16:00	14:30-23:00 14:45-23:15 15:00-23:30 15:30-00:00 16:00-00:30		
Receiving	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		
Shipping	7:00-15:30 7:30-16:00 9:00-17:30	15:30-00:00	22:30-7:00	18:00-2:30 22:30-7:00
Dry Goods	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		
during/ Trimming	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		
salads	5:30-14:00 7:00-15:30 8:00-16:30	15:30-00:00		
Maintenance	6:00-14:30	14:00-22:30	22:30-7:00	22:00-6:30
*On Monday only and strictly for continuous house operator.
- 25 -
APPENDIX "D "
DRIVERS
The Company and the Union hereby agree that the Collective Agreement between Shopsy’s and the United Pood and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175, covering drivers in the employ of the Company at and out of Metropolitan Toronto will not be renewed upon its legal expiry date. The parties agree that the terms and conditions of employment of such drivers wH be governed by the Collective Agreement between Shopsy’s and Locals 175 and 633 and that any terms or conditions in the expired Drivers' Collective Agreement not contained in the Agreement vTl be null and void.
The Collective Agreement vdU cover both plant employees and drivers; the provisions contained in Appendix "D" attached hereto will be applicable to drivers.
1.	(a) Persons excluded from the bargaining unit will not perform work which is normally
performed by the employees in the bargaining unit; except in cases of emergency, training, customer demands or re-organization of routes due to volume, or excessive costs.
(b)	The Company further agrees not to solicit accounts for pick-up at the plant.
(c)	The Company agrees, subject to (d), to pay drivers whose jobs an permanently discontinued, two (2) weeks' pay for each year of seniority. Minimum payment will be equal to two (2) months' wages for all hours worked.
(d)	Should a permanent reduction occur, as per (c), displaced drivers may elect to:
(i)	immediately receive payment as per (c), and therefore give up all rights to recall
OR
(ii)	move into the plant unit on a six month trial basis (carrying full service of their driver seniority to the plant seniority list). Once drivers have chosen the trial period of six (6) months, they:
shall forfeit all rights as per (c) if they are terminated for cause during the six (6) month trial period
may elect at any time during the six (6) month trial period, upon giving the Company a written resignation, to receive payment as per (c) and give up all rights to recall as a driver or to the plant;
OR
remain in the plant unit and give up their right to recall as drivers and their eligibility for 1he payment outlined in (c);
OR
- 26-
(iii)	choose lay-off instead of moving into the plant and receive the payment as per (c) if they have been continuously laid aff for a period of twelve months.
2.	For the purpose of filling temporary driver requirements due to absenteeism, sickness, workload peaks, and emergencies, the Company may fill such vacancies with qualified plant employees.
However, in the event that there are qualified laid-off drivers and the Company has knowledge prior to the start of the shift that the vacancy will exist, the Company will place a phone call to the phone number recorded by the laid-off driver with the Company for the purpose of offering the available work to the laid-off driver. The Company will provide the available work to the senior laid-off driver subject to the needs of the operation with respect to the number of hours Id be worked.
3.	The Company agrees that drivers have the right to review their Personnel file once per calendar year in the presence of a member of the Human Resources Department. Arrangements to be made through the Driver Supervisor.
4.	(a) The Company agrees to supply regular, full-time non-probationary employees, upon
completion of their probation period, with the following uniform articles:	five (5)
short-sleeve shirts, three (3) long-sleeve shirts, two (2) light-weight trousers, two (2) heavy-weight trousers, one (1) parka and one (1) jacket with removable liner. Employees will wear said uniform while performing work as a driver for the Company. Employees shall be responsible for the cleanliness of such uniforms.
(b)	The Company agrees to replace or repair worn shirts, pants, jackets and parkas, as required.
(0 The Union agrees that it is the driver's responsibility to replace any mislaid articles of uniform, up to the limit as outlined in (a) above.
(d)	The Company agrees to pay each driver with seniority $50 per year uniform cleaning allowance.
5.	The Company agrees to use the previous four (4) weeks’ gross earnings, or the actual hourly rate, whichever is pater, for Workers' Compensation purposes.
6.	(a) The regular working hours shall be forty (40) hours per week Monday to Friday except as indicated below
	Starting Time between	Finishing Time between
Dayshift	6:00 am - 8:00 a.m,	2:30 p.m. • 4:30 p.m.
Afternoon Shift	3:30 p,m. • 5:30 p.m.	12:00 mid - 2:00 am.
Shunter: Sunday to Thursday	4:30 p.m. • 6:30 p.m.	1:00 ajn. - 3:30 a.m.
27
If the Company decides to operate on afternoon shift, the following procedure will apply:
The afternoon shift job(s) will be posted and drivers may bid according to seniority. In the event that no drivers apply for the posted posirion(s), the most junior driver(s) vTll be required to fill the vacant posidon(s),
(b)	All rest periods are to be taken on the route.
(c)	During the months of January, February and March a non-probationary employee who is scheduled to work and who is at work at the commencement of the work week shall be guaranteed a pay for the week equal to forty (40) hours regular minimum pay, subject to the following:
1.	The Company may distribute work among and between Drivers to provide employees with the aforementioned guarantee,
2.	The guarantee shall be reduced, in units of fifteen (15) minutes, by the amount of time for which an employee is not eligible for payment of wages.
3.	Pay received for a recognized holiday, or holiday enacted by legislation, not worked shall be regarded as part of the guarantee for the week in which the holiday is observed.
4.	If an employee declines to perform his/her normal duties, the Company shall be absolved from guaranteeing any time lost by that employee.
5.	It is understood that the provisions of Clause 16.06, of Article 16 shall not apply to drivers covered under Appendix "D".
7.	(a) Double time shall be paid for any and all time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours
per day.
@) When employees are required to vcric in excess of one and onequarter hours beyond their regular scheduled quitting time, a fifteen (15) minute rest period, paid for by the Company, shall be provided prior to the starting of the overtime shift. The Company further agrees to supply a supper, or six dollars ($6.00) in lieu of supper, during the aforementioned rest period,
(c)	Employees shall make themselves available for work beyond their regular quitting time when their mute calls are not yet completed. Permission to complete or to not complete, such route calls must be obtained from the Company's representative by calling between 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m.. All employees will call in between 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. daily or on completion of their route whichever is earlier. The Company shall not unreasonably utilize the provisions of this paragraph.
<d) In the event employees have been told to return to the plant and to not complete their route, such employees will not be again sent out on any general deliveries unless they agree to do so.
- 28 -
(e)	In the event employees return to the plant after completing their route and the Company has an order that requires delivery, such employees shall make themselves available to complete such delivery unless they have a valid reason not to do so in which case the Company may complete the &livery in any manner it deems appropriate.
(f)	Should emergency/unexpected deliveries arise, tie Company shall offer such deliveries to at least one driver on his/her return if by 2 p.m, or earlier. Should the driver refuse cc the delivery arise after 2 p.ra,, the Company may complete the delivery in any manner deemed appropriate.
8.	An exception to Clause 15.07 of Article 15 will be that, employees with 5, 10, 18 or 25 years of service between May 1st and April 30th will be entitled to take the additional week of vacation within the vacation year.
9.	The provisions of Clause 16,07 of Article 16 shall not apply when an employee is prevented from working because of any of the following:
a breakdown of machinery or equipment, a power shortage <x failure of power supply, an Act of God, any circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
10.	An employee may be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority for a period of up to twelve (12) months, if said employee loses his licence on a temporary basis.
11.	Employees with fifteen (16) years’ service or more valL be eligible for thirty-nine (39) consecutive weeks of weekly wage indamity coverage under the terms outlined in Clause 20.03
(a), of Article 20.
12.	The Company agrees to establish a Transportation Accident Prevention Committee in an endeavour to provide safe work practices throughout the operation and such Committee shall meet monthly. One (1) of the persons on the Catmittee shall be an employee and/or Union Steward, while the remaining person shall be a Company representative.
13.	(a) New employees (except Plant employees with two (2) years’ service or mare) hired following the date of ratification shall be paid
■	90% of their job rate for the first three (3) months of employment.
■	95% of their job rate for the second three (3) months of employment.
■	100% of their job rate after six (6) months of employment.
(b)	The afternoon shift for the positions of Shunter and Track Driver will carry a forty-five cent (450) an hour premium,
14.	Job Bidding Procedure
1.	Drivers who request their route (job) go up for bids because they wish to change:
• The route request will be put up for bids.
-29" The driver who requests his/her route be hid originally, will become the sole bidder on the newly vacated route and will have the choice of taking it or retaining his/her original route.
2.	A route that is permanently vacated for any other reason:
■	The route will be put up for bids (as long as the Company agrees to continue this route).
•	The most senior bidder wi 11 be awarded the route.
■	The newly vacated route wi 11 be. put up for bids and the most senior bidder will, again, be awarded the route.
‘ The bidding will end here, with the most junior employee involved in the second bidding having the choice of either taking the route vacated or staying on his/her own route. If the remaining vacant route is to be continued it wi 11 be taken by 1he additional driver.
3.	A successful bidder must show that he/she can run the route effectively, within a reasonable period of time, or the route will again be put up for bids. The driver being taken off the route will be assigned to the one vacated by the successful bidder.
4.	A driver who has succeeded in successfully bidding on a route or has requested his/her route be put up for bids, will lose his/her bidding rights for one year.
5.	Bids will be posted for three working days. It will be the responsibility of the Union to inform drivers who are off because of sickness or lay-off and the Union Steward can enter this employee’s name, if requested. Employees on vacation will be given an opportunity to bid on the route upon their return.
6.	If a driver is awarded a route and subsequently declines to take it, he/she wi 11 lose his/her bidding rights for one year.
7.	When two (2) complete routes fall within one (1) bid-on route (override) the driver whose regular bid-on route is affected will have the choice of the two miss irrespecd ye of the calls or weight being evenly divided and provided a second driver is available within half an hour of the driver’s starting time.
15.	Routing System. The routes now established by each driver will be tie recognized route cf that driver. Any changes of drivers cn these routes will be done on the following basis:
(a)	A driver who wishes to change his/her route will put it up for bids. The bidding procedure used will be the one already agreed to between the Union and the Company.
(b)	When two or more routes have to be combined because of low volume then the senior driver of the routes affected wlII have first choice of doing the combined route(s). If the senior driver(s) is then absent for any reason or declines the route, then the most junior
- 30-
driver involved must take the route. The provisions of Section e) will apply for senior drivers declining a combined route.
(c)	In the event that an out-of-town driver is absent for one day or more, then seniority among qualified city drivers shall be the governing factor in filling said vacancy.
An out-of-town driver whose route is not scheduled shall be classified as a city driver for as long as the said route is not scheduled.
(d)	The company will observe the following sequence when filling the vacated city route(s).
1.	Laid-off qualified drivers in accordance with Clause 2 of Appendix "D",
2.	Plant back-up drivers subject to availability.
3.	Seasonal help drivers.
4.	Outside Driver Services.
(e)	In the event that a driver requests to come off his/her route on a temporary basis, e.g., one day, then he/she shall be only eligible for whatever route remains after Clause 15 lias been applied to all other full-time drivers.
Any routes still vacant after this procedure has been completed shall be subject to the procedure as outlined in the last paragraph of section (d).
These procedures shall not apply for vacation coverage for out-of-town drivers. Vacation coverage for out-of-town drivers will be handled in accordance with the following procedure:
1.	Drivers wishing to make themselves available for vacation coverage for out-of-town drivers will submit their names to the Driver Supervisor on or before April 15th annually.
2.	The three senior drivers who submitted their names as above will be accepted as vacation relief drivers for out-of-town drivers for a period of one vacation year.
3.	When the vacation schedule for the vacation year has been completed by the Driver Supervisor, the schedule will be shown to the three vacation relief drivers. In order cf seniority, with the most senior of the vacation relief drivers selecting first, the vacation relief drivers will select vacation periods for out-of-town drivers for which they wish to fill in. Ear example, the most senior vacation relief driver must select one vacation period, the second most senior vacation relief driver must select one vacation period and the most junior vacation relief driver must select a vacation period. This sequence will be repeated until all cf 1he vacation periods for out-of-town drivers have ban selected by vacation relief drivers. Vacation relief drivers must accept the vacation periods as chosen.
A vacation period is defined as any unit of consecutive working days of vacation taken.
4.	Should it be necessary to change the vacation period for an out-of-town driver, the vacation relief driver who selected the original vacation period will be expected to take the new vacation period.
31
5.	Tb fill any temporary vacancy or absence of one day or more on the afternoon qhift the Company will observe the following sequence until filling the above mutes:
1.	Laid-off drivers in accordance with Clause 2 of Appendix "D".
2.	Voluntary fill-in by the driver group.
3.	Plant back-up drivers.
4.	Seasonal help drivers.
5.	Outside Driver Services.
6.
(a) Each day the Company shall post a list of all slush runs for that day.
(b) Drivers from the driver group whose established and recognized routes are not scheduled for that day may bid cn tie slush runs posted.
(c)	The slush runs shall be allocated on the basis of seniority firm amongst the drivers who submit bids.
(d)	Upon completion of the foregoing procedures if any slush runs are still vacant, they shall
be filled as •follows:
-	laid-off drivers in accordance with Clause 2 of Appendix "D"
•	city drivers
•	plant back-up drivers
-	seasonal help drivers
-	outside driver services
- 32-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 19 • HEALTH AND WELFARE
Smoke-Free Facility
With the full support of the Union and the Negotiating Committee the Company will designate the total facility at 150 Bartor Road, Weston as a tobacco smoke-free facility. This will take place in conjunction with die proposed plant and cffioe expansion due to be operational during die second quarter of 1988.
Within eight (8) weeks fern the date of ratificatiai the Company wi 11 complete its investigation of the possibility of providing an interim non-smoking lunchroom area for interested employees and present its findings to the Uhicn and Committee.
-33-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company recognizes employee concerns regarding job security. The Company and the Union understand the importance of the Company's continued competitive position in the market place and its requirement for economic survival.
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees. However, it may be necessary to have work performed by outside services,
The relevant factors which the Company will consider before using outside services include: adverse effect on employees (i.e. lay-off), availability of required skills, urgency of the job; cost and economic factors.
If work performed by outside services results in lay-off of any of the existing employees, the Undm will have recourse to the grievance procedure,
- 34-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re; Weekend Overtime for Mechanics
1.	The parties agree that when tie plant epeeates on a Saturday and/or Sunday, the mechanics who normally work in each operating area will work overtime unless the employees notify the Company in advance that they have other commitments.
2.	All weekend overtime w i 11 be posted on the maintenance beard, normally by Thursday, by means of a log sheet onto which the mechanics wi 11 indicate their intent to work. Any refusal to work wi 11 be considered as being at work for overtime rotation purposes.
3.	If the plant is operating, 1he Company will allocate the qualified mechanics for the jobs to be done. Other required maintenance overtime will be done on a rotational basis by qualified mechanics.
4.	The parties also agree that the Company will keep pos ted the overtime for a 11 mechanics and a revision will be done on a quarterly basis. Any imbalance in overtime will be made up, subject to business ccnditicns, over the next quarterly period.
- 35 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Bb: Technological Change
In the event the Company introduces technological change in the form of new equipment, the parties understand that the affected employees who are determined to be redundant as a result of technological change will be dealt with in accordance with Article 16 and 18 of the Collective Agreement.
Furthermore, the Company agrees to meet with the Union two weeks prior to the implementation of the new equipment in order to discuss issues relating to the displacement of employees.
- 36-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Rs: Establishment of New Occupations
The Company and Union during the 1992 collective agreement renewal process discussed the establishment cf two (2) new occupations in the Maintenance Department:
1.	maintenance apprentice
2,	maintenance technologist
«
However, due Id the need to further investigate and finalize the actual requirements of each occupation in accordance with recognized government standards including educational pre-requisites, the parties agree to Sfer the discussions to a later date. The Company wi 11 notify the Union in advance of implementing each occupation and will discuss wage rates and other relevant issues.
- 37 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING e; Training and_lion Fund
The Company agrees to contribute one cent (1$) per hour to the United Food and Commercial Workers’ Union Local 175 Training and Education E\jnd for all hours paid and worked by all bargaining unit employees effective January 15, 1993.
Effective January 15, 1995, the above contribution wi 11 be increased to a total of two cents (20) per hour.
- 38 -
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Re; Hours of Work
The Company has informed the Union of its intent to integrate new products and production lines into the Shopsy’s facility. In view of this, the parties recognize that the hours of work in Appendix "C" may not meet the Company's business requirements for the efficient scheduling of operations and manpower.
When the Company is contemplating a change to Appendix "C", the Company agrees to meet with the Union and Labour-Management Committee to discuss the required changes and the requirements of the business. Alternate schedules, considered to be more in keeping with the wishes of the employees, may be proposed by the Union. The parties agree that the above discussions will be held with tie ultimate goal of improving the operation which in tom improve the welfare of all employees.
When the Company is contemplating a change to an existing employee's work schedule beyond the Company's right in Article 10.01, the Union will give serious consideration to the Company's proposal and where the parties are in agreement, the new schedule will become part of Appendix
Where the Company is contemplating a schedule which is not listed in Appendix "C" for new jobs or additional jobs which did not exist as of the date of ratification, the Company ap e s to post all new or additional jobs in accordance with Article 17. The new schedule will be implemented on a three month trial basis. Ebllowing the trial period, the Company will again meet with the Union to discuss the new schedule. If the Company is satisfied that the new schedule meets its requirements, the new schedule will become part of Appendix "C", If during or at the conclusion of the trial period, tie Company is not satisfied that the new schedule meets its needs, the Company will adjust the starting time as required and commence a new trial period. If the incumbent of the job does not want to move to the adjusted starting time, he/she will be allowed to return to his/her previous job.
It is understood that if the parties are unable to agree to any of the changes discussed above, the current provisions in Appendix "C" will remain in effect.
Agreed this 2Dth day of July, 1994,
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL,	FOR SHOPSY’S FOODS.
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,	A MEMBER OF MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.,
mCAI S 175 AND 633___________________ ISO BARTOR ROAD. WESTON. ONTARIO
Len Rothweil R±a± Grave SandraS call Tom Kennedy Suat Merai Teresa Suppa
M. Parkinson J, DeLuca J.M, Hercus
-39-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Be; Lay-off Notice
As a result of anticipated changes at the Shopsy’s plant, notwithstanding Article 16.07, it is agreed that during die term of this Agreement, any employee who is to be laid-off as a direct result of die discontinuance of the wiener, shipping and driver departments shall receive two (2) weeks’ written notice or two (2) weeks' basic pay in lieu of such notice.
Agreed this 20th day of July, 1994.
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCALS 175 AND 633____________
FOR SHOPSY’S FOODS,
A MEMBER CF MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC, ISO BARTOR ROAD. WESTON. ONTARIO
Len Rothwell Robert Grave Sandra Scali Tom Kennedy Suat Metal Teresa Suppa
M. Parkinson J. DeLuca J.M. Hercus
-40-
(EMORA1 OF AGREEMENT
Re: Allowable Break
As a result of anticipated changes at die Shopsy’s plant, notwithstanding Article 16.09(c), it is agreed that during the term of tins Agreement, any employee who is laid c£f as a direct result of the discontinuance of the wiener, shipping and driver departments shall lose his/her seniority when he/she has been laid c£f continuously for a period of none than eighteen (18) months.
Agreed this 20th day of July, 1994,
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCALS 17S AND 633_____________
Len Rothwell R±ert Grave Sandra Scali
Tom
Suat Meral Teresa Suppa
FOR SHOPSY’S FOODS,
A MEMBER OF MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC., ISO BARTOR ROAD. WESTON. ONTARIO
M. Parkinson J. DeLuca J.M. Hercus
- 41 -
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Be: Treatment of Senior Displaced Employees
As a result of anticipated changes at Shopsy’s, notwithstanding Articles 17 and 18, it is agreed that during the term of this Agreement any employee displaced as a result of his/her job being permanently discontinued will be treated as follows:
1.	The above employee will be placed on ajob vacancy in the plant provided that he/she can perform the required work.
2.	If a vacancy does not exist the employee will displace the junior employee in the plant provided he/she can perform the required work. Those employees placed on the junior employees’j ob as a result cf the closing of the wiener, shipping and driver departments, will receive preferential treatment for future job openings which are posted in accordance with Article 17.03. The senior employee above who applies for a posting will receive consideration for the job ahead of an employee who also applies and who has more seniority but was not displaced due to the closing of the wiener, shipping and driver departments.
3. If lay-offs become necessary, an employee who is displaced due to the closing may elect layoff at the tine of his/her job being discontinued, rather than being staff reduced to the junior job in the plant, but will waive his/her rights to lay-off notice. The above laid-off employee may decline recall as long as a junior employee is available who can perform the required work.
4. New jobs or additional jobs (under paragraph 2) will be posted for a period of 6 working days.
Agreed this 20th day of July, 1994.
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNICN, LOCALS 175 AND 633_____________
Len Rothweli Robert Grave Sandra Seal!
Tom Kennedy Suat Meral Teresa Suppa
FOR SHOPSY’S FOODS,
A MEMBER CF MAPLE LEAP FOODS EC., 150 BARTOR ROAD. WESTON. ONTARIO
M. Parkinson
J, DeLuca J,M, Hercus