COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
pjYL ■
FILE No.
(61 - 6<>l*2
CERT. FILE
G!:!iT. HTr; _
TOTAL T'TT _—
-
EfF. Da EXP.r '
s]i * Sim -0^1 3l. '	11
CARGILL LIMITED
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
GOD- '
ID^
r.
OF THE FIRST PART

‘---....( \
1 EMPLOYER	j 1
-AND-
J
OCT 2 o1 200S
?3LECTIVE BARGAINING JNHTRMATIQN SFRViCES
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
Term: January 1st, 2008 to December 31st, 2011
00266 (10)
INDEX
Article 1	Recognition.................................................................   1
Article 2	Purpose....................................................................... 1
Article 3	Reservation of	Management Rights ........................................... 2
Article 4	Representation................................................................ 3
Article 5	Grievance Procedure .......................................................... 5
Article 6	No Strikes or Lockouts........................................................ 9
Article 7	Union Security...........................................................     10
Articles	Discrimination	..........................................................   11
Article 9	Seniority .................................................................   12
Article 10	Temporary Transfers.......................................................... 16
Article 11	Leave of Absence ............................................................ 17
Article 12	Bereavement ...............................................................   17
Article 13	Jury Duty..................................................................   18
Article 14	Hours of Work and Overtime .................................................  18
Article 15	Pay on Day of Injury ........................................................ 21
Article 16	Designated Holidays .....................................................     21
Article 17 Vacation with Pay .............................................................. 23
Article 18	Safety and Health............................................................ 24
Article 19	Welfare....................................................................   25
Article 20	Wages........................................................................ 30
Article 21	Clothing .................................................................    30
Article 22	General...................................................................... 31
Article 23	Maintenance................................................................   32
Article 24	Duration..................................................................... 34
Schedule " A .............................................................................. 35
Classifications............................................................................ 37
Excess of 8 Hour Shifts .................................. 43
“Raymond” Lift Truck Licensing............................ 45
Payroll Deduction......................................... 46
UFCW Training & Education	Fund...........................  47
UFCW Leukemia Fund......................................   48
Time Limits .............................................. 49
Employee Meat Purchases	.............................. 50
-	Company Policies ......................................  51
-	Knife Sharpening........................................ 52
Letter of Understanding #10 - Article 18 - Health & Safety	....................... 53
Letter of Understanding #11 - Lead Hands ........................................... 54
Letter of Understanding #12 - Parking Lot - Snow Plowing	& Salting.................. 55
Letter of Understanding #13 -Students............................................... 56
Letter of Understanding #14 - Christmas and New Year’s holiday schedule............. 57
Letter of Understanding #15 - Pay Equity............................................ 58
Letter of Understanding #1 Letter of Understanding #2 Letter of Understanding #3 Letter of Understanding #4 Letter of Understanding #5 Letter of Understanding #6 Letter of Understanding #7 Letter of Understanding #8 Letter of Understanding #9
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
CARGILL LIMITED
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART -AND-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA LOCAL 175 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1- RECOGNITION
1.01	The. Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent of all its employees at 165 Dunlop Drive, Guelph, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff.
1.02	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will not bargain with or enter into a Collective Agreement with any other trade union on behalf of or binding upon the employees in the bargaining unit or any of them.
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
2.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish collective bargaining
relations between the Company and the Union, to continue the cooperation and spirit of good will between the Company and its employees, to provide machinery for the prompt disposition of grievances arising under this Agreement and to set forth negotiated conditions of employment for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement. The union recognizes that in order to provide a proper relationship between the parties, the Company must be kept in a strong competitive market position, which means it must produce at the best possible efficiency and lowest cost, consistent with fair labour standards, and the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company in attaining such objectives.
l
2.02
ARTICLE 3
3.01
Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operation of the business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times;
(a)	to maintain an improved quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials or time;
(c)	to assist in keeping the Company's premises clean and tidy;
(d)	to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Except as and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Company and remain exclusively within the rights of the Company and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's rights shall include:
(a)	The right: to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to make, alter and enforce, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices to be adhered to by its employees; to discipline and discharge employees for just cause;
(b)	The right: to select, hire and control the working. force and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend employees; to plan, direct and control operations; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit;
(c)	The right to determine, the location and extent of its operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment or discontinuance; the direction of the working forces; the products to be processed; the standards of production; the contracting out of work, subject to Article 3.03; the schedules of work and of production; the number of shifts; the methods, processes and means of performing work; the job content and requirements; quality and quantity of standards; the qualifications of employees, the use of improved methods, machinery and equipment; whether there shall be overtime work and who shall perform such work, subject to the provisions of Article 14 herein; and how many shall operate or work on any job, operation, machine or product line; the administration of the Company's pay system; which.jobs shall be incentive jobs and which jobs shall not; the number of hours to be worked: starting and quitting time. And generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company.
i
3.02	Management will not normally perform work performed by bargaining unit employees. This work is never intended to replace bargaining unit employees. Management will ensure that this work is kept to a reasonable minimum.
3.03	The Company agrees that they shall not contract out any further bargaining unit work, with the exception cf maintenance work where the Company’s maintenance employees do not have the skills or the equipment to do the work, or the work cannot be completed in a timely manner.
ARTICLE 4 - REPRESENTATION
4.01	Under the current plant layout and production methods, the Union may
designate and the Company will recognize a Chief Steward and one (1) steward for each of the following areas:
■	1) Barn, Kill Floor Line up to the Inspection area.
2)	Inspection area, gut table, the rest of the Kill Floor Line to the cooler.
13)	Fancy Meats
4) Pre-break room, Bone, Trim Line and Core Sampling areas, day shift.
5) Pre-break room, Bone, Trim Line and Core .Sampling areas, afternoon shift.
16)	Cutting	Room tables 1,2 and	3, day shift
7)	Cutting	Room tables 1,	2 and	3, afternoon	shift.
8)	Cutting	Room tables 4,	5 and	the Hip Rail,	day shift
9)	Cutting	Room tables 4,	5 and	the Hip Rail,	afternoon shift
10)	Packaging day shift.
11)	Packaging afternoon shift.
12)	Skid-off, Warehouse and Shipping areas, day shift.
13)	Skid-off, Warehouse and Shipping areas, afternoon shift.
14)	Skid-off, warehouse and Shipping areas, midnight shift.
15)	Maintenance Department.
16)	Sanitation-Barn, Kill Floor, and Fancy Meat.
17)	Sanitation-Cooler, Cutting Room, Packaging, Warehouse and Shipping.
The Chief Steward will represent the Global Meats, Sundry and Cooler Department.
3
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
Such stewards must be employees of the department or area, which they have been designated to represent. As well, the Union may designate and the Company will recognize a grievance committee comprised of four (4) employees as follows:
1)	The	Local Chairperson
2)	The	Chief Steward
3)	The	Recording Secretary or Vice Chair
4)	The	applicable employees' Steward
No one shall be eligible to serve as steward or grievance committeeman unless he is an employee of the Company and has at least six (6) months' seniority.
The Company agrees to post an up to date list of the name of the Supervisor/Foreman in each area and a list of the employees who come under their direction. A copy will be given to the Union. Employees will only take directions from one (1) Supervisor/Forman in each area.
The Union will inform the Company in writing of the identity of all stewards and grievance committee members and the department or areas, which each steward represents and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
For the purpose of this Agreement the plant grievance committee and the stewards together with the officers of the Local Union shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out. The Company hereto agrees that it will faithfully carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Stewards, members of committees and Union officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and such persons shall not leave their regular duties without requesting and obtaining the permission of their foreman or immediate supervisor and such permission will not be withheld for more than (1) one hour. When resuming their regular duties, they shall report to their foreman or immediate supervisor and will give a reasonable explanation with respect to their absence, when requested to do so. Stewards shall be permitted to meet once a month on Company property to discuss ongoing issues. Such meetings shall not exceed one (1) hour off the line unless previously approved by the Fluman Resources Manager. Stewards will be paid their straight time hourly rate for all time spent in the Stewards meetings.
4
4.06	Discipline on an employee’s record will be withdrawn after one (1) calendar year from the date of discipline.
4.07	If it becomes necessary to communicate a disciplinary action to a bargaining unit employee, the employee IS entitled to union representation.
4.08	Chairperson or designate will be excused and paid for eight (8) hours per day for Union business. The Chief Steward or designate will be excused and paid for five hours (5) per day for Union business.
4.09	The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee regarding his work or conduct, the designated area Steward shall be present as a witness. If the designated area Steward is not available, then the Chief Steward or Plant Chairperson shall be present. The employee may request the Steward to leave. If the designated Steward, Chief Steward or Plant Chair is not present, the meeting will be postponed until one is available. If the meeting is held without the above Union representation, any conclusion, verbal or written, will be null and void, except if the employee asked the Union representative to leave. Should any reprimand, warning or discipline be issued, the employee shall be notified within five (5) working days. If an investigation is required, the employee shall receive written confirmation of the results of the investigation within five (5) working days of its completion. With respect to the afternoon or midnight shift, the designated area Steward should be used for discipline meetings but another Steward can be used if the designated Steward is not available.
4.10	The Company shall supply the Union with office space on the premises. The Company will endeavor to try to locate a bigger office for the Union that can fit at least two (2) desks and a filing cabinet.
4.11	The Employer will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the wages of the Negotiating Committee for all negotiations, including conciliation and mediation. The Negotiating Committee will consist of nine (9) members, including the Plant Chairperson and the Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most
important matters in the successful administration of the Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure as hereinafter set forth shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the griever for the prompt
5
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising with respect to the interpretation; application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever the term "grievance procedure" is used in this Agreement it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement.
The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievances unless such grievance has been presented to the Company at Step 1 of the grievance procedure, within (5) five days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based, were known or should have been known by the griever. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance, which has been presented late, the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
The Company will notify the Union, as to what disciplinary action will be taken within five (5) days after the circumstances given rise to it are known or ought to have been known by the company. The employee shall remain working until the investigation is completed unless the employee is an endangerment to himself, the company or co-workers. If a supervisor fails to reply to the Grievance, the Grievance will proceed to the next step.
All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean "working days", i.e. exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or the holidays set out in Article 16 hereof.
An employee who has a complaint or a grievance will ordinarily discuss the matter with his immediate supervisor and if the matter is not resolved in that discussion he may refer the question to his steward for consideration. However, should the nature of the complaint or grievance be such that the employee prefers to refer it to his steward first, then he may do so.
STEP NO. 1
If an employee has a grievance, the grievance shall, within the five (5) days referred to in Article 5.03 hereof, be presented to his departmental supervisor. The employee will have his steward or the Chief Steward, as the case may be, accompany him to see the departmental supervisor. The departmental supervisor shall give the griever a written reply as soon
6
as possible but not later than three (3) days after such discussion. If the departmental supervisor's reply is not satisfactory to the griever, the next step must be taken within five (5) days of the departmental supervisor's answer, but not thereafter.
STEP N0.2
At this step the grievance shall be reduced to writing and presented to the Plant Manager or designate, within the aforesaid five (5) days of receipt of the departmental supervisor's written reply, but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify the facts giving rise to the grievance, the section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated, the relief requested and shall be signed by the employee and counter signed by his Union.
A meeting will be held between the Steward and Chief Steward together with the griever involved and the Plant Manager or designate, together with other representatives of management within three (3) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Plant Manager or designate. The Plant Manager or designate, shall give his written reply to the Chief Steward within five (5) days of such meeting. If.the Plant Manager's or designate's reply is not satisfactory to the Chief Steward, the next step must be taken within five (5) days after the delivery of the Plant Manager's or designate's reply.to the Chief Steward but not thereafter.
STEP NO. 3
If the grievance is not settled or withdrawn at Step 2, then the grievance will be scheduled at Step 3.
Within ten (10) days thereafter, a meeting will, take place between the grievance committee (which may be accompanied by the Union representative) and a management committee. The griever shall be present if requested by either party. The Company shall deliver its decision in writing to the Chief Steward within ten (10) working days of such meeting.
STEP NO. A
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step 3, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within sixty (60) days from delivery of the decision at Step 3 to the Chief Steward, but not thereafter.
7
5.06
5.07
5.08
5.09
5.10
5.11
The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and .address of the moving party's nominee to the Board.
The recipient of the notice shall within sixty (60) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of its appointee to the arbitration board. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, as soon as possible, appoint a third person who shall be a chairman. If the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limit the Minister of Labour for' Ontario shall, if requested within ten (10) days from the expiry date upon which the two (2) appointees are to appoint a chairman (but not thereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
The board of arbitration shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, not to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbitrate specified in Step 3 of Article 5.05 hereof.
Each party hereto shall bear its own costs incidental to any such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two (2) parties hereto.
No matter may be submitted to arbitration, which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times specified.
A grievance which has been disposed of pursuant to the grievance provisions of this Agreement shall not again be made the subject matter of a grievance. This clause shall not preclude a different grievance from being filed respecting similar but different circumstances. The Union shall have the right to withdraw the grievance at any stage of the proceedings.
A decision or settlement reached at any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure both the company management and the union representatives who pass on the same as provided herein shall, after ratification, sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance so
8
5.12
5.13
ARTICLE 6
6.01
that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was. Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the griever at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by a board of arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be at the employee's straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums, for such hours as the employee-would have worked for the company or for the holiday pay to which he would have been entitled if the violation had not occurred, but there shall be subtracted there from any monies the employee received during such period.
Union Policy Grievance Or Company Grievance
A Union policy grievance or a Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing within ten (10) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step 3 of Article 5.05. The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance must be submitted to arbitration within sixty (60) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sections of this Agreement shall be followed.
It is expressly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 5.13 may not be used by the Union to institute a grievance directly affecting an employee or employees, which such employee or employees could themselves institute and the provisions of Article 5.05 hereof shall not thereby be bypassed.
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operation neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, picketing, sit down, slowdown, or any suspension of or stoppage of or interference with work or production which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall there be any sympathy strikes and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
9
6.02	Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct shall be subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
6.03	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the employees will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension thereof until all of the conciliation provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been fully exhausted.
ARTICLE 7 - UNION SECURITY
7.01	The Company agrees that:
(a)	All employees who are presently members of the Union shall maintain their membership in the Union by having their regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted to the Union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b)	All employees hired after January 1, 1992, shall be required, to become members of the Union by tendering the Union initiation fee in the amount so determined by the Constitution and shall maintain their membership in the union by having their regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted to the union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
7.02	The Company agrees to deduct regular monthly union dues, special assessments uniformly and non-uniformly levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union, upon written notification from the Union. Twice the regular monthly union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding from the first pay and remit to the union on or before the last day of the month. The Company will not deduct union dues from Extended Weekly Indemnity, Weekly Indemnity, or benefit check payments to employees.
7.03	The Company will at the time of making such remittance to the Union, specify the employees from whose pay check deductions were made and the reason why no deductions were made for that month. The Company also agrees to fill out the forms for new employees called back from the layoff as supplied by the union and submit these forms with the first check-off to the union office. The Company agrees to provide the above by electronic means. The remittance statement shall' be documented by location containing a dues and initiation report which will be provided in the form of email (remit@ufcw175.com) or on a computer diskette, as well as a hard copy of the dues report
10
being attached to the remittance cheque. The information provided shall be on a standard spreadsheet in Excel, Quattro Pro, Lotus or other software program acceptable and adaptable to the Union. The spreadsheet will be in a format provided by the Union and the Company will provide the following information as known to the
Social Insurance Number Employee number if applicable Full name (Last/First/lnitial)
Full address, including City and Postal Code Telephone number (including area code)
Bate of hire Rate of pay Classification
Explanation why Union dues are not deducted Total dues deducted Back dues owing
Vacation pay breakdown of dues owing Initiation fees deducted Total Initiation fees deducted
7.04	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless against any claim, which may arise from complying with the provisions of this Article.
7.05	The use of the masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered to also include the feminine.
7.06	At the discretion of the Company, the Company will provide paid educational leave for employees for improvement of skill levels pertaining to the work place or for improving levels pertaining to health and safety.
7.07	When as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or a job is discontinued and the incumbent is transferred to a lower rated job according to his seniority, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of twelve (12) months.
ARTICLE 8 - DISCRIMINATION
8.01	a) The company recognizes and will not interfere with the right of its
employees to become members of the- Union and will not discriminate against, interfere with, restrain or coerce employees because cf membership in the union. The Union agrees- that neither the Union nor its members will intimidate or coerce
li
Company.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10. 11. 12.
13.
14.
8.02
ARTICLE 9
9.01
9.02
9.03
employees into membership and also that it will not solicit membership, collect dues, distribute Union information or hold meetings on Company property.
b) Neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate against any employee because of race, color, sex, physical disability, age, religious beliefs, ancestry, place of origin, or status. Both parties to this agreement agree to abide by the Ontario Human Rights Code.
The Company agrees to permit the Union to post notices of meetings and legitimate Union business but not political matters on bulletin boards in four (4) locations as designated and mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company for such purposes. These will be separate bulletin boards for Union purposes only. The company will provide the Union glass covered bulletin boards with locks and keys.
SENIORITY
An employee will be considered a probationary employee until he has been employed by the Company for ninety (90) calendar days. During such probationary period he will have no seniority rights but once seniority is acquired it will be regarded as having started from the date upon such probationary period commenced. During the probationary period, the Employer shall have the right to discharge a probationary employee with or without written just cause. Such discharge shall not be subject to the terms of the grievance procedure.
The Company will furnish the Union with a seniority list of all union employees. Such list will show the employee's seniority and the department in which the employee holds such seniority. The seniority list shall be revised once every two (2) months and a copy supplied to the Union.
In case of job posting in work force the following factors will be considered:
(a)	Seniority;
(b)	Reliability;
(c)	Capability.
If B and C are reasonable the senior employee will be given the opportunity to qualify for the job as outlined in Article 9.08 (C), (D), or (E).
12
An employee shall lose all seniority and service rights if:
9.04
9.05
9.06
(a)	an employee voluntarily quits;
(b)	an employee is discharged for cause and is not reinstated under the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement;
a person on layoff fails to return to work within ten (IO) days after the Company's notice of recall is sent by registered mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on the Company's. records, or if the person within two (2) working days after such notice of recall is received fails to notify the Company of his intention to return to work;
(d)	an employee is laid off for a period in excess of two (2) years;
(e)	if an employee absents himself from work for three (3) consecutive working days without a justifiable reason.
(f)	if an employee fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of any leave granted to him unless he is excused by the Company.
The appointment or selection of employees for supervisory positions, full time Union positions or for any position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. If any employee on the seniority list is so transferred or appointed and later, within ninety (90) days for supervisory .positions and one (1) year for a full time Union position of the Company or the employee's request, is transferred back to the position which is governed by this Agreement then he shall be credited with seniority based upon his total length of service with the Company from the date on which he was last hired. A vacated position will be posted on the 31st day. If the employee who has been transferred does not return to the bargaining unit within thirty (30) days he forfeits the right to his existing job and may only return to a job vacancy that he may be able to. attain by the posting.system.
Sick Leave
An employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job for more than two (2) work days, shall upon furnishing evidence satisfactory to the Company of such illness or injury be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such sickness or injury except that at the end of twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with less than three (3) years' seniority, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with three (3) years or more seniority,
13
9.07
9.08
of continuous absence because of such illness or injury the employee's employment and seniority may be terminated. The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability from time to time as required by the Company. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability as required will result in the termination of the employee's employment and seniority. Before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must present a doctor's certificate stating that he has recovered sufficiently both physically and mentally, to be able to return to his regular job classification br other available work and perform such job in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with sick leave.
It shall be the duty of the employee or laid off person 'to notify the Company promptly, in writing, of any change of address. If an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records.
When an employee is notified that he is being laid off he shall, at that time, attend at the Company's office and ensure that the Company's records correctly set out his address and telephone number.
(a)	The Company agrees to give seniority employees five (5) working days notice of lay-off or pay for that portion of such five (5) working days for which notice is not given except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown.
(b)	(i) Lay-off:
In the event of a layoff, employees shall be laid off in the reverse order of Plant seniority, providing the senior employee has the skill and ability;
If the incumbent is removed from his position due to job elimination because of a layoff, then the Company shall place him into a vacant position and his rate cf pay shall be maintained for one year. During the time of layoff, the Company will allow employees the opportunity to post into a new position, or he can return to his previous position when it becomes available;
14
(ii) Employees shall be recalled in order of their Plant seniority, providing the senior employee has the skill and ability.
(c)	Job Posting
All Jobs will be posted including Class 7; but Class 7 will only be posted twice to prevent the domino effect. This posting will be posted within three (3) working days for .a period of three (3) working days. The job will be awarded within. three (3) working days. The notice shall set out a job description, classification, wage rate, and start and finish time:	The Union will be notified of the
successful employee and the employee will be placed on the job within ten (10) working days. Ifthe transfer has not happened within ten (10) working days, the employee shall report to his new position on the eleventh (11th) working day and start his training or lose his posted position. During the three (3) days of posting the Company . may temporarily fill the job as it deems proper. An employee who is eligible for any job may be allowed a trial period of up to ten (10) consecutive working days in the relevant job to enable management to determine whether the employee will be able to perform in that job to- the Company's quality and quantity standards, If such employee does not qualify after, the trial period, he shall forthwith be returned to his original job.
The Company will notify the Union of the selected employee at least three (3) days before the job is to be started, if possible. The Company will post the names of all applicants and the successful applicant.
It is expressly understood that no successful job applicant awarded the job pursuant to this Article 9.08 (c) may not bid on anotherjob posting for a period of one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days. The successful applicant who declines the job will not be entitled to apply for another job posting for ninety (90) calendar days. The time periods mentioned above refer to the date of when the successful applicant was notified.
As a result of changes in line speeds, jobs will be added, changed and/or eliminated. The Company will discuss these updated job changes with the Union-on a monthly basis.
If the employee performs the work without further training he will be paid the proper rate.
15
(f) All postings to be delivered to and signed by the department or area Steward.
9.09	Temporary Job Postings:
Any vacancy which is the result of sickness, accident, or leave of absence, and which is known to be more that thirty (30) days, will be posted in the department.
After six (6) months the temporary posting will be reviewed by the department Steward.
The posting will be granted to the bidder with the highest department seniority who has the skill and competence to perform the job. The bidder’s position will then be filled by a temporary posting and the same with the following position. The third position may be filled at the discretion of the company.
ARTICLE 10 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
10.01	An employee who is temporarily transferred (transfer not to exceed more
than thirty (30) working days) to a higher rated job (a higher rated job shall include a job whereby the range of rates is higher than the range of rates in the job from which the employee is temporarily transferred) shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is transferred. If the rate of the job to which an employee is temporarily transferred other than as a result of exercising his seniority during a lay-off or at an employee's request, is less than the rate of his regularjob he shall be paid the rate of his regularjob during the period of such temporary transfer. Where the transfer results from the exercise of seniority during lay-off or as a result of employee’s request, he shall be paid the rate of the job to which tie is transferred.
It is the responsibility of the department supervisor to issue the proper rate.
When a temporary transfer is made from one department to another the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the employee to do the required work satisfactorily.
Where an employee is awarded a permanent job in another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his previous department because of his qualifications to perform the work he may express his dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who
16
can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer.
10.02	If an employee is temporarily assigned to another shift, he may apply to be
transferred to his or her original shift. If a job is available on the desired shift and more than one person is applying for that position, the individual who can perform the job and with the most seniority will be granted the transfer for a thirty (30) day period.
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE CF ABSENCE
11.01	Requests for leave of absence must be made to the Human Resource Department, and if granted, such leave of absence will be confirmed in writing. A leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested in writing by the employee on the form provided for such purposes and consented to in writing by the Human Resources Department, covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment cf any kind. Leave of absence shall be permissive only-and shall be without pay or any other form of compensation.
11.02	Normally, a leave of absence will not be granted for a period in excess of
three (3) months.	'
ARTICLE 12 - BEREAVEMENT
12.01	In the case of death of an employee’s spouse, children, step children, parents and step parents, an employee with seniority will be granted up to four (4) consecutive days off work with pay providing such days off are regular working days and providing the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangements.
12.02	In the case of death of an employee’s mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law or grandchildren, an employee with seniority will be granted up to three (3) consecutive days off work with pay providing such days off are regular working days and providing the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangements.
12.03	In case of death of an employee’s grandparent, grandparent-in-law,. brother-in-law, or sister-in- law of a seniority employee, such employee
17
shall be granted one (1) day off with pay provided such day is a regular working day and provided the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangements.
ARTICLE 13 - JURY DUTY
13.01	An employee with established seniority who is called to and reports for
jury duty, or acts as a Crown witness, shall be paid by the Company the difference between the employee's base rate exclusive of premiums and overtime, for the number of hours up to (8) eight or (12) twelve hours that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and the amount that he is paid for his jury duty. In order to be eligible for payment hereunder the employee must:
0) give the Company notice as soon as possible but, within two (2) days of his receipt of his call for jury duty, and;
(jj) report for work when not required for actual jury duty as soon as possible and work the balance of his schedule time.
ARTICLE 14- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01
14.02
The provisions of this Article 14 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed to be a guarantee of or limitation upon the hours of work to be done per day or per week or otherwise, nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
The normal workweek will be composed of forty (40) straight time hours worked from Monday to Friday.
The Company will make every possible effort to retain the existing shift schedule. In the event that a shift change becomes necessary the Company will give seven (7) calendar days written notice of such change to all involved employees, if such notice is not given, the involved employee shall receive payment of time and one half (1 'A ) as a basis, rate for all hours worked outside of his previous scheduled hours for seven (7) calendar days from date of notice. Date of notice is considered day one. Any hours worked before a regular scheduled shift will be considered overtime hours. The Company will ensure that every employee has a minimum of eight (8) hours off between each shift.
The Company has the right to schedule in-plant maintenance
employees from Tuesday to Saturday according to seniority.
18
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
14.07
Employees with the most seniority will have first choice of the new shift.
(2)	If an employee's regular day off in place of Saturday falls on a weekday, he shall be paid time and one-half (1 Vi) the regular rate for hours worked on such a day.
(3)	This shift will consist of two (2) employees.
An employee shall be paid overtime at a rate of time and one-half (1 Vi) the employee's straight time rate of pay exclusive of premiums for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in the day.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 Vi) of the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time (2X) on Sunday.
An employee who performs work on one (1) of the holidays designated in Article 16 hereof, shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half (1 Vi) plus holiday pay and such work shall be at the discretion of the Company and the employee involved.
It is recognized that the Company will from time to time require overtime work and the Union agrees that employees shall perform such overtime work. An employee who wishes to be excused from an overtime assignment shall in support of his request, furnish the Company with a bonafide reason. The Company's decision upon the request will not be made in an arbitrary manner. The Company has the right to schedule up to eight (8) hours of mandatory overtime per week. Overtime that employees volunteer to work, does not count towards the eight (8) hours that are posted and are considered mandatory. 'The Company agrees to give notice of anticipated overtime prior to the last break of the day before the day upon which the overtime will be worked except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown beyond the reasonable' control of the Company. The Company will endeavor as far as practicable to equitably allocate overtime work among qualified employees who presently and normally perform the job or dominant portion of the work required. Non bargaining unit supervisory personnel shall not perform overtime work while qualified bargaining unit employees. who would normally perform such work are available save and except for emergencies, instructional or training purposes.
In no case will there be a duplication or pyramiding of overtime or any other premium compensation.
19
14.08
14.09
14.10
14.11
14.12
Each employee shall receive a fifteen (15) minute break during each half of each shift, at a time to be designated by his foreman. If overtime is more than one hour, a fifteen (15) minute coffee break will be given to the employees.
Employees shall receive a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch period.
(a)	twenty (20) minutes paid lunch for maintenance only.
(b)	If an employee is required to work overtime the Company will after two (2) hours work make a hot meal available with no cost to the employee. If no hot meal is available the employee will receive ten dollars ($10.00) in lieu thereof.
(c)	PLANT (Excluding Beef Kiln
The Company will not reschedule an employee’s breaks (more than fifteen (15) minutes) or lunch time more than one half (%) hour prior to the regularly scheduled times in the event of equipment breakdown.
Beef Kill
The Company will not reschedule an employee’s breaks (more than fifteen (15) minutes) or lunch time more than one halff/i) hour prior to the regularly scheduled times in the event of equipment breakdown. The current practice of determining the time from the Knocking Box will continue.
The Company will provide the Union a quarterly listing outlining the scheduled breaks and lunch times for each department in Plant
An employee who properly reports for work as scheduled or as directed, unless he has been notified in advance not to report, will receive at least four (4) hours’ work at his straight time base hourly rate or shall be paid for four (4) hours at his straight time base hourly rate, exclusive of premiums, except in cases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility breakdown, inclement weather.
The Company will provide a relief-man in the cutting room and kill floor. Call-in Pay
An employee called back to work after having completed his regular shift .and left the plant premises, shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours’
20
pay at the employee's straight time rate unless he works to his scheduled starting time.
14.13	Weekly Guarantee
(a)	The Company agrees to guarantee every employee in every week of employment, forty (40) hours' pay at a regular rate subject to the following provisions. Overtime, off-shift premium and weekend premium shall not be considered when calculating what guarantee, if any, is to be paid.
(b)	. The Company may change the weekly guarantee to thirty-seven
(37) hours, not more than ten (10) times per contract year, provided the Company gives notice of intent to reduce the guarantee by Friday of the proceeding week. A copy of such notice shall be posted and given to the Plant Chairperson.
(c)	The guarantee referred to herein shall be reduced by the number of hours for which an employee is not eligible for payment of wages, This will include tardiness, or absence from work on any day or part of a day, quitting or hiring during the week, being engaged in a stoppage of work, suspension or dismissal or being on lay-off.
14.14	Straight time and overtime hours will be totaled separately by the supervisor.
ARTICLE 15- PAY ON DAY OF INJURY
15.01	An employee who is injured - during working hours while properly
performing his duties of employment and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physician shall be paid for. the time lost on the day he was injured at his regular straight time hourly rate. The number of hours paid on the day of injury will equal the number of hours worked by his department on the day of his injury.
ARTICLE 16 - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
16.01	(a) A seniority employee with the Company will be compensated for time lost as a result of one (1) of the following holidays being observed. Compensation shall be equivalent to eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's regular rate, provided he complies with the qualifications set forth in this Article 16.
21
16.02
16.03
16.04
The designated holidays are:
New Year's Day, Labour Day, Good Friday, Thanksgiving Day, Victoria Day, Christmas Day, Canada Day, Boxing Day, Civic Holiday & Family Day
Clarity Note: For this calendar year 2008, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve will be four (4) hour shifts with eight (8) hours cf pay in light of the fact that Family Day has already passed.
The Company will only work four (4) hour shifts on the workday before December 25 and the workday before January 1, to take effect, the second year of the contract. For clarity, the Company will only schedule four hour shifts on the workday before December 25 and the workday before January 1, if those workdays are Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve.
The Company reserves the right to declare an alternative day other than July 1st for the observance of Canada Day to the closest Monday or Friday of that week.
In addition to the above, twice each year an employee who has attained seniority, shall be entitled to one (1) personal day off with pay during the period of April 1st to September 30th and one (1) personal day with pay during the period of October 1st to March 31s', to be arranged at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the immediate supervisor.
In order to qualify for payment for any of the holidays designated in this Article 16.01, (except for the floaters) the employee must work the full scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately prior to and the full scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately following the holiday except where the employee requests and is granted, prior to the holiday, permission in writing to be absent on one (1) only of the qualifying days.
When any of the above-noted holidays, referred to in Article 16.01 fall on Saturday or Sunday, the Friday preceding or Monday following shall be deemed to be the holiday for purposes of the Agreement.
If an employee is being paid sick benefit or WSIB (and the claim has been approved) when a statutory holiday occurs, the Company agrees to pay the employee eight hours (8) payfor that day. The Company will notify WSIB or the insurance carrier not .to pay for the statutory holiday as this responsibility rests with the Company.
22
16,05	When an employee is required by his doctor to perform light duty activities
due to a work related injury, the Company agrees to pay full regular wages for maximum period of three (3) months providing the employee cooperates with the Company's return to work program to achieve a speedy recovery.
ARTICLE 17 - VACATION WITH PAY
17.01
17.02
17.03
Seniority employees shall be entitled to an annual vacation in accordance with the following schedules:
(a)	for employees with less than one (1) year of seniority - four percent (4%).
one (1) year's seniority but less than five (5) year's seniority as at March 31s* of each year -two (2)weeks at four percent (4%).
five (5)year's seniority but less than ten (10) years' seniority as at March 31st of each year - three (3) weeks at six percent (6%).
(d)	ten (10) year's seniority but less than fifteen (15)years' seniority as at March 31'" of each year - four (4) weeks at eight percent (8%).
(e)	fifteen (15)year's seniority or more as at March 31st of each year -five (5)weeks at ten percent (10%).
twenty (20)year's seniority or more as at March 31s1 of each year-five (5)weeks at ten percent (10%)
(g) Vacation Bonus
5 -9 years 10-14 years 15-19 years 20 years or more
$50.00 per week $100.00 per week $150.00 perweek $200.00 perweek
An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason shall receive vacation pay for the period to which he is entitled.
The Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacation at times requested by employees. Employee can choose their entire vacation entitlement during first pick by their seniority position. Only three (3) weeks can be chosen between June 1sl and September 1sl. Vacation time selected in the month of March, between June 1st and September 1El, and
23
ARTICLE 18
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
between December 15th and January 15th must be taken. Employees eligible for vacations shall be notified of their vacation periods as far in advance as possible. The Company will allow minimum ten percent (10%) of each department off for vacation. The Company will give a copy of the finalized vacation schedule to the Union by April 15th.
- SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company shall continue its practice of making reasonable provision for safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. The Company and the Union agree to co-operate with the Health and Safety Committee concerning the health and safety of its employees.
No employee shall continue to refuse to use or operate any machine, device or thing or to work in the work place after the employer has, pursuant to Section 3 (1) investigated the report in the presence of the employee and the department health and safety representative, where the Company either disputes the report or takes steps to make the machine, device or thing or the place safe, or comply as per Safety Legislation, as amended' from time to time. This Article 18.Q2 is made pursuant to Section 3 (c) of the Act respecting Employee's Health and Safety and all references contained herein are made pursuant to such Statute.
A joint health and safety committee shall be constituted of an equal number of representatives of management and of the Union which shall identify potential danger, institute means of improving health and safety of employees, including health and safety programs. The committee shall meet at least once a month. Time spent on such meetings is to be considered time worked. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employer and the Union office.
The Company will ensure that all its foremen and supervisors will co-operate fully with the safety committee in compliance with provincial regulations to investigate accidents.
The joint health and safety committee and the representatives thereof shall have full access to accident reports and other health and safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports, and data provided to and by Worker's Compensation Board and the government or its agencies.
24
ARTICLE 19 - WELFARE
To be eligible for benefits, all employees must complete ninety (90) days employment
19.01	The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee one hundred percent (100)% of the cost of the Group Insurance Plan subject to the following:
(a)	Life Insurance: all employees will be covered for one (1) times their annual income to a maximum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00);
(b)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment: fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) maximum per employee;
(c)	Lonu-Term Disability: seventy per cent (70%) of an employee's monthly income to a maximum of one thousand five hundred fifty dollars ($1,550.00). Non evidence maximum is fifteen hundred fifty dollars ($1550.00). Such payment shall be with respect to sickness or accident not covered by WSIB and shall be payable after one hundred and twenty (120) days of disability from sickness or accident and will continue to age sixty-five (65) or prior to recovery.
(d)	Major Medical Plan, Including Drugs: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per employee. The Company agrees to pay the unpaid deductible of chiropractor visits not covered by OHIP. Effective date of ratification (May 17, 2008), the Company agrees to provide three hundred twenty five.dollars ($325.00) per year coverage for a Certified Massage Therapist, if referred by a Doctor.
Refer to the Benefits Booklet for your entitlement. The Employer agrees benefits will be maintained for one (1) month after the date of layoff for an employee who is laid off, provided the employees are otherwise eligible. Further, the Employer agrees that benefits will be maintained for two (2) years for an employee who is on long term disability.
19.02	Weekly Indemnity
The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each employee, one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of a Weekly Indemnity Plan.
25
The Weekly Indemnity Plan is on the basis of 1 -4-17, providing for benefits equaling sixty-four percent (64%) of forty (40) hours earnings to a maximum of four hundred and fifty dollars ($450.00), subject to the following:
The waiting period will be waived in respect to an employee who is hospitalized or undergoes day surgery for treatments which involve an operation that was previously admitted into a hospital for a period of twenty four (24) hours or greater.
The normal waiting period for sick pay or a non related workplace injury is three (3) days without reimbursement. In the event, an employee is off work for more than fifteen (15) working days the waiting period will be waived and the employee will be paid from day one in accordance with the Weekly Indemnity Plan reimbursement formula as outlined in Article 19.02.
An employee who is hospitalized for twenty-four (24) hours or greater will be paid from day one in accordance with the Weekly Indemnity Plan reimbursementformula as outlined in Article 19.02.
An employee who has day surgery for any of the following will be reimbursed from day one in accordance with the Weekly Indemnity Plan reimbursementformula as outlined in Article 19.02.
Covered Ambulatory Surgical Procedures are as follows:
Arthroscopy, Biopsy (mouth, breast, skin, prostate, and uterine cervix), Brochoscopy, Cataract Surgery, D&C (dilation and curettage of the uterus), Hemorrhoidectomy, hernia Repair, Laryngoscopy (with vocal cord stripping) Laparoscopy-Diagnostic or Tubal Ligation, Myringotomy (Tympanotomy), ’ Nasal Polypectomy, Tonsillectomy-Adenoidectomy, Vasectomy, Amputation, Laser Eye Surgery, Teeth Extraction (five (5) or more teeth) or two (2) or more wisdom teeth or any other procedure as mutually agreed by the Unit Chair and Plant Manager.
To assist in defraying some of the costs of the implementation of this Plan, the Company will be entitled to the entire twelve-twelfths (12112) applicable rebate and/or premium reduction on Unemployment Insurance Commission payments which might accrue as a result of the implementation of the various benefits covered by this Collective Agreement.
26
The three (3) day waiting period will be waived if the employee is sick longer than fifteen (15) working days.
(iii)
Weekly Indemnity, Extended Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability are not payable as a result of auto accidents.
MDM will notify the employees one (1) week prior to their benefits being expired.
19.03	The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of the Employer Health Tax.
19.04	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in the Group Insurance Plan, such benefits and plans are necessarily
. qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contractors of insurance. The terms of any contract issued in respect hereof by any Insurance agency or governmental agencies shall he controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent of benefits and conditions.
19.05	Dental Plan
The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each employee one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of a Dental Plan equal to Blue Cross No. 7, plus improvements outlined below;
The Dental Plan will pay based on the current fee schedule;
Effective January 15t, 2002, the Plan will provide for fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00) coverage per family member per calendar year;
The Plan will provide coverage effective January 1st, 2002, of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) lifetime maximum per family member for dentures or replacing old dentures, and relining, rebasing and denture repairs, at sixty percent (60%);
Effective January 1st, 2002, the Plan will provide for orthodontic coverage at fifty percent (50%) to a one thousand five hundred dollar ($1500.00) lifetime benefit per family member;
Effective January 1st, 2002, the Plan will provide for coverage for crowns and bridges at sixty percent (60%) to a one thousand dollar ($1000.00) lifetime benefit per family member.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
27
19.06
(f) The Employer agrees to pay for eight (8) units of periodontal scaling per calendar year.
Refer to your benefit booklets for your entitlement. The Employer agrees dental benefits will be maintained for one (1) month after the date of layoff for an employee who is laid off, provided the employees are otherwise eligible. Further, the Employer agrees that dental benefits will be maintained for two (2) years for an employee who is on long term disability.
Pension Plan
The Pension Plan instituted in 1982 will continue on. Effective the date of ratification, the Company will contribute twenty-five dollars and fifty cents ($25.50), and in 2009, twenty-six dollars and fifty cents ($26.50) and in 2010, twenty-seven dollars and fifty cents ($27.50) and in 2011, twenty eight dollars and fifty cents ($28.50) per week on behalf of all employees entitled to be members of the pension fund. The Pension is calculated on a forty (40) hour workweek at fifty-five to sixty four cents (55 to 640)- per hour, to a maximum of twenty-two dollars to twenty five dollars and fifty cents ($22.00 to $25.50) a week and the increased amounts listed above for 2008-2011. If an employee gets paid for less than forty (40) hours, the pension is calculated as follows:
Hours worked x $.64 =weekly contribution for 2008
Hours worked x $.66 =weekly contribution for 2009
Hours worked x $.69 =weekly contribution for 2010
Hours worked x $.71 =weekly contribution for 2011
The employees in the pension fund will be required to match the current twenty-two dollars ($25.50) weekly contribution and the increased amounts listed above for 2009, 2010 and 2011 but will be allowed an excess weekly contribution up to their legal maximum per year as determined by Revenue ,Canada. The Company and the employee's contribution into the Pension Plan will not be affected by increases or decreases in the Canada Pension Plan.
The Pension Plan for all employees with seniority will be voluntary. To receive the Company portion, you must contribute to the Pension Plan. Employees will be entitled to participate in the Pension Plan after two (2) years of employment.
28
19.07
19.08
19.09
19.10
19.11
Vision Care
Upon presentation of a receipt for eye glasses or contact lenses the Company will pay a maximum of seven hundred dollars ($700.00) per family or three hundred dollars ($300.00) per single in any two (2) year period. Family is defined as on the registered TD1 Form. See Letter of Understanding concerning vision care. New eye coverage is effective January 1El, 2002.
Single Coverage
Upon proof of purchase an employee will be .entitled to be reimbursed up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the .purchase of eye glasses or contact lenses. An employee will be entitled to a further reimbursement of up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) twenty-four (24) months from the last date of purchase.
Family Coverage
Upon proof of purchase a family will be entitled to be reimbursed up to seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for the purchase of eye glasses or contact lenses in any two (2) year period. The maximum amount that can be spent for each family member is three hundred dollars ($300.00) per two (2) year period.
The Company will cover the portion of one eye examination not covered by OHIP once every two calendar years per family member. A receipt will be required. To begin as of date of ratification.
The Employer agrees that when an insurer carrying plans referred to in this Article 19 is changed, any new plan thereby established shall provide equivalent or superior coverage to the previous Plan.
No grievance may be processed in support of a claim or dispute in respect of the Group Insurance Plan. The decision of the insurer or governmental agency involved can be appealed using the claim appeal process.
(a)	If an employee is on leave for WSIB, Extended Weekly Indemnity, due to auto accident, Compassionate Leave, etc. it is the workers' responsibility to contact the company at regular intervals to keep him advised of his illness and his expected date of return to work.
In the event cf the death of an employee with five (5) or more years of seniority, the Company will continue to provide dental and prescription drug benefits according to the Benefit Book for a period
29
of ninety (90)calendar days from the date of death. These benefits are for the spouse and/or children listed as dependants on the Company’s benefits records as of the time of death.
19.12 The Company will offer dental and prescription drugs benefits according to the benefit book to long-term employees who wish to retire at the age of (60) sixty. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have both 15 years of service and be at least (60) sixty years of age. The cost of this coverage will be shared 50-50 between the Company and the employee. This coverage will expire at age 65.
ARTICLE 20 -WAGES
20.01	Attached to and forming part of this Collective Agreement is Schedule "A' Wages and Classifications. As agreed on January 7, 1981, in the event that a new job classification or a flat rate trip is introduced into the plant, the Company will establish and put into effect a new classification and a rate covering the job in question and notify the Chief Steward of the Local Union, if the Union requests management to negotiate the rate and they are unable to agree on a classification rate for the new job the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance.
20.02	An employee who is displaced from his job shall have the right to displace employees with less seniority provided he is able to perform the job. Employees will be limited to two (2) bumps and may only bump the same class or down. The Company will provide ten (10) days training.
20.03	The Employer agrees that employees will be paid on the current weekly basis.
ARTICLE 21 - CLOTHING
21.01	The Company will supply laundered outer work clothing, oilskins, aprons
and maintenance coveralls to employees, Such apparel remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation cf the employee. For those employees working in cooler areas and wanting to wear a cooler jacket, they can purchase such at fifty percent (50%) discount once every thirty-six (36) months. The Company shall supply freezer suits to employees who do the following specific jobs: freezer person, freezer helper, positioning and retrieving skids, order picker, full time barn helpers and full time outside workers.
30
21.02	The Company shall furnish all knives, steels, wet stones, meat trimmer hooks, scabbards, mesh gloves, arm guards, hearing protection, including ear muffs (where required), and helmets, which are necessary for the work of the employees using them, subject to the establishment of regulations to prevent abuse. Such tools remain the property of the Company. When employees are requesting a new knife or similar tool referred to herein, the worn or broken tool must be turned in at the time of replacement. Further, if the incidents or type of wear, breakage or loss indicates unreasonable or abusive use of the equipment, the employee, at the option of the Company, will be required to pay for the replacement item.
21.03	The Company will reimburse maintenance employees only up to four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) per year for tools subject to presentation of broken or new tools and receipts for purchases of same. If an employee does not use his entire four fifty hundred dollars ($450.00) in one (I) year, he may carry forward any unused portion to the next year. Freezer coats will be made available when Maintenance employees are required to work in the freezers. The Company agrees to pay for the renewal of licenses for certified Tradesmen.
21.04	The Company will pay each employee who has completed ninety (90) days and is on the active payroll on January 1sl and July 1El of each year the amount of ninety dollars ($90.00) each time for the purpose of obtaining safety footwear.
ARTICLE 22- GENERAL
22.01	Buzzer
The Company agrees to install a "buzzer" system on the Kill Floor by the 'Knocking Box to notify employees of breaks, starting and quitting times. The "buzzer system" will be operational within three (3) months of ratification of the new Collective Agreement.
22.02	Line Speeds
The Company agrees to maintain clocks on the Cutting Room Floor and Kill Floor to display the line speeds.
22.03	The Company agrees to pay one half (1A) the cost of the printing of the Collective Agreements, full cost of negotiating committees lost time benefits and wages and one half (1/z) of room costs for the negotiations of the Collective Agreement.
31
ARTICLE 23 - MAINTENANCE
23.01	(a) The maintenance employees with the following qualifications will be paid as follows: Effective January 1, 2008, twenty-five dollars and sixty five cents ($25.65) per hour; effective January 5, 2009, twenty-six dollars ($26.00); effective January 4, 2010, twenty-six dollars and thirty-five cents ($26.35); effective January 3, 2011, twenty-six dollars and eighty, cents ($26.80). Shift premium as per Schedule" A applies:
■	- Fully qualified Electrician with provincial certificate:
. Fully qualified Millwright, Welder and Plumber with provincial certificate:
_ Fully qualified Refrigeration Mechanic,
-	Fully qualified lift truck mechanic with provincial certificate. The Company will agree that all lift truck mechanics will be provided with training to get provincial certificate.
-	Third Class or better Stationary Engineers with provincial certificate:
(b)	Maintenance Mechanic and Small Tool Maintenance Mechanic without
certificate will be paid at a Class 2 rate;	'
(c)	The Refrigeration Class B Operator will be paid one dollar above the Schedule" A Class 1 rate;
(d)	The Maintenance Mechanic and Small Tools positions when open or available will not be re-posted:
(e)	New fully qualified Electricians, Millwrights, Welders, Plumbers, Refrigeration Mechanics, Third Class or better Stationary Engineers with provincial certificate will be paid the regular rate:
(f)	The Company and the Union will establish an Apprenticeship system under the guidelines of the Government Training Branch:
(g)	The hours of work for the Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers as outlined in Letter of Understanding#^
23.02	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
The company and the union will establish an Apprentice and Refrigeration Training Program. Any opening will be posted on the plant bulletin boards.
32
1.	Employees who are interested and have Grade 12 education may apply;
2.	Maximum ten (10) employees with the most seniority and the proper education will be asked to write an aptitude test at an established College or Trades School;
3.	From those employees who pass the test with a mark of seventy-five percent (75%) or higher, the most senior employee will be enrolled in the program as outlined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Skills Training Division;
4.	The apprentice is expected to attend proper night classes or fulltime day classes at a College;
5.	If the apprentice attends day classes, he will apply for U.I.C. and the Company will ensure that the apprentice will not suffer any loss of wages. An apprentice who chooses to go one (1) day per week to school will be topped up for the first ten (10) days at one hundred percent (100%) of his regular wage and at forty-five percent (45%) for the balance of the days,
This top up is meant to bring the apprentice up to his regular 40-hour pay equivalent but not to exceed it.
6.	Apprentices will be paid according to the following schedule:
-	Level 1 - 0 to twenty-five percent (25%) of the required amount of apprenticeship hours at seventy percent (70%) of the full rate
-	Level 2 - 25 to fifty percent (50%) of the required amount of apprenticeship hours at seventy-five percent (75%) of the full rate
-	Level 3 - 50 to seventy-five percent (75%) of the required amount of apprenticeship hours at eighty percent (80%) of the full rate
-	Level 4 - 75 to one hundred percent (100%) of the required amount of apprenticeship hours at eighty-five percent (85%) of the full rate
-	The Apprenticeship Program is to be successfully completed within the required time frame
33
7.	Employees who do not fulfill their obligation under their apprenticeship contract will be transferred back into the plant operation.
8.	The union will be informed of all apprentices put into the program and will be the co-signer of any arrangement.
9.	If the company cannot find a qualified employee in the plant, it has the right to recruit from any other source.
ARTICLE 24 - DURATION
24.01	This Agreement shall become effective on January 1st, 2008, and remain
in full force and effect and shall not be re-opened, save and except otherwise expressly provided, until December 31st, 2011, and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of two (2) years each, unless either party notifies the other in writing as provided in Article
24.02	hereof of its desire to negotiate amendments to this Agreement.
24.02	Notice that amendments are required shall only be given during the period
of not more than three (3) months and not less than one (1) month prior to the 3T" day of December, 2011 or similar annual periods thereafter. If notice of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either party in accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to meet for the purpose of negotiations.
DATED AT GUELPH, THIS H DAY OF^.jA^vca 20
SCHEDULE “ A WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Effective January 1, 2008 ($.35), the following wages and classifications apply:
Year 1	Class 1	Class 2	ICIass 3	Class 4	Class 5	Class 6	Class 7
Start	$12.00	$12.00	l$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00
3 Months	$20.25	$19.60	($18.95	$17.40	$16.40	$16.25	$15.25
6 Months	$20.55	$19.90	$19.25	$17.70	$16.70	$16.25	$15.25
9 Months	$20.85	$20.20	$19.55	$18.00	$17.00	$16.25	$15.25
12 Months	$21.15	$20.50	$19.85	$18.30	$17.30	$16.75	$15.75
15 Months	$21.45	$20.80	$20.15	$18.60	$17.60	$16.75	$15.75
18 Months	$21.75	$21.10	$20.45	$18.90	$17.90	$16.75 .	$15.75
21 Months	$22.00	$21.35	$20.70	$19.15	$18.15	$16.75 ■	$15.75
24 Months	$22.25	$21.60	$20.95	$19.40	$18.35	$17.25	$16.25
Effective January 1st, 2009 ($.35), the following wages and classifications apply:
YEAR 2	Class 1	jClass 2	Class 3	Class 4	Class 5	Class 6	Class 7
Start	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00 -	$12.00	$12.00
3 Months	$20.60	$19.95	$19.30	$17.75	$16.75	$16.60	$15.60
6 Months	$20.90	$20.25	$19.60	$18.05	$17.05	$16.60	$15.60
9 Months	$21.20	$20.55	$19.90	$18.35	$17.35	$16.60	$15.60
12 Months	$21.50	$20.85	$20.20	$18.65	$17.65	$"17.10	$16.10
15 Months	$21.80	$21.15	$20.50	$18.95	$17.95	$17.10	$16.10
18 Months	$22.10	$21.45	$20.80	$19.25	$18.25	$17.10	$16.10
21 Months	$22.35	$21.70	$21.05	$19.50	$18.50	$17.10	$16.10
24 Months	$22.60	$21.95	$21.30	$19.75	$18.70	$17.60	$16.60
Effective January 1st, 2010 ($.35) the following wages and classifications apply:
YEAR 3	Class 1	Class 2	Class 3	ICIass 4	Class 5	Class 6	Class 7
Start	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00
3 Months	$20.95	$20.30	$19.65	$18.10	$17.10	$16.95	$15.95
6 Months	$21.25	$20.60	$19.95	$18.40	$17.40	$16.95	$15:95
9 Months	$21.55	$20.90	$20.25	$18.70	$17.70	$16.95	$15.95
12 Months	$21.85	$21.20	$20.55	$19.00	$18.00	$17.45	$16.45
15 Months	$22.15	$21.50	$20.85	$19.30	$18.30	$17.45	$16.45
18 Months	$22.45	$21.80	$21.15	$19.60	$18.60	$17.45	$16.45
21 Months	$22.70	$22.05	$21.40	[$19.85	$18.85	$17.45	$16.45
24 Months	$22.95	$22.30	$21.65	■m ro o —A. o	$19.05	$17.95	$16.95
35
Effective January 1, 2011 {$.45), the following wages and classifications apply:
Year 4	Class 1	Class 2	Class 3	Class 4	Class 5	Class 6	Class 7
Start	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00	$12.00
3 Months	$21.40	$20.75	$20.10	$18.55	$17.55	$17.40	$16.40
6 Months	$21.70	$21.05	$20.40	$18.85	$17.85	$17.40	$16,40
9 Months	$22.00 .	$21.35	$20.70	$19.15	$18.15	$17.40	$16.40
12 Months	$22.30	$21.65	$21.00	$19.45	$18.45	$17.90.	$16.90
15 Months	$22.60	$21.95	$21.30	$19.75	$18.75	$17.90	$16.90
18 Months	$22.90	$22.25	$21.60	$20.05	$19.05	$17.90	$16.90
21 Months	$23.15	$22.50	$21.85	$20.30	$19.30	$17.90	$16.90
24 Months	$23.40	$22.75	$22.10 .	$20.55	$19.50	$18,40	$17.40
STUDENT RATE: Ten dollars and twenty five cents ($10.25) for the first year, ten dollars and seventy-five cents ($10.75) for the second year and eleven dollars and twenty-five cents ($11.25) for third year. (See Letter of Understanding)
All new employees will start at the "start rate" as noted in the above table in the appropriate year and will reach their appropriate category rate evenly over the next twenty-four (24) months.
SHIFT PREMIUM: Twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour
This will be paid to employees whose NORMAL starting time on a steady shift is from 2:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
STUDENTS:	Students employed for the school vacation period (May 1s1, to
September 1st, and the Christmas Holidays-last two (2) weeks in December and the first week in January) are not considered full-time employees and will have to apply after September 15th and January 15th, for full time status. Students must be at least fifteen (15) years of age. (See Letter of Understanding)
36
CLASSIFICATIONS
HAMBURGER ROOM, PATTY ROOM, STEAK ROOM, ROAST BEEF Class 1
Class 2	Formulator
Class 3 K-Pack operator, formax operator, rotation/supply of Raw Material.
Class 4	AEW automatic saw, Roast Beef
Class 5 Trim steaks, weigh steaks or fresh vac-pac meats, Blend sausage
Class 6 Load chiller, operate vat dumper & grinder; finished box handler, stuff sausage
Class 7 Make boxes, label boxes, load boxes, strap boxes, load roll stock machine, operate press, general
FABRICATION DEPARTMENT, including Plate Room and Prebreak Large Jones saw, break primals
Pull tenderloin, bone butts, pull tips, bone ribs, bone, necks, blades, pull clods, drop full rounds, special trim.
Small saw, trim-tenders, bone strips, trim strips and shortloin, trim butts, bone aich bone, split hips, pull heel and trim outside, roast beef, bone and trim shoulders, bone x-rib and short rib, trim chx rolls, bone points, final
trim on point, special trim, mark paddle bone, remove points, trim insides, bone pastrami, scale and pack off.
Put sides on rail, drop fronts, combo cuts, trim flapmeat, trim flank steak, bone & trim steak tail, bone hind & front shank, peel tips, bone. & trim flank, bone braising rib, trim fat caps & cap meat, trim clods, trim chx flats, trim chx short rib, rough trim points, trim trim, cut 5 bone rib, drop 5 bone rib, oyster meat, trim chuck tenders and rope meat, remove heel and femur bone, pull skirts, saws, bone braising ribs, 123 bone short rib, utility person.
Check trim fronts and hinds, hang hips, trim skirts, trim pectoral, trim heels, core sample, end of raw product line, 1 bone short ribs, special trim, remove cod fat and rose meat, remove flank steaks, mark tenderloins and flap meat, hang 5 bone chucks, remove chuck tenders, remove cap meat,
Class 1 Class 2
Class 3 Class 4
Class 5
37
trim tips, trim rose meat, shin shanks, trim eye of round, three bone plate, finger meat, trim inside and outside skirts, vac-pac, special trim.
Class 6	Transfer onto boning lines, pick bones, cut bones, core sample helper, core sample washer, seam insides, Hip Trim before Hind Saw, knife sharpening helper, Pull “B" skirts, saw 5 bone chuck, pull paddle bone, achilles tendons, hind shank saw. checking trim, bagging & boxing.
Class 7	Janitor, inject gas, sort trim on end table, general labour, sort trim, skinning skirts.
SANITATION Class 1
Class 2	Leadhand
Class 3 Class 4 Class 5	Set up
Class 6	Sanitation
Class 7	Janitor
SUNDRY Class 1 Class 2	Receiver dry goods, knife sharpener
Class 3	Laundry Room Operator
Class 4	Wash wheels kill, receiver dry goods helper
Class 5	Soap & towel dispensers, wheels to wheel room, shaker plant
Class 6	Yard man, laundry room, knife sharpener helper
Class 7	Shaker Plant helper, hang wheels
38
GLOBAL
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 Class 4 Class 5 Class 6 Class 7
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 Class 4 Class 5 Class 6 Class 7
KILL FLOOR Class 1 Class 2
Class 3
Lead hand, Roast Beef Saw
Roast beef helper
General labour
Machine operator
Filling boxes, putting them in the freezer, Bone cutter Pack Bones, General Labour
First leg, second leg
Skin flanks, open up fronts, skin necks & shanks, eviscerating, splitting saw, sticking, skin bellies, small tools, rumping
Hide pullers, cut off tail and fat, weigh scale, bone heads, clean heads/jaws, save hearts etc., run intestines
39
Class 4 Knocking, cut bung/cut tail, brisket saw, push weasens, drop heads, drop kidney fat, pull jaws, save edible fat, shackling, legging helper, open shanks
Class 5 Cut horns/ears, lips, cut feet, tie weasens/help heads, drop jaws/tongue, drop cheeks/tongues, drop bungs, neck trim/windpipes, trim heads/save tongue
Class 6 Cattle chaser (outside & inside), transfer first leg, transfer second leg, front trim, hip trim, front shank trim, hind trim, loin trim, tail trim, whizknife channel fat, railing cattle in the cooler, operate tripe wash machines, mountain chain, cut scalps, weasand meat and pancreas and other glands, save animal food, save omassum and hang tripe, open paunch, trim omassum, save intestine, trim fat from tripe, work cecum, trim tripe, wash tail, 1s! leg’hock cutting, Trim Lung, saving abomasum, saving arteries, trim rectum, trimming abomasum, open brisket, cut tongue bone.
Class 7 Put on plastic, wash heads, hind wash, front wash, shrouding, save animal food, save intestines, clean floor, large intestines, put plastic on bung, Put "O” ring on weasand, put plastic on tenderloin, Bungee cord high and low, Vacuum, hip trim, Spinal cord vacuum, shank/hock vaccuum, cattle cotton
FANCY MEATS. INTESTINES AND FOOTRQOM
Class 1
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 3	Scaling
Class 4 Trim tongues, cheekmeat, hanging tenders, trim hearts, tails
Class 5 Skin and deveine livers, skinning tongues, dumper operator
Class 6 Operate Strichler machine and small saw, strap and load boxes on skid, vac pac product, fresh livers, hearts, hanging tenders, tongues, cheekmeat, lips, feet, tails
Class 7 All work in intestine room except Strichler machine, all work in footroom except small saw; wrapping tongues, packing spinal cords, sweetbreads, animal food, make boxes and general labour
40
PACKING
Class 1
Class 2	Lead Hand
Class 3	Scale full boxes, scale and handle full combo's, keep goer
Class 4 Class 5	Vac pac operator, box maker operator, box closer operator, cryovac operator Box loading, box labeling, box handling, moving skids, Set up reword boxes/combos, trim labeling, on line bagging
Class 6	Trim line, transfer, boneguarding, offline bagging, boxing and packing, mezzanine scale helper, scale helper
Class 7	Clean up, general labour
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT Class 1
Class 2	Fresh Dispatch Peddle, inventory control fresh (days), lead hand, inventory control frozen (days), finished dispatch (warehouse), inventory control
Class 3	Night inventory fresh, Scaling Swinging Beef, Freezer person (night), employee meat orders
Class 4	Positioning and Retrieving Skids of Product, Order Picking, Freezer Helper (days& nights)
Class 5	Skid off Area,
Class 6	Loading Swinging Beef, Delivery on Premise
Class 7	Loading Hot/Co!d Fat, General Labourer
COOLER Class 2	Lead hand
43
Class 4	Grade scale/sort tickets, sort, tag and stamp cattle
Class 5	Saw cattle
Class 6	Shrouds, rolling beef, move beef in sales cooler, take beef out, hang beef, railing cattle in the cooler, rib, clean rails, clean drains, prep for cutting room
Class 7	General labour
BARN Class 6	Barn helpers
MOISTURE ENHANCED Class 5 Slicer
WATER TREATMENT PLANT
42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: SCHEDULES IN EXCESS OF EIGHT (8) HOURS PER SHIFT
This will confirm our understanding with respect to Schedules in excess of eight (8) hours per shift in Article 14 of this Collective Agreement.
The parties have agreed that the Company may establish schedules of twelve (12) hours per shift for the Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers subject to the following:
1.	In the refrigeration area the hours of regular work will be scheduled on the basis of thirty-six (36) hours in a payroll week and forty-four (44) hours in the following week.
2.	For the purpose of calculating Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers who work overtime will be paid one and one-half (1 Vz) times their regular rate for:
a)	Hours worked in excess of the twelve (12) hours per day.
b)	Hours worked on the first non-scheduled day in the week and double time (2X) on the second non-scheduled day of the week.
3.	Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers who are required to work on one of the designated holidays as outlined under Article 16 shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 Vz) plus holiday pay for hours that are scheduled to work.
4.	Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers whose holiday falls on his scheduled day off will be compensated at eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate.
43
5.	The Company and the Union agree that during the term of this Collective Agreement the Chief Engineers will help to repair and maintain the equipment, relieve Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers during sickness and vacations if no other Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineers are available.
6.	All Refrigeration B Operators and Stationary Engineerswill be covered under the Collective Agreement except for the changes outlined above.
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: LIFT TRUCK LICENSING
All required lift truck training to obtain a lift truck license will be paid for by the Company.
Compensation for time attending the course will be paid at the appropriate rate as per the collective agreement.
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
The Company agrees that payroll deductions for meat sales, loan payments, etc., will not be taken off an employee’s benefit cheque. A benefit cheque is defined as payment to reimburse an employee for an out of pocket expense. This letter of Understanding does not apply to payments from Weekly Indemnity or Extended Weekly Indemnity.
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
BETWEEN:
CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: UFCW TRAINING & EDUCATION FUND, LOCAL 175
Effective the first week after ratification, the Company agrees to contribute one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) to the UFCW Local 175 Training & Education Fund.
Effective January 1st, 2009, the Company will contribute one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) to the UFCW Local 175 Training & Education Fund.
Effective January 1st, 2010, the Company will contribute one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) to the UFCW Local 175 Training & Education Fund.
Effective January 1, 2011, the Company will contribute one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) to the UFCW Local 175 Training & Education Fund.
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA. LOCAL 175
RE: VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO UFCW LOCAL 175 LEUKEMIA FUND
I____________________________, authorize the Company to deduct_________dollars from
my cheque on a weekly basis and forward the same to the attention of the Secretary/Treasurer of the local Union by the 15th day of the following month. The Company will indicate the name, Social Insurance Number of the employee and the amount so deducted.
Receipt for the total amount deducted per employee in the calendar year will be provided by the Union on or before February 28fh of each year, or noted by the Employer on the employee’s T4 slip.
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: TIME LIMITS
In view of recent changes to the Ontario Labour Relations Act, and resulting decisions therefrom, and in view of the parties history of amicable Labour Relations, the parties agree to the following:
-	That neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding "filing for arbitration" without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
-	Should either party serve such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the final time frame in the Collective Agreement respecting "filing for arbitration" shall then be triggered.
-	The parties further agree that any Board of Arbitration or single Arbitrator, shall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter respecting timeliness in light of this agreement and shall not be restricted by the Ontario Labour Relations Act in so doing.
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#7
BETWEEN:
CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: EMPLOYEE MEAT PURCHASES
The Company will post a weekly price list of available items for sale. Prices will be discounted by fifteen percent (15%). The Company agrees that employees may purchase standard pack or individual pieces of product (limited to normal family quantities). A reasonable charge may be applied to the purchase cf individual pieces to offset the administrative and packaging costs.
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
BETWEEN:
CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: COMPANY POLICIES
The Company will post current policies on appropriately designated bulletin boards throughout the Plant.
The Company will supply a copy of such posted policies to the Union.
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: KNIFE SHARPENING
The Company and the Union agree that having a sharp knife is essential to doing safe and proper work.
All employees placed on knife jobs after the date of ratification will be given a one half (1A) hour course, if necessary, prior to the commencement of the job by a qualified instructor on how to maintain a sharp knife and steel a knife properly.
The Company agrees to have one (1) employee on days and one (1) employee on the afternoon shift to sharpen knives.
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#10
BETWEEN:
CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: ARTICLE 18 - HEALTH & SAFETY
The Company will ensure that the first aid attendants will be professionally trained and supervised.
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11
BETWEEN:
CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
WE: LEAD HANDS
The Company will continue to post Lead Hand positions.
Lead Hands do not have the authority to hire, fire, discipline employees for any reasons but, have the right to pass on directions of supervision.
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #12
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: PARKING LOT- SNOW PLOWING & SALTING
The Company will make a sincere effort to ensure the parking lots is cleared and salted as required.
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#13
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: STUDENTS
Students employed for the school vacation period (May 1s\ to September 1S!, and the Christmas Holidays, last two (2) weeks in December and the first week in January) are not considered full-time employees and will have to apply after September 15th and January 15lh, respectively for full time status. Students have to be the legal age as required by applicable legislation in Ontario to work in the Plant.
Effective January 1sl, 2005, the student rate of pay is ten dollars and 25 cents ($10.25) per hour.
1.	Students returning to work 2nd year = ten dollars and seventy-five cents ($10.75)
2.	Students returning to work 3rd year = eleven dollars and twenty-five cents ($11.25)
3.	Students returning after 3rd year = eleven dollars and twenty-five cents ($11.25)
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #14
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S HOLIDAY SCHEDULE
Holidays will be taken on the following days:
Thursday, December 25, and Friday, December 26, 2008 and Thursday, January 1,
2009
Friday, December 25, and Monday, December 28, 2009 and Friday, January 1, 2010 Friday, December 24, and Monday, December 27, 2010 and Friday, December 31,
2010
Monday, December 26, and Tuesday, December 27, 2011 and Monday, January 2, 2012
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#15
BETWEEN:	CARGILL LIMITED
-and-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
RE: PAY EQUITY
The Employer agrees that it has a Pay Equity Plan in effect and will keep it properly maintained.
58