COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN :
AND:

/
I 'iOtJIs't I
RATIFIED THIS
DAT OF
:d
No. OI; t M !’ I. O VK E S
^D'cMl’I.OYtS
i i\:
/\
LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED.
a body corporate carrying on business in the city of Edmonton. Alberta hereinafter referred t o as the
’’EMPLOYER”
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 312A, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC, hereinafter referred to as the
"UNION"
00273 (03)
INDEX
Alberta Health Care  ............ ,
Arbitration , ....................
Daily Guarantee...................
Deduction of Union Dues ......
Dental Plan........................
Doctor/Dental Appointment.........
Duration and Renewal .............
Funeral Leave.....................
Grievance Procedure.............. .
Group Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Guaranteed Work Week ........
Hours of Work.....................
Jury Duty......................
Leaves of Absence ................
Managements Rights............ . . .
Meal Periods .....................
No Discrimination ................
Overtime Pay . . .................
Pension...........................
Paternity Leave..............
Pregnancy Leave ... ..............
Rates for Relief Work.............
Recognition and Jurisdiction . , . .
Rest Periods .....................
Retroactive Fay ..................
Safety and Welfare................
Safety Committee..................
Scheduling .......................
Seniority , ......................
Severance Pay ....................
Shift Wok.........................
Sick Leave........................
Statutory Holidays.............. . .
Successors and Assigns .......
Sunday Worit......................
Time Clocks.......................
Time Off for Union Business ....
Time Off to Vote ..........
Union Market Cards .........
Union Notices ....................
Vacations.........................
Wages.............................
Wearing Apparel...................
Article
Page
11.1 . . .	. . . .17
19 ....	
3.8 ...	
2 ....	
11.'4 . . .	
14.9 . . .	
21 ....	
5.4 ...	
18 ....	
11.2, 11.3	, . . .17
20 ....	
3	.............3,4,5,6
5.6	 11
.5 ..................9,10,11
15	 22
.3.9	 6
16	.............22
.3	............3,4,5,6
11.7.............18,19
5.3	............10
5.3	............10
13.2	 20
.	1 .................2
.3.9	............6
Appendix A ..........27
6.
12 ....	
	
3.10 . . .	... 6
4 ....	
9 ....	
3.5 ...	
10 ....	
7 ....	
17 ....	... 23
	
	
	
14.8 . . .	
14.10 . . .	
14.3 . . .	
8 ....	
Appendix A	.11,12,27,28,29
14.6 . , .	
This index is only for easy reference. Members are encouraged to read this Agreement and be conversant with all its provisions.	When in doubt as t o the
interpretation of any section, phone your Union office at 451-5718,
1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement w i 1 1 promote, improve. and maintain industrial, economic and harmonious relations between the Union, the employees and the Employer, and to set forth herein the agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, to be observed by the Employer, its employees and the Union during the term hereof.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
1.1	Bargaining Agency and Unit
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole agency for the purpose of collective bargaining of all employees in the Plant operated at Edmonton, Alberta es more particularly set forth in the certification granted the Union by The Board of Industrial Relations in the Province of Alberta.
ARTICLE 2 UNION SECURITY
2,1
2.2
The Employer agrees to retain in his employ within unit, as outlined in Article 1 of this Agreement 1971 employees who are now or hereafter members of maintain their membership in the Union as employment.
the bargaining as of April 5th, the Union, shall a condition of
The Employer shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union. PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first day of employment, and become members within thirty (30) days. Ail employees shall pay to the Union the regular dues. Employees hired through an outside agency and maintain employment after thirty (30) days shall pay dues retroactive to first day of employment.
The Employer agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form outlining to the employee, his or her responsibility in regard to Union membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to ■whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee's date of hire.
The Union shall bear the expense of printing the forms, the contents of the forms to 'be such that it is acceptable to the Employer. The Employer further agrees to provide the Union, once a month. with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2
article 2 cont
2.3	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fee, monthly dues, assessments, or other deductions as are authorized by the Local Union or upon request of the employee affected where no notification %rom the said is received. Notification of any change in dues, assessments as aforesaid to be given by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
The money deducted during the month shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, not later than the tenth (10th) day of the following month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom deductions have been made and the amount and purpose of each deduction.
2.4	The Employer agrees that only employees included in the bargaining unit shall perform any of the work coming within the jurisdiction of this Agreement.
Foremen and those above rank of: foreman shall not assume duties that are performed by members of the bargaining unit except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount. for the sole reason to overcome production difficulties caused by absence of an employee. In such cases, the Company will obtain a replacement within two (2) hours unless qualified replacement is not available.
ARTICLE 3
BASIC WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
3,1	Forty (40) hours per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each, Monday to Friday inclusive, shall constitute the basic work week. All time worked in excess of the daily hours, or the basic work week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 & 1/2) the regular hourly rate. The Employer will pay double time on all hours worked over ten (10) hours per day or forty-five (45) hours per week.
a] In a week i n which one (1) Statutory Holiday occurs, employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work thirty-two (32) hours.
In a week in which two (2) Statutory Holidays occur. employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work twenty-four (24) hours.
b]	When overtime is necessary the most senior employee in the department shall have the first opportunity to declare their availability. If there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, then the selection of employees shall be on a reverse seniority basis.
3
ARTICLE 3.1b] cont.
DEPARTMENTS are defined as follows :
Kill and Live Hang
Eviscerating
Packaging
Shipping
Janitorial
Maintenance
c]	Packaging Department:
It is understood that for the months of June to September, inclusive. the forty-€ive (45) hour/week condition referred to in Article 3.1 shall not apply.
The above exclusion shall only apply to employees who work all hours of that week in the Packaging Department.
3.2	The basic work day shall, be between 6:45 am and 5;30 p.m. and work performed before 6:45 a.m. and after 5:30 p.m. shall be paid at the overtime rate set out in this Agreement.
3.3	Janitorial and Maintenance
The basic work day may have varied starting and quitting times providing these hours do not exceed forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each, with a two (2) day break between work weeks.
All time worked in excess of the daily hours of the basic work week as set out in this Agrement shall be paid as per Article 3.1.
Maintenance employees shall have their work schedule of hours and days posted in an appropriate place at least one (l)week in advance.
The schedule of an employee may only be changed i n the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees or in the event of emergencies such as fire, flood or breakdown in machinery. The employees will be provided with a list of names and phone numbers of individuals to call if they are the only employee who shows up €or their shift.
Employees will work on a four (4) weeks rotation basis.
3.4	All work performed on Saturday shall be paid at one and one-half (1
&	1/2) times the hourly rate for the first four (4) hours and
double time the hourly rate for all time after four (4) hours.
4
ARTICLE 3.4 coot
Ail work performed on Sunday will be paid at two and one- half (2 & 1/21 times the regular hourly rate. If an employee reports for work when ordered t o do so on the above day they will be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay for that day. Except where an employee regularly works on a Saturday or Sunday i. e. Engineers and Maintenance, i n which case the employee shall be paid two (2) times the regular rate if required to work on their day off in lieu of Saturday or Sunday:
a]	Truck. Drivers - (City Delivery)
The Employer will schedule these employees to work on Saturday on a rotating basis. All work performed on Saturday will be paid for as outlined above in this Section,
3.5	Shift Premium
The Company agrees	to pay a	thirty cent (30id)	premium to	all
employees working shiftwork, for any other shift than the normal day shift. This premium shall not: be considered as part of such employees’ basic rates.
3.6	Time Clocks
The Employer agrees that he shall provide time clocks to enable employees to record their hours worked for payroll purposes. Employees shall punch their Q\n time at the time they commence and finish work and	the time	they	commence	and	return from	meal
periods. Early starts and lata finishes will be initialed by the Foreman.
A control card for	each Department	will be	used	to record	the
commencement and	completion time	of each	processing line.	This
card will be used as a guideline to ensure that the employees punch their card promptly on completion of work.
3.7	It is agreed between the parties time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime pay.
3.8	Daily Guarantee
Each employee called for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) ho urs pay for that call, if there is no work available. Upon reporting for work, as scheduled, all waiting time shall be paid at the regular rate of pay.
5
ARTICLE 3 cont.
3.9	Rest Periods
Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception of a fifteen (15) minute rest period to commence not earlier than one and one-half (1 & 1/21 hours after starting of the shift nor less than one and one-half (1 & 1/21 hours before the meal period. Meal periods shall not exceed one (1) hour. Employees working more than one (1) hour and thirty (30) minutes in the afternoon shift of their regular scheduled work day shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period. If an employee is entitled to receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period and is sent home before the break, they will receive pay for such time without having to wait in the coffee room. Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a first meal period and an additional four and one-half (4 & 1/2) hours without, a second meal period.
An employee required to work in excess of the first five (5) hours will b e paid two (2) times their regular rate for all time worked until the meal period is granted. An employee required to work in excess of the second four and one-half (4 & 1/21 hour portion of shift, the Company will allow thirty (30) minutes with pay at the rates paid for that period for such meal period. The employee shall have the choice of a hot meal, or five dollars ($5.00) on their next cheque.	Poultry killer shall have adequate time for
personal cleaning before all rest periods and meal periods.
3.10	Work Schedule
Scheduled hours of work (starting and quitting) shall be posted not later than the employee's lunch break for the following day.
Notice of overtime shall be posted before the employee's lunch break, with approximate quitting time.
Employees needed in a department other than their regular department will be told before lunch break.
ARTICLE 4
SENIORITY
4.1	When an employee has completed thirty (30) calendar days in the service of the Company or any extended period mutually agreed upon by Union and Management, they shall be granted seniority from date of hire.
4.2	The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list every three (3) months for all employees and this list shall be available to all employees for reference at any time during working hours. A copy of the said seniority list to be forwarded to the Union office.
6
ARTICLE 4 cont.
A.3	Length of	continuous service with the Company	shall be the
determining factor governing lay-=ofF and re-employment after layoff.
4.4	% local arrangements between the Company and the Union, the names of employees to be laid off or recalled will be available to the Union on the same day the employees are notified or the day prior. A list of the -names shall be forwarded to the Union within one working day of notification.
4.5	Promotions	shall be based on seniority, ability and	merit. Ability
and merit	being equal, seniority shall prevail. In	doubtful cases,
the Company shall discuss the matter with the Union and shall allow the employee to qualify for a period not exceeding two (2) months.
4.6	Promotions shall be defined as a transfer to a position paying a higher rate, and no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless they are transferred to a position paying a lower rate.
4.7	Seniority will prevail when a higher job classification becomes vacant provided the employee can perform the job within thirty (30) days. If the employee cannot perform the job satisfactorily within the said period of time then the employee shall be returned to the former job without loss of seniority. However, if the said period of time is in question it rray be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company,
4.8	If an employee is absent from work because of sickness or accident they shall not lose seniority rights, and shall return to the position held prior to their absence. It shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reasons of the absence, and how long their absence will last. Where the employee fails to do so the Company may. at its' discretion, request the employee to verify their absence.
7
ARTICLE 4 cont.
4,9	Nav employees will be on probation for a period of thirty (30) calendar days or any extended period mutually agreed upon by Union and Management during which time they may be laid-off without reference to seniority and the Company is under no obligation to re-hire such employees. All employees retained beyond the thirty (30) day probation period shall become regular employees and entitled to seniority in accordance to the length of service and entitled to all benefits under this Agreement and may be discharged only for just cause. In the event that it is found that an employee is wrongfully fired, they shall, not suffer any loss of seniority, if reinstated as an employee. Ary employee with three (3) or more months of service with the Company and is laid off, terminated, or terminates voluntarily and is rehired within one (1) year, shall upon completion of thirty (30) days of employment receive the rate of pay for the job classification as specified in Appendix A of this Agreement.
A,10 The words "qualified" or "qualifications" as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform' the job without other assistance.
4.11	Job Postings
When job vacancies occur with the exception of Lead Hand above the basic job classification in the plant and the Employer requires replacements, and when the Employer creates new jobs they shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days during which time applications may be made by the employees. Copies of all such postings will be sent to the Union. Such applications made shall receive first consideration with the department concerned. The most senior applicant shall receive such job posting. If no suitable applications are received, then the Company may hire a person to fill the job. It is understood to apply for a posting i n the Maintenance and Shipping Department, an employee must be qualified. Temporary appointments may be made by the Employer pending receipt of applications.
An employee who received a promotion through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall be posted.	Any vacancies created beyond the second
posting will not be posted but will be filled in accordance with the terms of Article 4.5.
Ai employee receiving a new job posting w i 11 be on a trial basis for up to thirty (30) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall be returned to their prior job.
8
ARTICLE 4 cont.
4.12	.An employee shall not lose seniority rights if he/she is temporarily absent from work because of illness, accident or leave of absence or is laid off. An employee shall lose their seniority in the event:
a]	is discharged for just cause;
b]	resigns;
c]	is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) working days after being notified in writing by certified mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed of their current address and telephone number.
d]	is laid off for a period exceeding twelve (12) months.
4.13	After absence due to injury or illness the employee must be returned to his/her job without loss of seniority when capable of performing his/her duties provided two (2) years have not elapsed between the return and the last day worked, in the case of compensable accident and one year in the case of illness or noncompensable accident. Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the Employer one (1) weeks notice of his/her intention to return to work. If there is a reoccurrence of the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (1) month from the date of return then the absence is considered to have continued. It is understood that the actual time worked will be added to the time limits specified above before the termination is effected.
5.1	ARTICLE 5 LEAVES OF ABSENCE Permission for leave of absence extending over a period of more than one (1) week must be received in writing, and in no case to exceed three (3) months, provided however, that it be extended by parties hereto. The Company will return their answer to a request i n writing within seven (7) days. Absence without cause shall constitute grounds for dismissal.
9
ARTICLE 5 cont.
5.2	Leave of absence without pay may be granted, by mutual agreement, in addition to regular vacation, however, employees' with four (4) or more years seniority may request and shall be granted two (2) weeks of unpaid leave in addition to their regular vacation. Request for leave of absence shall be made in writing stating reasons therefore. Leaves of absence for extended vacation shall not be granted during July and August.
This request shall be limited t;o once every four years with a limit of nine (9) persons.
5.3	Pregnancy Leave
The requirements of the Employment Standards Act as amended September 20, 1982 are hereby recognized.
Employees with twelve (12) months of service with the Employer may request. and will be granted, leave of absence because of pregnancy.
Employees shall submit request for such leave, in writing, at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave together with a medical certificate certifying she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave shall be for a period not exceeding four (4) months prior to confinement and the period, if any. between the date of confinement mentioned in the certificate and the actual, date.
Within two (2) months following delivery and being physically fit, however. if in the opinion of the employee's doctor that the time before or the date of return to work will endanger her health, an additional extension of leave will be provided up to six (6) weeks. Such extension will be substantiated by a doctor's certificate. Upon return to work the employee will be reinstated and given credit for seniority accumulated from the date leave of absence commences until the date of the employee's return to work.
a]	Paternity Leave
Paternity leave of	one day,	with	pay, will be	granted	on the
occurrence of the birth of a child.
5.A	Funeral Leave
a]	An employee shall be granted not less than two (2) days off from work, with pay, in the event of death in the immediate family, length of such leave shall be determined by the Employer. The term immediate family shall	mean	mother-in-law.	father-	in-law.
grandparents, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister. and grandchildren.
10
ARTICLE 5.4 cont.
b]	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if	the	death is a	case of spouse,
father, mother, child,	brother	or	sister, the	employee shall be
entitled up to four (4)	days with	pay	and further	consideration of
leave of absence at the time of bereavement.
c]	If the death is a case of daughter-in-law or son-in-law, the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence, without pay, up to three (3) days.
d]	Consideration w i 11 also	be given	with respect	to travel time.
Employee's day off or vacation will not be used to circumvent funeral leave.
e] The Employer agrees to include the common-law relationship.
5.5	The Employer agrees to grant necessary time off, without pay.	and
without loss of accrued seniority to any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labour convention or to serve in any capacity on legitimate official Union, business, provided however. that sufficient notification is given the Employer so that such employee's position can be filled.
Where a leave of absence is granted an employee by the Employer, provided such leave does not exceed one (1) year, the employee shall suffer no loss of seniority for that period.
5.6	Jury Duty
An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such jury service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to.work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there is not less than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (8) hours combined with jury duty and time worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime and paid at applicable overtime rates.
ARTICLE 6 WAGES
6.1	The Employer agrees that during such time as this Agreement is in force, it will pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement, not less than the rates set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement and if any employee is receiving a wage in excess of the rates contained in Appendix A of this Agreement such wage rates shall not be reduced by reason of the signing of this Agreement.
11
ARTICLE 6.1 cont.
It is agreed that in the event that other work classifications other than those set forth hereto are instituted, the Employer and the Union shall meet and negotiate a rate of pay for such employees.
ARTICLE 7 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
7.1	The following days shall be considered as paid holidays for all employees :
New Year's Day Good Friday
Empire Day (Victoria Day) Dominion Bay (Canada Day) First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
and all other public holidays proclaimed by the Dominion (Federal), Provincial or Municipal governments provided other major poultry plants in the area close.
a]	All employees that have been employed for thirty (30) or more calendar days shall be paid for the agreed holidays, subject to Sections b], c], and d].
b] Employees shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or Holidays, provided they work their scheduled work day before and after the holiday unless absent: by reason of bona fide sickness, accident or emergency.
Employees who are lai.d-off shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday ok Holidays that occur within thirty (30) days of the lay-off commencing, such to be paid upon return from lay-off.
c] If any of these days fall on Saturday or Sunday the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday.
d]	Any employee required to work on any of the above Statutory Holidays listed in the Agreement, shall be paid at the regular rate for the Statutory Holiday, and in addition receive two (2) times their regular rate for all hours worked on such a day.
e]	Union post notice in lunch room and no one will be refused days off without pay to observe Christmas and/or New Year's at different times.
12
ARTICLE 8 VACATIONS
8.1
8.2
a]
b]
U
ii]
iii]
iv]
(Note:
Employees regularly working full-time shall receive vacation with pay in accordance with the terms of the following schedule setting out consecutive years of service.
Two	(2)	weeks	vacation	after
Three	(3)	weeks	vacation	after
Four	(4)	weeks	vacation	after
Five	(5)	weeks	vacation	after
Six	(6)	weeks	vacation	after
Effective March 21, 1982:
one ( 1) years service four ( 4) years service nine ( 9) years service fifteen (15) years service twenty (20) years service
as the
Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be computed greater of:
Two percent (2%) of the employee's total gross earnings on which he is eligible to receive vacation pay, or
Forty (40) hours at the employee's current rate of pay subject to the following conditions -
The forty (40) hour calculation will be pro-rated over a fifty-two (52) week period when:
the employee is taking holidays prior to his eligibility date (i. e. anniversary date).
the employee has been absent due to a leave of absence in excess of two (2) weeks during the am\iversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
the employee has been absent due to non-occupational illness or accident in excess of thirty (30) days during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
the employee has been absent due to occupational illness or accident in excess of six (6) months during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
the balance owing, .if any, will be paid once the anniversary date is passed)
It is understood that where less than twelve (12) months have elapsed since the employee last took vacation the forty (40) hour calculation referred to in part (b) above w i 1 1 be pro-rated over a twelve (12) month period.
13
ARTICLE 8 cont.
8.3	a] The selection of vacation period shall be on the basis of seniority in each department with the senior employee may be granted at first preference. Vacations may be granted at any time subject to the demand of the business but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees. Vacations to be taken during the months of January 1st to December 31st of each year. Where employees are entitled to three (3) weeks of paid vacation the additional week or weeks may be scheduled at the discretion of the Employer.
The Company further agreed where employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation and request them to be taken in a period between the months of January 1st and April 30th of each year can take them consecutively.
b]	Holiday request forms will be handed out privately and assigned in private. After all holidays are assigned, the schedules shall be posted.
8.A When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will receive an additional days pay, when their vacation falls between April 30th and September 30th they will receive the Statutory Holiday pay before such vacation, if the vacation falls between October 1st and May 1st the employee may request an extra day in lieu thereof. However. the employee at the time he/she requests his/her vacation must inform the Employer of such request and granting of such request must be by mutual agreement. If the request is granted, it w i 1 I be in writing.
8.5	Employees terminating their employment shall receive payment for vacation allowance on total wages and salary earned by the employee during the period of employment for which no vacation allowance has been paid,
Those entitled to lens than three (3)	weeks	vacation	-	4%
Three (3)	weeks	vacation	-	6%
Four (4)	weeks	vacation	-	8%
Five (5)	weeks	vacation	-	10%
Six (6)	weeks	vacation	-	12%
8.6	Employees with less than one years service with the Employer who are laid of€ will be paid their accumulated vacation pay at time of lay-off (within two weeks from date of lay-off), if such is requested, in writing, by the employee.
14
ARTICLE 9 SEVERANCE PAY
9*1 Employees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the Employer, except employees terminated for proper cause, which shall include but not be limited to dishonesty, drunkenness, or drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordination, shall be given individual, notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof as follows:
1]	One (l)weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (60) days service.
2]	Two (2) ■weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have two (2) years service.
One additional weeks notice fox each full year of service or pay in lieu up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) weeks.
9.2	Complete Plant Closing
When it becomes necessary to close the Plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to those employees, subject to the following:
a]	They have one (1) or more years seniority;
b]	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid-off within the thirty (30) day period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one (1) year and receiving Worker's Compensation or off sickwill be eligible;
c]	They have not refused an offer of other employment by the Company in another unit, the location of which is reasonably accessible;
d]	They have not been transferred to another unit of the Company;
e]	The closing is not brought about by war. strike, walkout, work stoppage. slow down or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God:
f]	In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required:
15
ARTICLE 9.2 cont.
g]	The scale of separation allow Years of
Completed Service 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11-20 21 and over
nee shall be as follows:
Amount
$ 200.00
300.00
400.00
500.00
600.00
725.00
850.00
975.00
1,100.00
1,225.00
The ten (10) year allowance plus $175.00 for each year over ten.
The twenty (20) year allowance plus $225.00 for each year over twenty.
Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on so doing, terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
It is understood that: employees who are eligible for payment under this clause, shall not be eligible for severance pay as outlined in Section 9.1.
ARTICLE 10 SICK LEAVE
10.1	The Employer agrees eo provide sick leave with pay. earned at the rate of one (1) day sick leave for each month of employment for which no payment was received by the employee under Article 10 and Article 11.3 Weekly Indemnity. Sick leave with pay shall be cumulative up to twenty (20) days. Accumulation shall commence upon completion of a three (3) month eligibility period.
a]	On a day that an employee works less than three (3) hours and goes home sick, that day shall be counted as first day of sickness. Sick employees shall not be requested to remain in the plant beyond the three (3) h ours to circumvent first day of sickness.
b]	No employee on sick Leave shall receive pay for the first day of absence, except those employees who are off six (6) days or more and have accumulated credits.
16
ARTICI£ 10.1 cont.
c]	The Employer agrees to pay out unused sick leave credits to employees after six (6) months; of illness, eighteen (18) months of lay-off and immediately upon retirement on Pension. All holidays will be considered as t i m e worked when computing sick leave,
d]	Doctor's note is not required for (2) or less days of illness.
ARTICLE 11
HOSPITALIZATION AND THE ALBERTA HEALTH CARE INSURANCE AND DENTAL PLAN
11*1	Employees must complete three (3) months of employment to be
eligible for the benefit coverages set out in Sections 11.2, 11.3, and 11.5. Coverage commences on the first day following completion of three (3) months service and stops immediately upon termination. The Company and Union agree that the premium for these coverages will be paid 75% by the Employer and 25% by the employee.
11.2	The Company agrees to maintain the Alberta Health Care Insurance coverage.
11.3	Group Life Insurance
The Company agrees to provide as a condition of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement a Group Life Insurance Policy with coverage of the greater of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or an amount equal, to 2,080 hours times the employee's regular rate of pay.
Weekly Indemnity
The Company agrees to provide a Weekly Indemnity Insurance program that provides employees with 66-2/3% of their weekly earnings based on AO hours per week at the regular rate of pay up to a maximum allowed under the Unemployment Insurance Act for a maximum of 15 weeks when absent from work due to a non-occupational illness or accident. Employees; on layoff are not eligible to collect Weekly Indemnity benefits. Weekly income benefits begin with the first day of disability due to injury or the fourth consecutive working day of disability due to illness but in no event prior to the first day of treatment by a doctor.
11.4	Dental Plan
a]	The Employer agrees 'to participate in and contribute to the Alberta Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan.
b]	Effective July 28,	1985, the Employer will contribute to the
jointly administered Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan twenty- seven cents (27*5) per hour to a maximum of ten dollars and eighty cents ($10.80) per week or forty-three dol lars and twenty cents ($43.20) per four (4) week period for each straight time hour worked by employees covered by this Agreement in the bargaining unit.
17
ARTICLE 11 cont.
Effective July 31 , 1989 contributions to the Dental Plan will be made for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up t:o a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
c]	The Employer and the Union agree to the original method of selection of Employer and Union Trustees to administer the Plan. It is agreed that the-terms of the Plan and its administration w i 11 be entirely the responsibility of these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is administered consistently with this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable government law or regulation and with the intention of meeting ail of the requirements for continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing, the Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the actions taken by the Employer and the Union Trustees under the Plan.
11.5	It is agreed that the Company's extended Health Care Program will be made available to all employees. The premiums payable under this program are 100% paid by the employee.
Effective April 1,	1990 the Extended Health Care Program as
described above shall become a mandatory benefit with premiums paid 75% by the Employer, 25% by the employee.
11.6	An Employees employment benefits coverage provided under Articles 11.2, 11.3, 11.5 shall cease when:
i]	in the case of	lay-off of an employee
with	less	than	12 months service after	3	months	lay-off
with	more	than	12 months service after	6	months	lay-off,
ii]	they	have	been	absent from work due to	illness	or non-compensable
accident in excess of nine (9) months,
iii]	They have been absent from work due to compensable accident in excess of 24 months.
11*7	Pension
Effective January 1, 1990 the Employer agrees to participate in and contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers' Industry Pension Pi an.
18
ARTICLE 11 cont.
Effective January 1, 1990 the Employer agrees to contribute to the C,C,W, I.P.P. fifteen cents (15«i) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit, for current service benefit and ten cents (10d) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit, for past service benefits. Hours paid shall include hours worked, vacations, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
ARTICLE 12 {SAFETY AND WELFARE
12.1	The Company shall make provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided 'by t.he Company.
a] The Company shall have on the praises, persons qualified and responsible to provide FIRST AID care to injured employees and shall take the necessary measures eo provide them with medical attention.
The FIRST AID person:; shall be identified by a RED CROSS on their helmet.
12.2	The Company further agrees to provide adequate heating facilities and a buffer wall to prevent drafts from open doorways as mutually agreed by the Union and Management,
12.3	There shall be a Union Management Safety Committee appointed and shall constitute two (2) representatives appointed by the Union and two (2) representatives appointed by Management. Both parties shall be motivated by the need for appointing members to the Committee who shall be best capable of promoting safety throughout the Plant. Regular meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held each month. A list of names of the Safety Committee members shall be kept posted on the bulletin board in the lunch room.
12.4	An employee injured while working in the Plant shall suffer no loss of earnings €or the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if: as a result of such injury they are sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention and transportation will be provided,
12.5	No employee will be required to work done at any time at the Plane as stated in Article 3.3.
19
ARTICLE 13
PROMOTIONS AND JOB ASSIGNMENTS
13.1	The Employer agrees that all promotions and job assignments involve an increase in pay will be based on seniority of the employee affected, provided qualifications and ability are comparatively equal.
13.2	Employees required to temporarily fill a higher rated job, shall receive the classified rate for balance of shift, but if required temporarily to fill e. lower rated job, shall receive their regular rate of pay.
13.3	Where employees are required to transfer from one department to another on a permanent basis due to the operational needs of the Company it shall be done on the following basis:
The opportunity to transfer shall first be given to senior employees. In the event that no employee wishes to take the transfer, the least senior employees shall be transferred and shall be given the first opportunity to transfer back to that department when a position becomes available.
ARTICLE 14 GENERAL PROVISIONS
14.1
A suitable rack will be furnished in the dressing elsewhere on which to Rang wet clothes and aprons. This be in a place that is heated so that clothing will reasonable time.
rooms o r rack shall dry in a
14.2	The Company will allow adequate relief as well as the necessary time for changing clothes or equipment necessitated by change from one job to another where working conditions are different.
14.3	The	Employer agrees chat the	Union will	have the right to	use	the
bulletin board, to be used €or posting notices of official Union business exclusively, and not to be used for discriminating political propaganda. All such notices shall be submitted to a Company official for approval before posting.
14.4	The	Union agrees not to call	a meeting	of its members	who	are
employees of the Company during working hours that will interfere with the normal operations of the Company.
14.5	"B"	classification employees	shall, not	be permitted to	lift	in
excess of thirty-€ive (35) pounds,, at any one time during the performance of their duties.
20
ARTICLE 14 cont.
14.6	All uniforms, smocks, aprons, caps, hairnets, gloves and new boots and any other special wearing apparel an employee is required to wear, shall be furnished and laundered by or at the expense of the Employer. The first issue of new plastic coats on wet lines will be charged out at cost and further issues at no charge on exchange. The employee shall be responsible for any such apparel they may lose providing adequate lockers are supplied.
The Employer further agrees to supply and clean Truck Drivers uniforms at no cost to the employee. It is understood and agreed that all such wearing apparel is the property of the Employer.
a]	Appropriate freezer coats and gloves will be provided for employees working in holding coolers or freezing units. The Company shall provide woolen gloves and felt insoles with each issue of new rubber boots. The number of coats supplied shall be determined by the Employer. It is understood that such wearing apparel is the property of the Employer and the employee must not take such wearing apparel away from the premises.,
b]	Maintenance employees and other employees in the Plant required to wear safety shoes upon completion of six (6) months of employment shall receive fifty dollars ($50.00) toward a new pair of safety shoes thereafter be limited to fifty dollars ($50.00) every six (6) months, if needed. To qualify for the reimbursement the old pair of safety shoes must be turned in to the Company. The Company further agrees that where the employees are required to wear rubber boots. the employees will buy their first issue of rubber boots, any other issue thereafter the Company will reimburse the employee by the amount of thirteen dollars and fifty cents ($13.50) toward a new pair, provided the old boots are turned in. At the employee's request the Company will replace suitable rubber boots at no cost to the employee. The Company also agrees to maintain a proper supply of rubber boots for employees.
The Company agrees to supply proper external hearing protection.
14.7	Union Representative calling on Plant:
Any authorized Union representative may. upon receiving permission from the Employer, enter the Plant, providing however; the said representative shall not unduly occupy the time of employees during working hours.
The employee shall have the right to request the presence of a Union Steward at any disciplinary meeting, which may result in a suspension or termination of an employee.
14.8	Time Off to Vote:
The Employer agrees t:o fully comply with any law requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
21
ARTICLE 14 cont
14.9	Employees will be granted time off without pay to keep doctor or dentist appointments or other appointments providing however, the Employer is given one (1) weeks notice in advance except in emergency.
14.10	The Employer agrees to display the Union Shop card which shall be furnished to the Employer free of charge by the Union.
ARTICLE 15 MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
15.1	The Management of the Plant and the direction of the working force
including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing)■ the right to hire, suspend or discharge for cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled. produced. processed or manufactured. the schedule of production, and . the methods, processes	and	means of production and handling are vested
exclusively with the Company provided these rights will not be used to discriminate against employees.
15.2	Cases of disagreement shall be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure as outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 NO DISCRIMINATION
16.1	N> employee shall be transferred. dismissed or discriminated against in any way for any lawful Union activity, or for serving on a Union Committee outside of business hours, or for reporting to the Union any violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
Any employee	alleging wrongful transfer.	dismissal, or
discrimination,	may place his or her allegation before the Union
Representative and i±~ said Representative considers that the objection has merit:, the transfer, dismissal or lay-off shall become a grievance and be subject to the Grievance Procedure as established in this Agreement.
There shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket fine or obey a lawful Union order. The Employer further agrees that there will be no discrimination with reference to Human Rights Act. Section 6, 1A and B,
16.2	Sexual Harassment
Where an employee alleges that sexual harassment has occurred on the job, the employee shall have the right to grieve under the Collective Agreement,
22
ARTICLE 17
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS CLAUSE
17.1	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company herein, and its successors and assigns, and no provision herein contained, shall be nullified or affected in any manner as a result of any consolidation. sale, transfer,, or assignment, or any other form of business organization, or by any change geographical or otherwise, in the -location of the Company herein. The Company agrees an Agreement has been entered into, as a result of which this Agreement shall continue to be binding on the person or persons or any business organization continuing the business. It is the intent of the parties that this Agreement shell remain in effect for the full term thereof, regardless of any kind of change, of any kind, in management, location, form of business, organization or ownership.
ARTICLE 18 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
18.1	Ary complaint, disagreement, or difference of opinion between the parties hereto concerning the interpretation, application and operation, or any alleged violation of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
All grievances not presented to the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the grievance arose, shall be waived.
It is further agreed that fourteen (14) calendar days shall apply with respect te grievances concerning, the dismissal of any employee.
First Step:
The employee shall discuss the matter with his or her immediate superior, or may request the Shop Steward or Union Representative to do so on his or her behalf.
If the Employee is not satisfied with this settlement, then:
Second Step:
Grievances shall be presented in writing and shall clearly set forth the grievance and the contentions of the aggrieved party following which the Union Representative or Representatives, and the Labour Relations Representative of the Employer shall meet and in good faith shall endeavour to settle the grievance submitted.
23
ARTICLE 18.1 cont
If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, or if the party fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance, either party may, by written notice served on the other require submission of the grievance to a Board of Arbitration. Such Board to be established in the manner provided in Article 19 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 BOARD OF ARBITRATION
19*1 The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of three (3) members and shall be established as follows:
Within ten (10) working days (excluding Sundays and holidays) following receipt of such notice, the Employer and the Union shall each select a representative to serve on the Board of Arbitration. The Representative so selected shall meet within five (5) days (excluding Sundays and holidays) after they have both been selected. and choose an additional member to act as Chairman, In the event of failure of the nominees of the Union and the Employer, to agree upon a Chairman within five (5) days as specified, the Minister or Deputy Minister of Labour shall be immediately requested to name a third member who shall act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. Within five (5) days of the appointment of the impartial Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter in dispute and shall sender a decision within fourteen (14) days after its first session. It is understood and agreed that the time limits as set forth herein may be altered by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
Nd person shall serve on the Board of Arbitration who is involved or directly interested in the controversy under consideration. Grievances submitted to an Arbitration Board shall be in writing and shall clearly specify the nature of the issue. In reaching its decision the Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change. modify or alter this Agreement in any of its parts, but may, however, interpret its provisions. The expense of the impartial Chairman shall be borne equally by the Employer and the Union, unless otherwise provided by law. The findings and the decisions of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of the majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
24
ARTICLE 20 GUARANTEED WORK WEEK
This Section shall apply only to those employees who are permanent full-time employees of the Employer.
For the purpose of this Section "full-time permanent employees" shall mean any employees employed on a full-time basis for a period of time exceeding three (3) consecutive months,
Whae an employee entitled to the guaranteed work week is called to work during the week they shall, be entitled to receive pay not less than on the following basis each year:
January 1st to May 31st receive thirty (30) hour pay for that week: June 1st to December 31st - thirty-sir (36) hours pay for that
week:
regardless of the fact that such employee may not work for that many hours.
Effective July 11th, 1978 employees hired during the period between January 1st to May 31st upon completing thirty (30) calendar days of employment with the Employer shall receive thirty (30) hours pay regardless of the fact that:: such employee may not work for that many hours.
The following provisions shall apply in this regard:
a] The Employer w i 1 I adjust employees in proportion to the work available or expected to be! available. To provide such regular employees with guaranteed hours of work, the Employer shall be free to distribute within departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, reasonable Consideration being given to seniority. ability and to any extreme changes in physical working conditions.
' b] The Employer expects all employees will perform conscientiously, whatever	task	be assigned to them in their respective
departments. If any employee refuses to perform the work assigned to them, the Employer shall be absolved from any guarantee in respect of the work performed during that week.
c]	The guarantee shall be the same for weeks in which one (1) of the ten (10) Statutory Holidays occur as in other weeks, the pay received for said Statutory Holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee.
d]	Any employee who is absent from work after having started to work on a week which would entitle them to receive the guaranteed work week, shall have their guarantee reduced by the time so lost.
25
ARTICLE 20 cont.
e] Any employee who is laid off in excess of one (1) month is not eligible for the guaranteed work week provision in the week of recall.
f]	Where overtime or other premium paid hours are worked they shall be computed as, one hour worked is one hour of the guarantee only.
ARTICLE 21
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL CLAUSE
This Agreement shall be effective from April 1, 19S9 until March 29, 1991 and shall remain in force thereafter from year to year, but either party may not less than sixty (60) days before expiryor renewal date of such Agreement, give notice in writing to the other party to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this^?	of /^/ss,
89.
26
APPENDIX A
Effective 23 March 1987 new hire rate of pay will $9.00 per hour in classification A and B.
Retroactive Pay:
Effective Monday -after ratification increase in wages for all classifications (excluding starting rate) by thirty cents (30d) per hour retroactive to April 1, 1989.
Effective 1 April 1989 - increase saw operators by an additional five cents (5<f) per hour.
Effective 1 April 1990 - increase wages by an additional fifteen cents (15*£) per hour to all classifications excluding starting rate.
Effective 1 October, 1990 - increase wages by an additional fifteen cents (15**) per hour to all classifications excluding starting rate.
RETROACTIVITY
Employees who have left the employ of the Employer between the expiry date of the last .Agreement and date of ratification of this Agreement will be entitled to retroactive pay if they apply to the Employer, in writing, within thirty (30) days after retroactive pay is paid by the Employer.
27
APPENDIX A cont
WAGES	Effective	Effective	Effectn
CLASSIFICATION A	01 Apt 89	01 Apr 90	01 Oct S
Starting Rate	$ 9.00	$ 9.00	$ 9.00
After 3 months	11.33	11.48	11.63
After 6 months	}		
Assembling orders	}		
Condemned (Utility)	}		
Feather Roam	}		
Ice Control	}		
Ice Packing	} 11.53	11.68	11.83
Janitorial	}		
Night. Clean Up	}		
Pallet Loading	}		
Reverse Hanging (Custom Kill) }			
Tank Mover	a		
Truck and Crate Wash	}		
Vacuum Operator	}		
Freezer Hand	}		
Fork Operators	>		
Maintenance	} 11.68	11.83	11.98
Receiver-Shipper	}		
Truck Driver	}		
Hangers Live	11.78	11.93	12.08
Poultry Killer	11.83	11.98	12.13
Lead Hand	11.88	12.03	12.18
Working Foreman	12.03	12.18	12.33
Engineers	12.38	12.53	12.68
28
APPENDIX A oont.
WAGS
CLASSIFICATION B
Starting Rate After 3 months
After 6 months (All categories other than those listed in Classification A or as listed below)
Effective	Effective	Effective
01 Apr 89	01 Apr 90	01 Oct 90
$ 9.00	$ 9.00	$ 9.00
10.76	10.91	11.06
10.93	11.08	11.23
Scalers, Graders Cryovac Operators Kitchen Staff	I I 10.95 }	11.10	11.25
	Effective 01 Apr 89	Effective 01 Apr 90	Effective 01 Oct 90
Saw Operators	11.23	11.38	11.53
Lead Hand Eight Duty	11.28	11.43	11.58
First Aid (Full-time)	11.73	11.88	12.03
29
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Lilydale Co-operative Ltd.
Edmonton. Alberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 312A, Edmonton, Alberta
Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement it is agreed that employees' requests for exclusion from working overtime will be dealt with on an individual basis.
It is understood that this Letter of Understanding shall expire February 28. 1991.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this


1989.
30