BETWEEN:
AND:
| N *•. O
I E-v.riOM.
i.V
I hDMPkt D'EMPi Oi
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
RATIFIED THIS 23____„ DAY OF APRIL 1996
ULYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED,
a body corporate carrying on business in the City of Calgary, Alberta hereinafter referred to as the
"EMPLOYER"
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 373A
chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC, hereinafter referred to as the
99UNION"
00272 (05)
INDEX
	Article	Page
Alberta Health C'are.	11.1	20
Arbitration	19	29,30
Daily Guarantee	3.8	8
Deduction of Union Dues	2	5
Dental Plan	11.4	20,21
Doctor/Dental Appointment	14.8	26
Funeral Leave	5.4	13
Grievance Procedure 		18	28,29
Group Insurance and Weeklv Indemnity ........ .. .	11.2, 11.3	20
Guaranteed Work Weak	20	30.31
Hours of Work	3	5-8
Jury Duty	5.6	13
Leaves of Absence	5	12,13
Management’s Rights 			15	27
Meal Periods	3.9	8
No Discrimination	16 1 27	
Overtime Pay	3	5-8
Paternity Leave	5.3	13
Pension	11.6	22
Pregnancy Leave	5.3	12
Probationary Period	4.9	10
Rates for Relief Work	13.2	24
Recognition and Jurisdiction	1	4
Rest Periods	3.9	8
Slpfety and Welfare	12	23
Safety Committee	. 12.3	23
Scheduling	3.10	8
Seniority	4	9,10,11
Severance Pay	9	17,18
Shift Work	3.5	7
Sick Leave	10	19
Statutory Holidays	7	14-17
	17	28
2
Sunday Work	3.4	7
Termination and Renewal	21	32
lime Clocks	3.6	7
Time Off for Union Business	5.5	13
Time Off to Vote	14.7	26
Union Market Cards	14.9	26
Union Notices	14.3	24
Vacations	8	15-17
Wages	6, AppendixA	14,34,35
Wearing Apparel	14.5	25,26
This index is only for easy reference. Members are encouraged to read this Agreement arid be conversant with ail its provisions. When in doubt us to the interpretation of any section, phone your Union ojfice at 279-0341.
3
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
it is the intent andpurpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote, improve, and maintain industrial, economic and harmonious relations between (he Union, the employees and the Employer, and to set forth herein the agreement hetween the parties covering rates ofpay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, to be observed by (he Employer, its employees and the Union during the term hereof
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
LI	Bargaining Agency and Unit
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole agency for the purpose of collective bargaining of all employees in the Plant operated at Calgary, Alberta as more particularly set forth in the certification grunted the Union by the Labour Relations Board in the Province of Alberta.
ARTICLE 2 UNION SECURITY
2.1	The Employer agrees that the Union membership is a condition of employment for all employees in the bargaining unit.
The Employer shall he free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union,PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time orfull-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first day of employment, and become members within thirty (30) days. All employees shall pay to the Union the regular clues. Employees hired through an outside agency and maintain employment after thirty (30) days shall pay dues retroactive to first day cf employment.
2.2	The Employer agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with aform outlining to the employee, his or her responsibility in regard to Un ion membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address ofeach employee to whom they have presented theform letter, along with the employee's date of hire.
4
ARTICLE 2.2 cont.
The Union shall hear the expense of printing the forms, the contents of the forms to he such that it is acceptable to the Employer. The Employer further agrees to provide the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2.3	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages oj each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fee, monthly dues, assessments, or other deductions as are authorized by the Local Union or upon request of tho employee affected where no notification from the said is received.
Notification of any change in dues, assessments as aforesaid to be given by the Secretary-1 rea\ urer of the Union.
The money deducted during the month shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, not later than the tenth (10th) day of the following month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom deductions have been made and the amount and purpose of each deduction.
2.4	The Employer agrees that only employees included in the bargaining unit shall perform any of the- work cooing within thejurisdiction of this Agreement.
Foremen and those above rank of foreman shall not assume duties that are performed by members of the bargaining unit except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, for the sole reason to overcome production difficulties caused by absence of an employee. In such cases, the Company will obtain a replacement within two (2) hours unless qualified replacement is not available.
ARTICLE3
BASIC WORK WEEKAND OVERTIME
3.1	Forty (40) howsper week, consisting offive (5) days ofeight (8) hours each,
Monday to Friday inclusive, shall constitute the basic work week. All time worked in excess of the	hours, or the basic work week shall be paid at the
rate of time and one-half (I & 1/2) the regular hourly rate. The Employer will pay double time on all hours worked over ten (10) hoursper day or forty-five (45) hoursper week
5
ARTICLE 3.1 cont.
aj In a week in which one (!) Statutory’ Holiday occurs, employees shall
receive forty (10) hours pay ut straight time rate and work thirty-two (32) hours.
In a week in which two (2) Statutory Holidays occur, employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight lime rate and work twenty-four (24) hours.
bj Whenovertime is necessary the most senior employee in the department shall have the first opportunity to declare their availability. If there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, then the selection of employees shall be on a reverse seniority basis.
DEPARTMENTS are defined as follows:
Kill and Live Hang
Eviscerating
Packaging
■	Shipping
Janitorial Maintenance
cf	Packaging Department:
It is understood thatfor the months of June to September, inclusive, theforty-five (45) hour/week condition referred to in Article 3.1 shall not apply.
The above exclusion shall only apply to employees who work all hours cf that week ±i the Packaging Department.
3.2	The basic work day shall be between 6:00 a m. and 5:30 p. m. and work performed before 6:00 a.m. and after 5:30 p.m. shall be paid at the overtime rate set out in this Agreement.
3.3	Janitorial and Maintenance
The basic workday may have varied starting and quitting timesproviding these hours do not exceed forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) consecutive days cf eight (8) hours each, with a two (2) day break between work weeks.
AN time worked in excess of the daily hours of the basic work week as set out in this Agreement shall be paddasper Article 3.1.
Maintenance employees shall have their work schedule cf hours and days posted ii an appropriate place at least one (1) week in advance.
6
AHTICLE 3.3 cont.
The schedule of an employee may only be changed in the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees or in the event of emergencies such us fire, food or breakdown in machinery. The employees will be provided with a list of names and phone numbers of individuals to cull i they are the only employee who shows up for their shift.
Employees will work on a four (4) weeks rotation basis.
3.4	AN work performed on Saturday shatl be paid at one and one-half (l &
T2) limes (he hourly rate for the first four (4) hours and double time the hourly rate for all time after four (4) hours.	~
All work performed on Sunday will be paid ut two and one-half (2 & 1/2) times the regular hourly rate. If an employee reports for work when ordered to do so on the above day they will be given a minimum offour (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at the rate ofpay for that day. Except where an employee regularly works on a Saturday or Sunday i.e. Engineers and Maintenance, in which case the employee shall bepaid two (2) times the regular rate if required to work on their day off in l ieu of Saturday or Sunday.
aj Truck Drivers -	pUyDelivery)
The Employer will schedule these employees to work on Saturday on a rotating basis. All work performed or. Saturday will be paid Ox: as outlined above in this Section.
3.5	Shift Premium
The Company agrees to pay a thirty cent (30) premium to all employees working shift work for any other shift than the normal day shift. This premium shall not be considered us part cfsuch employees' basic rates.
3.6	Time Clocks
The Employer agrees that he shall provide time clocks to enable employees to record their hours worked for payroll purposes. Employees shall punch their own time at the time they commence and finish work and the time they commence and return fzxxn meal periods. Early starts and late finishes will be initialed by the Foreman.
A control cardfix each department will be used to record the commencement and completion turn of each processing One. This card will be used as a guideline to ensure that the employeespunch their cardpromptly on completion of work
7
ARTICLE 3 cont.
3.7
3.8
3.9
3.10
It is agreed between the parties time off shall not he given in lieu of overtime pay.
Daily Guarantee
Each employee calledfor work shall be entitled tofour (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that cull, if there is no work available. Upon reportingfor work, us scheduled, all waiting time shall be paid at the regular rate of pay.
Rest Periods
Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception cf a fifteen (15) minute rest period to commence not earlier than one and one-half (I efr 1/2) hours after starting of the shift nor less than one and one-half (l & 1/2) hours before the meal period Meal periods shall not exceed one (l) hour. Employees working more than one (I) hour and thirty (30) minutes in the afternoon shift of their regular scheduled work day shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period to be taken not earlier than one and one half (1-1/2) hours nor later than two (2) hours following the lunch period If an employee is entitled to receive a fifteen minute rest period and is sent home before the break, they will receive pay for such time without having to wait in the coffee room. Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a first meal period and an additional four and one-half (4 & 1/2) hours without a second mealperiod
An employee required to work in excess of the first jive (5) hours or the second four and one half (4-1/2) hours will he paid two (2) times their regular rateftc all time worked until the meal period is granted An employee required to work in excess of the second four and one-half (4 & 1/2) hour portion of shift, the Company will allow thirty (30) minutes with pay at the rates paid&r that period for such meal period. The employee shall have the choice of a hot meal or seven dollars ($7.00) on their next cheque!. Poultry killer shall have adequate time for personal cleaning before all rest periods and mealperiods.
WorkSchedule
Scheduled hours of work (starting and quitting) shall be posted not later than the employee's lunch break ft* thefollowing dap.
Notice of overtime shall be posted before the employee's lunch break, with approximate quitting time.
Employees needed in a department other than their regular department will be told before lunch break
8
ARTICLE 4 SENIORITY
4.1	When an employee has completed three. (3) calendar months in the service of the Company or any extended period mutually agreed u[>on by Union and Management, they shall be granted seniority from date of hire.
4.2	The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list every three (3) months for all employees and this list shall be available to all employees
for reference ut any time during working hours. A copy of the said seniority list to be forwarded to the Union office.
4.3	Length of continuous service with the Company shall be the determining factor governing lay-off and re-employment after lay-ojf.
As an exception to the above, lay off of employees in the maintenance, shipping or live hung classifications shall he determined by the length of continuous service with the Company of those employees in maintenance, shipping or live hang departments.
4.4	By local arrangements between the Company and the Union, the names of employees to he laid off or recalled will be available to the Union on the same day the employees are notified or the day prior. A list cf the names shall heforwarded to the Union within one working day of notification.
4.5	Promotions shall be based on seniority, ability and merit. Ability and merit being equal, seniority shall prevail. In doubtful cases, the Company shall discuss the mutter with the Union and shall allow the employee to qualify &r a period not exceeding two (2) months.
4.6	Promotions shall be defined as a transfer to a positionpaying a higher rate, and no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless they are transferred to a positionpaying a lower rate.
4.7	Seniority will prevail when a higher job classification becomes vacant provided the employe? canperform the job within thirty (30) days. If the employee cannot perform thejob satisfactorily within the said period of time then the employee shall be returned to theformer) ob without loss of seniority. However, if the said period of time is in question it maty be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
9
ARTICLE 4 cont.
4.8	If an employee is absent from work because of sickness or accident they shall not lose seniority rights, and shall return io the position held prior io their absence when capable of performing his her u utics. It shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify (he Company of (he reasons cf the absence, and how long (heir absence will last. Where the employee fails to do s o the Company may, ut its' discretion, request the employee to verify (heir absence.
4.9	New employees will be on probation for a period of three (3) calendar months or any extendedperiad mutually agreed upon by the Union and (he Employer during which time they may he luid-ojf without reference to seniority and the Company is under no obligation is re-hire such employees. The termination of a probationary employee shall not he the subject <±a grievance. All employees retained beyond the three (3) calendar months probation period shall become regular employees and entitled to seniority in accordance to the length of service and end tied to all benefits under this Agreement and may he discharged only jar just cause. In the event that it is found that an employee is wrongfully fired, they shall not suffer any loss of seniority, if reinstated as an employee.
Any employee with three (3) or more months of service with the Company and is laid off, terminated, or terminates voluntarily and is rehired within one (I) year, shall upon completion of thirty (30) days of employment receive the rate of pay for the job classification us specified in Appendix A of this Agreement.
4.10	The words "qualified” or "qualifications" as used in this Agreement shall he interpreted io mean ability to regularly perform the job without other assistance.
4.11	Job Postings
When job vacancies occur with the exception of Lead Hand above the basicjob classification m the plant and the Employer requires replacements, and when the Employer creates new jobs they shall be posted on the bulletin boardfor a period cf three (3) working days during which time applications may he made by the employees. Copies of all such postings will be sent to the Union. Such applications made shall receive first consideration within the department concerned. The most senior applicant within the department shall receive such job posting. I no suitable, applications are received, then the Company may hire a person to fill thejob. It is understood to apply for a posting in the Maintenance and Shipping Department, an employee must he qualified. Temporary appointments may he made by the Employer pending receipt of applications.
10
An employee who received a promotion through the posting procedure shall not he permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall he posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will riot be posted hut will be filled in accordance with the terms of Article 4.5.
An employee receiving a new job posting will he on a trial basis for up to thirty (30) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall he returned to their prior job.
An employee shall not lose seniority rights if he she is temporarily absent from work because d illness, accident or leave of absence or is laid off.
An employee shall lose their seniority and employment in the event he or she:
is dischargedforjust cause;
resigns,
is laid off andfails to report for work within three (3) working days after being notified in writing by certified mail to do so. It shall he (he responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed of their current address and telephone number.
i s laid off for a period exceeding twelve (12) months.
After absence due to injury or illness the employee must be refurned to his/her joh without loss of seniority when capable of performing his/her duties provided two (2) years have not elapsed between the return and the last day worked in the case of compensable accident and one year in the case of illness or non-compensable accident.
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the Employer one (1) weeks notice of his/her intention to return to work
If there is a reoccurrence of the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (I) monthfrom the dale of return then the absence is considered to have continued. It is understood that the actual time worked will be added to the time limits specified above before the termination is effected.
ARTICLES
lea ves of absence
5.1	Requests for leave of absence extending over a period of more than one (l) week must he received in writing, and in no case Co exceed three (3) months, provided however, that it may he extended by parties hereto. The Company will return their answer to a request m u tiling within seven (7) days. Absence without cause shall constitute grounds for dismissal.
5.2	Leave oj absence without pay may be grunted, by mutual agreement, in addition to regular vacation, however, employees' with four (4) or more years seniority may request and shall he granted two 2 weeks of unpaid leave in addition to their regular vacation. Request for leave of absence shall be made m writing stating reasons therefore. Leaves of absence for extended vacation shall not be grunted during.I uly and August.
This request shall be limited to once every four years with a limit of nine (9) persons.
5.3	Pregnancy Leave
The requirements of the Employment Standards ('ode as amended November /, 1994 are hereby recognized.
Employees with twelve (12) months of service with the Employer may request, and will he granted, leave of absence because of pregnancy.
Employees shall submit request for such leave, in writing ut least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave together with a medical certificate certifying she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave shall be for a period not exceeding four (4) months prior to confinement and the period, if any, between the date of confinement mentioned in the certificate and the actual date.
Within two (2) months following delivery and being physically fit, however, if in the opinion of the employee's doctor that the time before or the date of return to work will endanger her health, an additional extension <£ leave will beprovided up to six (6) weeks. Such extension will be substantiated by a doctor's certificate. Upon return to work the employee will he reinstated and given creditfor seniority accumulated from the date leave of absence commences until the date of the employee's return to work.
Notwithstanding the above the six month pregnancy leave may be taken before or after confinement, or combination thereof.
12
ARTICLE 5.3 cont.
aj Paternity Leave
Paternity leave of one Jay, with pay, will he granted on the occurrence of the hirth of a child.
5.4	Funeral Leave
af An employee shall he granted not less than two (2) days off from work, with pay, in the event of death in the immediate family, length of such leave shall be determined by the Employer■ The term immediate family shall mean mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, and grandchildren.
bj Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the death is a case of spouse, father,
mother, child, brother or sister, the employee shall be entitled up to four (4) days with pay arid further consideration of leave of absence at the time of bereavement.
cj	If the death is a case of daughter-in-law or son-in-law, the employee shall
be. entitled to a leave of absence, without pay, up to three (3) days.
d/ Consideration will also he given with respect to travel time. Employee's day off or vacation rail riot be used to circumvent funeral leave.
ef The Employer agrees to include the common-law relationship.
5.5	The Employer agrees to grant necessary time off, without pay, and without loss of accrued seniority io any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labour convention or to serve in any capacity on legitimate official Union business, provided however, that sufficient not if cation is given the Employer so that such employee's position can he fined
Where a leave of absence is granted an employee by the Employer, provided such leave does not exceed one (1) year, the employee shall suffer no loss of seniority for that period
5.6	Jury Duty
An employee summoned tojury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amountpaidfor suchjury service and the amount cf basic wages they woiad normally hos e earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there E not less than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (H) hours combined wilhjury duty and time worked on thejob in one day shall be considered overtime and paid at applicable overtime rates.
13
ARTICLE 6 WAGES
6.1	The Employer agrees that during such time as this Agreement is in force,
it will pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement, not less than the regular hourly rates set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement and if any employee is receiving a Mage in excess of the regular hourly rates contained in Appendix A of this Agreement such wage rates shall not be reduced by reason of the signing of this Agreement.
It is agreed that in the event that other work classifications other than those set forth hereto are instituted, the Employer and the Union shall meet and negotiate a rate of pay for such employees.
ARTICLE 7
ST A TUTORYIIOLIDA YS
7.1	The following days shall he consideredas paid holidaysfor all employees:
New Year's Day T'amily Day Good Eriday
Empire Day (Victoria Day) Dominion Day (Canada Day)) First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
AN employees that have been employedfor thirty (30) or more calendar days shall be paid for the agreed holidays, subject to Sections bj, c], and dj.
Employees shall receivepry for Statutory Holiday or Holidays, provided they work (heir scheduled work day before and after the holiday unless absent by reason d bona fide sickness, accident or emergency.
Employees who are laid off shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or holidays that occur within thirty (30) days of the lay-of commencing, such to be paid upon return from lay-off.
If any of these days fall on Saturday or Sunday the following Monday shall be observed us the holiday.
14
Any employee required to work on any of the above Statutory Holidays listed in the Agreement, shall he paid at the regular rate for the Statutory Holiday, and in addition receive two (2) times their regular rate for all hours worked on such a day.
Union to post notice in lunch room and no one will be refused days off without pay to observe Christinas and or New Year's at different times.
ARTICLE 8 VACATIONS
Employees regularly working full-time shall receive vacation with pay in accordance with the. terms of the. following schedule setting out consecutive years of service. Effective March 21, 1982:
Two (2) weeks vacation after one (l) years service Three (3) weeks vacation after four (4)years service Tour (4) weeks vacation after nine (9)years service T'ive (5) weeks vacation after fifteen (15) years service Six (6) weeks vacation after twenty (20)years service
Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be computed as the greater of:	'
Two percent (2%) of the employee's total gross earnings on which he is eligible to receive vacation pay, or
Forty (40) hours ut the employee's current rate of pay subject to the following conditions -
The forty (40) hour calculation will be pro-rated over a fifty-two (52) week period when:
the employee is taking holidays prior to his eligibility date (i.e. anniversary date).
the employee has been absent due to a leave of absence in excess of two (2) weeks during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is beingpaid.
the employee has been absent due to non-occupational illness or accident in excess of thirty (30) days during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
ARTICLE 8.2 bf cont.
iv) the employee has been absent due to occupational illness or accident in
excess of six (6) months during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
(Note: the balance owing, if any, will he paid once the anniversary date is passed)
It is understood that where less than twelve (12) months have elapsed since the employee last took vacation the forty (40) hour calculation referred to inpurl (b) above wilt be pro-ruled over a twelve (12) monthperiod
8.3	uf The selection of vacation period shall be on the basis cE seniority in each department with the senior employee may he grunted ut first preference. Vacations may he grunted ut any time subject to the demand of the business hut the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations ut the time requested by the employees. Vacations to be taken in the twelve (12) monthperiodfollowing the individual's anniversary date of each year. Where employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation the additional week or week?above two (2) weeks may he scheduled at the discretion of the Employer.
The Company further agrees where employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation and request them to be taken in a period between the months <£ January 1st and April 30th of each year can take them consecutively,
j)j	Holiday request forms will he handed out privately and assigned in
private. After all holidays are assigned, the schedules shall he posted
8.4	When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the
employee will receive an additional days pay, when their vacation falls beh\>een April 30th and September 30th they will receive the Statutory Holiday pay before such vacation, if the vacation fulls between October 1st and May 1st the employee may request an extra day in lieu thereof. However, the employee at the time he/she. requests his/her vacation must inform the Employer of such request and grunting of such request must be by mutual agreement. If the request is grunted, it will he in writing.
8.5	Employees terminating their employment shall receivepayment for
vacation allowance on total wages and salary earned by the employee during the period of employment for which no vacation allowance has been paid
16
ARTICLE 8.5 cont.
Those entitled to less than	two (2) weeks vacation - 4%
three (3) weeks vacation - 6%
Jour (4) weeks vacation - 8%
Jive (5) weeks vacation - 10% six (6) weeks vacation -12%
8.6	Employees with less than one years service with the Employer who are
la id-off will he paid their accumulated vacation pay at time oj lay-off (within two weeks from date of lay-off), if such is requested, in writing, by the employee.
ARTICLE 9 SEVERANCE PAY
9.1	Employees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the Employer, except employees terminated for proper cause, which shall include but not be limited to dishonesty, drunkenness, or drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordination, shall be given individual notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof as fallows:
7/ One (l) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (60) days ser'ice.
21 Two (2) weeks notice m writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have two (2) years service.
One additional weeks notice for each/ill year of service or pay in lieu up to a maximum cf twenty-four (24) weeks,
9.2	Complete Plant Closing
When it becomes necessary to close the Plant and it is nut expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to those employees, subject to thefollovnng:
a] They have one (l) or more years seniority;
bf They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid-off within the thirty (30) day period preceding the date of notice ofclosing. Employees on leave cf absence up to one (l)year and receiving worker'sCompensation or off sick will be eligible;
17
ARTICLE 9.2 cont.
cf	They have not refused an offer of Other employment by the ('ompany in
another unit, the location of which is reasonably accessible;
dj They have not been transferred to another unit of the ('ompany;
ef The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow down or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of C tod;
fj	In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to
work in a satisfactory manner as long as required;
si The scale of separation allowance shall be as follows:
Years of
Completed Service	Amount
I	S 200.00
2	300.00
3	400.00
4	500.00
5	600.00
6	725.00
7	850.00
8	975.00
9	1,100.00
10	1.225.00
11-20	The ten (10) year allowance plus $I75.00fur each year over ten.
21 and over	The twenty (20) year allowance plus $225.00 for each year over twenty.
Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on so doing, terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
It is understood that employees who are eligible payment under this clause, shall not be eligible for severance pay as outlined in Section 9.1.
18
ARTICLE 10 SICK LEA W
10.1	The Employer agrees to provide sick leave with pay, earned at (he rate of
one (I) day sick leave for each month of employment. Employees will accrue one (l) sick day credit only if they worked every scheduled work day of (he calendar month jor which (he accrual is being calculated. Sick leave with pay shall he cumulative up to twenty (20) days. Accumulation shall commence upon completion of a six (6) month eligibility period.
«/ On a day that an employee works less than three (3) hours and goes home sick, that day shall he counted as first day of sickness. Sick employees shall not he requested to remain in the plant beyond the three (3) hours to circumvent first day of sickness.
bl No employee on sick leave shall receive pay for (he first day of absence, except those employees who are off six (6) days or more and have accumulated credits.
cj The Employer agrees to pay out unused sick leave credits to employees after six (6) months of illness, eighteen (IS) months of lay-off and immediately upon retirement on Ecus ion. All holidays will be considered as time worked when computing sick leave.
fir Doctor's note is not requiredfor 0 or less days <£ illness.
19
article II
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROGRAM
Employees must complete three (3) months of employment to he eligible for (he benefit coverages set out in Sections /1.2, 11.3, and 11.5.
Coverage commences on the first day following completion of three (3) months service and stops immediately upon termination. The ( ompany and Union agree that the premium for these coverages will be paid 75% by the Employer and 25% by the employee.
The Company agrees to maintain the Alberta Health ('are Insurance coverage.
Group Life Insurance
The l 'ompany agrees to provide as a condition of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement a (lroup Life Insurance Policy with coverage of the greater of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or an amount equal to 2,080 hours times the employee's regular rate of pay.
Weekly Indemnity
The Company agrees to provide a Weekly Indemnity Insurance program (hat provides employees with 66-2.'3% of their weekly earnings based on 40 hours per week at the regular rate of pay up to a maximum allowed under the Unemployment Insurance Act for a maximum of 15 'weeks when absent from work due to a non-occupational illness or accident. Employees on layoff are not eligible to collect Weekly Indemnity benefits. Weekly income benefits begin with the first day of disability due to injury or the fourth consecutive working day of disability due to illness but in no event prior to the first day of treatment by a doctor.
Dental Plan
The Employer agrees to participate in and contribute to the Alberta Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan.
Effecfive the Monday of (he first pay periodfollowing ratification (June	/§,
1992), the Employer will contribute to (he Dental Plan thirty-one cents (31)per hour to a maximum of twelve dollars andforty cents ($12.40) per week for all hourspaid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity) Jury duty,bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
ARTICLE ll.4bfcont.
Effective April 25, 1226, the Employer will contribute to the Dental Plan thirty-five ee.nls (35 f) per hour to a maximum of fourteen dollars ($14.00) per week for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining 11nit (hours pu id shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective March 24, 1997 the Employer will increase the contribution to thirty-seven cents (37ft) per hour to a maximum of fourteen dollars and eighty cents ($ 14.HO) per week for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
CJ	The Employer and the Union agree to the original method of selection of
Employer and Union Trustees to administer the Elan. It is agreed that the terms of (he Plan and its administration will he entirely the responsibility oj these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is administered consistently With this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable government law or regulation rind with the intention o f meeting all of the requirements for continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing, the Employer and the Union agree to he bound by (he actions taken by the Employer and the Union Trustees under (he Plan.
11.5	It is agreed that the Company’s extended Health Care Program will he made available to all employees. The premiums payable under this program are 100% paid by the employee.
Effective April I, 1990 the Extended Health Care Program as described above shall become a mandatory benefit with premiums paid 75% by the Employer, 25% by the employee.
11.6	An employees employment benefits cover age provided under Articles 11.2,
11.3, 11.5 shall cease when:
If in the case <£ lay-off of an employee
with less than 12 months service after 3 months hty-off with more than 12 months service after 6 months lay-off.
21
ARTICLE 11.6 if cont
11.7
Hf they have been absent from work due to illness or non-compensable accident in excess of rune (9) months.
iiif	They have been absent from work due to compensable accident in excess
of 24 months.
Pension
Effective January I, 1990 the Employer agrees to participate in and contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers*Industry Pension Plan.
Effective December 28, 1992, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C. W.l.P.P. twenty Jive cents (25) per hourfor all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit,far current service benefit and ten cents (10) per hourfor all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit, for past service benefits.
Effective April 25, 1996 the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I.P.P. twenty eight cents (28$ per hour &r all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit,for current service benefit and ten cents (10$ per hourfor all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit, for past service benefits.
Effective March 24, 1997 the Employer will increase the contributionfkr current service to thirty one (31$ per hour for all hours paid by the Employer tomembers of the bargaining unit, for curreni service benefit and ten cents (10$ per hourfor all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit, far past service benefits.
Hours paid shall include hours worked, vacations; general holidays, sickdays (hot including Weekly Indemnity),Jury duty, bereavement leave, etc. up to a maximum offorty (40) hoursper week.
22
ARTICLE 12 SAFETY AND WELFARE
The Company shall make provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees.from injury shall he provided by the Company.
The Company shall have on the premises, persons qualified and responsible to provide FIRST AID cure to injaredemployees and shall take the necessary measures to provide them with medical attention.
The FIRST AID persons shall be identified by a RED CROSS on their helmet.
Employees attending first aid courses at the request of the Employer will be paid their regular hourly rate for all hours spent on the first aid course.
The Companyfurther agrees to provide adequate healingfacilities and a buffer wall toprevent drafts from open doorways as mutually agreed by the Union and Management.
There shall be a Union Management Safety Committee appointed and shall constitute two (2) representatives uppointedby the Union and two (2) representatives anointed by Management. Roth parties shall be motivated by the needfor appointing members to the Committee who shall he best capable of promoting safety throughout the Plant. Regular meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held each month. A list of names of the Safety Committee members shall be kept posted on the bulletin board in the lunch room.
An employee injured while working in the Plant shall suffer no loss of earningsfor the balance of hours in the scheduled shift Ja which the accident occurs if; us a result of such injuiy they are sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention and transportation will be provided.
No employee will be required tu work alone ut any time at the Plant as stated in Article 3,3.
ARTICLE 13
PROMOTIONS ASD JOB ASSIGNMENTS
13.1
13.2
13.3
13.4
14.1
14.2
14.3
The Employer agrees- that all promotions and job assignments involving an increase in pay will be based on seniority c£ the employee affected, provided qualifications and ability are comparatively equal.
Employees required to temporarily fill a higher ratedjob, shall receive the classified rate for balance of soft, but if required temporarily t of ill a lower rated job, shall receive their regular rate of pay.
Where employees are required to transfer from on? department to another on a permanent basis due to the operational needs of the Company it shall he done on thefollowing basis.
The opportunity to transfer shallfirst he given to senior employees. In the event that no employee wishes to take the transfer, the least senior employees shall be transferred and shall be given the f irst opportunity to transfer back to that department when a position becomes available.
Where an employee is offered a supervisory position outside the bargaining unit and less than six (6) months time has expired, the employee can choose to return, or the employer can require the employee to return, to their farmer position with no loss of seniority. Thisprovision is restricted to be used only once by an employee during their employment with the Employer.
ARTICLE 14 GENERAL PROVISIONS
A suitable nick will befurnished in the dressing rooms or elsewhere on which to hang wet clothes and aprons. This rack shall be in a place that is heated so that clothingwill dry in a reasonable time.
The Company will allow adequate relief us well as the necessary timefor changing clothes or equipment necessitated by change from onejob to another where working conditions are different.
The Employer agrees that the Union will have the right to use the bulletin board, to be used&r posting notices <±official Union business exclusively, end not to be used&r discriminatingpoliticalpropaganda. All such notices shall be submitted to a Company official for approval before posting.
24
ARTICLE 14 cont.
14.4	The Union agrees not to cull a meeting oj its members who are employees oj the Company during working hours that will interfere with the normal operations of the Company.
14.5	All uniforms, smocks, aprons, caps, hairnets, gloves and new boots and any other special wearing apparel an employee is required to wear, shall befurnished and laundered by or at the expense of the Employer. The first issue of new plastic coats on wet lines will he charged out ut cost and further issues ut no charge on exchange. The employee shall be
responsible for any such apparel they may lose providing adequate lockers are supplied
The Employer further agrees to supply and dean Truck Drivers uniforms at no cost to the employee. It is understood and agreed that all such wearing apparel is the property of the Employer.
ajf	Appropriatefreezer coats and gloves will he providedfor employees
working in holding coolers or freezing, units. The Company shall provide woolen gloves andfel t insoles with tach issue of new rubber boots. The number of coats supplied shall he determined by the Employer. It is understood that such wearing apparel is the property of the Employer and the employee must not take such wearing apparel away from the premises.
bj Maintenance employees and other employees m the Plant required to
wear safely shoes upon completion of six (6) months of employment shall receive seventy-five dollars ($75.00) toward a new pair of safety shoes thereafter be limited to seventy five dollars ($75.00) every six (6) months or $1.50.00 every twelve months, if needed. I o qualify for the reimbursement the old pair of safety shoes must be turned in to the Company. The Companyfurther agrees that where the employees are required to wear rubber boots, the employees will buy their first issue of rubber boots, any other issue thereafter the Company tall reimburse the employee by the amount of fifteen dollars ($ 15.00) toward a new pair, provided the old boots are turned in. A t the employee's request the Companywill replace suitable rubber boots ut no cost to the employee.
The Company also agrees to maintain aproper supply of rubber bootsfor employees.
The Company agrees to supply proper external hearing protection or internal heading protection. The employee may elect which type to wear and will be allowed the option of wearing both.
25
ARTICLE 14.5 cont
cj	The first issue of insulated vests to packaging department employees will
he charged out at cost andfurther issues at no charge on exchange.
14.6	Union Representative calling on Plum:
Any authorized Union representative may, upon receiving permission from the Employer, enter the Plant, providing however, the said representative Shall not unduly occupy the tune of employees during working hours.
In the event that the Company deems it necessary to meet with an employee away from his/her work station for disciplinary purposes, the employee will be accompanied by a Steward
Union representatives (Chief Shop Steward) shall not leave their work to process or deal with any matter without first advizing and receiving approval from their immediate supervisor. The Company shall exercise reasonableness in their handling c£such requests.
14.7	Time Off to Vote:
The Employer agrees to fully comply with any taw requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
14.8	Employees will be granted time off without pay to keep doctor or dentist appointments or other appointments providing however, the Employer is given one (I) weeks notice in advance except in emergency.
14.9	The Employer agrees to display the Union Shop curd which shall be furnished to the Employer free of charge by the Union
14.10	The Company agrees toprovide copies of all attendance or discipline letters to the Union.
14.11	Pre employment medicals are to be paid fa: by the employee. All subsequent medicals required by the Employer are to be paid far by the Employer.
14.12	The Employer may request a Driver's A bs tract at any time from an employee classified us a Truck Driver, or any employee temporarily filling that position for thepurpose of determining that the employee has a validdriver’s license. The Employer will payfor thefeefkr obtaining the Abstract.
26
ARTICLE 15
MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
15.1
15.2
15.3
16.1
16.2
The Management of the Plant and the direction of the working force including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) the right to hire, suspend or discharge for cause, to assign and re-assign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine the products to he handled, produced, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production, and the methods, processes and means of production and handling are vested exclusively with the Company provided these rights will not be used to discriminate against employee,'.
Cases of disagreement shall he dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure us outlined in this Agreement.
The Company retainsall rights ‘o manage the business not IdudtBdby the express provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 NO DISCRIMINATION
No employee shall be transferred, dismissedor discriminated against in any way for any lawful Union activity, or for serving on a Union Committee outside of business hours, or for reporting to the Union any violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
Any employee alleging wrongful transfer, dismissal, or discrimination, may place his or her allegation before the Union Representative and if said Representative considers that the objection hi s merit, the transfer, dismissal or lay-off shall become a grievance and he sntji ct to the Grievance Procedure as established in (his Agreement.
There shall be no discriminationagainst any employeefor refusal to cross a legal picket line or obey a lawful Union order. The Employer further agrees that there will be no discrimination with reference to Human Rights Act, Section 6, 1A and B.
Sexual Harassment
Where an employee alleges that sexual harassment has occurred on thejob, the employee shall have the rigid to grieve under the Collective Agreement
27
ARTICLE 17
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS CLA USE
17.1	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company herein, and its successors and assigns, and no provision herein contained, shall be nullified or affected many manner as a result of any consolidation, sale, transfer, or assignment, or any other form d business organization, or by any change geographical or othenvise, in the locution of the Company herein. The Company agrees an Agreement has been entered into, as a result cE which this Agreement shall continue to he binding on the person or persons or any business organization continuing the business. It is the intent of the parties that this Agreement shall remain in effect for the full term thereof regardless of any kind of change, of any kind, in management, location, form of business, organization or ownership.
ARTICLE 18
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
18.1	Any complaint, disagreement, or difference <± opinion between theparties hereto concerning the interpretation, application and operation, or any alleged violation of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
AN grievances notpresented to the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the grievance arose, shall he waived.
It is further agreed that fourteen (14) calendar days shall apply with respect to grievances concerning the dismissal of any employee.
First Step:
The employee shall discuss the matter with his or her immediate superior, or may request the Shop Steward or Union Representative to do so on his or her behalf.
If the Employee is not satisfied with this settlement, then:
28
ARTICLE 18.1 cont.
Second Step:
Grievances shall he presented in writing and shall clearly set forth the grievance and the contentions of the aggrieved party following which the Union Representative or Representatives, and the Labour Relations Representative of the Employer shall meet and in good faith shall endeavour to settle the grievance submitted. If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, or if the party fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving tire written grievance, either party may, by written notice served on the other require submission of the grievance to a Board of Arbitration. Such Board to be established in the manner provided in Article 19 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19
BOARD OF ARBITRATION
19.1	The Board ofArbifrationshall be composed of three (3) members and
shall be established as follows:
Withinten (10) working days (excluding Sundays and holidays) following receipt of such notice, the Employer and the Union shall each select a representative to serve on the Hoard of Arbitration. The Representative so selected shall meet within five (5) days (excluding Sundays and holidays) after they have both been selected, and choose an additional member to act as Chairman. In the event of failure of the nominees of the Union and the Employer, to agree upon a Chairman within five (5) days as specified, the Minister or Deputy Minister of Labour shall be immediately requested to name a third member who shall act as Chairman cf the Board of Arbitration. WSsanfive (5) days of the appointment <£ the impartial Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter ii dispute and shall render a decision within fourteen (14) days after its first session. It is understood and agreed that the time limits us set forth herein may be altered by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
29
ANTICLE 19.1 cont.
No person shall serve on the Hoard of Arbitration who is involved or directly interested in the controversy under consideration. Grievances submitted to an Arbitration Board shall be m writing end shall clearly specify the nature of (he issue. In reaching its aecision the Board of Arbi, ration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter this Agreement in any of its parts, hut may, however, interpret its provisions. The expense of the impartial Chairman shall be borne equally by the Employer ana me Union, umess otherwise provided by law. The findings and the decisions of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of the majority of the Board of Arbitration shall he deemed to he a decision of the Hoard
ARTICLE 20
GUARANTEED WORK WEEK
This Section shall apply only to (hose employees 'who are permanent full-time employees of the Employer.
For the purpose of this Section "full-time permanent employees" shall mean any employees employed on a Stil-time basis for a period of time exceeding three (3) consecutive months.
Where an employee entitled to the guaranteed work week is called to work during the week they shall be entitled to receive pay not less than on the following basis each year:
January 1st to May 31st receive thirty (30) hour pay for that week; June 1st to December 31st - thirty-six (36) hours pay for that week;
regardless of the&ct that such employee may not workfor that many hours.
Effective July / Ith, 1978 employees hired during the period between January 1st to May 31st upon completing thirty (30) calendar days of employment with the Employer shall receive thirty (30) hours pay regardless <± the fact that such employee may not workftr that many hours.
Thefollowingprovisions shall apply in this regard:
30
ARTICLE 20 cont.
«/ The Employer will adjust employees in proportion to the work available or expected to he available. To provide such regular employees with guaranteed hours of work, the Employer shall he free to distribute within departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, reasonable consideration being given to seniority, ability and to any extreme changes in physical working conditions.
bj The Employer expects all employees will perform conscientiously,
whatever task may be assigned to them in their respective departments. If any employee refuses to perform the work assigned to them, the Employer shall be absolvedfrom any guarantee in respect of the workperformed during that week.
cj The guarantee shall be the samefor weeks in which one (!) of the eleven (I l) Statutory Holidays occur as in other weeks, the pay received&a: said Statutory Holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee.
dl Any employee who is absent from work after having started to work on a week which would entitle them to receive the guaranteed work week, shall have their guarantee reduced by the time so lost.
ej	Any employee who is laid off in excess of one (!) month is not eligiblefor
the guaranteed work week provision in the week of recall.
fl Where overtime or other Premium paid hours are worked they shall be computed as, one hour worked .is one hour of the guarantee only.
31
ARTICLE 21
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL CLAUSE
This Agreement shall he effective from March 26, 1994 until March 20, 1998 and shall remain inforce thereafter from year ioyear, hut either party may not less than sixty (60) days before expiry or renewal date of such Agreement, give notice in writing to the other party to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
j Signed this	day of
, 1996.
32
APPENDIX A - WAGES
WAGES		Effective	Effective	Effective
* Cl ASS I		27MAR 93	25APR.96	24 MAR.97
Starting Rate		3 9.00	$ 9.00	$ 9.00
After 3 months		12.26	12.46	12.66
After 6 months		12.43	12.63	12.83
Scalers, Graders	I			
Cryovac Operators	}	12.45	12.65	12.85
Kitchen Staff	I			
Saw Operators		12.73	12.93	13.13
Lead Hand Light Duty		12.78	12.98	13.18
First Aid (Full-time)		13.23	13.43	13.63
WAGES		Effective	Effective	Effective
CLASSII		27 MAR 93	25 APR 96	24 MAR 97
Starting Rate		$ 9.00	$ 9.00	$ 9.00
After 3 months		12.83	13.03	13.23
After 6 months	}			
Assembling orders	}			
Condemned (Utility)	}			
Feather Room	}			
Ice Control	}			
Ice Packing	}	13.03	13.23	13.43
Janitorial	}			
Night Clean Up	}			
Pullet Loading	}			
Reverse Hanging (Custom Kill))	}			
Tank Mover	}			
Truck and Crate Wash	}			
Vacuum Operator	}			
Freezer Hand	}			
Fork Operators	f /			
Muintenance	}	13.18	13.38	13.58
Receiver-Shipper	}			
TruckDriver	}			
Hangers Live		13.28	13.48	13.68
Poultry Killer		13.33	13.53	13.73
Lead Hand		13.38	13.58	13.78
WorkingForeman		13.53	13.73	13.93
Engineers		13.88	14.08	14.28
33
*CLASS f These positions will not require an employee to lift in excess of thirty five (35) pounds at any one time during the performance of their duties.
Effective April 25, 1996, all employees on payroll who have completed (heir probationary period will receive a lump-sum payment of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
34
	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Litydale Co-operative Limited Calgary, A Iberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers Local 373A, Calgary, Alberta
The employer recognizes that temperature fluctuation in the staff lunch and change rooms have been a problem and will work towards solving the problem.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this	day of ... . 1996.
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Lily dale CO-operative Limited
Calgary, Alberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 373A, Calgary, Alberta
Theparties agree to work together to implement the Window of Opportunity Program. The intent ofthe program being the reduction of the incident of injuries.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this day of
1996.
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Lily dale Co-operative Limited
Calgary, Alberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 373A, Calgaiy, Alberta
The parties agree to thefallouinj:
That Article 3. /, definition of Departments he deemed to include:
Packaging io consist of five (5) sub-sections
Department C09 Department CD13 Department COI3 Department COS Department CO 10
(9-piece cut
Packaging	(Tray Pack Line
(Dept.No.8f	(Multi-Cut
(Rotomatic
(Box room, brine area and freezer
Employees working in a particular Sub-section shall he given first opportunity of working overtime that is required in that Sub-section. If an employee does not wish to work the overtime, it shall be offered to the other employees in "Packaging" as a whole :starting with the most senior. In the event that no other "Packaging" employee wishes to work the overtime the employee in whose Sub-section the overtime occurs will be required to work the overtime.
Employees who have not been assigned to a particular Sub-section shall operate their seniority in respect to overtime in the Suh-section they are first assigned to on that day.
This Letter of Understandingw ill come up &r review in the event of a change in the operation <£ "Packaging
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this _ day of
. 1996.
37
LErrER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Lily dale Co-operative Limited
Calgary, Alberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 373A, Calgary, Alberta
In the event of complete plant closure during the term ofthis Collective Agreement, the Company will set up ajoint Union/Management Plant Closure Committee. This committee will consist of the following individuals:
1,	For the Union - up to three (3) members designated by the Union.
2.	For the Company - up to three (3) members of Management.
This committee will deal with the various issues concerning employees and the Companywill make a sincere effort to give us much notice as possible in the event ofa complete plant closure.
This letter will be null and void and have no force or effect following the current term of this Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this ___day of
, 1996.
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Lilydale Co-operativeLimited
Calgary, Alberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 373A, Calgary, Alberta
Theparties agree to set up ajoint IJnion/Mar.agement labour relations committee. This committee will he composed of thefollowing individuals:
j) For the Union- Full time Union Rep., Chief Steward or his/her designated representative and one (I) other member of the bur gaining unit.
2) For the Company - up to three (3) members <±management.
This committee will meet on a monthly basis to review issues of concern to bothparties.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THEEMPLOYER
Signed this____day of
1996.
39
FIRST PART
LIT YD ALE A TTENDANCE PROGRAM
Whenever an employee is unable to attend work a loss is incurred both by the employee and the Employer.
We all understand that there will be occasions during everyone's work life when they will be unable to attend work, but it would seem to make good sense to work together to find ways of avoiding the avoidable absences, or working together in a genuine attempt to create and maintain an environment both physical and social that will promote regular attendance ut work, along with an understanding that we have a shared interest in lowering the incidence of absence.
The Lilydale Attendunce Program was a first attempt to start down this road of co-operation. Some of the employeesfound the program intimidating and felt it was negative, rather than positive, us intended Hopefully the following revisions will help to alleviate these impressions.
SECOND PART
LILYDALE ATTENDANCE PROGRAM
It is understood that the Lilydale Attendance Program is to he revised to incorporate the following changes:
1.	That absences as a result of occupational illness or injury (W. C.B.) shall not be within the scope of the Program.
2.	That reference to "terminationd employment", as outlined in the Lilydale Attendance Program, shall not apply to those employees covered by the current Collective Agreement, but will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 4. IS.
3.	That the Program will be changed in such u manner us to reflect itspositive intent.
4.	The Company agrees to amend the Attendance Program letters on employee files that refer to W.C.B. absences or termination of employment.
40