SOURCE ^SmiJ5-y\_
BETWSEN
j D'cfAl -O I'ES
LILYDALE CCT-OPERATTVE LIMITED
31894 Marshall Road RR 5, Abbotsford, B C V2S 4N5
AND
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - AFL - CIO - CLC
LOCAL 1518 (UC.RI M-
>■ c KAnffl P-
JULY!, 1990 - JUNE 30,1992
oo=n50^
3
AGREEMENT
LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED 31894 MARSHALL ROAD RR #5, ABBOTSFORD, B. C.
V2S 4N5
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL CIO CIO LOCAL 1518
UNIT B - 5261 LANE STREET BURNABY, B. C.
V5H 2H4
JULY 1, 1990 - JUNE 30, 1992
INDEX
ARTICLE
1	General
2	Bargaining Agency
3	Management
4	Wages 3
5	Safety and	Health
6	Duration of Agreement
7	Hours of Wok and Overtime
8	Statutory Holidays
9	Automation	& Technological	Changes
10	Shift Premiums
11	Vacation Policy
12	Seniority
13	Grievance Procedure
14	Leave of Absence
15	Pay Periods
16	Wodc Clothing
17	Non-discrimination
18	Bereavement Leave
19	Gender
20	Employee Benefits
21	Contracting Out
22	Appearance In Court
23	Separation Allowance
24	Hot Goods
25	Weekly Guarantee
26	Sanitation
27	Tool Replacement
28	Pension Plan Wage Schedule
Cost of Living Clause Letters of Understanding
PAGE
1
1
3
4
5
6 9
10
11
11
14
18
20
21
21
22
23
23
23
25
25
25
26 26
27
28 28
29
30 30
This AGREEMENT entered into this__1st day of
November , of 1990 .
Between:	Lilydale Co-operative Limited
31894 Marshall Road RR #5, Abbotsford, B. C.
V2S 4N5
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
And:	United Food 4 Commercial
Workers International Union, AFL CIO CLC Local 1518, Industrial Sector Unit B - 5261 Lane Street Burnaby, B. C. V5H 2H4 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1	- CENTRAL
1.01	One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain in full effect a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union. No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Company and the Union.
■ARTICLE 2	- BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all regular employees excluding executive staff, sales and office staffs, foremen, office janitor and buyers, with respect to wages, hours of work and terms and conditions of employment. The Company recognizes the right of the Union to determine the standing of all members.
2
2.02	The Company agrees that all employees now members of the Union and all employees who become members of the Union shall remain members in good standing of the Union while employed ty the Company during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
2.03	Recognition - Union Shop:	(a) The Company agrees
to retain in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Article 2, Section 2.01 of this Agreement only members of the Union in good standing.
(b)	The Company shall be free to hue new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED, said non-members shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application within ten (IO) days after employment and become members upon completion of thirty (30) working days.
(c)	The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regards to the Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each new employee to whcm they have presented the form letter, along with the employee's date of hire. The Union shall bear the expense of printing the letter, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide the Union, once a month with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month. Every employee shall keep the Company informed of his home address, postal code and telephone number. The Company shall advise the Union, quarterly of any changes in employees' addresses.
2.04	Deduction cf Dues:	(a) The Company agrees to
deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fees, union dues, fines and assessments as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The Company agrees to honour a written assignment for initiation fees and Union dues on behalf of any employee who is or who becomes a members of the Union.
3
(b)	Monies deducted during any month shell be forwarded by the company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the fifteenth (15th.) day cf the month for which dues are deducted, and accompanied ty a written statement of the names from whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction, along with a list of names cf the employees for whom no deduction was made and the reasons therefore. In addition to the Secretary-Treasurer, the Chief Shop Steward shall also be furnished with this list.
The amount of union dues paid by an employee during a taxation year shall be shown on the employee's statement of Remuneration Paid, form T-4, Supplementary, or such other similar form furnished ty the Federal Income Tax authorities.
ARTICLE 3	- MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Management of the Plant and direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, or discharge for cause, and the methods processes and means of production and handling, are vested exclusively in the Company subject only to the provisions of this Agreement. Cases of disagreement over the interpretation of this clause shall be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure in Article 13.
ARTICLE 4	- WAGES
4.01	Attached to this Agreement shall be a Wage Schedule covering all employees. This shall not apply to employees excluded in Article 2, Section 2.01. No employee shall hold more than one (1) classified position.
4.02	Classifications and rates of pay for such classifications shall be in accordance with the "Wage Schedule" which shall form a part of this Agreement. Any additions or deletions to the present classifications shall be the subject of Collective Bargaining between the Company and the Union, Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to such date the new job was instigated.
4
4.03	If an employee substitutes in any department on any job during the temporary absence of another employee because cf sickness, holiday leave or other similar cause, he or she shall receive where such job pays less, his or her former rate of pay and where such job pays more, the rate applicable to the temporary job. In the case of temporary transfers the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee provided no senior employee makes a request for such temporary vacancy. The word "temporary" as used in this Agreement shall be defined as a result of mutual agreement, arrived at between the Union and the Company, based upon the merits of each individual case.
4.04	Where inequalities in individual rates are alleged to exist, they shall be dealt with as provided for in Article 13, Grievance Procedure.
4.05	Any female employees working in the plant, shall receive exactly the same rate of wages as male employees, if they are performing the task usually or previously performed by a male employee, providing however, that the employee is as qualified to do the same work and is physically capable of doing same.
4.06	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs, if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. In the event that no Company representative is present, to report to, the Company will provide a telephone number to the employees where a report of their accident may be received. Costs incurred as a result of transportation to the practitioner and/or hospital, at the option of the employee shall be borne by the Company.
4.07	Establishing Rates for New or Changed Jobs:	(a)
Establishing rates for new or changed jobs shall be handled in accordance with Article 4, section 4.02.
5
(t>) If agreement is not reached when the job is started,
the Company will pay the rote set end if in the final
settlement the rate is increased it will be paid retroactively. Similarly, the rate will be paid retroactively when its establishment has been delayed beyond the date the job reaches normal operation.
(c)	Disagreement mentioned in paragraph (b) above will be subject to the Grievance Procedure beginning at the 2nd. step.
4.08	If due to permanent job reduction an employee is transferred for a period of less than six (6) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate. At the expiration of six (6) consecutive weeks the lower job rate shall prevail, and the employee shall cease to have any rights to return to his prior posted job unless on a new posting.
ARTICLE 5 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
5.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees of the plant during the hours of their employment. Protective devises and other equipment necessary to properly protect the employees from injury shall be provided by the Company with no cost to the employee.
5.02	There shall be a Union-Company safety committee
which shall be set up as follows:	The Company shall
appoint three (3) representatives from the Company staff and the Union shall appoint three (3) representatives from their membership. Both parties in making their appointments shall be motivated by the need for selecting people who will best be capable cf promoting safety throughout the plant. The safety committee shall alternate Chairmen for each meeting. Minutes shall be kept ty a secretary, who shall not be a member cf the committee. The Chief Shop Steward or his or her designated representative shall be responsible for the calling and holding of the safety meetings referred to herein.
.
Regular meetings of the Safety Committee to be held on the last Wednesday of each month with all members of the Safety Committee being present. The day of the meeting is subject to change only in a week in which a Statutory Holiday may Rail.
5.03	Safety hard hats, with or without ear muff protectors, which are approved by the Workers' Compensation Board, will be supplied free of charge to employees where required.
5.04	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged for refusal to work on any job or in any work place or to operate any equipment where it is determined by representatives cf the safety committee that the situation is unsafe or unhealthy. The representatives referred to herein shall consist of at least one (1) Company nominee.
5.05	All safety tests, safety inspections and safety tours shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Co-chairman of the safety committee, or in his absence, a Union member of the safety committee, or a member of the Executive.
ARTICLE 6 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
6.01	The terms of this Agreement shall be in full force ^and effgflT" from, July l. xaau up Tb anfl"inL>UT(Iimj"' Jung *"105? 6nd thereafter from year to year unless either party
gives notice in writing of termination or amendment of not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration.
6.02	During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
7
Signed On Behalf Of	Signed On Behalf of
0? Company	the Union
Ulydale Co-operative United Food and
Limited	Commercial Workers Local 1518
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WCRK AND OVERTIME
7,01	For the purpose of calculating it overtime is
payable, the Company shall set out an Hours of Weak Schedule and negotiate with the Union. The Union recognizes the needs of the business in negotiating changes in the hours of work schedule. Cases of disagreement may be dealt with under the grievance procedure beginning at the second step. The schedule of hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty (40) for any payroll week and must not exceed more than eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday, except where otherwise mutually agreed upOQ. It is specifically agreed that any work schedules in effect on January 1, 1978, involving four (4) days of ten (10) hours each may continue.
9
(a)	ALL time worked before or after the negotiated schedule of hours shall be paid for at double times (2x) the employee's regular rate of pay.
7.02	Any employee who reports for work, and who, ty
reason	of some breakdown in the plant is dismissed for the
day, shall receive five (5) hours pay at least.
7.03	Procedure for Changing Schedules:	The Company
agrees that except by mutual consent no individuals schedule shall be changed without twenty-four (24) hours notice or a crew's schedule without five (5) working days notice. The Union will be consulted before a crew's schedule, and where feasible, an individual's schedule has been changed. The Company shall have the right to start and stop crews within the range of the Letter f Understanding. The word "crew0 as used in this clause shall be defined as a result of mutual agreement between the Grievance Committee and the Company.
7.04	Overtime:	(a)	Wh&i it is necessary to work
overtime Monday through Friday the personnel selected shall be the senior qualified employees in the department where the overtime is required. Should the necessary employees not be available within the department, then the basis of selection shall be the senior qualified employees available in the plant. If any senior qualified employee has been inadvertently missed for overtime he shall be paid for the applicable amount of overtime he has missed. For overtime on Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holidays the personnel selected shall be the senior qualified employee in the plant.
(b) Double times (2x) the regular hourly rate shall be paid to all employees for ail hours worked on Saturdays and Sundays.
(c)	The Company will limit overtime hours of work as far as reasonably possible. The Company will first discuss the matter with the Union Grievance Committee, if gang overtime is involved, when feasible, if overtime is involved for individuals. If overtime is necessary, the Union will encourage employees to work. In the event that the Company requires overtime, all employees involved in the overtime shall be provided with notice to this effect when the Company first is aware of the overtime requirement or two (2) hours notification.
9
(d)	It is agreed that all overtime work shall be voluntary and that no employees shall be compelled to work overtime, nor shall he be discriminated against for refusal to work overtime.
(e) Any employee who responds late to work on his regularly scheduled shift shall not be entitled to overtime rates of pay until completion of eight (8) hours.
7.05	Any hourly rated employee who after leaving the Company's premises, is especially called in at any time outside his normal working hours shall be through when the emergency is over but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of five (5) hours at the regular rate or for the hours he actually worked at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
7.06	(a) Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to woik more than four (4) hours without a first meal period of thirty (30) minutes and more than five (5) hours without the second meal period The second meal period shall be one-half (1/2) hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company. In cases where there is no meal provided, a cash equivalent of $7.00 plus one-half (1/2) hour straight time will be added to his gross earnings fix that fiscal week.
(b)	Employees required to work more than four and
onequarter (4 1/41 hours without a first meal period Shall he compensated at one and one-half (1 1/21 their hourly rate for all times worked in excess of four and one-quarter (4 1/41 hours until a meal period is granted. Maintenance and Engineer employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time.
7.07	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to reduce the number of employees to be employed during the work shortage period. Such layoffs shall be according to seniority and anility to perform the work required. In cases where ability is being considered the determination of ability will be the subject of mutual agreement between the Union Grievance Committee and the Company.
10
7.08	Whenever an employee is held for legitimate extra work or is brought in cn his or her day off, or on a Sunday, or on a paid holiday, he or she need not be required to take time off to bring his or her hours down to the standard working week.
7.09	(a) All employees shall have two fifteen (15) minute rest intervals during each day without deduction in pay with rest periods to be provided in the time schedule. The second rest period shall be granted two (2) hours after the return from the lunch break. The rest periods referred to herein shall not be eliminated by reason of a short work day unless the employee leaves on personal business prior to the second rest period.
(b)	When overtime is required beyond the regular quitting time, a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted before proceeding with the overtime work.
7.10	Management personnel shall not be allowed to do production work, except in an emergency, training of an unqualified employee or quality control and product development work, but shall not be used to displace a Union employee.
7.11	Truck Drivers required to take out loads after 2:00 p.m. in any day which contains deliveries that would require the truck driver to work in excess of his normal schedule f hours for that day, shall be supplied a swamper on request. The provisions of this clause will not apply where a straight load of skids is being delivered.
7.12	All employees shall be entitled to twelve (12) hours of rest between shifts. Should the employee be required to woik during his twelve (12) hour rest period, all hours worked will be paid for at overtime rates.
7.13	Employees required to do freezer work shall be allowed ten (10) minutes outside work for each hour worked in the freezer. Employees who are not regularly required to do freezer work shall be supplied with necessary clothing to do the work and shall in addition, be given a minimum of one (1) hour's notice before being assigned to the freezers.
11
7.14	Shift Engineers shall be allowed a regular day off in lieu of working Sunday. However, due to changing shifts and rotating the shift employees, the day that the employee is off may be changed from time to time by the Company. Shift engineers are to be given forty-eight (48) hours notice when required to change shifts, except in an emergency.
7.15	It is understood and agreed, that where there is a short work week in effect, employees within the bargaining unit may exercise their seniority in order of seniority for the purposes of electing to be laid off rather than to remain on the payroll during such short work weeks.
7.16	Employees shall be allowed five (5) minutes personal cleanup time prior to regular quitting time. Live hangers and stickers shall be allowed ten (10) minutes. Refer to Letter of Understanding.
ARTICLE 8 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	(a) The Company agrees to pay all employees at
their regular rates of pay for the normal hours of work as set forth in the Hours f Wok Schedule on each of the following Statutory Holidays whether they work or not:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day
Dominion Day B.C. Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
One (1) additional Statutory Holiday (Floater) to become effective January 1, 1981. The Company and Union agree to a formula of not less than ten percent (10%) off on this floating Statutory Holiday per department at anyone time, rounded off to the highest full number, with not less than a minimum of two (2). The selection regarding the exercising of this floating Statutory Holiday shall be on the basis of seniority and shall in addition be selected by mutual agreement between the Foreman/Company and the Employee.
12
Employees shall provide the Company with two (2) weeks notice of their selection. Should the Federal or Provincial Governments proclaim a Statutory Holiday during the life of this agreement, such proclaimed Statutory Holiday shall be substituted for the floating statutory holiday referred to herein.
(b)	If an employee is require io work on any of the Statutory Holidays mentioned herein, he shall receive, in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the Statutory Holiday at two (2) time his regular rate and these hours shall be considered as scheduled hours worked at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee.
(c)	A special holiday shall be a special and non-recurring public holiday of general observance other than a Statutory Holiday proclaimed by the Government of the Dominion of Canada, as for example V-J Day.
(d)	Double times (2x) the regular rate shall be paid to employees for all hours worked on a special holiday.
(e)	If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
(f)	If an employee is absent cn the day before or the day after a Statutory Holiday without just cause, payment for the holiday may be withheld subject to mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Grievance Committee.
In the case of repeated absences without just cause, payment for the holiday may be left to the discretion of the Company.
8,02	Layoff or Recall in Holiday Weeks:	Employees, if
laid off or recalled in the pay weeks in which the public holiday falls, shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at regular rates for such holiday, provided he receives pay for hours worked in the month proceeding or succeeding the Statutory Holiday. To qualify for this holiday pay, employees must work out their layoff notice or report for woik on recall when required as the case may be.
13
P-,03 Sick Pay and Compensation in Holiday Weeks:	An
employee who is absent for reasons of sickness or non-compensable accident Curing the period in which a Statutory Holiday occurs, shall receive eight (8) hours pay tit his regular rate for such Statutory Holidays as occur during such absence. In case of continued absence, the Company may request a Doctor's certificate to substantiate any illness. It is understood that where an employee is receiving benefits from the Workers Compensation Board the Employee will receive the difference between Workers Compensation benefit and eight (8) hours pay,
ARTICLE 9	- AUTOMATON AND TECHNOLOGICAL
CHANGES
9.01	(a) The Company will provide the Union with three
(3) months notice in writing of intention to introduce automation equipment or technological changes which will result in displacement or reduction of personnel.
(b)	Employees becoming redundant due to technological change, new equipment or procedures shall be eligible for retraining to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedures, or to qualify for new positions. Such retraining will be provided ty the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee(s),
(c)	In cases where the retraining of employees is not practical, or where other positions with the Company are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment or shall elect to be placed on the recall list. An employee on recall under this section, shall receive all the benefits he had accrued during employment at the end of the recall period or at such earlier time as he may elect to terminate. Employees on recall under the provisions cf this clause shall report to work within the stipulated period of time as outlined in Article 12, section 12.11.
(d)	A specified extension of the recall period where recall is applied under subsection "c" above may be mutually agreed ty the employee and the Company, subject to written approval by the Union.
14
(e)	Employees whose services are terminated because of automation or technological change, shall receive a separation allowance in accordance with the scale outlined in Article 23 of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
10.01	Each employee shall receive an off shift premium of fifty-five (55) cents per hour for all hours worked commencing between 12s00 noon and 7t00 a.m. Such premiums shall be considered as part of an employee’s basic rate.
ARTICLE 11 - VACATION POLICY
11.01	The Company agrees, subject to the provisions set forth within the following sections to grant the following vacations with pay to employees covered by this Agreement.
Effective January 1, 1987
After one (1) year	two (2) weeks
It is understood and agreed that the “regular rate” shall be defined as the rate being paid at the time vacation is taken or vacation pay is requested.
11.02	Calculation of Holiday Pay:	All employees shall
receive pay on the basis of forty (40) hours at his regular rate for each week of vacation or two percent (2%) of his total earning for the previous year per each week of vacation, whichever is the greater amount.
After three (3) years After eight (8) years After thirteen After seventeei	rs
After twenty-two (22) years
three (3) weeks four (4) weeks five (5) weeks six (6) weeks seven (7) weeks
15
11.03	(a) Employees absent for reasons of sickness and/or
accident, Who return to work following these phases, shall
nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 11, section 11,01 and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in clause 11,03 (b) and these days of absence shall be considered as days worked for the purposes of this Agreement.
(b)	In	the case of sickness, compensable or
non-compensable accident, an employee upon his return to service with the Company shall receive service credit for each week of such absence not to exceed twentysix (26) weeks as if earning shad been received, on the basis of forty (40) hours per week at this regular rate of pay. The provisions of this clause shall be restricted to one application per calendar year.
11.04	(a) Earned vacation privileges not exercised shall be paid if and when an employee quits or is discharged for cause from service, at a rate equal to the amount of vacation earned. Employees are entitled to receive their vacation pay in advance if they so request.
(b) The Company agrees that upon four weeks notice they shall pay to an employee vacation pay to which an employee is entitled based on his regular rate. Such payment to be made on the first pay day in January. The Company further agrees that if the "Holiday Pay Calculation" under section 11.02 provides the employee with a greater amount of vacation pay, said difference shall be paid to the employee on the second pay day in January. Upon requests the Company agrees to show to an employee the calculations on which his vacation pay is based.
11.05	Every Bargaining Unit Employee shall become eligible for vacation on January 1st. of each year. The Company and the Union agree to the principle of establishing a common anniversary date. An employee who has received his first vacation is thereafter eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations any time on or after January 1st. io the succeeding vacation year in accordance with the provisions cf 11,06,
16
If, due to the provisions of this clause, employ ee(s) are entitled to an amount of vacation providing for service of less than one (I) year, such employee(s) shall have their calculation of vacation pay determined as outlined under the provisions of Section 11.02 c£ this Article.
11.06	The selection of vacation periods shall be on the basis of seniority in each department with the sauor employee being given first preference. Vacation may be granted at any time, subject to the demands of the business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees.
During the period of June 1st to September 30th inclusive employees shall be allowed only three (3) weeks of their vacation qniess agreed otherwise
The Company in full co-operation with the Chief Steward will post a Vacation Schedule beginning the first Monday in December on the Union bulletin board In order to determine the employee's desired vacation times, The selection of vacations will be completed not later than March 1st. in each year with the allotted times signed by both parties and copies immediately provided to the Chief Shop Steward. The Company and the Union agree to a formula of 109> of the employees per department off on vacation. The following shall fee considered as departments far "all* purposes cf this Agreement.
Kill
Eviscerating
Cryovao d Lidding & Box Room
Shipplng/Driving/Warehouse Freezer
Cleanup
Maintenance
Boning
11.07	C a paid holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will alio w the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with pay, one day prior to vacation or one day after vacation or at such other time as the employee may designate, such designation shall be subject to mutual agreement.
17
11.08	(a) Employees entitled to vacation will not be
allowed to tako money in lieu thoreof op work Overtime On the Saturday or Sunday prior to their vacation or commence woik after vacation before their scheduled day of work.
(b)	An employee eligible for a third and subsequent weeks of vacation entitlement may accumulate such weeks of vacation to be taken in the following vacation year at a time designated by the employee not later than December 31, in the year prior to exercising his accumulated vacation.
(c)	Accumulated vacation credits referred to herein may not be exercised between June 1 to September 30 inclusive in each year.
(d)	Employees shall notify the Company in writing of their desire to defer vacation credits not later than December 31, in the year prior to their intention of accumulating vacation credits.
(e)	Accumulated vacation entitlement shall be paid at the rate equal to the highest rate of pay the employee received, subject to Article 11, section 11.01, during the year in which the vacation entitlement was earned.
11.09	An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off because of reduction in his crew shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified.
11.10	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee by separate cheque.
ARTICLE 12	- SENIORITY
12.01	Seniority shall operate on a total plant basis.
12.02	After an employee has accumulative period of service of sixty (60) days worked with the Company, he or she shall be granted seniority, which shall date retroactively to the date he or she entered the employ of the Company.
18
12.03	In the Bargaining Unit, the filling of vacancies in classified jobs shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed twenty (20) working days, however, if mutually agreed, this period may be extended a maximum of ten working days. Employees shall receive the applicable job rate provided for in the wage rate schedule for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they become qualified, The word "qualified" as used in this agreement shall be interpreted to mean regularly perform the job without assistance. All postings and/or appointments shall be designated in writing with a copy to the grievance committee. The initial vacancy shall be posted and subsequent vacancies, caused as a result of this posting, shall be filled ty temporary assignment until the initial vacancy has been filled permanently.
12.04	Vacancies in classified jobs within the Bargaining Unit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. In the case that no application is received for any posting the vacancy shall be filled ty appointment, and the appointee automatically given posted status. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded. Wh&i a posted employee is laid off he shall return to his prior position upon recall provided that the period of layoff does not exceed three (3) months. Temporary vacancies such as sickness, compensation and holidays need not be posted.
12.05	The Company agrees to post permanent labour rated
job vacancies when they occur. Vacancies shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply.	In making such transfers the
Company agrees to give consideration on the basis of seniority, however, it is not the intent of this clause to restrict Article 3 - Management.
19
12.06	(a) Employees shall, in the case of long term ill
health or injury, be given an opportunity of being rehabilitated on specific Jobs within the plant, should an opening occur at the time they are released to return to the work force, or within 10 days following the time they are able to return to the work force. If for medical reasons they are unable to return to work, and there are no Job openings available, they will be laid off until a recall or vacancy occurs.
(b)	Employees covered under the provisions of this clause must present a Doctor's certificate authorizing their return to the work force.
(c)	If the employee lacks sufficient seniority over other employees for a posted job vacancy the Company may, subject to mutual agreement assign the returning employee to that vacancy for rehabilitation and so inform the Local Union.
(d)	Employees being assigned under the provisions of this clause shall be eligible to receive the customary trial period in order to qualify for such postings as outlined in section 12.03 of this Agreement.
12.07	Seniority records will be made available to the Union each three (3) months.
12.08	Seniority service records shall not be considered broken and there shall be no interruption in an employees continuity of seniority rights except as specifically provided herein;
(a)	When an employee voluntarily leaves the service of the Company.
(b)	Wh&i an employee has been discharged for cause and such termination has not been reversed by the grievance procedure.
(o) When an employee has been let out of employment by the Company for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
20
Length cf seniority	Length of Allowable
At Date cf Separation Time Off Payroll
Over 30 working day Time equivalent to one-half
(1/2)
to 6 months	his length of service
Over 6 months
Time equivalent to length of service up to two (2) years.
12.09	(a) On reducing and increasing forces seniority shall govern provided the senior operator has the qualifications to handle the work performed by the operator of lesser seniority. In cases of dispute, it shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure. It is understood that the order of lay off or recall shall be in accordance with the seniority records list referred to in section 12.07,
(b)	If it is anticipated that a lay off will exceed four weeks any employee to be laid off out of seniority order shall be given the opportunity to prove his ability to perform the required work before being laid off. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed twenty (20) working days on the job, however, if mutually agreed this period may be extended.
12.10	The Chief Steward of the plant shall be given a List in advance of employees to be laid off or recalled.
12.11	Wh&i forces are increased, former employees will be reemployed and paid the rate of the job to which they are assigned. Employees who have been laid off and are rehired shall not lose the credit for their previous experience in computing their pay rates and shall not have their pay rates reduced.
12.12	Any employee who has been notified by registered letter at his or her last known address to return to work and within seven (7) working days has failed to do so, or failed to contact the office, shall be considered to have quit his employment voluntarily and his existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is sent to any employee ty registered letter, copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union Committee.
12.13	If an employee is absent from work because of
sickness, approved leave of absence or accident he or she shall not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his or her absence, or to one of equal rating, providing he or she is capable of performing former duties. In the case of such absence, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reasons for absence and how long they expect their absence will last. Employees absent due to illness or accident over three (3) months shall be required to notify the Company each thirty (30) days and report his progress. Under the	provisions of	this clause	employees
shall continue to accumulate seniority during such absences.
12.14	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an
employee's service with the Company and the Bargaining Unit, calculated as the	elapsed time	from the day he was
first employed, unless	his seniority	was broken	in which
event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
12.15	Employees while on layoff and who return to work
following layoff, within the time of allowable breaks as outlined above shall	continue to	accumulate	seniority
during the layoff period as outlined in section 12,07.
22
12.16	In case of Layoff, all employees shall receive notice in accordance with the following scale or receive pay in lieu of notice:
5 working days 3 working days 2 working days
Two (2) working days where possible in the event of layoff due to a non-'kill day. This clause shall not be interpreted in such a manner so as to reduce the “weekly guarantee” as outlined under the provisions of Article 25 herein. In the event of circumstances beyond the Company’s control, both parties shall meet to discuss ways and means of decreasing the guarantee to avoid sporadic layoffs.
After one (1) year seniority After six (6) month’s seniority Less than six (6) month’s seniority
ARTICLE 13 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13,01	(a) A Grievance Committee, the number not to
exceed three (3) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee.
(b) Shop	Stewards,	the number to	be decided	ty the
Union, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel cf the Shop Stewards.
(e)	Ail grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working horn's.
(d)	If a Steward has to leave his job or department in connection	with a	grievance, he	shall first	secure
permission from the	foreman before	leaving the	job or
department.	Such permission shall be	granted as promptly
as possible but shall in no case, exceed one-half (1/2) hour.	For the purposes of facilitating the grievance
procedure, the Chief Shop Steward shall be free to leave his job or department in order to investigate any grievance brought to his attention.
23
(e)	It is agreed that the purpose c£ the grievance procedure will be to settle ell grievances promptly, and that consultation at any step on the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction or animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
13,02	(a) The following procedure shall be applicable
progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
First Step:	Between the Union Steward, the Chief
Steward with or without the employee and an equal number of representatives designated by the Company. A decision must be rendered within two (2) working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise. Failing settlement at this step, the matter shall then be referred to:
Second Step:	Ey the Grievance Committee of the Union
who shall take the matter up with the Committee designated by the Company. In case of an emergency a meeting can be called by either party. Outside representatives of the Union and the Company may be called in if so desired. A decision to be rendered within three (3) working days unless mutually agreed otherwise. All grievances and decisions at this stage are to be in writing. Should either party intend to proceed to the "Third Step" they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days from the date the decision was rendered under Step 2 of the grievance procedure. Both parties will then proceed as outlined in the Third Step.
Third Step: * Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of this Article shall upon the written notice of either party be submitted to an Arbitration Board, which shall be bound by the rules of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of one member named by the Union, one named by the Company and the third agreed upon by the two parties. In the event of failure to agree to a third party within one (1) week, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of British Columbia. Any expense incurred as a result of the appointment of the third party shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union. Decisions of the Arbitration Board shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board. The decision of the Board shall be rendered within two (2) weeks.
24
(b)	In areas where there is no Steward, the grievance shall be taken up as outlined in this Article by the Chief Shop Steward, or his designated representative.
(c)	The Company recognizes the right of the Grievance Committee to process any grievance that is brought to their attention, or to pursue matters affecting relations between the Company and employees.
(d)	Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as "working days" wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
13.03	When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement the wage of an employee is increased, such increase shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in the earnings was made. If the date cannot be established, then the increase shall be effective the date the grievance was laid or such other date as may be agreed upon.
13.04	(a) Wh&i the Company deems it necessary to discipline an employee, they shall have the union Steward present. If the employee or employees concerned feel they have been unjustly dealt with, they shall grieve within two (2) working days. In the case of suspension or dismissal the Union Steward and Chief Steward or his designated representative shall be present. In the case of dismissal, the procedure shall be as in section 13,04 (b),
(b) If an employee is dismissed for any reason, whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within three (3) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee who shall within one (1) working day notify the Company in writing. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure, beginning with the "Second Step." If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be paid for this period during which he has not worked as if he had not been dismissed or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
25
13.05	The Company must give the Local Union notice in writing of the suspension ca: discharge of any employee and the reasons on the day such action is taken.
13.06	When settlement is reached at any stage of these proceedings, such decision shall be final and binding. It is understood that no decision will be made unless representatives of the Union are present.
13.07	Warnings issued ty the Company as a result of offences committed ty employees shall be void after six (6) months, provided, there is not an additional warning issued for the same offence within the next six (6) months. Wh&i any such notice is sent to any employee, copy thereof shall be sent to the Local Grievance Committee. The above is subject to the right of the Union to grieve.
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	When an employee's personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved temporarily of Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the regular vacation to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason. "Good and sufficient reason" as referred to herein shall be the subject of mutual agreement and shall not be established arbitrarily ty either party.
14.02	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
14.03	Leave of absence before being granted, must be requested in writing and approved by the Company.
14.04	Permission for leave of absence extending over a period cf more than two (2) weeks must be received in writing and in no case exceed a three (3) month period, provided however, that it may be extended upon agreement by the parties hereto.
26
14.05	Requests for leave of absence because of pregnancy will be granted upon application in writing and supported by a Doctor's Certificate. Upon the expiration of the leave f absence, the employee may signify that she wishes to return to work, and in such case she will be reinstated within one week provided she has the necessary seniority and is able to perform the required work. Upon return to work the employee will return to the position previously held or to one of equal rating. Under the provisions of this clause, employees shall continue to accumulate seniority.
14.06	Leave of absence shall be granted upon request ty an employee who has been elected or appointed to attend any function on behalf of the Union. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority far the period covered ty this Agreement and upon their return to work shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave or one of equal rating. Employees on leave under the provisions of this clause shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for Statutory Holidays which occur during such leave of absence.
14.07	One (1) employee who may be elected or appointed to a full time position with the Union, upon proper notice to be agreed upon by the parties, shall be granted a leave of absence, without pay, not to exceed the life of this Agreement. Upon one week's notice of his desire to again return to work for the Company, he shall be placed upon his job previously held, or one of equal pay, without loss of seniority, provided he is physically fit and capable cf performing the work. Leave of absence under this clause will be given in writing'by the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - PAY PERIODS
15.01	All employees shall be paid on Company time.
15.02	The Company shall continue to pay all employees their pay cheques on the Pay Day presently in effect. In the event that there is a reduction in the working force on the regular Pay Day; employees will be issued their pay cheques on the day prior to the regular Pay Day. It is agreed that for the purposes of this clause, the Pay Day referred to shall be defined as Friday.
27
15,03 Deductions which are variable shell be shown on me cheque stub. Deductions which do not vary week by week, shall be itemized on a card to be furnished each employee, which may be changed periodically as required. The amount of regular hours, overtime hours, and rate of pay shall be shown separately on the cheque stub.
ARTICLE 16 - WORK CLOTHING
16.01	All employees requiring rubber gloves and aprons shall be supplied gloves and aprons free of charge upon request.
16.02	The Company agrees to supply employees where
required to do freezer work with freezer coats and mitts and to provide insulated boots for the employee who is regularly assigned to work in the blast freezer. Rubber gloves and/or aprons, rubber pants and/or coats, where specified by the Company as required by employees in the performance of their assigned duties will be provided by the Company. Such clothing remains the property of the Company, shall not be removed from the Company's premises and must	be returned for reissue or upon
separation. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Employees shall purchase the first set of rubber boots. The Company shall provide replacement pairs at no cost to the employee on an exchange basis. Those employees who elect to purchase an alternative footwear to rubber boots, shall be granted an allowance toward the purchase cf such alternative footwear, which is equivalent to the cost of the rubber boots. It is understood that only employees in the box room and shipping department are eligible for this allowance and it is restricted to two (2) applications per year.
Steel toed safety footwear required by employees of the maintenance and shipping departments and truck drivers shall be supplied by the Company up to a maximum amount cf $65,00 as required. Steel toed safety footwear shall be provided by the Company, in areas other than those referred to herein, where required by the Safety Committee.
28
18.03	Laundry service shall be maintained as agreed between the Union and the Company. All employees shall be supplied with clean laundry when required, "daily for the eviserating department."
16.04	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a a change in working conditions.
16.05	The Company agrees to keep knives and scissors properly sharpened at all times.
ARTICLE 17 - NON DISCRIMINATION
It shall be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate becuse of race, sex, creed, colour, age, religion, national origin, ancestry or union activities.
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
18,01	Whai an employee is absent on three (3) of his scheduled days due to the bereavement of an immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for each such day. Five (5) days for out of Province funerals subject to employee verification if requested by the Company. For the purpose of this clause an immediate relative shall be one of the following:	Wife, Husband, Son,
Daughter, Sister, Brother, Mother, Father, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Grandparents, Grandchildren,
ARTICLE 19 - GENDER
19.01	It is understood where the work "he" is used in the Agreement, it shall also cover female employees.
ARTICLE 20 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
20,01	(a) New employees must complete three (3) months
of service with the Company before being eligible to receive Life Insurance, Weekly Indemnity and Extended Health benefits under this section.
29
(b)	Effective the first (1st.) of the month following date ©r ratification of this Agreement, sick pay (weekly indemnity) shall be sixty percent (60%) of the individuals weekly pay, based on forty (40) hours per week, with a minimum weekly indemnity benefit of not less than one hundred, seventy-five dollars ($175,00), In the case of normal illness, a three (3) day waiting period js to be observed; payment of benefits commencing on the fourth (4th.) day. However, where an employee is hospitalized due to illness within the waiting period or where an employee is unable to work due to a non-compensable accident, the waiting period shall be waived. The scale of benefits mentioned herein shall be as follows:
Service. .Factor.
Benefit Duration
3 months to 17 months 18 months to 47 months 48 months to 71 months 72 months to 95 months 96 months to 119 months 120 months and over
4 weeks 8 weeks 12 weeks 18 weeks 26 weeks 34 weeks
The cost cf providing this coverage shall be borne by the Company.
(e) M,S.P. cf B, C. (Medical Services Plan cf British Columbia) The Company shall pay the full premium cost of this Plan to cover all employees within the Bargaining Unit. The provisions cf this clause shall also include the M%S*A. (Medical Services Association) Extended Health Plan. In the event that there is an increase in premiums charged for the coverage referred to in this clause for whatever reason, including but not limited to the opting out of Provincial plans ty Doctors or the establishment of deterrent fees, the Company shall absorb such additional costs, if any to a maximum of ten dollars ($10.00) per visit. The Company shall be free to provide this extended health plan through the carrier of it's choice provided, that such ’’Plan” is not less favourable in either terms and/or coverage than that contracted for under M.S.A.
30
Elective the date of ratification of this Agreement the present ’Hearing Aid" coverage shall be extended to cover employees and their dependents.
(d)	Life Insurance* The Company agrees to maintain the present provisions for life insurance providing for *2Q,OQQ.GO coverage for all employees within the bargaining unit. Hre cost of providing this coverage shall be tame by the Ccnpany.
(e)	Effective the date cf ratification the Company shall initiate a prepaid Dental Plan with M.5.A. providing 8Gfc coverage under Plan "A”, 7056 coverage under Plan nBn and 50& coverage under Plan nCn lac ad bargaining unit employees who have attained six (6) months seniority. The Company shall pay the cost of this ’Plan“ to cover all bargaining unit employees. The Company shall be free to provide this dental coverage through the carrier cf its1 choice, provided, that such "plan" is not less favourable in either terms and/or coverage then that contracted for under M.S.A.
20.02	Any benefits or Working conditions now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
20.03	The Company agrees to provide for payroll deduction for those employees wishing to enrol in a savings bond purchase plan of their choice.
20.04	The Company shall not be required to pay the premiums, and benefit coverage ceases under this Agreement when an employee has:
(a)	been laid off for six (6) continuous months or more
(b)	has been absent due to a non-compensable accident cr illness for 18 months or more
(c)	has been absent due to compensable accident or Illness for 38 months or more.
31
ARTICLE 21 - CONTRACTING OUT
21.01	The Company agrees that it will not during the term <£ this contract, enter into new contracts that will have an adverse effect on the employees.	Whai work
performed on the premises by outside contractors materially change in practice and has an adverse effect on present employees affected by such change in practice, the matter will be subject to grievance procedure and may be taken to arbitration. This clause will not preclude the Company firm hiring outside trucks and drivers in ease <£ emergency deliveries.
ARTICLE 22 - APPEARANCE IN COURT
22.01	An employee summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or one who have been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness shall be paid the difference between what he would have earned for his scheduled hours at his paid rate and the court fee received. Employees should notify their Foreman as soon as possible after receipt cf notice cf selection for jury duty or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate f service from an officer of the court before making any payment under this section. Leaves under the provisions of this clause shall be recognized and granted on a full day basis.
ARTICLE 23 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
23,01	Should it become necessary to close the plant or a portion of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be reemployed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one (1) or more years' seniority
(b)	They have not been granted retirement pension
(c)	The closing is not brought about ty wax, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
32
(d)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to woik in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(e)	Effective the date of ratification the separation allowance shall be sixty percent (60%) of the individuals' weekly pay, based upon forty (40) hours per week times the number of years cf service.
(f)	In the event of a whole or partial plant reduction, all employees affected shall receive six (6) weeks notice or receive pay in lieu of notice.
23.02	Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall cn doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or any other Agreement between the signing parties.
23.03	In the event that part cf the plant remains open, employees eligible to received separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees so long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above section. Those reemployed on this basis shall continue to accumulate seniority during the period of layoff.
23.04	In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Dental Plan, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization Plans. • Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to four (4) months, following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
Effective October 1, 1981 such contributions shall continue for a period of five (5) months.
33
ARTICLE 24 - HOT GOOD
24.01	The Company agree that in the event of a legal strike amongst the employees of a concern with which the Company is doing business, it will not ask, require or in any way force or compel members of the Union to service such a strike-bound firm. It is further agreed that members of the Union will not be asked, compelled or forced in any way to handle "hot goods" from any strikebound firm when such "hot goods" have been made available for handling through some subterfuge that seeks only to circumvent the legally established picket line(s) at the struck plant or concern.
ARTICLE 25	- WEEKLY GUARANTEE
25.01	The Company agrees to guarantee every employee with seniority in excess af one year, and not otherwise excluded, in every week of employment thirty-two (32) hours pay at regular rates, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The Company shall at its discretion adjust the woik
force in proportion to the work available or expected. To provide employees with their weekly guarantee the Company shall be	free to distribute available work
equitably within the work force.
(b)	The guarantee shall be reduced ty pay for the number of hours for which an employee is not eligible for payment of wages. This will include tardiness, or absence from work on any day, or part of a day, quitting or hiring during the week, being engaged in a stoppage of work, suspension, or dismissal or being on layoff.
(c)	The guarantee shall be the same in weeks in which the paid public holidays occur as in others Pay received for public holidays shall be regarded as part of the guarantee. If holidays other than the agreed public holidays are observed, by agreement or as required by law, the guarantee in such weeks shall be the number of hours available for work.
34
(d)	When an employee's working hours are reduced below the minimum in one fiscal week and correspondingly increased in another fiscal week as a consequence of changing shifts, the guarantee, if any, for each cf the two weeks effected shall be calculated and paid on a proportionate basis as thirty-two (32) is to the number of hours in the normal work week.
(e)	In consideration of the foregoing, the Union agrees and the Company expects that employees will perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them conscientiously.
25,02	Any employee who is called for work for the express purpose of relieving an employee because of sickness, shall not be entitled to the thirty-two hour guarantee provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 26 - SANITATION
26.01	The Company agrees to keep the plant clean, healthful, sufficiently ventilated and in a well lighted condition at all times, and agrees to pay particular attention to the question of sanitation and health wherever help is to be provided for, and further agrees that where the present condition are not satisfactory, to adjust the matter as far as that reasonably may be possible to the satisfaction of employees as represented by the Union's Committee.
26.02	The Union agrees that all employees will make every effort to cooperate with the Company in this matter of cleanliness, sanitation and health.
26.03	Soap and a maximum of two towels daily shall be provided for live hangers at no cost to the employees.
ARTICLE 27 - TOOL REPLACEMENT
27.01	The Company shall provide for the equal value replacement of tools broken or worn out on the job.
27.02	The Company shall supply metric tools where required by employees in the performance of their duties. The Company shall purchase and own these tools and employees will have full access to them.
35
27.03	The Company shall reimburse the First Aid
Attendant and the designated backup First Aid Attendant for all cost incurred in the maintenance of First Aid tickers required in the performance of their duties.
ARTICLE 28 - PENSION PLAN
28,01	(a) The employer agrees to participate in and
contribute to the CANADIAN COMMERCIAL WORKERS INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN.
(b)	The employer agrees to increase contributions to the
Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan	from fifteen (15) cents per hour to
twenty-four (24) cents per hour effective January 1, 1991, The additional nine (9) cents is to be applied to purchase a pension credit for past service to a maximum of five (5) years. Effective January 1, 1992 the company will begin contributing a further five (5) cents per hour to be applied to current and future service for all employees in the bargaining unit. Thus, as of January l, 1992 the total company contribution will be twenty-nine (29) cents per hour * twenty (20) cents for current and future service credit and nine (9) cents for past service
'credit.
(c)	For purposes of paragraph (b) above, hours paid means all hours paid to all employees.
The maximum number of hours paid per week is the number of hours of the normal week of a full time employee in the bargaining unit.
The said hours paid shall include hours worked, hours paid by the Employer for the time not worked because of vacations, statutory holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty, or grievance meetings, etc.
(d)	The Employer agrees to sign the "participation Agreement" and to supply any other documents, forms, reports or information requested/required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan.
(e)	The Employer shall forward all contributions, supported by a report in a format to be designated by the Trustees, together with a list of all employees and the number of fiours paid for each employee in each month. Contributions shall be made within 15 days following the end of each month.
36
The Employer agrees to comply with all requests of the Board of Trustees in regard to entry into the ELai, to abide ty ail the rules and decisions of the Board of Trustees as decided from time to time and specifically, to pay late remittance penalties and any costs incurred ty the Board of Trustees because the Employer failed to remit contributions in the form or on the date required ty the Trustees.
WAGE SCHEDULE
July l,	July 1, Jan. 1>
1990	1991	1992
Labour: Starting Rate After 45 Days After 60 Days
Graders
Boning Rocm - Hanger
Boning Roan - Skinner
Turkey Boners
Coolerman
Lung Sucker
First Aid
Freezer Man
Live Ebultiy Hangers
Assistant Shipper
Stickers
Utility Person
Head Shipper
Truck Driver
Truck Driver - Semi
Maintenance 4 Engineers
10.00	10.00	10.00
11.93	12.43	12.59
13.01	13.51	13.67
13.23	13.73	13.89
13.23	13.73	13.89
13.23	13.73	13.89
13.23	13.73	13,89
13.21	13.71	13,87
13.23	13.73	13.89
13.40	13.90	14.06
13,31	13.81	13,97
13.68	14.18	14.34
13.50	14.00	14.16
13.68	14,18	1-4*34
13.68	14,18	14.34
14.84	15.34	15.50
14.73	15.23	15.39
14.98	15,48	15.64
17.11	17.61	17.77
37
The Company and the Union agaree to delete the
classification of lend hand. The parties further agree that
there shall no longer be any references to the lead hand function in any manner whatsoever.
It is agreed that employees receiving the rate of pay under the lead hand classification, shall have such rates protected as per Article 4, section 4.08.
COST OF LIVING CLAUSE
If the consumer price index (Canada - All Items - 1986 = 100) published on or about June 15, 1990 exceeds the index published on or about March 15, 1990 then effective July 1, 1990 wage rates shall be increased ty an amount equal to one (1) cent for each full 0.4 points of such excess. A review of the provisions c£ this clause will be conducted every three (3) months after July 1,	1990 with the
necessary adjustments made at these times. All increases derived from the provisions cf this clause shall be incorporated into the basic rates. It is understood and agreed that any increases produced from the provisions of this clause will only become effective when the increase in the ’cost of living index’ calculation exceeds the negotiated wage increase in each year.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Reference to Article 7 - Hours cf Work and Overtime -Section 7.01
For the purpose of complying with Article 7, Section 7.01 the following provisions shall be regarded as the negotiated schedule of hours:
38
First Shift (days)
Sizing ana Maintenance Second Shift (afternoons) Third Shift (nights)
Hangers A Suppliers:
Live Bird Receivers <5t leers
Starting Times 6:00 a.m. - 9:00 a.m,
6:00 am - 9:30 a.m,
2:00 p,m, - 6:00 p.m.
9:00 p.m. - 1x00 am.
15 minutes prior to regular starting time
30 minutes prior to regular starting time
When there is a 6:00 am. shift scheduled the provisions of Article 10, section 10.01 shall not apply for the first hour worked.
Reference to Article 7 - Ifours of Work and Overtime -Section 7.16
It is understood and agreed that the Live Hangers will not use the ten (10) minutes clean up time in any way that would adversely affect the production schedule.
Reference to Article 11	- Vacation Policy
The amount of vacation entitlement for which an employee is entitled will be based upon the amount cf service completed as of his own individual anniversary date.
Reference to Article 18 - Bereavement Leave
Clarification of Bereavement Leave:
1.	Ex relatives are NOT considered immediate relatives, as regards Bereavement pay.
2.	Employees who are on Compensation during bereavement of an immediate relative shall receive the difference between their compensation rate cf pay, and their regular rate for three of the scheduled days.
39
Employees who are cn vacation, layoff, leave of
absence, statutory or special holiday, sickness or accident leave, shall not receive bereavement pay.
Signed On Behalf Of
The Company
Lilydale Co-operative
Signed On Behalf of the Union
United Food and Commercial
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WCRK AND OVERTIME
7.04 (e) Employees who are paid at overtime rates for work performed prior to the commencement of their scheduled shift shall not be penalized by this clause if they leave work prior to their scheduled finishing time.
If an employee responds to work late, it is agreed that any time worked past his scheduled finishing time shall be voluntary.
Signed On Behalf Of The Company
Lilydale Co-operative Limited
Signed On Behalf cf the
Union
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1518
41
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Should the Company open a plant in British Columbia or transfer any of its' present operations covered ty this 'Agreement' and present employees are displaced because cf this, the Company agrees that such employees will be the 'first' to be employed, in order of seniority, at such new plant or operation. The selection of available jobs, shall be on the basis of seniority. Previous service with the company shall be recognized for the purposes of vacations, separation allowance and .welfare plans.
Signed On Behalf Of	Signed Cn Behalf of the
The Company	Umon
Lilydale Co-operative	United Food and Commercial
Limited	Workers Local 1518
42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company and the Union recognize that lower staffing levels, due to absenteeism, place a greater work load for those employees on the line. The parties agree to study this problem, during the term of this Agreement, with a view of achieving a solution which will be acceptable To both parties.