Last printed 9/18/2008 11:52:00 AM
Collective Agreement
- between
Lilydale Inc
Edmonton Hatchery
Edmonton, Alberta
(hereinafter called "the Company")
- and
United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local No. 1118
Edmonton, Alberta
(hereinafter called "the Union")
2006-2012
00273 (09)
Table of Contents
Article 1 -	Purpose of Agreement
Article 2 -	Recognition and Scope
Article 3 -	Union Security
Article 4 -	Deduction of Dues
Article 5 -	Shop Stewards
Article 6 -	No Discrimination
Article 7 -	Seniority
Article 8 -	Management
Article 9 -	Grievance Procedure
Article 10 -	Job Classifications and Pay
Article 11 -	Hours of Work
Article 12 -	Overtime
Article 13 -	Recognized Holidays
Article 14 -	Annual Vacation Leave
Article 15 -	Benefits
Article 16 -	Leave of Absence
Article 17 -	Separation of Employment
Article 18 -	Safety & Health
Article 19-	Sick Leave
Article 20 -	No Strikes or Lockouts
Article 21 -	Duration cf Agreement
Schedule A	Classification
Schedule B	Salary increase
Schedule C	Benefit Plan
Page 2 of 19
This Agreement entered into this 26th day of February, 2006
Between: Inc.
Edmonton Hatchery
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
And:
United Food and Commercial Workers Union
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
Article / - Purpose cf Agreement
1.1	The Company and Employees are committed to being the preferred quality partner for the distribution of poultry products in its market. This requires combining economic success with social and environmental responsibility to become the benchmark of excellence in this business. The parties are committed to recognizing and valuing each others ideas and successes, encouraging individual initiative, and creating a personally satisfying work environment.
The purpose of this Agreement is to establish employment conditions which will support achievement of this purpose.
Article 2 - and Scope
2.1	Bargaining Unit
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all Employees set out in Alberta Labour Relations Board certificate 322-2002, namely, all employees at the Edmonton hatchery except office, clerical and sales personnel.
Article 3 - Union Security
3.1	The Company agrees that the Union membership is a condition of employment of all employees in the bargaining unit.
The Company shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first day of
Page 3 of 19
employment, and become members within thirty (30) days. All employees shall pay to the Union the regular dues.
Article 4 - Deduction of Dues
4.1	All Employees shall be required to sign authorization for check off of Union dues, initiation fees, and assessments uniformly required of all Employees which may be levied by the Union in accordance with the Constitution and/or By-Laws.
4.2	The Company shall deduct and pay over to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, any monthly dues, initiation fees, and assessments levied in accordance with the Union's ByLaws, owing by said Employees hereunder to the said Union. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the tenth (10th) day of each following month, and one (1) copy of the check off list mentioned.
4.3	The Company shall record on each Employee's T4 slip, the total Union dues deducted and submitted on behalf of that Employee.
Article 5 - Shop Stewards
5.1	The Company will recognize the Shop Steward selected in accordance with the Union rules and regulations as the Representative of the Employees in the respective groups or departments for which they are chosen, and hereby recognizes that the power to elect and removal thereof is solely vested with the Union. The number of Stewards will be consistent with the need.
5.2	The Union will advise the Company of the identity of all Stewards and will also give notice within seventy-two (72) hours of any new appointment or removal thereof.
5.3	Union representatives (Chief Shop Steward) shall not leave their work to process or deal with any matter without first advising and receiving approval from their immediate supervisor. The Company shall exercise reasonableness in their handling of such requests.
Page 4 of 19
Article 6 - No Discrimination
6.1	No employee will be discriminated against by the Company or the Union for any lawful union activity.
6.2	The Union and the Company agree that the workplace should be free of harassment, as defined by the Company Policy - Harassment. The Company and the Union will cooperate with each other in preventing and eliminating harassment.
Article 7 - Seniority
7.1	Seniority for employees is defined as the length of service with the Company from the last date of hire. For employees who work less than full time hours, seniority shall be defined as regular hours paid.
7.2	The Employer agrees to post the seniority list on the bulletin board each six months,
7.3	An Employee shall lose all entitled seniority and shall be deemed to have terminated employment if the Employee:
(a)	Is discharged for cause and is not reinstated;
(b)	Resigns or retires from the employ of the Company;
(c)	Fails to report for two (2) scheduled shift without a reason acceptable to the Company the first time and if it happen a second time during the same year, fails to report for one (1) scheduled shift without a reason acceptable to the Company;
(d)	Fails to notify the Employer of the Employee’s intention to return to work within three (3) calendar days following a recall from lay-off and after being notified in person, by telephone or by mail to do so;
(e)	Has passed probation and less than one year’s service and is continuously absence for a period equal to their length of service, or; has more than one (1) year’s service and is continuously absence for a period of eighteen (18) months.
7.4	New employees will be on probation for a period of three consecutive months of work.
In the event the employee is unsuitable, the employee will be terminated.
7.5	Position Postings
When a vacancy occurs for other than a General Labourer position, the vacancy will be posted on the Company bulletin board for a period of three calendar days.
The posting will include the general accountability for the role, the required qualifications, and the closing date. Applications must be submitted to the Hatchery
Page 5 of 19
Superintendent or his designate by the end of the business day of the closing date.
If the qualified applicants are relatively equal, the most senior applicant will be selected. The employee will serve a trial period of 30 working days in the new position.
The salary for the successful applicant will be adjusted to the rate that is next closest to their current rate of pay. For new employees, the rate of pay will be at the Start Rate unless they have recent related experience to the position.
Article 8 - Management
8.1	The Management of the Hatchery and the direction of the working force including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) the right to hire, suspend or discharge for cause, to assign and re-assign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured, the scheduling of production, and the methods, processes and means of production and handling are vested exclusively with the Company. These rights will not be used to discriminate against employees.
8.2	The Company retains all rights to manage the business not limited by the express provision of the Agreement.
Article 9 - Grievance Procedure
9.1	Definition of Grievance
Any complaint, disagreement, or difference of opinion between the Company and the Employees covered by this Agreement which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
Any grievance which is not presented within ten (10) working days following the event giving rise to such grievance or within ten (10) working days after the employee ought to have known of the event, shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party.
9.2	Settling of Grievances
An earnest effort shall be made to settle issues arising from the application of this Agreement fairly and promptly through discussion between the parties to avoid the need for formal grievances. If the difference is not settled within one (1) day or within any longer period which may have been agreed to by the parties, then the following steps of the Grievance Procedure may be invoked:
Step One
Page 6 of 19
The grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Employee’s Supervisor through the Union within ten (10) working days of the date that the Grievor(s) receives the Company’s reply from the discussion process referenced in the paragraph above.
The grievance when presented in writing shall contain:
(a)
a summary of circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
(b)
the provision(s) of the Agreement considered violated.
(c)
the particulars of the remedy sought.
The Employee’s Supervisor shall meet with the Union representative within five (5) days of receipt of the grievance and shall render a decision in writing within five (5) days of this meeting. The Grievor(s) may be present at this meeting if requested by either party.
Step Two
Failing satisfactory settlement being reached in Step One, the Union representative within five (5) days of receipt of the decision in Step One, will advance the grievance in writing to the Hatchery Manager. The Hatchery Manager and/or the HR Manager, with or without the Employee’s Supervisor, or their designates, shall meet with the Union representative within five (5) days of receipt of the grievance and shall render a decision in writing within five (5) days of this meeting. The Grievor(s) may be present at this meeting if requested by either party.
Step Three
Failing satisfactory settlement being reached in Step Two, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the decision in Step Two, the grievance may be referred in writing to arbitration by either party.
9.3	Policy Grievance
A policy grievance may be initiated by the Company or the Union where the dispute involves a question of general application or interpretation of the Agreement. A policy grievance shall commence at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
The aggrieved party shall submit the grievance in writing within fifteen (15) days of the date of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance. The grievance when presented in writing must be signed by the Union or Company, and shall contain:
(a)
A summary of circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
(b)
The provision(s) of the Agreement considered violated.
(c)
The particulars of the remedy sought.
Page 7 of 19
Failing satisfactory settlement being reached within fourteen (14) days of receiving the grievance in writing, the grievance may be referred in writing to arbitration by either party.
Arbitration
9.4	When one party submits a grievance to Arbitration in accordance with Article 9.2 or 9.3, that party shall notify the other party in writing of its intention to submit the grievance to Arbitration and shall at the same time make a request in writing to the Director of Mediation Services for the Province of Alberta that a single arbitrator be appointed to hear the grievance. That party’s letter to the Director of Mediation Services for the Province of Alberta shall be copied to the other party.
9.5	Notwithstanding 9.4, the parties may agree to proceed to Arbitration before an Arbitration Board comprised of three (3) people. If the parties agree to this process, then within seven (7) days following such agreement, the party initiating the grievance shall notify the other party in writing of the name of its appointee to the Arbitration Board.
The recipient of the notice shall within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice, advise the other party of the name of its appointee to the Arbitration Board.
9.6	If a party fails or neglects to name its appointee to the Arbitration Board within the time limits set out herein, the other party may in accordance with the Labour Relations Code (Alberta) request the Director of Mediation Services for the Province of Alberta to name an appointee to the Arbitration Board for the other party.
9.7	The two (2) appointees so selected shall, within fifteen (15) days of the appointment of the second of them, attempt to select by agreement a third member and Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon the Chairman of the Arbitration Board within the time limits set out herein, either appointee may then request the Director of Mediation Services for the Province of Alberta to appoint a Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
9.8	The Company and the Union shall each bear the total costs of its respective nominee to the Arbitration Board and shall bear equally the total costs of the Chairperson of the Arbitration Board.
9.9	The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Arbitration Board. Where there is not majority decision, the decision of the Chairperson shall be the decision of the Arbitration Board. The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be final, binding and enforceable on all parties affected. The Arbitration Board shall not have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modify or amend any of its provisions or make any decision contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.
9.10	The time limits specified in both the Grievance and Arbitration procedures may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Mutual agreement
Page 8 of 19
to extend time limits must be in writing and signed by both parties before it will constitute mutual agreement for the purposes of this provision.
Article 10 - Job Classifications and Pay
10.1	Job classifications and pay shall be according to Schedule A attached to and forming part of this Agreement.
10.2	Pay Days
Employees will be paid every two (2) weeks with up to a one (1) week period after the end of a pay period allowed for payroll processing.
10.3	The Company shall provide every Employee on each pay day with an itemized statement in respect of all wage payments to such Employee that can be clearly interpreted by an Employee. Such statement shall set forth the total hours worked, total overtime hours worked, applicable overtime rate, and all deductions made from the gross amount of wages.
10.4	The Company retains the sole discretion to operate and amend compensation programs such as incentive or performance pay as an addition to the pay conditions contained in Schedule A.
10.5	When a new classification is created for which a pay rate does not exist in the Agreement, the Company shall establish a rate for such a job. If the Union disagrees with such pay rate, the matter shall be settled through the Grievance Procedure.
Article 11 - Hours of Work
11.1	Work Schedules and Compressed Work Week Schedules
Work schedules for Employees shall be defined for the purposes of this Agreement as up to eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, as determined by the Company. The Company may also establish schedules with variable hours of work per day, including compressed work week schedules, which average up to forty (40) hours per week over the rotation cycle of the schedule. Compressed work week schedules that exceed ten (10) hours per day shall require mutual agreement between the Company and the Union respecting conditions that will apply to implementing such schedules.
Scheduled days off will be consecutive recognizing that schedules which have variable numbers of consecutive days off may have single day breaks during the rotation cycle of the schedule.
The Company will consult with the Union prior to the implementation of any compressed work week schedule not already in effect.
Page 9 of 19
11.2	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen minute paid rest breaks on each scheduled day of work.
11.3	Employees shall be entitled to one (1) unpaid meal break of a one-half (1/2) hour (or such meal period as may be mutually agreed between the Employee and the Company) on each scheduled day of work, if the scheduled shift is in excess of 5 (five) hours. The meal break shall be taken at approximately the mid-point of the shift.
11.4	Starting times for schedules will be posted based on the operating needs of the hatchery.
Article 12 - Overtime
12.1	Overtime, at the rate of one and one half times the employee's hourly rate, will be paid after 8 (eight) paid hours in a day or 40 (forty) paid hour in a week. If the employee is working a compressed work week, overtime will be paid after 10 (ten) hours in a day, or 40 (forty) hours in a week.
12.2	When overtime is necessary, the most senior qualified employee in the department shall
have the first opportunity to declare their availability. If there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, then the selection of employees shall be on a reverse seniority basis.
Article 13 - Recognized Holidays
13.1	The following shall be recognized holidays:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day August Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
13.2	If an Employee is required to work on a recognized holiday, the Employee will be paid one and one-halftimes (1 l/2x) the Employee's regular rate for hours worked in addition to the recognized holiday pay the Employee is eligible to receive.
13.3	An employee is not entitled to recognized holiday pay if the employee:
(a)
Does not work on a recognized holiday when required or scheduled to do so, or;
Is absent from employment without the consent of the Company on the Employee's last regular work day preceding, or the Employee's first regular work day following a recognized holiday.
Page 10 of 19
13.4	For Employees working a regular work week schedule, if a recognized holiday falls on a full-time Employee’s scheduled day off, a day off in lieu will be provided before or after the recognized holiday.
13.5	Recognized holiday pay for full-time Employees working compressed work week schedules up to and including ten (10) hours per shift shall be applied as follows:
1(a)	If a recognized holiday falls on an Employee’s scheduled working day, the
Employee will be provided with the day off and paid the regular hours of the compressed work week shift for each recognized holiday the Employee is eligible to receive.
(b)	If a recognized holiday falls on an Employee’s scheduled day off, the Employee will be paid eight (8) hours for each recognized holiday the Employee is eligible to receive. However, if a recognized holiday falls on an Employee’s working compressed work week schedules up to and including ten (10) hours per shift scheduled day off, the Employee will be paid ten (10) hours for each recognized holiday the Employee is eligible to receive.
(c)	If a compressed work week schedule involving more than ten (10) hours per day is to be implemented, the basis for payment of recognized holidays shall be mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
13.6	Part-time or Casual Employees will be paid for recognized holidays according to the
provisions of the Employment Standards Code.
Article 14 - Annual Vacation Leave
14.1	An Employee’s vacation entitlement period runs from the Employee’s anniversary date of one (1) year to his or her anniversary date in the following year.
14.2	Vacation Entitlement
Employees regularly working full-time shall receive vacation with pay in accordance with the terms of the following schedule setting out consecutive years of service.
Two (2) weeks vacation after one (1) years service Three (3) weeks vacation after four (4) years service Four (4) weeks vacation after nine (9) years service Five (5) weeks vacation after fifteen (15) years service Six (6) weeks vacation after twenty (20) years service
14.3	Vacations shall be taken at a time mutually agreed between an Employee and the Company and approved by the Company in advance based on operating requirements.
Page 11 of 19
14.4	If a recognized holiday falls during the annual vacation of a Full-time Employee, one (1) additional day off with pay will be granted on a date mutually agreed between the Employee and the Company.
Article 15- Benefits
15.1	Employee benefit provisions are contained in Schedule B of this Agreement.
Article 16 - Leave of Absence
16.1	Requests for leave of absence extending over a period of more than one (1) week must be received in writing, provided however, that it may be extended by parties hereto. The Company will return their answer to a request in writing within seven (7) days. Absence without cause shall constitute grounds for dismissal.
16.2	Leave of absence without pay may be granted, by mutual agreement, in addition to regular
vacation, however, employees' with four (4) or more jears seniority may request and shall be granted two (2) weeks of unpaid leave in addition to their regular vacation. Request for leave of absence shall be made in writing stating reasons therefore. Leaves of absence for extended vacation shall not be granted during July and August.
16.3	Maternity Leave
Employees with twelve (12) months of consecutive service with the Employer may request, and will be granted, leave of absence because of pregnancy.
Employees shall submit request for such leave, in writing, at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave together with a medical certificate certifying she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave shall be for a period not exceeding 15 weeks. The employee will provide the Employer with one (1) weeks notice of her intent to return to work.
Upon return to work the employee will be reinstated and given credit for seniority accumulated from the date the leave of absence commenced until the date of the employee’s return to work.
(a)	Parental Leave
An employee with twelve (12) or more month’s consecutive service with the Employer may request a leave of absence, without pay, for the care and custody of a newborn child, or a child adopted under the law of the Province of Alberta, to a maximum of 37 weeks.
The employee will provide the Employer with two (2) weeks notice of their intent to return to work. An employee who is granted this leave will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company’s group insurance package.
Page 12 of 19
In addition to the foregoing leave, the Employer will provide one (1) day paternity leave, with pay, within one (1) week of the birth of a child. This leave is not applicable when the employee is absent from work as a result of being on vacation or a statutory holiday, is collecting weekly indemnity or Workers Compensation Benefits, or is on leave of absence.
16.4	Funeral Leave
(a)	An employee shall be granted not less than two (2) days off from work, with pay, in the event of death in the immediate family, length of such leave shall be determined by the Employer. The term immediate family shall mean mother-in-law, father-inlaw, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, and grandchildren.
(b)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the death is a case of spouse, father, mother, child, legal step child, brother or sister, the employee shall be entitled up to four (4) days with pay and further consideration of leave of absence at the time of bereavement.
(c)	Consideration will also be given with respect to travel time. Employee’s day off or vacation will not be used to circumvent funeral leave.
(d)	The Employer agrees to include the common-law relationship of six (6) consecutive months or longer.
16.5	The Employer agrees to grant necessary time off, without pay, and without loss of accrued
seniority to any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labour convention or to serve in any capacity on legitimate official Union business, provided however, that sufficient notification is given the Employer so that such employee’s position can be filled.
Where a leave of absence is granted an employee by the Employer, provided such leave does not exceed one (1) year, the employee shall suffer no loss of seniority for that period.
16.6	Jury Duty
An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such jury service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report to work when not required by the Court providing there is not less than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (8) hours combined with jury duty and time worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime and paid at applicable overtime rates.
Article 17 - Separation c£ Employment
Page 13 of 19
17.1	If an Employee is discharged by the Company, the Employee shall be paid in full for all monies owing by the Company within three (3) days. If an Employee quitOs the Company of his own accord, the Employee will be paid on the next regular payday.
17.2	When an Employee leaves the employ of the Company for any reason or is laid off, the Company shall give to the Employee his Record of Employment Certificate showing paid up credits to his last day of employment.
Article 18 - Safety & Health
18.1	There shall be a Union Management Safety Committee appointed and shall constitute two (2) employee representative appointed by the Union and two (2) representative appointed by Management. Both parties shall be motivated by the need for appointing members to the Committee who shall be best capable of promoting safety throughout the Hatchery. Regular meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held each month. A list of names of the Safety Committee members shall be kept posted on the bulleting board in the lunch room.
18.2	An employee injured while working the Hatchery shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if; as a result of such injury they are sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention and transportation will be provided.
Article 19 - Sick Leave
19.1	The Company agrees to provide sick leave with pay, earned at the rate of one (1) day sick leave for each month of employment. Employees will accrue one (1) sick day credit only if they worked every scheduled work day of the calendar month for which the accrual is being calculated. Sick leave with pay shall be cumulative up to twenty (20) days. Accumulation shall commence upon completion of a six (6) month eligibility period.
a) No employee on sick leave shall receive pay for the first day of absence. A doctor’s note is required to be eligible for sick leave.
Article 20 - No Strikes or Lockouts
20.1	The Company agrees that it shall not cause or direct any lockout of the Employees covered by this Agreement during the term of this Agreement, or any extension thereof.
Page 14 of 19
20.2	The Union agrees that there shall be no collective action which shall stop or interfere with production during the term of this Agreement or during the time the said Agreement is under negotiation, or re-negotiation.
Page 15 of 19
Article 21 - Duration of Agreement
21.1	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from March 1, 2006 and including February 28, 2012 and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter subject to the right of either party to this Agreement not less than sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date of this Agreement, to give notice in writing to the other party requiring the other party to commence collective bargaining with a view to conclusion of a renewal or revision this Agreement. If neither party provides notice in accordance with this provision, the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for one (1) additional year and from year to year thereafter until notice is served by either party.
Signed at Edmonton, Alberta this 7th day of April 2006
On Behalf of the Union:
On Behalf of the Company:
Minh Tran
Bill Roberts
Paras Ram
Sunny Mak
John Ventura
Pierre Girard
Page 16 of 19
SCHEDULE A
Classifications	
General Labourer - Starting Rate	$10.37/hr
General Labourer - Progression	6 months - $11.17/hr 12 months - $12.17/hr 18 months - $13.17/hr 24 months - $14.17/hr
Equipment Worker (incubation Equipment) - Starting Rate	$15.62/hr
Equipment Worker (incubation Equipment) - Progression	6 months - $16.42/hr 12 months - $16.92/hr 18 months-$17.42/hr
Driver - Class 1 - Starting Wage	$16.22/hr
Driver - Class 1 - Progression	6 months - $17.02/hr 12 months-$17.52/hr
Page 17 of 19
Schedule B
Title	February26,	March 12,	March 10,	March 9,	March 8,	March 7j 2011 +0.30$
	2006	2007 +0.30$	2008 +0.30$	2009 +0.50$	2010 +0.30$	
General Labourer	+0.40$					
Equipment Worker (Incubator)	+0.40$	+0.30$	+0.30$	+0.50$	+0.30$	+0.30$
Maintenance	+0.40$	+0.30$	+0.30$	+0.50$	+0.30$	+0.30$
Driver (1)	+0.50$	+0.45$	+0.45$	+0.60$	+0.40$	+0.40$
If on December 31, 2008 the Cost of Leaving Percentage (%) for Canada for the year 2008 is higher then the increasing percentage of March 9, 2009, based on average salary, the collective agreement will be reopen on salary only and the Union has their right according to the expiration of the collective agreement.
If on December 31, 2008 the Cost of Leaving Percentage (%) for Canada for the year 2008 is lower then the increasing percentage of March 9, 2009, based on average salary, the collective agreement will be automatically renew for the next three (3) years as schedule.
Page 18 of 19
SCHEDULEC
1.	The company shall provide the following benefit plans:
a.	Dental Plan
b.	Extended Health Care Plan
c.	Life Insurance
d.	Pension
e.	Long-term Disability
2.	The benefits will continue as presently enjoyed.
3.	The current contribution sharing arrangement will continue.
4.	In the event the Company chooses a different carrier, the level and kind of benefits will not change without mutual agreement.
5.	The Company will pay 75% of the premium for the Alberta Health Care Plan as it is on the date of ratification.
Page 19 of 19