SUNNYLAND POL
RETAIL, YV
■MPLOVtL;
LV'"A\P Lovrsj
DEPARMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955
AGREEMENT
Expires: January 3 I, 2001
00271(07)
INDEX
ARTICLE
1	— Purpose
2	— Terms
3	- - Bargaining Agency
4	— Check-off
5	— Seniority
6	— Vacations
7	— Statutory Holidays
8	Grievance Procedure
9	— Leave of Absence
10	- ■ Bulletin Board
11	— Uniforms
12	— Miscellaneous
13	— Plant Employees
14	— Wages, Hours, Etc.
15	— Safety and 1 Iealth
16	— Employee Benefits
17	— Technological Change
] 8	— Truck Driver, Live Haul,
Meat Haul, Relief Drivers 19	— Duration
Appendix “A” - Hours of Work Appendix“B”Classification and Wage Rates Letter of Understanding
#1 - Temporary Positions Letter of Understanding
#2 Maintenance Department Letter of Understanding #3 Absenteeism Letter of Understanding
#4 Second (2n“) Shift Workers and Alternate Shift Workers Letter of Understanding^
#5 - Second (2n“) Shift Workers Letter of Understanding
#6 - Saskatchewan Dairy Industry Union Pension Plan and Tr^st Fund (S.D.I.U.P.P) '
PAGE
2
2
3
3
4 11 13 15 18 20 21 22 26 28 30 32 43
46
50
52
56
59
60 63
65
66
68
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 3rd day of April, A.D. 1997.
BETWEEN: SUNNYLAND POULTRY PRODUCTS LTD., a Corporation with its Head Office at the Town of Wynyard, in the Province of Saskatchewan, hereinafter called the “Employer”
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955, hereinafter called the “Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
THE PARTIES HERETO MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intention of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Employer and its employees and to provide an amicable means of settling differences which may possibly arise, and as well, to set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto; and to promote the mutual interests of the Employer and its employees; and it is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Union to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 2 - TERMS
2.01	In the Agreement, wherever the words “he”, “his” or “him” appear, it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female; wherever the words “employee” or “employees” appear, it shall mean any person covered by this Agreement.
2.02	In this Agreement wherever the word “permanent” appears, it shall be construed as meaning any
employee, male or female, who has completed his or her probationary period as defined in Article 5.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - BARGAINING AGENCY
3.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency with respect to wages, hours and all other conditions of employment for the employees employed by the Employer in the Town of Wynyard except:
(a)	Management, Sales, Hatchery, Rendering Plant and Office employees and Occupational Health Nurse.
It is agreed that there shall be no loss of bargaining unit jobs as a result of out-of-scope positions being created.
3.02	Every employee who is now, or hereafter becomes a member of the Union, shaH maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment and every new member whose employment commences hereafter shall, on hiring, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
3.03	Persons whose jobs are not iti the bargaining unit will not work on any jobs for which rates are established by this Agreement except for the purpose of instruction, experimentation or in extreme emergencies.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OH
4.01	Upon written request of any employee and upon
request of the Union, the Employer shall deduct each month the Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Assessments for that month of such employee. The amount collected shall be remitted in one payment immediately following the second pay period in the month to the person designated by the Union, together with a list of the employees from whom the deduc-
3
tions were made, the names of the employees hired and the names of those employees whose employment has terminated. The Employer shall at all times be advised of the name and address of the individual to whom the said dues arc to be remitted.
ARTICLE 5 - SENIORITY
5.01	(a) Seniority for all in-scope employees shall be
defined and determined from the first (1st) day an employee enters the service of the Employer.
New employees shall be on probation for a period of ninety (90) days’ worked during which time they may be laid off without reference to seniority. “Days worked” refers to days when the employee is present at work and performing duties. The Employer shall be under no obligation to rehire such employee and such layoff shall be deemed just cause. Such probationary employees shall not have access to the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Collective Agreement except where, in the sole opinion of the Union Grievance Committee, the following criteria has been alleged to have been violated by the Company in assessing the layoff of a probationary employee as to whether or not the Company has met its onus of just cause
In assessing the just cause test of a probationary employee layoff, the parties shall take into account whether the employee was given a fair opportunity to demonstrate his/her ability and whether the employee was notified of deficiencies in his/her performance and given an opportunity to correct them.
(b)	An employee shall only lose seniority in the event:
(1)	he is discharged for cause and is not reinstated;
(2)	voluntarily terminates;
(3)	is laid off for a period of longer than twelve (12) months.
(c)	Employees would only maintain hut would not continue to accumulate seniority as follows:
(1)	temporary promotions outside the bargaining unit for a period of up to six (6) months;
(2)	layoff up to and including twelve (12) months.
(d)	An employee’s seniority shall continue to accumulate when hc/she is on Maternity Leave, Workers’ Compensation, medical or dental appointments, or absent from work due to illness or accident, or due to lack of work when not formally laid off and road conditions due to bad weather where the authorities have advised the public not to use the roads. Such illness or accident may be substantiated by a doctor’s certificate or other record. It is agreed that an employee who is on Workers’ Compensation or is absent due to sickness, shall not accumulate seniority during periods he would normally have been laid off However, had such an employee normally been granted part-time work then he shall receive seniority credit for such days as if he were working. The Employer and the Union shall agree on such total days of credit.
(e)	Employees will maintain but will not accumulate
seniority while on personal leaves of absence granted pursuant to Article 9.01 of this Agreement.
(f)	Any employee who receives the prior approval of the Company to attend educational upgrading or training which is directly related to his/her job with the Company shall continue to accumulate seniority for the complete duration of time such
5
employee is away from his/her job for the sole purpose of educational upgrading, training or retraining.
(g)	Seniority for the purpose of being called to work shall not apply to probationary employees in the event the Company requires additional staff to be trained. A maximum of ten (10) employees may replace the most junior probationary employees for up to five (5) working days for training purposes only.
(h)	For the purpose of determining seniority of two (2) or more employees who have the same seniority dates, their entire social insurance numbers will be used. The employee with the lowest social insurance number will be considered the senior.
(a)	In all layoff, recalls after layoffs, vacancies and promotions, ability being sufficient, seniority shall govern, An employee has the right to bump a junior employee, ability being sufficient, for a shortage of work on a day-to-day basis, provided it is being done prior to the last coffee break in the day. Should an employee elect not to bump a junior employee prior to the last coffee break in the day then, after the said coffee break, an employee will work at any job assigned by management, or, at his option, go home for the remainder of that shift, in which case, such employee shall waive his/her rights to his/her guarantee of hours.
(b)	When a short kill is scheduled which causes a transfer of employees from another area of the plant to the packaging department in order to make up the guarantee of hours then the parties
y ii | agree that employees shall indicate their willing’	' ness to transfer by placing their name on a
Department Transfer List posted by the Company on a day-to-day basis as required by the Company. The Company shall then select the
5.02
(o.
appropriate number of employees as needed based on their seniority from the list. Should an employee not wish to place his name on the list then such employee or employees shall waive their right to their guarantee of hours. All employees shall make their preference known no later than 10:30 a.m. each day of the posting and all affected employees shall be notified by 12:00 noon of each day.
However, if the Company requires an employee or employees to leave the plant and go home then the guarantee of hours shall apply. NOTE: List to be posted by the kill board.
(c)	(i) The Company has agreed lo establish a transfer list every three (3) months.
(ii)	Once every three (3) months, the Company will choose from the list an equal number of male and female employees by seniority to a maximum of three (3) for each gender to a maximum of six (6) employees total to transfer from the 2nd Shift to the Day Shift or visa versa.
(iii)	Once an employee has transferred to a Floatei Position on another shift, such transfer shall be final and binding to the new shift for the total three (3) month duration.
(iv)	This does not restrict employees from any shift from hiding on permanent Bid or Relief Classified positions.
(v)	It is clearly understood that any employee who voluntarily decides to transfer to anolhei shift in the Floater Position shall vacate his/her Permanent Classified Rid Position and such position shall immediately be posted and filled under terms of the Agreement.
5.03	The Company shall post and maintain an accurate
5.04
seniority list to include name, seniority date, job classification and wage rate. The list shall be posted in a conspicuous place accessible to all employees every four (4) months. A copy of the list shall he provided to the Union who shall bring to the attention of the Employer any errors or omissions and same shall be corrected.
( a) Notice of vacancy, promotions and new positions shall be posted on the bulletin board in the receiving coffee room, the trucking coffee room and the plant coffee room and employees shall be allowed three (3) working days from the date of posting in which to make applications for such positions.
The names of all applicants shall be posted on the bulletin board as well as the name of the successful applicant which shall be selected and posted within one (1) day of the closing date of the posting.
(b)	Subject to sub-paragraph 5.04(c), an employee will he limited to holding one (1) Permanent Rid Position and/or one (1) Permanent Relief Bid Position. Employees will be restricted to two (2) successful bids per twelve (12) months. During the qualifying period as defined under Section 5.05(a), should an employee give up the hid position, the next candidate in line who bids on the position should be given the opportunity for the position. If no other bid is submitted then the Company shall appoint someone for the position.
(c)	The following employees arc not permitted Lo hold a Permanent Relief Bid Position:
•	Supervisor;
•	Leadhands (may hold only Relief Supervisor Position in their own department);
•	Employees doing Night Cleanup work (may hold Relief Leadhand and Relief Supervisor position in their own department);
•	Employees doing S.I.S. work (Streamlined Inspection Service System work);
♦	Night Shipping (may hold Relief Leadhand and Relief Supervisor position in their own department).
5.05	(a) An employee transferred or promoted to a new
position shall be allowed a reasonable qualifying period not exceeding a four (4) week period. It’, during the four (4) week period, the Employer oi the employee, after consultation with the Union, decides he is unsuited to the new job and cannot adapt himself to the new work, he shall revert to his former position.
(h) The above provision shall not be applicable when employees are in the position of ENGINEERS, REFRIGERATION, ELECTRICIAN, MECHANIC AND MAINTENANCE who decide to transfer or bid out of their respective classification. An employee transferred or promoted to a new position shall be allowed a reasonable qualifying period not exceeding a four (4) week period. If, during the four (4) week period, the Employer or the employee, after consultation with the Union, decides he/she is unsuited to the new job and cannot adapt to the new work, the employee shall revert to a floater position.
5.06	[a) The Company and the Union recognize the need
for relief positions within the plant and they shall be posted as outlined in clauses 5.02 and 5.04.
The posting shall indicate that the position is a relief position.
(b)	Any employee bidding on a relief position shall be paid the rate of their regular bid job but the rate of pay for the relief position shall be paid as outlined in Article 14.05.
(c)	An employee who occupies a relief position shall have first rights to the position ii such a position
$
becomes a permanent full-time position and then the relief position shall be posted in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
5.07	Every employee shall be responsible to see that the Employer has his correct address at all times and the Employer shall not be under any obligation to trace such employee if he cannot be located at the address on file in the Employer’s office.
5.08	Should an employee be unable to return to work on five (5) days’ notice, such employee shall forfeit his seniority rights and any other rights under this Agreement, except in case of sickness to the employee or his family, weather conditions or other good and sufficient reason agreed upon by the employer and the Union. In case of sickness, a doctor’s certificate or other satisfactory proof may be required.
5.09	All calls to work, recalls and layoffs shall be made in writing or by telephone and an indication of the notification shall be forwarded to the Chief Shop Steward of the Union.
5.10	When an employee is recalled from layoff, he shall be entitled lo return to his regular bid job when the position becomes available and shall receive his former rate of pay that he was receiving prior to layoff and all other employees affected shall return to their former positions.
5.11	Employees classed as students shall not be allowed lo bid on permanent positions, however, they shall be allowed to bid on temporary positions that are posted during the months of May and terminate August 31st of each calendar year. The Company shall have the right lo use such employees as floaters when and where required. Such student employees shall only usc their overall plant-wide seniority to bump a junior employee when they cease to be a student and wish to become a permanent full-time employee of the Company.
IO
For all other applicable purposes of the Collective Agreement subject to the foregoing provision of Article 5.11, Students’ plant-wide seniority rights will be applicable.
ARTICUK 6 -VACATIONS / i
6.01	Every employee shall be entitled, after each year of his employment with the Employer, to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks.
6.02	Any employee who has five (5) or more consecutive years of employment shall be entitled to four (4) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.03	Any employee who has twelve (12) or more years of service shall be entitled to five (5) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.04	Any employee who has seventeen (I 7) or more years of service shall be entitled to six (6) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.05	(a) The Company agrees that all employees should
be taking their vacations rather than working through them. Therefore, all employees should notify the payroll department fourteen (14) days prior to the commencement of their vacation in order lo receive vacation pay. The amount of vacation pay which the employee will receive will be based on the number of days of vacation earned and taken. Under no circumstances will the employee be allowed to take vacation pay without taking a vacation unless a special request is made and agreed by Management and the Union.
(b)	Where an employee is entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks, he shall be paid three fifty-seconds (3/52nds) of his total earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to an annual vacation; and where the employee is entitled to an annual
H
vacation of four (4) weeks, he shall be paid one-thirteenth (l/13th) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date-on which he became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled lo five (5) weeks’ annual vacation, he shall be paid five fifty-seconds (5/52nds) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled to six (6) weeks’ annual vacation, he shall be paid six fifty-seconds (6/52nds) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation.
6.06	If the employment of an employee is terminated, the Employer shall pay him, in addition to all other amounts due him, 3/52nds of his total earnings if he is entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation or 1/13th if he is entitled to four (4) weeks’ vacation or 5/52nds if he is entitled to five (5) weeks’ vacation or 3/26ths if he is entitled to six (6) weeks’ vacation, as the case may be, for his period of employment with the Employer, but, if the employee has been permitted to take an annual vacation at any time during his period of employment, he shall be paid, at the rate applicable, on his total earnings after the date on which he became entitled to the last annual vacation which he was permitted to take.
6.07	(a) Every employee shall have until the end of March
in each calendar year t:o make his or her preference for vacation known subject to the Company Policy (provided current staffing levels are maintained as of date of ratification) on Vacation Scheduling. Thereafter, the Company shall schedule any employee who has not made his preference known or has not made prior arrangements concerning his vacation with the Personnel Manager, The Company then agrees that the vacation list shall be posted no later than April
16, indicating every employee’s chosen vacation dates. Should current staffing levels decrease then the Company and the Union agree to meet and discuss the Company’s Policy on Vacation Scheduling.
(b)	However, should an employee change shifts or Departments, he/she shall not have the right to reschedule vacation entitlement unless vacant weeks exist in the vacation schedule of the shift to which the employee has transferred.
6.08	An employee entitled lo three (3) weeks’ vacation or more shall be entitled to carry over any part of or all of their vacation credits which shall be taken before the end of February each year.
6.09	If any Statutory Holiday, hereinafter enumerated, occurs during the period of any annual vacation which an employee has been permitted to take, the period of such annual vacation shall be increased by one (1)
day.
ARTICLE: 7 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
7.01	(a) Employees shall receive a day off without loss of
pay on the following public holidays: j	New Year’s Day Good Friday
Victoria Day	Canada Day
Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day	Birthday
Saskatchewan Day
and any other holidays proclaimed by Federal, Provincial or Civic Authority.
(b)	In addition to paid holidays above, employees on the payroll as of the third Monday in February and having at least twenty (20) days’ seniority shall be granted one (1) individual holiday which shall he taken in the calendar year in which the employee becomes eligible for such individual
13
holiday and at a time agreed upon between the Company and the Employee. Should the Company be required by law to observe Heritage Day, such holiday shall replace the individual holiday.
(c)	Employees who are on permanent layoff or ten-porary layoff for a period of two (2) weeks or more shall not receive payment for any holidays occurring during the period of such layoff.
(d)	For purposes of paragraph 7.01(b), the phrase “employees on the payroll” does not include employees on unpaid leave of absence or employees who are laid off for a period of two (2) weeks or more that includes the third Monday in February.
(e)	Employees shall not schedule a doctor, dentist or other appointment on the day immediately before or the day immediately after a holiday or holiday weekend. Exceptions may be made in cases of appointments with specialists or in cases of emergency.
7.02	Pay shall be calculated on the basis of eight (8) hours per day for the above-mentioned holidays for regular employees. Probationary employees shall be paid on the basis of the average earnings, exclusive of overtime, for the previous four (4) weeks immediately preceding the week in which a public holiday occurs. To qualify, for public holiday pay, employees shall be on the payroll in the week prior and in the payroll week in which such holiday occurs.
7.03	Statutory holidays shall be observed on days other than calendar date when so proclaimed by proper Government authority or when agreed in writing between the Union Executive and the Employer.
7.04	Any employee required to work and who agrees to work on any of the Statutory Holidays listed above shall, in addition to his regular wages, be paid for the
number of hours worked on that day at one and one-half (1 V2) times his regular rate of pay. In the event of a Statutory I loliday coming on an employee’s rcgu-tar day off, he shall receive another day in lieu thereof, such other day to be granted within two (2) weeks from the said Statutory I loliday.
7.05	In regards to birthday, an employee shall take the day of his birthday off or if his birthday falls on a Saturday, he shall take the Friday off in the preceding week or if his birthday falls on a Sunday, he shall take the Monday off in the succeeding week.
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Deductions shall not be made by the Company from the wages of:
(a)	The Union Negotiating Committee to a maximum of five (5) members in respect to time actually spent bargaining collectively with the Company;
(b)	The Union Grievance Committee to a maximum of three (3) members in respect to time actually spent in the settlement of disputes and grievances.
The Union shall request approval in advance for the time mentioned above.
8.02	The Union or any employee who has a complaint 01 grievance shall submit the same, in writing, within ten (IO) working days from the time such grievance arose or became apparent, A copy of such complaint or grievance shall be forwarded to the Personnel Manager.
8.03	Should differences arise between the Union or the employees and the Employer, there shall be no strikes, slowdown, stoppage of work, or suspension of work on the part of the Union or the employees or lockouts on the part of the Employer on account thereof and such difference shall be settled by the following procedures:
15
(a)	The employee shall present any differences of grievances to his Shop Steward, in writing, with-&t undue delay;
(b)	The Grievance Committee, not exceeding two (2) people, shall present the grievance and discuss the matter with the Personnel Manager, who shall give a decision within one (1) working day.
(c)	In the event that a conclusion is not reached, the Grievance Committee, not exceeding three (3) people, shall immediately take the matter up with the Plant Manager or Plant Superintendent who shall give a decision within two (2) working days.
(d)	In the event that no conclusion is reached, the Grievance Committee, not exceeding three (3) people, accompanied by a Representative of the Union, if they so desire, shall immediately take the matter up with the General Manager who shall give a written decision within three (3) working days.
8.04	(a) Any dispute or grievance submitted under this
Article that cannot be settled by representatives of the Company and the Union shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration at the request of either party.
(b)	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one Company representative, one Union representative and one person acceptable to both the Company and the Union, who shall act as Chairperson. If agreement cannot be reached within ten (10) days in respect of the appointment of the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Saskatchewan shall be asked to appoint a Chairperson.
(c)	When the Board of Arbitration has been formed
in accordance with Article 8.04(b), it shall meet and hear the evidence of both sides and render a
16
decision within fourteen (14) days after it has completed its hearings and investigations.
(d)	The Hoard of Arbitration, in reaching its decision, shall he governed by the provisions of this Agreement. It is understood that the Board of Arbitration is not vested with power to change, modify or alter this Agreement or any of its parts. The Board may, however, interpret the provisions of this Agreement. The majority decision of the Board shall he final and binding on both parties concerned.
(e)	It is agreed that each party shall pay the expenses
of its Representative and shall equally share the expense of the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration.
8.05	When a Grievance affecting the rate of pay of an employee is settled satisfactorily and wages of the employees are increased, any such increase shall he made retroactive to the date Ihe employee was entitled lo the increase.
8.06	If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within live (5) working days from the receipt of such notice, notify the Shop Steward, who shall then notify the Employer. The dismissal in question shall then constitute a Grievance and shall be dealt with as such. II, subsequently, he is reinstated, it shall be without loss of pay, in his former position.
8.07	In order that the Union can investigate problems and resolve them as quickly as possible, the Employer agrees to provide the Union with a suitable location in Ihe plant to hold meetings and provide a place to file material of interest to the Union.
8.08	The Company will provide the Union with a copy of any disciplinary action taken by the Company. Such copy will be delivered to the Union Office within twenty-four (24) hours following such action.
17
ARTICLE 9 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
9.01	(a) Any employee who finds it necessary lo he absent
from his duties must make written request and obtain permission from the Personnel Manager in sufficient time to provide a suitable replacement. All Leaves of Absence shall be confirmed in writing showing the starting and expiring dates of such leaves. The Company agrees to supply the Union with copies of all correspondence relating to leaves of Absence.
(b) Subject to Article 7.01(e), an employee who
wishes to obtain a leave of absence from work for purposes of a medical or dental appointment must make such application in writing to the Personnel Manager at least three (3) days prior lo the date of such appointment. Exceptions will he made for emergencies and unforeseen situations.
9.02	Should any employee find it necessary to be absent from his duties due to accident or illness, the Employer may require a doctor’s certificate as proof of accident or illness after the third consecutive day of absence.
9.03	Employees, not to exceed seven (7) at a time with not more than three (3) from any Department and not ■ more than two (2) from any Job Classification who arc elected to do business for the Union, shall he granted necessary leaves with pay to attend to the business and upon return to service of the Employer shall he placed in his previously held position without loss of seniority. In the event employees request ; leaves of absence to attend a Union Convention, the ' Employer will be given one (1) week’s written notice. An employee shall receive the pay and benefits provided for in this Agreement when on such leave of absence for Union work or conventions. However, the Union shall reimburse the Employer for the cost of all pay and benefits paid during the period of absence.
18
9.04	Female employees, alter completing their probationary period, shall he granted a maternity leave of absence by the Company. The employee must make application for such leave at. least four (4) weeks prioi to the start of such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement, Such leave will be in accordance with tjie LabcThcStandards Acfof Saskatchewan. employee shall give the Company a* minimum of two (2) weeks’ notice in advance of the date she wishes to return to work and provide the Company with a doctor’s certificate certifying her to he medically lit to come hack to work. Maintenance of benefits will be subject to the Labour Standards Act of Saskatchewan.
9.05 (a)
p
Any employee who has completed the probationary period shall be granted three (3) days’ paid bereavement leave and up to two (2) additional days of unpaid bereavement leave upon the death of an immediate family member. Any employee who has not completed the probationary period shall he granted up to five (5) days of unpaid bereavement leave upon the death of an immediate family member.
(b) For the purpose of this Article, the term “immediate family member” shall mean spouse, mother, father, sister, brother, daughter, son, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, common-law spouse, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild, step-parents or stepchild of the employee.
(c)	The Company will consider reasonable requests for leave of absence by the employee to attend the funeral of a friend or family member othei than an immediate family member.
(d)	All requests for bereavement leave shall he in writing on a special bereavement leave request form supplied by the Company.
19
9.06 The Company recognizes that there are a number of employees working for the Company who also have farm-related duties. The Company, therefore, agrees that employees affected shall have the right to take such leave as follows:
(a)	The employee must indicate in writing when he
schedules his vacation that such vacation shall be for the purpose of either seeding or harvesting crops.
(b)	The employee shall make his vacation request to the Company in accordance with Article 6.07. Once the employee has been granted the vacation as requested, the employee is locked into using that vacation time. The Company shall he flexible whenever possible in scheduling the vacation time which the employee wishes to take.
(c)	For farming purposes only, the Company shall
grant a leave of absence at the request of an employee based on seniority. If there is more than one employee making such a request, the Company reserves the right lo limit the number of employees who may be absent at any given time.
(d)	Any employee requesting leave under this clause for farming purposes must he a legitimate farmer and may be requested to prove ownership of farm land or legal use of same.
ARTICLE 10 - BULLETIN BOARD
10.01	The Employer agrees to post and maintain a suitable bulletin hoard at a cental place in the plant for the use of the Union hut any notices placed thereon by the Union must first be approved by the Personnel Manager or the Plant Manager.
10.02	The Employer agrees to post and maintain a suitable bulletin board in each dressing room in the plant for the use of the Union.
ARTICLE LI - UNIFORMS
I 1.01 (a) The Employer shall supply adequate overalls,
smocks, rubber gloves, rubber hoots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings where needed and all such overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rub-her hoots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings shall remain the property of the Employer. The Employer shall be responsible for repairing and laundering overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber hoots. aprons, hair nets and required head coverings supplied by him. Such clothing remains the property of the Employer and, except with permission, shall not he removed from the Employer’s premises. The first issue of new rubber hoots will be charged out at cost and further issues at no cost on exchange.
(b) The Company shall provide, at no cost to all fulltime Delivery Truck Drivers, all appropriate uniforms which includes summer and winter apparel required to he worn by the Company except footwear. The Truck Drivers shall be responsible for cleaning such uniforms and shall wear clean uniforms at all times while on duty. Uniforms include:
1 Sunnyland Cap Apron (optional)
(only)
Apron (optional)
(c) All Delivery Truck Drivers shall maintain a clean, professional appearance at all times while on duty.
1 I .02 Regular Freezer employees shall receive forty-live ($.45) cents per hour extra for all time worked in the
SUMMER 1 Brown Jacket
WINTER
1 Brown Jacket (heavy)
3
Bi	(optional)
(light)
3 Beige Shirts 2 Brown Pants
2/
freezer, as a clothing allowance. Occasional Freezer employees may use clothing supplied by the Employer and shall receive no clothing allowance. Regular Freezer employees could he defined as those spending ten (10) hours or more per week in the freezer. The clothing allowance will he added to the Freezer employee’s regular rate of pay for purposes of calculating his overtime rate.
11.03	In order to prevent injury, Maintenance employees shall he supplied with safety hoots and hard hats at no cost to the employee.
11.04	Night Watchman, Delivery Truck Driver and Truck Drivers will he supplied with comfortable insulated suits and suitable gloves as needed, at no cost to the drivers or Watchman.
11.05	The Employer has agreed to supply employees, at no cost to the employees, cutting knives and steel mesh gloves for use in various areas of the plant. However, such items shall remain the property of the Company and shall not he taken off the plant premises.
ARTICLE 12 - MISCELLANEOUS
12.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and
power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, discipline for just case, discharge for cause, lay off, promote,
-	. assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to
' department, to increase or decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled and nothing in this Agreement shall he intended, or is to he construed in any way to interfere with, the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control its business hut it is agreed that nothing in this clause shall he used to discriminate against any employee or the Union and this clause shall not he used for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement. Prior to any disciplinary action including dismissal of an employee who has complet-
22
cd his probation, the Employer shall notify the Chief Shop Steward or his designate.
12.02	Terminations and Layoffs
Any permanent employee wishing to leave the service of the Employer shall give seven (7) days’ written notice and in the event of the Employer wishing to lay off a permanent employee, he shall give him written notice or pay in lieu of notice in accordance with the Saskatchewan Labour Standards Act. On the first regularly scheduled payday following the employee’s last day of work, the employee shall receive all money due him.
12.03	Severance Pay
An employee shall he entitled to severance pay in the event of termination of employment with the Company resulting from job abolishment or termination after twelve (12) months’ layoff provided that the Company did not have work available al the same rate of pay, except for just cause or voluntary severance. Eligible employees will he allowed one (1) week’s pay after one (l)full year of continuous service and two (2) weeks’ pay after three (3) years of continuous service with the Company.
12.04	This Agreement shall not take from the Employci and/or the employee privileges they have hitherto enjoyed, except such as may be specifically dealt with in this Agreement, and, further, except such privileges as may he abused.
12.05	No employee shall he discriminated against in any manner because of Union activities or because of race, colour, age, sex, creed, marital status, political beliefs or favouritism,
12.06	Women must be paid the same rate of wages as men if they arc doing comparable work.
12.07	Employees summoned to Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall he paid wages amounting to the differ-
23
cnce between the amount paid them for jury service or witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days. This does not apply if the employee is excused from Jury Duty for the rest of that day or days and fails to report back to work or if Jury Duty occur!; on the employee’s scheduled day off
12.08	Any employee required to use his car for the Employer’s business shall be paid twenty- four ($.24) cents per kilometer travelled.
12.09	Employees required to take time off to write exams or take tests related to their work at Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd. shall not suffer any loss of pay for time spent involved in said exams or tests.
12.10	In order to provide job security for the members of the bargaining unit, the Employer agrees that all work or services performed by the employees as of the date of signing of this Agreement shall not be sub-contracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed in
\;	whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company
or non-unit employee unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Union and the Employer.
It is agreed that all employees shall be allowed lo purchasc products from the Company for personal consumption by the employee’s family.
Employees may purchase products from the Company only in the sizes and packages produced normally for customers and in accordance with the rules set out below.
Employees are not entitled to purchase private label products unless otherwise agreed by the Company.
The following rules shall apply:
(i)	Fresh Poultry Products:
♦ tray pack single tray (normal size products);
12.11 (a)
(b)
24
♦	K-cut - one (1) bag minimum order;
♦	Parts (size 5, 10, 13.5, 15, 18, 20 and 25 kg. packages).
(ii)	Frozen chicken minimum case lot:
♦	tray pack (case lot only);
♦	IQF Products (4 kg. case only);
♦	Parts (5 kg. case only).
(iii)	May be purchased one at a time if available at the time of purchase:
Fresh Poultry Frozen	Poultry
turkey	turkey
roaster	turkey roast
fowl	roaster
fowl
comish hen (case lot only) duck (case lot only) goose (case lot only)
(iv)	No other size or type of products will be allowed unless first authorized by management.
(v)	The Company reserves the right to question excessive amounts ordered and to refuse sales where it appears that the use is not for personal consumption by the employee’s family.
12.12 Picket Lines
An employee covered by this Agreement shall have the right to refuse to cross a picket line or to handle goods from an employer where a strike or lockout is in effect. Failure to cross such a picket line or handle goods from an employer where a strike or lockout is in effect by a member of this Union shall not be considered a violation of the Agreement nor shall it be grounds for disciplinary action.
25
ARTICLE 13 - PLANT EMPLOYEES
13.01	The Employer shall supply all tools such as knives and scissors and maintain the same in good working condition.
13.02	The normal lunch period shall be one (1) hour to be granted as close to twelve noon as possible unless otherwise agreed upon between the Employer and the Union.
13.03	The Employer shall notify the employees of the starting time for the following week by posting a schedule on the notice board on the previous Thursday. There shall be a fifteen (15) minute leeway on the daily start time. An employee will normally be paid from the actual starting time. If, however, the actual starting time is more than fifteen (1.5) minutes later than the posted time, the employee, will be paid from the posted time.
13.04	When required, employees shall be allowed five (5) minutes to wash their aprons.
13.05	The Company agrees to supply all Maintenance employees, Engineers and Truck Mechanics, where applicable, with adequate tools lo properly repair and maintain equipment in all areas of the Company.
13.06	During coffee breaks and lunch hour, the Employer agrees to provide coffee and tea for employees at no cost lo the employees. When overtime is scheduled and a rest period occurs, the Employer will provide coffee and tea and a whole sandwich at no cost to the employee.
13.07	it is agreed between the parties that a system or rotation shall be implemented as follows:
(a)	The system of rotation shall be agreed by the
I,j	majority of the employees in the particular
r"	department that will be: affected by the rotation;
(b)	The agreement of rotation must be in writing specifying the terms of the rotation and, further,
26
all agreed upon rotation shall he made at coffee break or noon hour only or such other times as mutually agreed upon by the Union and Management;
(c)	An employee bidding or transferred to an area
affected by rotation shall be given a fair chance to train on the jobs affected by the rotation:
(d)	All rotation shall be evaluated after four (4) weeks. If the rotation is approved by the Union and the Management then the rotation shall become a condition of employment;
(e)	The job posting shall indicate that the position is
a rotation area;
(f)	Any employee who is not able to become involved in the rotation or chooses not to be involved shall forfeit his/her hid job and become classified as a Floater. The vacant position shall then he posted and filled in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
13.08	The Union recognizes that the company must take year-end inventory and in order to insure the most viable cost efficient system of inventory to be taken,
1 he Union therefore agrees that regul ar Freezer employees who are requested to count inventory shall work one (1) Saturday which is not a Statutory Holiday immediately preceding December 3 1 st oi succeeding December 31 st of each calendar year at appropriate overtime rates of pay,
13.09	When there is a shortage of employees on any shift due to weather conditions, illness, cte., the Company will establish a labour pool of employees who will be trained and then be called to work when required to replace absent employees on either shift.
Such employees shall not he covered by the guarantee of hours provisions of this Agreement, however, such schedule of hours shall guarantee a minimum of four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof.
27
ARTICLE 14 - WAGES. HOURS* ETC.
14.01	Attached to this Agreement, there will be an Appendix “A” covering the wages, hours, etc., of the employees included under the provisions of this Agreement.
14.02	(a) Employees shall use the punch clocks provided
by the Company to record their hours of work.
All employees shall punch in promptly at the beginning of their shift, and punch out promptly at the end of their shift. No employee shall work outside of normally scheduled hours without authorization from management of the Company.
(b)	Each employee shall be paid by noon every second Friday except where such Friday is a statutory holiday in which case payment shall be made by noon on the Thursday (the day prior).
(c)	Payment will be made by direct deposit to the
employee’s bank account. Each employee shall maintain an account in a financial institution in which direct deposits can be made.
(d)	Each employee shall receive a pay slip showing a completely itemized computation of employee’s pay that has been deposited to the employee’s account.
14.03	Classification titles and rates of pay applicable thereto for any new classification or positions that may be established by the Employer hereafter, shall he subject to negotiations and a supplementary Agreement shall be executed between the Employer and the Union.
14.04	Employees who leave the service of the Employer for purposes of educational upgrading for not more than one (1) year, when they return to the service of the Employer, shall he given credit for previous experi-
1 ence with the Employer for the purpose of determining their wage rate.
14.05	[f an employee is transferred from a lower paying position to a higher paying position, he shall receive
28
the wage rate applicable to the higher paying position.
. ^ If he works the majority part of his hours during the j j {\ ' day at the higher paying position, he shall receive the higher rate of pay for the full day. For the purpose of this clause, majority means any time beyond four (4) hours of work.
If an employee in a higher paying position is requested to transfer to a lower paying position and the employee agrees to the transfer, he will be paid at the wage rate applicable to the lower paying position. If the employee does not agree to take the lower wage rate and the Company still requests the employee to transfer to the lower paying position, he will be paid at the rate of the higher paying position he held prior to the transfer.
14.06	An employee will have the right to exercise his
seniority as to whether he will be transferred or not. It is agreed that the most junior person in the plant must accept the transfer. It is also agreed that an employee’s former position after he has been transferred shall not be filled with an employee with less seniority than the employee who was transferred.
14.07	Employees requested by the Employer to be available and on standby on weekends, statutory holidays oi whenever the plant is not in operation shall be paid standby pay of fifty ($50.00) dollars per day for each
7 v /Amday they must be on standby.
14.08	Drivers’ Helpers shall be paid at the rate for Truck
Drivers while loading the truck. They shall be paid at the Group “C” rate of pay for all time spent riding in the truck. However, they will not be entitled to the guaranteed workweek as outlined in Appendix “A” , Subsection 2. while working as a Driver’s Helper.
The Union agrees that the provisions of this clause shall have no force or effect unless proper written authorization has been given to said Drivers by Management.
29
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.01	In order to investigate and prevent accidents and improve conditions of work., it is agreed that a Safety Committee composed of equal representation from the Company and the Union shall he established.
Findings and recommendations of the Safety Committee shall be referred to the Company. Should the Company fail to act on the recommendations of the Committee, such recommendations shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union, The Employer and the employees will cooperate in the strict observance of all safety regulations at all times. They will make full use of all safety and accident prevention devices and equipment as provided and maintain safe working practices during their hours of employment within the plant. It is the responsibility of the Employer and employees to observe all safety provisions as approved by the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
15.02	The Company agrees to pay an employee his regular rate of pay from the hour of accident to the end of the shift which is covered by Workers’ Compensation.
15.03	The parties agree that the Occupational Health Committee will direct their attention to looking into the need for suitable clothing for all employees working in areas in the plant where the temperature is below comfortable room temperature. It is agreed that if the Occupational Health Committee determines that warm clothing is needed for these employees then the Employer will provide such suitable clothing at no cost to the employees.
15.04	It is agreed between the parties that all of the Company’s trucks shall be equipped with the following items as to assure the health and safety of the Truck Drivers:
(a)	First Aid Kit;
(b)	Survival Kit;
30
(e)	Flashlight;
(d)	Fire Extinguisher (mounted);
(e)	Flares;
(0 Tire Jack.
15.05	Rehabilitation
An employee who suffers an injury or illness which is covered by Workers’ Compensation and/or Group Insurance and who, on the advice of his/her personal physician, is able to return to pic-injury employment on a trial basis shall have the right to do so subject to the following:
(a)	The employee shall return on a trial basis as instructed by his/her doctor or such other authority’s care he/she is under.
(b)	Such trial basis shall he subject to the terms oi the Workers’ Compensation Board, if applicable, and/or the employee’s personal physician if Group Insurance is involved, or both, in the case of Workers’ Compensation.
(c)	The return to work shall he for the purpose of
rehabilitation only and once the employee has completed the terms of the return to work, he/she shall return to full pre-injury employment conditions of the Collective Agreement.
(d)	Such trial period shall not result in the humping of any employee from his/her job.
9
(e)	Should the employee not be able to return to his/her pre-injury job classification for the purpose of such rehabilitation then the Company agrees to find the employee a suitable position to qualify for the rehabilitation period. Following such period, the employee shall return to his/her former pre-injury job classification he/she held prior to injury or illness. Such positions created
31
for the purpose of employee rehabilitation shall not he eligible for bidding and shall not be governed by the provisions of Article 5 (Seniority).
(f)	During such rehabilitation period, the Union agrees to co-operate with the Company insofar as certain terms of the Agreement may have to he waived during this rehabilitation period only.
(g)	The parties agree that if no suitable position is available at the time the rehabilitation program is to commence then the affected employee or employees shall remain on Workers’ Compensation or Group Insurance, etc. until such time as the parties can find a suitable position to accommodate the rehabilitation program.
15.06	Occupational Health Nurse - Terms of Reference
Confidentiality
(a)	The Occupational Health Nurse shall maintain health records of employees in a filing system separate from the personnel records.
(b)	The Occupational Health Nurse’s function and responsibility is to ensure the health and wellbeing of the employee in a professional and confidential manner and to act as a liaison person hetween Group Insurance, Workers’
Compensation Board and Medical Professionals, etc. and the employee, by ensuring the proper completion of all applicable forms.
(e) The Occupational Health Nurse is not to he an adjudicator of employees’ claims.
ARTICLE 16 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
16.01	Dental Plan
j The Employer agrees to contribute towards the cost of the RWDSU Union Dental Plan based on a payment
of twenty-one ($.21) cents per hour for each straight lime hour worked effective February I, 1998.
Effective February 1, 1999, twenty-two ($.22) cents. Effective February 1,2000, twenty-three ($.23) cents. Such premiums shall be paid from the first day of hire for all new employees.
16.02	The Company agrees to pay an employee who would otherwise qualify for holiday pay under Article 7.01 hut who is receiving benefits under Group Insurance the difference between Group Insurance and the employee’s regular rate of pay.
16.03	(A) Group Insurance
The Company agrees that the present Group Insurance Plan shall remain in effect and form part of the Collective Agreement and shall provide for the following benefits:
(i)	L i f e Insurance
Effective February 1, 1998 - $32,000.00 Effective February I, 1999 - $35,000.00 Effective February 1, 2000 - $40,000.00
(ii)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment benefit amount tied to life insurance benefit.
The amount of insurance below will he payable:
to your beneficiary (in addition to the basic group life insurance amount) if you die by accidental means;
♦	to you for loss of sight and/or bearing;
♦	to you for accidental dismemberment.
If death, dismemberment, loss of sight or hearing is caused by an accident, prior to age 65 and occurs within 365 days of the accident, payment will be made as follows:
33
Loss of:
Amount:
Total paralysis of both lower limbs, total paralysis of one side of body or total paralysis of all four limbs.
Life or both hands or both feel or sight of both eyes or loss of one hand and one fool or loss of sight of one eye and either one hand or one foot ox‘ loss of use of both hands or loss of use of both arms or loss of use of both legs or loss of usc of one hand or arm and one leg.
Loss of one hand or loss of one foot or loss of one arm or loss of one leg or loss of sight of one eye or loss of use of one hand or loss of use of one arm or loss of use of one leg.
Loss of thumb and index finger of the same hand, a loss of speech or loss of hearing in both ears.
200% of your basic group life insurance benefit.
100% of your basic group life insurance bene-tit.
50% of your basic group life insurance benefit.
33 1/3% of your basic group life insurance bene-tit.
Repatriation Benefit
For loss of life outside your $10,000 province of residence, the	maximum
Co-operators will pay the cost	benefit,
of the preparation and shipment of the body back to your province of residence.
If one accident results in more than one of the losses above, payment will not exceed 100% of the basic group life insurance benefit, except if loss is quadriplegia, paraplegia or hemiplegia.
34
Rehabilitation Benefit
If you sustain an injury which results in a loss payable undei this provision and the injury requires that you undergo special training to be qualified to engage in a special occupation that you would not normally have engaged in except for such injury, The Co-operators will pay for such training. However, no payment will be made for room, board or other ordinary living, traveling or clothing expenses.
Exclusions:
No payment will be made For any loss caused by, resulting from or related to any of the following:
♦	suicide or self-inflicted injury, whether sane or insane;
♦	insurrection or war (whether war be declared or not), or any act incident to cither or participation in any riot;
♦	active full-time service in the armed forces of any country;
♦	travel or flight in any aircraft, or descent from such aircraft, if the insured individual is a pilot or member of the crew of the aircraft or if such flight is made for purposes of instruction, training or testing;
♦	committing, attempting or provoking an assault or criminal offense.
Total Disability Benefit
Should you become totally disabled for more than 6 months prior to age 65 and arc unable to per-
$10,000 maximum benefit limited to within three years from the date of the accident.
35
form any occupation for remuneration, the amount of your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will continue without payment of premiums until age 65 or recovery, as long as this policy remains in force providing satisfactory proof of total disability is submitted to the insurance company within 12 months from the date of disability.
Termination Age
Your accidental death and dismemberment benefit terminates at age 65.
(iii)	Dependents’ Insurance Benefit -
Effective February 1, 1.998 - Spouse - $5,000.00 Child - $2,000.00 (15 days of age and over)
Effective February 1, 2000 - Spouse - $10,000.00 Child - $5,000.00 (15 days of age and over)
This benefit provides life insurance coverage for your spouse and dependent children.
Total Disability Benefits
Should you become totally disabled for more than 6 months prior to age 65 and are unable to perform any occupation for remuneration, the amount of your dependents insurance will continue without payment of premiums until age 65 or recovery and as long as this policy remains in force providing satisfactory proof of total disability is submitted to the insurance company within 12 months from the date of disability.
36
Termination Age
Your dependents insurance terminates when you reach age 65.
(iv) (a)
/| 3. «- L hi
Weekly Indemnity -• 66 2/3% of your weekly salary payable for 26 weeks. Benefits begin on the 1st day if disability is due to injury and the 4th day if disability is due to sickness. If hospitalized, benefits will begin on the 1st day.
(b)	New employees shall be entitled to full bene-tits following the successful completion of the probationary period (90 days worked) for Group Insurance Benefits i.e. Life Insurance, AD & D, Weekly Indemnity, LTD, Prescription Drug Plan and Vision Care Plan, Effective February 1,1 998, the Company agrees to pay 75% of the costs of the Group Insurance Premiums. Employees to pay 25%.
(v)	List of Exclusions
No benefit will be payable for:
(a) any period of disability by The Workers’ Compensation Act or any similar legislation,
Any employee will be eligible to apply foi Group Insurance benefits while the employee’s claim is under appeal to the Saskatchewan Workers’ Compensation Board. If the appeal is successful, the employee shall be solely responsible for repayment of any benefits claimed under the Group Insurance Plan.
(b) any disability resulting from or caused by:
•	intentionally self-inflicted injuiy, while sane or insane;
•	insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, whether declared or not;
37
♦	riot or civil commotion, regardless of whether you were participating;
♦	injury occurring while committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense;
♦	medical or surgical care which is cosmetic in nature or medical care or surgery that is not medically necessary. However, periods of disability due to the donation of an organ or tissue will be covered. The Company will amend the Group Contract to provide coverage for tubal ligation and vasectomy. All other cosmetic surgery will be excluded from the contract.
♦	use of drugs or alcohol unless you are being actively supervised by and receiving continuous treatment from a rehabilitation centre or an institution provincially recognized for that treatment.
(c)	Any disability if:
♦	as a result of injury or sickness for which a third party is liable, except as provided for in the Third Party Liability section;
♦	you are not under the continuous care and treatment of a physician or specialist who is certified by the Saskatchewan College of Physicians and Surgeons or during the first 30 days under the care of a licensed chiropractor;
♦	you are imprisoned;
♦	you are on maternity leave, parental leave or any other leave of absence.
(d)	No further benefits will be payable from the date you refuse to participate in a rehabilitation program which is considered appropriate by the Insurance Company.
38
Submitting a Claim
The time limit within which a weekly indemnity claim must be made is 90 days from the date the insurance company is liable.
Termination Age
Your weekly indemnity benefit terminates at age 65.
(B)	Long Term Disability Plan (LTD)
Effective July 1,1998, the Employer will provide an LTD Plan based on seventy (70%) percent of earnings to a maximum of $ 1200.00 per month. Effective February I, 2000, the maximum will increase to $1500.00 pei month. All other terms of the Group Insurance Plan in effect prior to this Agreement shall remain in effect and unchanged. The Company will provide a more detailed package of informajion on the LTD Plan.
(C)	Prescription Drug Plan and Vision Care
The Company shall provide a Prescription Drug Plan and Vision Care benefit at twenty-live (25%) percent cost to employees with the following benefits. Such Plan shall form part of the Collective Agreement.
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
Vision Care February 1, 2000 - $250.00 eyeglass benefit every 24 months;
Prescription Drugs - Reimbursement funding undei the Saskatchewan Drug Formulary basis effective February 1, 1999:
Deductible:	Single	$50.00
Family	- $100.00
Prescription
Drugs	- 100% (reimbursement)
The Company shall provide a mom detailed description of the Plan provisions for both the Vision and the Prescription Drug Plan.
39
ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES
All employees are eligible if actively working on the effective date of this plan. All new employees are eligible after successfully completing their probationary period (90 days’ worked).
ELIGIBLE DEPENDENTS
Dependents are defined as the employee’s spouse (as described below), and unmarried, unemployed dependent children including natural, adopted or step-children.
The term “spouse” is defined as the person who is legally married to the employee, or although not legally married to the employee, has continuously cohabited with the employee for not less than one full year having been represented as husband and wife (common-law). Unless the insured employee has requested coverage for a common-law spouse in writing to the insurer, the person legally married to the insured employee shall be considered to be the spouse.
Dependent children are eligible if they arc less than 21 years of age or, if 21 years of age but less than 26 years of age, they must be attending an accredited educational institution, college or university on a fulltime basis and must be fully dependent on the employee for support. Children of the employee’s common-law spouse are eligible for coverage provided they arc living with the employee.
Unmarried, unemployed children over 21 years of age shall qualify if they are dependent upon the insured employee by reason of a mental or physical disability and have been continuously so disabled while attend ing an accredited educational institution, college or university on a full-time basis prior to the age of 26 and have been continuously so disabled since that time shall also qualify as a dependent.
16.04	Saskatchewan Dairy Industry Union Pension Plan
and Trust Fund (S.D.I.U.P.P.)
(A)	For the duration of the current Collective Agreement between the Union and the Company and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Company agrees to continue payments to the Pension Plan as herein set forth to provide benefits for employees of the Company. Such contributions shall he as follows:
(i)	For each active employee working in job classifications covered by the Collective Agreement, effective February 1, 1998, three and one-half (3.5%) percent of their gross earnings. Effective February 1, 2000, four (4%) percent of their gross carings.
(B)	Each employee shall contribute through payroll deductions a contribution as follows:
Effective February 1, 1998, three and one-half (3.5%) percent of their gross earnings. Effective February 1, 2000, four (4%) percent of their gross earnings.
(C)	Such contributions shall he paid into the Saskatchewan Dairy Industry Union Pension Plan Trust Fund (hereinafter called the “Trust Fund”). The terms of the Pension Plan established for the employees shall he determined by the Trustees of that Trust Fund and the administration of the Plan shall he carried out by the Trustees of that Trust Fund in accordance with the Trust Agreement governing the Fund.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable for eligible employees in respect to the gross earnings of employees on the Date of Ratification whether said employees arc permanent, temporary or seasonal or full-time or parttime employees provided the employee has worked for the Company for a one (I) year peri-
od. It is further understood that each day or hour paid for, including days or hours of paid vacation, paid holidays or other days or hours for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Agreement shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
(D)	While an employee who is a member of the Pension Plan is in receipt of benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan, the Company shall contribute an amount effective February 1,1998, equal to seven (7%) percent of such member’s earnings at time of disability. Effective February 1, 2000, eight (8%) percent of such member’s earnings at time of disability.
(E)	(i) Contributions along with a list of employees
for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution by or in respect to each employee and his covered earnings shall he forwarded by the Company to the Custodian of the assets of the Plan.
(ii)	Such payments shall be made to the
Custodian appointed under the Trust Fund for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period.
The Company shall, within the said period of twenty-one (21) days, mail a list of the members of the Plan and Trust covered by each such remittance to the Administrator of the Trust Fund showing for each member his gross earnings and voluntary contribution, if any, for the period covered by the remittance. The Company further agrees to submit a completed change in status form with respect to each member whose status under the Plan changes on or about the date of such change in status and also agrees to submit to the said Administrator, within sixty (60) days follow-
ing the end of such plan year, a listing of all persons who were members of the Plan during such plan year showing, for each member, his gross earnings received during the plan year.
(F)	The Company agrees to he hound by all the terms, conditions and provisions of the Saskatchewan Dairy Industry Union Pension Plan and Trust Fund and for such purpose to execute such documents as may he required to constitute the Company a party of the Second Part (Employer) to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust under which the said Pension Trust is established.
(G)	It is understood and agreed that neither the Company nor the Union have any obligation to finance the benefits promised under the Trust Fund beyond making contributions pursuant to its Collective Agreement with the Union. In the event that any unfunded liability or solvency deficiency should arise, it is agreed that benefits will be reduced for the purpose of meeting the required test for solvency of the Trust Fund, subject to the approval of the reduction by the Superintendent of Pensions.
ARTICLE 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	Where the Company seeks to introduce a technological change during the term of this Agreement that is likely to affect the terms and conditions of employment of more than eight (8) of the employees in the bargaining unit, the Company and the Union shall negotiate in good faith and in accordance with the \ 0 procedures set out below with a view to concluding a Workplace Adjustment Plan relating to the terms and conditions or tenure of employment that are likely to be affected by the technological change. The following rules and procedures shall apply:
43
(a)	In this Article, the term “technological change” shall mean:
(i)	the introduction by the Company into its
work, undertaking or business of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized by it in the operation of the work, undertaking or business;
(ii)	the change in the manner in which the employer carries on the work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material, or
(iii)	the removal or relocation by the Company of any part of its work undertaking or business but does not include any layoff due to shortage of work or reduction or loss of work directly or indirectly attributable, in whole or in part, to economic or market conditions or the seasonal nature of the work.
(b)	The Company shall, at least 90 days prior to the
introduction of such a technological change, provide the Union with a written notice setting out:
(i)	the nature of the technological change;
(ii)	the date upon which the Company proposes to effect the technological change;
(iii)	the estimated number and type of employees likely to be affected by the technological change; and
(iv)	the effect which the technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditions of employment of those employees affected.
(c)	The Union may, no later than 30 days from date
of receipt of the Notice from the Company, deliver to the Company a written notice stating that it wishes to enter into negotiations for a Workplace Adjustment Plan to address the terms and conditions or tenure of employment that arc likely to
44
be affected by the technological change.
(cl) Within fifteen (15) days after the Union’s notice is received by the Company, the parties shall commence collective bargaining negotiations with a view to concluding the Workplace Adjustment Plan. The parties shall thereafter meet as required in order to permit the conclusion of a Workplace Adjustment Plan prior to the date of implementation of the technological change.
(c) A Workplace Adjustment Plan concluded between the Company and the Union shall form part of this Collective Agreement.
(f)	The Union and the Company arc obliged to bargain in good faith with a view to concluding a Work Adjustment Plan.
(g)	In circumstances where the Company fails to provide a written notice of a technological change required by paragraph 2., the Union shall not interfere with or take steps to prevent or reverse the implementation of the change hut shall be restricted to a claim for damages.
17.02	An employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his/her job as a result ol technological change oi other change shall be given an opportunity to fill any vacancy for which he/shc has seniority and which he/she is able to perform If there is no vacancy, he/she shall have the right to displace employees with less seniority, providing he/she is able to perform the job.
17.03	Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by affected employees under the present methods of operation, such employees shall, at the expense of the Employer, be given a period ol time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, during which they may perfect or acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation. There shall be no reduction in wage or salary rates during the training period ol
45
any such employee and no reduction in pay upon being reclassified in the new position.
17.04	Should the introduction of new methods of operation create a need for the perfection or acquisition of skills requiring a training period longer than three (3) months, the additional training time shall be a subject for discussion between the Employer and the Union.
17.05	No additional employees shall he hired by the Employer until employees affected by the change oi employees on layoff, have been notified of the proposed technological or other change and allowed a reasonable training period to acquire, the necessary knowledge or skills to retain their employment.
ARTICLE 18 - TRUCK DRIVERS. LIVE HAUL. MEAT HAUL. RELIEF DRIVERS
18.01	The classification of Truck Driver (Fresh and Frozen) will be treated separately from Truck Driver (Live Haul) and the classified employees shall be scheduled separately from one another. However, they will be scheduled by seniority in their respective classification and shall not cross over to either Truck Driver classification.
18.02	Fresh/Frozen Truck Drivers
(a)	The Company shall structure the routes so as to satisfy the minimum weekly guarantee of hours each week in accordance with Appendix A(l) and (2). This does not preclude an employee from working more than the minimum guarantee of hours of work if available.
(b)	(i) All full-time Bid Classified Fresh/Frozen
Truck Drivers shall bid internally, within the Fresh/Frozen Driver Classification only, using their plant-wide seniority, to the particular route he/she wishes to drive.
(ii) Drivers shall have the option of working in
46
the plant to make up the full number of guaranteed hours lost due to trip cancellation. In the ease of it trip cancellation from a driver’s regular route, the driver affected can exercise the option of working in the plant only to make up the lost hours.
(c)	All routes shall he reviewed every lour (4)
months and should any lull-time Driver wish to re-hid his route, all routes below him in seniority standing shall then be re-bid, however, this is an option of the Drivers and need not be exercised and the status quo maintained.
(d)	Should routes have less than forty (40) hours of work in any week, the incumbent full-time Drivers shall have the first right, according to their seniority, to extra trips scheduled that week in order to make up the full forty (40) hours of work for that week. Drivers may only select extra trips on days when they are not otherwise scheduled to work.
(c) Should additional work become available, the Company will call to work, by seniority within the Frcsh/Frozen Driver classification, a full-time Driver who is not working and who wishes to take the trip, provided all bid Relief Drivers have completed a full complement of forty (40) hours’ work for that week.
(f)	Should the Company need to reduce its compliment of routes then the most junior full-time Driver shall he laid off in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and all remaining routes shall be re-bid in accordance with Section (b).
(g)	Should the Company need to alter the routes in any way then all routes shall be re-bid in accordance with Section (b).
47
18.03	Live Haul Drivers
(a)	Prior to Friday in each week, the Company shall provide a live-haul schedule to the Dispatcher setting out the hours available for the following wcek. The Dispatcher shall then assign hours available in accordance with paragraph (b) below.
(b)	(i) All full-time Bid Classified Live Haul Truck
Drivers shall bid internally within the Live Haul Truck Driver Classification only. Each Driver may, according to plant-wide seniority, select a block of runs that he/she wishes to drive for that week., to a maximum of forty (40) hours for the week.
(ii)	Once a senior Driver has selected a weekly block of runs, the next most senior Driver shall select. Once a block has been selected by a Driver then there shall be no changes to that Driver’s schedule for that week regardless of cancellation of trips or routes becoming available due to a temporary absence from work of another Driver.
(iii)	Should routes have less than forty (40) hours of work in any week, the incumbent full-time Drivers shall have the first right, according lo their seniority, to extra trips scheduled that week in order to make up the full forty (40) hours of work for that week. Drivers may only select extra trips on days when they are not otherwise scheduled to work.
(iv)	Drivers shall have the option of working in the plant to make up the full number of guaranteed hours lost due to trip cancellation. In the case of a trip cancellation from the Driver’s regular route, the Driver affected can exercise the option of working in the plant only to make up the lost hours.
(v)	Should additional work become available, the Company will call to work, by seniority with-
48
in the Live Haul Driver classification, a fulltime Driver who is not working and who wishes to take the trip, provided all bid Relief Drivers have completed a full complement of forty (40) hours’ work for that week.
(c)	Every Live Haul Driver is responsible for supervising the loading of his truck al the grower’s farm and must record all. information required by the Company.
18.04	Relief Driver
(a)	(i) No person who holds a Bid Relief Drivel
position or wishes to he available to work as a Relief Driver shall work in a supervisory or leadhand capacity or as part of a night cleanup crew or night shipping department.
(ii)	Hid Relief Truck Drivers shall only work in a relief capacity to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week including hours worked in the plant. Once a Hid Relief Driver has completed forty (40) hours of work in a week, he/she is not entitled, without permission of the Company, to work any further hours that week in the plant.
(iii)	Where additional Truck Driving work becomes available and all Bid Relief Truck Drivers have completed at least forty (40) hours of work for the week, the additional work shall be made available to full-time Drivers in the same classification, by seniority. If no full-time Drivers in the same classification are available to perform the work then the work shall be offered to Bid Relief Truck Drivers by seniority. If no Rid Relief Driver is available to perform the work then such work shall be offered to qualified employees on a plant-wide seniority basis.
(b)	Should a full-time Driver position become available, the Relief Driver may bid according lo the following rules:
49
(i)	Relief Truck Drivers within the classification who have been in the classification the longest shall have the first opportunity to bid for the position.
(ii)	If no Relief Truck Driver within the classification bids then the Relief Truck Drivers in the other classification may bid, by seniority, for the position.
(iii)	If no Relief Truck Driver bids then it is open to bidding by other qualified employees on plant-wide seniority.
(iv)	If a Relief Driver should obtain a full-time position as a Fresh/Frozen Driver, all the routes shall be bid in accordance with 18.02(b).
18.05	General
(a)	The Company has agreed that as long as they
! ,	have qualified Drivers and sufficient equipment,
!	no outside agency shall be used to perform Truck
Driving work.
(b)	Double tripping will be allowed as long as it complies with the Federal and/or Provincial Highway Traffic Board Regulations with respect to the logging of hours and rest periods.
(c)	The Company will allow Truck Drivers seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per shift for meals for shifts which exceed ten (10) hours.
(d)	All special trips outside of the block runs shall be awarded to Truck Drivers regardless of classification based on plant-wide seniority.
ARTICLE 19 - DURATION
19.01 This Agreement shall be effective from the first day of February, 1998 and shall i;emain in force until January 3 1,2001, and thereafter from year to year but either party may, not less than thirty (30) days oi more than sixty (60) days before the expiry date of
this Agreement give notice in writing to either party lo terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereto.
SIGNED this 30th day of December, 1997.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND SUNNYLANI) POULTRY DEPARTMENT STORE PRODUCTS LTD.
UNION, LOCAL S-9S5
Iris Lee
Dianne Wilderman
Linda Karakochuk
Tania Halvorson
I ,anny Wei Ici General Manager
Denys Robidoux Assistant General Manager
Andy Savard Plant Managei
Lome Tarasoff Personnel Managei
Debbie Lefller	Tim Lamb
Controller
Garry Burkart	Randy Kowalyk
Representative	Manager of Information
Systems
51
APPENDIX “A”
1.	Normal hours of work for all employees shall be eight (8) hours per day not exceeding forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week and providing for two (2) consecutive days of rest.
2.	The Employer agrees to guarantee to permanent employees a minimum of sixty (60) hours of work in each payroll period or pay in lieu of work unless otherwise agreed between the employee and the Employer between the months of December through May except Frozen and Fresh Truck Drivers which shall be guaranteed sixty (60) hours of work January through December inclusive. During the months of June through lo November^ the guarantee shall be seventy (70) hours of work or pay in lieu of work for all employees except Frozen and Fresh Truck Drivers.
An employee who is absent from work for personal reasons on any day shall have his guarantee for the pay period concerned reduced by the number of work hours missed by such absence. In cases of layoffs, recalls, hiring and dismissals without notice, it is agreed that the guarantee will be pro-rated on a daily basis. An employee who is not scheduled to work but is subsequently called because of sickness (etc.) and is not available to report lo work shall not have his guarantee of hours reduced.
3.	(a) Employees shall be allowed an eighteen (18)
minute rest period midway through the 1st half of their shift and an eighteen (18) minute rest period midway through the 2nd half of their shift and the end of their shift providing there are one and one-half (1 V2) hours of work in the afternoon. Employees wishing to leave the plant during the rest periods shall obtain permission to do so.
(b) The Union and the Company agree that the normal workday shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. with a one (1) hour unpaid lunch period. It is agreed that certain positions am required outside
the hours stated above. The Company will provide a schedule of positions and hours of work to the Union. If it becomes necessary to change the hours of work mentioned above, the Company will consult extensively with the Union before implementing any such change.
(c)	If it becomes necessary for the Company to
change, for a limited period of time, the hours of work agreed in (h) above, the Company will notify the Union and those employees affected by such change will be paid for one-half (V2) hour of their lunch period.
4.	(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) and (c) below, over-
time at one and one-half (I V2) times the regulat rate shall be paid for all hours worked after eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week.
(b)	Where an employee works in excess of eight (8)
hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period by working two regular shifts separated by at least eight (8) hours of rest, the first eight (8) hours of the second shift shall not constitute overtime but shall be paid at the regular rate.
(c)	Pursuant to Section 9(2) of the Saskatchewan Labour Standards Act, the Union agrees, for the purposes of sub-paragraph 4(b) only, to allow employees to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period without paying the employees overtime pay. The Union further agrees, for the purposes of sub-paragraph 4(b) only, to allow for employees to average the nun-her of hours worked over a one (1) week period not to exceed eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or forty (40) hours in any week without the applicable overtime pay being paid for the time worked in excess of those times.
(d)	The Employer shall supply a hot meal to all
53
employees who work beyond ten (10) hours if required to work by the Employer or his designate. The employee shall exercise his option as to either taking a hot meal, not to exceed seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50), or the money. Should the employee elect to take the money then the Employer agrees to pay all money owed the employee on his first paycheque immediately following such expenditures.
5.	When employees arc required to work their regularly assigned day of rest, they shall be paid at time and one-half (1 V2) of their regular rate of pay for the hours worked.
6.	When overtime of more than twenty (20) minutes is scheduled to be worked consecutively with the regular hours of work, the employee shall be entitled to eighteen (18) minutes’ paid rest period before commencing overtime work.
7.	All overtime shall be voluntary and shall be performed only after authorization by the Company. All overtime shall be assigned, by seniority, to those
l ^ ,, employees who normally perform the work to be ' done. Should such employee refuse overtime then such overtime work shall be offered to employees by seniority, ability being sufficient, on a plant-wide basis. The Union agrees to co-operate in providing overtime work in cases of emergency.
8.	The Permanent Night Watchman shall have use of a Company vehicle to perform his or her duties. If a Company vehicle is not available, the Company will reimburse the employee in accordance with Article 12.08.
9.	\ ()The Company agrees lo pay a premium of forty ($.40) l \c/* cents pel houi In'all employees for all scheduled ’
' hours of work bbtween 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. This premium shall not be considered as a part of the
employees’ basic rates of pay. This premium will also
54
l be paid for Saturday and Sunday work and Employees ... n shall qualify for such premium upon working a mini'	mum °f one hour of work.
10.	Employees, except Engineers on standby, who report for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or pay in lieu thereof
11.	All hours worked over twelve (12) hours in a day shall be paid for at the rate of double (2) time.
12.	The parties agree to set up two shifts in the freezer as required and determined after consultation with the Union and it is further agreed senior employees get
’ preference to the shift they wish to work.
55
APPENDIX “B” - CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES
The following job classifications and minimum hourly wage rates shall apply to all employees covered by this Agreement.
I.	Maintenance Department Hebl/98 1/99 Feb 1/2000
Engineers
Plus - 4th Class
-	3rd Class
-	*2nd Class
15.52	15.72	15.92
16.02	16.22	16.42
16.52	16.72	16.92
Journeyman Mechanic/	16.50	16.70	16.90
Elcctrician/Refrigeration
Plant Maintenance
(Mechanic)	15.02	15.22	15.42
Additional fifty ($.50) cents per hour for each Trade Certificate required by the Company and carried by the Maintenance Department. It is agreed the Certificates required by the Company are as follows:
1.	Journeyman Arc Welding
2.	Journeyman Gas Welding
3.	High Pressure Welding Ticket
4.	4^ Class Steam Ticket
5.	Vehicle Safety Inspection Certificate
6.	Millwright
7.	Machinist
*	8. Basic Instrumentation
*	9. Programmable Logistic Controller
10. Refrigeration Engineer’s Certificate *Only if required by the Company.
Maintenance Supervisor Refrigeration Supervisor Electrical Supervisor
18.00	18.20	18.40
18.00	18.20	18.40
18.00	18.20	18.40
56
II.	Fresh, Frozen and Live Haul Truck Drivers
Start
After 90 days worked After 12 months’ service
III.	Hlast Freezer
Start
After 90 days worked After 12 months’ service
Fell 1/98 Feb 1/99 Feh 1/2000
9.20	9.40	9.60
I 1.72	11.92	12.12
14.24	14.44	14.64
9.2.0	9.40	9.60
11.2.5	11.45	11.65
13.31	13.51	13.71
IV.	Group A
Offal Room Attendant,
Plucker Operator, Freezer,
Receiving Room, Night Clean-up Crew, Graders/
Presentation Detectors,
start	9.20	9.40	9.60
After 90 days worked	11.16	11.36	11.56
After 12 months’ service	13.04	13.24	13.44
V.	Group B
Lung and Kidney Vacuum,
Saw Operator, Night Watchman, Delivery Truck Driver, Tank Attendant, Mechanical Dehoner Operator, K-Cut Attendant Start	9.20
After 90 days worked	11.01
After 12 months service	12.83
9.40	9.60
11.21	U.41 BR
13.03	13.23
VI.	Group C
All Those Not Otherwise Listed
Start
After 90 days worked After 12 months’ service Effective January 3 I, 2001
9.20	9.40	9.60
11.01	11.21	11.41
12.52	12.82	13.12
after 12 months service $13.23
.57
VIII. S.I.A.S. Operator/I.Q.F.   Production System Supervisor
15.09	15.29	15.49
IX. Supervisors, ‘Duck Dispatcher
4.59	14.79	14.99
NOTE: The term “After 90 days’ worked” means after the employee has completed 90 days actually at work.
The term “After 12 months’ service” means “365 days following the date on which employment commenced”.
Rate increases to take effect on the first day immediately following the date stipulated.
An employee must have successfully completed his probationary period before he is eligible to receive the next rate of pay.
58
TETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #T BETWEEN: Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
ANI):	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
TEMPORARY POSITIONS
It is agreed between the Company and the Union that temporary positions shall be posted in accordance with Article 5.04 of this Collective Agreement. The temporary positions shall be for a period not exceeding six (6) months at which time the position shall be reviewed by the Company and the Union. After reviewing the position, a decision shall be made to:
a)	Abolish the position;
b)	Extend the time limit;
c)	Make it a permanent position.
If the job is deemed to be a full-time position, the job shall be re-posted in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
If the job is abolished, the present incumbent shall have the right to revert to his former position,
SIGNED this 30th day of December, 1997.
ON HEHALF OF THE UNION: Iris Lee
Dianne Wildennan
Linda Karakochuk
Tania Halvorson
Debbie Lcfflcr
Garry Burkart Representative
ON KEIIALF OF THE COMPANY:
Lanny Weiler General Manager
Denys Robidoux	'
Assistant General Manage:
Andy Savard Plant Manager
Lome Tarasoff
Personnel Manngei
Tim Lamb Controller
Randy Kowalyk
Manager of Information Systems 59
T ETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
Work Schedule
This Letter of Understanding shall constitute the agreement reached between the parties with respect to work schedules for Maintenance Workers employed at the Company’s Wynyard, Saskatchewan Plant.
1.	It is agreed that in order to provide proper maintenance services for the Plant and equipment during hours in which the Plant will be operating, the Company and the Union have agreed to a new Maintenance Work Schedule to be implemented on a trial basis.
2.	During the period commencing January 27,1997 and ending March 3 1,1997, the hours of work for Maintenance Employees shall be the hours set out in the attached schedule.
3.	On or before March 15,1997, the Company and the Union shall meet to review this Maintenance Work Schedule and, if necessary, agree to a new and revised work schedule which would be implemented for the period commencing April 1, 1997.
4.	Maintenance Workers shall be paid overtime:
(a)	at one and one-half (1 V2) times the regular rate for all hours worked after eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week;
(b)	at two (2) times the regular rate for all hours worked after twelve (12) hours per day.
(e) Applicable overtime pay shall be paid for all
hours worked prior to the scheduled start time of a shift up to the scheduled start time of the shift
60
and unless the hours of work have been continuous from the end of the last shift worked at which time overtime pay shall Ire paid for all hours worked into the next regular scheduled shift.
5.	(a) Where a Maintenance I )epartment employee
works in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period by working two regular shifts separated by at least eight (8) hours of rest, the first eight (8) hours of the second shift shall not constitute overtime but shall be paid at the regular rate.
(b) Pursuant to Section 9(2) of the Saskatchewan Labour Standards Act, the Union agrees, for the purposes of sub-paragraph S(a) only, to allow Maintenance Department employees to work in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period without paying the employees overtime pay, The Union further agrees, for the purposes of sub-paragraph S(a) only, to allow for Maintenance Department employees Lo average the number of hours worked over a one (1) week period not to exceed eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or forty (40) hours in any week without the applicable overtime pay being paid for the time worked in excess of those times.
6.	Any Maintenance Department employee wishing to deviate from his/her regularly scheduled shift must seek approval from his/her supervisor.
7.	Work schedules agreed to pursuant to this Letter of Understanding shall replace all previous work schedules for Maintenance Workers.
8.	This Letter of Understanding shall form an addendum to the Collective Agreement and shall be subject to all the applicable terms of the Collective Agreement.
9.	The terms of this Letter of Understanding are not intended to conflict with the terms of the Collective Agreement. However, should any terms of the Letter
61
of Understanding conflict with any term of the Collective Agreement, the Collective Agreement shall be deemed to be amended to give full effect to the terms of this Letter of Understanding.
SIGNED this 30th day of December, 1997.
ON behalf OF THE UNION:
Iris Lee
Dianne Wildcrinan
Linda Karakochuk
Tania Halvorson
Debbie Lcffler
Garry Burkart Representative
ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
Latrny Wciler General Manager
Denys Robidoux Assistant General Manager
Andy Savard Plant Manager
Lome Tarasoff Personnel Manager
Tim Lamb Controller
Randy Kowalyk
Manager of Information System
62
BETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
BETWEEN; Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
ANJ):	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
ABSENTEEISM
It is recognized by the Union and Management that Employee absenteeism is disruptive to the Employer’s business and to the Employee’s co-workers who are required to till in for the absent Employee.
It is agreed that the following policy shall he in effect during the term of this Collective Agreement.
Subject to paragraph 2. below, Employees who arc absent from work for more than twelve (I 2) separate periods of one day or more during any twelve (12) month period, regardless of the reason for such absence, shall be subject to the following discipline:
(a)	first occurrence five (5) day suspension;
(b)	second occurrence within two (2) years but not less than six (6) months after the first occurrence — dismissal.
2.	Where, in the opinion of a medical doctor who is approved by the Employer, the Employee is suffering from an illness or injury such that it is unreasonable to expect that the Employee will he able to avoid chronic absenteeism, the Employer will make all reasonable efforts to accommodate the Employee in the workplace before resorting to the measures set out in paragraph 1. above.
3.	Where an Employee suffers from illness or injury as set out in paragraph 2. above, the onus is on the Employee to obtain the medical opinion and to notify the Employer at the earliest opportunity that he or she may be chronically absent from work due to such condition.
63
4. Employees who will be unavoidably absent from work for reasons of sickness, accident, etc., should notify the Personnel Office of this fact as early as possible. This information should normally be given to the Employer prior to the start of the Employee’s shift. If this should prove impossible than not later than one (1) hour of their scheduled start time.
SIGNED this 30th day of December, 1997.
ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:	ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
Iris Lee
Lanny Wcilcr General Manager
Dianne Wildcrman
Denys Robidoux Assistant General Manager
Linda Karakochuk
Tania Ilnlvorson
Andy Savard Plant Managei
Lome Turasoff Personnel Managei
Debbie LclTlcr
Tim 1 ,atnb Controller
Garry Burkart	Randy Kowalyk
Representative	Manager of Information Systems
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products l td.
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
SECOND t2ndl SHIFT WORKERS AND ALTERNATE SHIFT WORKERS
This Letter of Understanding shall apply to those employees on the Second (2nd) Shift and Alternate Shi 1't who do not have hid or assigned jobs on the Permanent Day Shift or Second (2nd) Shift.
The parties agree to meet no later than June 30,1997 for the purpose of establishing the following criteria for Second (2nd)Shift Workers subject to sufficient work volume.
1.	Guarantee of Hours;
2.	Hid positions;
3.	Schedule of starting and quilting times.
4.	Review and revise the current Letter	of	Understanding
for Second (2nd) Shift Workers	and	for	Alternate	Shift
Workers any and all revised applicable provisions.
SIGNED this 30th day of December, 1997.
ON HKIIALF OF THE UNION:	ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
Iris Lee
Dianne Wildennan
Linda Karaknchuk
Tania Ilalvorson
Debbie Lcfflei
Clan y Burkart Representative
I ,anny Weilcr General Manager Denys Robidoux Assistant General Manager Andy Savard Plant Manager
Lome Tarasoff Pci sonnel Maiuicci
Tim Lamb Controller Randy Kowalyk
Manager of Information Systems
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
SECOND (2nd) SHI1FT WORKERS
This Letter of Understanding shall constitute the agreement
reached between the parties with respect to working conditions of a second (2nd) shift of employees.
1.	Should the Company require a second (2nd) shift of workers, then
2.	Such employees shall not be covered by the guarantee of hours provision of this Agreement, however, such schedule of hours shall guarantee a minimum of four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof.
3.	All other applicable provisions of this Agreement shall apply to second (2nd) shift employees.
4.	As permanent positions become available, such vacancies shall first be offered to any second (2nd) shift employees based on his/her seniority standing with the Company.
5 Since the second (2nd) shift works on both evisceration and packing, there shall be no bid positions except Kill Room Attendant, Evisceration Supervisor, Lead Hand Packing Supervisor and Lead Hand.
66
SIGNED this 30th day ot December, S 997.
ONHEH AL F OF TilK UNION:	ON BEHALF OF T1IK COMPANY:
Iris I ,ee	I.anny Weiler
General Manage:
Dianne Wildcrman	Denys Robidoux
Assistant General Manager
Linda Karakocluik	Andy Savard
Plant Manage:
Tania Ilalvorson	Lome Tarasoff
Personnel Manage:
Debbie 1 .cl'fter	Tim Lamb
Conlroller
Gariy Burkart	Randy Kowalyk
Representative	Manager of Infonnation Systems
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
BETWEEN:	SUNNYLAND POULTRY PRODUCTS LTD.
AND:	RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPART-
MENT STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955
Rc:	Saskatchewan Dairy Industry Union Pension
Plan and Trust Fund (S.D.I.U.P.P.)
Pursuant to Article 16.04(1) of the Collective Agreement, this letter sets forth the Agreement reached with regard to the pension arrangements for the Employees represented by the Union (“Employees”) of the Company during the term of the Agreement between the parties.
(A)	MEMBERSHIP
(i)	All existing Employees, including Employees in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits or Workers’
Compensation benefits, shall automatically become covered under the Saskatchewan Dairy Industry Union Pension Plan and Trust Fund (the “Trust Fund”).
(ii)	All future Employees shall automatically become covered under the Trust Fund on the first day of the month following the date on which the employee has completed one (1) year of employment.
(B)	STRUCTURE OF TRUST
The Company shall become an Employer in the Trust Fund and the Union shall become a participating Union in the Trust Fund. It is understood that the provisions of the Trust Agreement are as follows:
(i) The Trust Agreement is entered into by the participating unions (“the Union”) and the Trustees.
68
(ii) The Board of Trustees consists of at least three (3) Trustees who arc appointed by the Unions.
(iii)	The Trustees have complete authority and are responsible for the operation of the Trust Fund and the selection of all persons, firms or organizations who shall serve the Trustees.
(iv)	The Trust Fund does not require any participating Company or the Union to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and it is understood and agreed that the Company has no obligation to finance the benefits promised under the Trust Fund beyond making contributions pursuant lo its Collective Agreement with the Union. It is the responsibility of the Trustees to ensure that the Trust Fund satisfies the minimum funding and solvency requirements of the Pension Benefits Act of Saskatchewan. The Trust Fund provides for the reduction of benefits for the purpose of meeting the prescribed tests for solvency of the Trust Fund subject to the approval of the reduction by the Superintendent of Pensions.
(v)	The Trust Fund will be operated so that it is registered under the Income Tax Act and any applicable Pension Benefits Ad.
(vi)	Inter-Plan Transfer Agreements may be effected with the Company and any other Hoard of Trustees or plan sponsor to and from which Employees represented by the Unions may transfer. The provisions of any such agreement between the pension plan of the Company and the Trust Fund shall be mutually acceptable to the Company, the Union and the Board of Trustees.
69
(vii)	All Employees represented by the Union shall be informed of the provisions of the Trust Fund by the Union in accordance with the Province of Saskatchewan Pension Benefits Act.
(C)	CONTRIBUTIONS
Commencing with and for the duration of the current Collective Agreement between the Union and the Company and any renewals or extension thereof, it is agreed that the following contribution shall be made to the Trust Fund:
(i)	by each participating Employees effective February 1, 1998, three and one- half (3.5%) percent of gross earnings. Effective January I, 2000, four (4%) percent of gross earnings.
(ii)	by the Company in respect of each active participating Employee, effective February 1, 1998, three and ox-half (3.5%) percent of gross earnings. Effective February 1, 2000, four (4%) percent of gross earnings.
For the purposes of(i) and (ii) above, earnings shall be gross earnings received by an Employee from the Company and from a benefit plan provided by the government or any insurance program. Contributions from the participating Employee shall be made by payroll deduction.
Contributions along with a list of the Employees for whom they have been made (showing Employee and Company amount separately) shall be provided by the Company to the Trust Company, Plan Administrator or other financial institution designated by the Trustees to receive these and shall do so no later than twenty-one
70
(2 I) days after the end of the Company’s normal 4-wcek, S-week or monthly accounting periods. This listing shall be prepared in a form compatible with the Company’s system and shall also show the amount of voluntary contributions, if any.
As the provision of the Trust Fund allow foi Employees to make voluntary contributions, the Company shall co-operate by taking payroll deductions and, subject to such time limits as may he set by the Company, in changing the amount deducted from time to time.
In the event the Company fails to forward the prescribed contributions within the above-stated time limitation, the Company shall be liable to pay interest on such contributions equal to 4.0% multiplied by the number of completed plus partial months from the date such contributions were due to the date they were paid.
(I)) ADMINISTRATION
The Trust Fund shall lie administered by such organization, persons or entity as the Trustees shall decide. The Company agrees that it shall provide such details and information about employees covered under the Trust Fund as are needed to create Fund records and administer the Trust Fund and shall assist the Trustees as requested to ensure the proper and efficient operation of the Trust Fund.
(F) COMPANY LIABILITY
It is agreed that the Company shall not have any liability beyond funding the amount set forth in paragraph (c). In the event the Company should
71
be required by law to meet an unfunded liability of the Trust Fund, it is agreed that benefits will be reduced for the purpose of meeting the required test for solvency of the Trust Fund, subject to the approval of such reduction by the Superintendent of Pensions.
SIGNED this 30th day of December, 1997.
ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Iris Lee
Dianne Wildcrman
Linda Karakochuk
Tania Halverson
Debbie Lcfflcr
Garry Burkart Representative
ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
I -atmy Wcilcr General Manager
Denys Robidoux Assistant General Manager
Andy Savard Plant Manager
Lome Tarasoff Personnel Manager
Tim Lamb Controller
Randy Kowalyk
Manager of Information Systems
72