upcm
Local 1518
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKF RS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL-CIO-CLC
LOCAL 1518, INDUSTRIAL SECTOR #700-4211 KINGSWAY BURNABY, B.C. V5II1Z0
AND
LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
31894 Marshall Road, RR #5 Abbotsford, B.C. V2S 4N5
JULY 1,1992 - JUNE 30,1995
00275 (05)
3
This AGREEMENT entered into this 13th day of May, of 1992.
Between: Lilydale Co-operative Limited 31894 Marshall Road RRffi, Abbotsford, B. C.V2S4N5 (hereinafter referred to as the "Company7
OF THE FIRST PART
And:	United Food & Commercial Workers
International Union, AFL CIO CIC Local 1518, Industrial Sector #700-4211 Kingeway Burnaby, B.C.V5H 128 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union7
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 • GENERAL
1.01	One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain m full effect a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union. No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Company and the Unbn.
1
ARTICLE 2 • BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all regular employees excluding executive staff, sales and office staffs, foremen, office janitor and buyers, with respect towages, hours of work and terms and conditions of employment. The Company recognizes the right of the Unionto determine the standing of all members.
2.02	The Company agrees that all employees now members of the Union and all employees who become members of the Union she! remain members in good standing of the Union while employed by the Company during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
2.03	Recognition • Union Shop: (a) The Company agrees to retain in its employ, wiMi the bargaining unit as outlined in Article 2, Section 2.01 of this Agreement only members of the Union in good standing.
(b)	The Company shaH be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED, said non-members shall be eligSito for membership in the Union, and shall make applicationwithinten (10) days after employment and become members upon completion of thirty (30) working days.
(c)	The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee hi or her responsibility in regards to the Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each new employee to whom they have presented !he form letter, along with the employee's date of hire. The Union shall bear the expense of printing the letter, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide the Union, once a month with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the
-2-
previous month Every employee shall keep the Company informed of his/her home address, postal code and telephone number. The Company shall advise the Union quarterly of any changes in employees' addresses.
2,04	Deduction of Dues: (a) The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fees, union dues, fines and assessments as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The Company agrees to honour a written assignment lor initiation fees and Union dues on behalf of any employee who is or who becomes a members of the Union.
(b)	Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Unionnot later than the fifteenth (15th.) day of the month for which dues are deducted, and accompanied by a written statement of the names from whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction, along with a list of names of the employees for whom no deduction was made and the reasons therefore. Inaddition to the Secretary-Treasurer, the Chef Shop Steward shall also be furnished with this fist
The amount of union dues paid by an employee during a taxation year shall be shown on the employee's statement of Remuneration Paid, form T-4, Supplementary, or such other similar form furnished by the Federal IncomeTax authorities.
ARTICLE 3 • MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Management of the Plant and direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, or dischargefor cause, and the methods processes and means of production and handling, are vested exclusively in the Company subject only to the provisions of this Agreement.
-3-
Cases of disagreement over the interpretation of this clause shat) be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure in Article 13.
ARTICLE 4 • WAGES
4.01	Attached to this Agreement shall be a Wage Schedule covering all employees. This shall not apply to employees excluded in Article 2, Section 2.01. No employee shall hold more than one (1 Classified position.
4.02	Classifications and rates of pay for such classifications shafl be inaccordancewiththe "Wage Schedule" which shall form a part of this Agreement. Any additions or deletions to the present classifications shall be tie subject of Collective Bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to such date the new job was instigated.
4.0	3 llan employee substitutes in any department on any job during the temporary absence of another employee because of sickness, holiday leave or other similar cause, he or she shall receive where such job pays less, his or her former rate of pay and v\han such jdo pays more, the rate applicable to the temporary job. Inthe case of temporary transfers the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee provided no senior employee makes a request for such temporary vacancy. The word "temporary" as used in this Agreement shall be defined as a result of mutual agreement, arrived at between the Union and the Company, based upon the merits of each individualcase.
4.04	Where inequalities in individual rates are alleged to exist, they shall be dealt with as provided for in Article 13, Grievance Procedure.
4
4.05	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the scheduledshift (eight (8) hours) in which the accident occur, if, as a result of such injury he/sha is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the rredcal department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. In the event that no Company representative is present to report to, the Company will provide a telephone number to the employees where a report of their accident may be received. Costs incurred as a result of transportation to the practitioner and/or hospital, at the option of the employee shall be borne by the Company.
4.06	Establishing Rates for New or Changed Jobs: (a) Establishing rates for new or changed jobs shall be handled in accordance with Article 4, section 4.02.
(b)	If agreement is not reached when the job is started, the Company will pay the rate set end if in the final settlement the rate is increased it will be paid retroactively. Similarly, the rate will be paid retroactively when its establishment has been delayed beyondthe date the job reaches normal operation.
(c)	Disagreement mentioned in paragraph (b) above will be subjoct to the Grievance Procedure beginning at the 2nd. step.
4.07	If due to permanent job reduction an employee is transferred for a period of less than six (6) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, ha/she shall retain his/her regular job rate. At the expiration of six (6) consecutive weeks the lower job rate shall prevail, end the employee shall cease to have any rightsto return to his/her prior posted job unless on a new posting.
5
ARTICLES • SAFETY AND HEALTH
5.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees of the plant during the hours of their employment. Protective devises end other equipment necessary to properly protect the employees from injury shell be provided by the Company with no cost to the employee.
5.02	There shall be e Union-Company safety committee which shall be set up as follows: The Company shall appoint three (3) representatives from the Company staff and the Union shall appoint three (3) representatives from their membership. Both parties in making their appointments shall be motivated by the needfor selecting people who will best be capable of promoting safety throughout the plant. Tho safety committee shall alternate Chairmen for each meeting, Minutes shall be kept by e secretary, who shell not be a member of the committee. The Chef Shop Steward or his or her designated representative shall be responsible for the calling and holding of the safety meetings referred to herein.
Regular meetings of the Safety Committee to be held on the last Wednesday of each month with all members of the Safety Committee being present. The day of the meeting b subject to change only in e week in which a Statutory Holiday may fall.
5.03	Safety,hard hats, with or without ear muff protectors, which are approved by the Workers' CompensationBoard, will be supplied free of charge to employees where required.
5.04	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged for refusal to work on any job or in any work place or to operate any equipment where it is determined by representatives of the safety committee that the situation is unsafe or unhealthy. The representatives referred to herein shall consist of at least one (1) Company nominee.
6
5.05	All safety tests, safety inspections and safety tours shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Cochairman of the safety committee, or in his/har absence, a Union member of the safety committee. or a member of the Executive.
ARTICLE 6 • DURATION OF AGREEMENT
6.01	The terms of this Agreement shall be in full force and effect from .luly 1. 1997,iip to and including June 30. 1995 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives notice in writing of termination or amendment of not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration.
6.02	During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY Lilydale Co-operative Limited
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION United Food& Commercial Worker*, local 1518
T-
ARTICLE 7 • HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
7.01	For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out an Hours of Work Schedule and negotiate with the Union. The Union recognizes the needs of the business in negotiating changes in the hours of work schedule. Cases of disagreement may be dealt with under the grievance procedure beginning at the second step. The schedule of hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty (40) for any payroB week and must not exceed more than 'eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday, except whore otherwise mutually agreed upon. It is specifically agreed that any w o k schedules in effect on January 1, 1976, involving four (4) days of ten (10) hours each may continue.
(a) All time worked before or after the negotiated schedule of hours shall be paid for at double times (2x) the employee's regular rate of pay.
7.02	Any employee who reports for work, and who, by reason of some breakdown in the plant is dismissed for the day, shall receive five (5) hours pay at least.
7.03	Procedure for Changing Schedules: The Company agrees that except by mutual consent no individuals schedule shall be changed without twenty-tour (24) hours notice or a crow's schedule without five (5) working days notice. The Union will be consulted before a crew's schedule, and where feasible, an individual's schedule has been changed. The Company shall have the right to start and stop crews within the range of the letter of Understanding. The word "crow” as wed in this clause shall be defined as a result of mutual agreement between the Grievance Committee and the Company.
8
7.04	Overtime: (a) When it is necessary to workovertime Monday through Friday the personnel selected shall be the senior qualified employees in the department where the overtime is required. Should the necessary employees not be available within the department, then the basis of selection shall be the senior qualified employees available in the plant. If any senior qualified employee has been inadvertently missed for overtime he/she shall be paid for the applicable amount of overtime he/she has missed. For overtime on Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holidaysthe personnel selected shall be the senior qualified employee in the plant.
(b)	Double times (2x) the regular hourly rate shall be paid t o all employees for all hours worked on Saturdays and Sundays.
(c)	The Company will limit overtime hours of work as fer as reasonably possible. The Company will first discuss the matter with the Union Grievance Committee, if gang overtime is involved, when feasible, if overtime is involved for individuals. If overtime is necessary, the Union will encourage employees to work. In the event that the Company requires overtime, all employees involved in the overtime shell be provided with notice to this effect when the Company first is aware of the overtime requirement or two (2) hours notification.
(d)	It is agreed that all overtime work shall be voluntary and that no employees shall be compelled to work overtime, nor shall he/she be discriminated against for refusal to work overtime.
(e)	Any employee who responds late to work on his/her regularly scheduled shift shall not be entitled to overtime rates of pay until completion of eight (8) hours.
7.06	Any hourly rated employee who after leaving the Company's premises, is especially called in at any time outside
•9-
his/her normal working hours shall be through when the emergency is over but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of live (5) hours at the regular rate or for the hours helshe actually worked at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
7.06	(a) Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergemy, to work more than four (4) hours without a first meal period of thirty (30) minutes and more than five (5) hours without the second meal period. The second meal period shall be one-half (112) hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company. In cases where there is no meal provided, a cash equivalent of $7.25 plus one-half (1/2) hourstraight time will be added to his/her gross earnings for that fiscal week.
(b)	Employees required to work more than four and one-quarter (4 114) hours without a first meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (1 112) their hourly rate for all times worked in excess of four and one-quarter (4 1/4) hours until a meal period is granted. Maintenance and Engineer employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30)minutes on Company time.
7.07	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to reduce the number of employees to be employed during the work shortage period. Such layoffs shall be according to seniority and ability to perform the work required. In cases where ability is being considered the determination of ability will be the subject of mutual agreement between the Union Grievance Committee and the Company.
7.08	Whenever an employee is held for legitimate extra work or is brought in on his or her day off, or on a Sunday, or on a
-10-
paid holiday, he or she need not be requiredto take time off to bring his or her hours down to the standard working week.
7.09	(a) All employees shall havetwo fifteen (15) minute rest intervals during each day without deduction in pay with rest periods to be provided in the time schedule. The second rest period shall be granted two (2) hours after the return from the lunch break. The rest periods referred to herein shall not be eliminated by reason of a short work day unless the employee leaves on personal business prior to the second rest period.
(b)	When overtime is required beyond the regular quitting time, a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted before proceeding with the overtime work.
7.10	Management personnel shall not be allowed to do production work, except in an emergency, training of an unqualified employee or quality control and product development worir, but shall not be used to displace a Union employee.
7.11	Truck Drivers requiredto take out loads after 2:00 p.m. in any day which contains deliveries that would require the truck driver to work in excess of his/her normal schedule of hours for that day, shall be supplied a swamper on request. The provisions of this clause will not apply where a straight load of skids is being delivered.
7.12	All employees shall be entitled to twelve (12) hours of rest between shifts. Should the employee be requiredto work during his/her twelve (12) hour rest period, all hours worked will be paid for at overtime rates.
7.13	Employees required to do freezer workshall be allowed ten (10) minutes outside work for each hour worked in the freezer. Employees who are not regularly required to do freezer work shall be supplied with necessary clothing to do
-11-
the work and shall in addition, be given a minimum of one (1) hour's notice before being assigned to the freezers.
7.14	(a) Shift Engineers shall be allowed a regular day off in lieu of working Sunday.
(b) Maintenance and engineers shall have the choice of schedule of hours, as outlined under section 7.17, on the basis of seniority.
7.15	It is understood and agreed, that where there is a short work week in effect, employees within the bargaining unit may exercise their seniority in order of seniority for the purposes of electing to be laid off rather than to remain on the payroll during such short work weeks.
7.16	Employees shall be allowed five (5) minutes personal cleanup time prior to regular quitting time. Live hangers and stickers shall be allowed ten (10) minutes. It is understood and agreed that the live hangers will not we Ihe ten (10) minutes clean up time in any way that would adversely effect the production schedule.
7.17	The negotiated schedule of hours b as follows:
Start times First Shift (Days)
Scing and maintenance Second Shift (Afternoon)
Third Shift (Nights)
One smokehouse op.
One enginaarlmaintenanco Monday Start
Hangers and suppliers • 15 minutes prior to regular starting time.
Lrvo bird receivers and icers • 30 minutes prior to regular starting time.
6:00 a.m. ■ 9:00 am 6:00 am. -9:30 am 2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. • 1:00 am
11:00 p.m. • 7:30 a.m.
12
Where them is a 6:00 am shift scheduledthe provisions of Article 10, Section 10.01 shall not apply to the first hour worked.
ARTICLE 8 • STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	(a) The Company agrees to pay all employees at their regular rates of pay for the normal hours of work as set forth in the Hours of Woik Schedule on each of the following Statutory Holidays whether they work or not:
New Year's Day Dominion Day Remembrance Day Good Friday B.C, Day Christmas Day Easter Monday labour Day Boxing Day Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day
One (1) additional Statutory Holiday (Floater] to be effective upon completion of six (6) months service. The Company and Union agree to a formula of not less than ten percent (10%) off on this floating Statutory Holiday per department at anyone time, rounded off to the highest full number, with not less than a minimum of two (2). The selection regarding the exercising of this floating Statutory Holiday shall be on the basis of seniority and shall in addition be selected by mutual agreement between the Foreman/Company and the Employee.
Employees shall provide the Company with two (2) weeks notice of their selection. Should the Provincial Government proclaim a Statutory Holiday during the life of this agreement,
•13-
such proclaimed Statutory Holiday shall be substituted for the floating statutory holiday referred to herein.
(b)	If en employee is require to work on any of the Statutory Holidays mentioned herein, helshe shall receive, in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the Statutory Holiday at two (2) time his/her regular rate 'and these hours shall be considered as scheduled hours worked at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee.
(c)	A spacial holiday shall be a special and non-recurring public holiday of general observance other than a Statutory Holiday proclaimed by the Government of tho Dominion of Canada, as for example V-J Day.
(d)	Double times (2x) the regular rate shall be paid to employeesfor all hours worked on a spacial holiday.
(e)	If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
(f)	If an employee is absent on the day before or the day after a Statutory Holiday without just cause, payment for the holiday may be withheld subject to mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Grievance Committee.
Inthe case of repeated absences without just cause, payment for the holiday may be left to the discretion of the Company.
8.02	layoff or Recall in Holiday Weeks: Employees, if laid off or recalled in the pay weeks in which the public holiday falls, shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at regular rates for such holiday, provided he/she receives pay for hours worked inthe month proceeding or succeeding the Statutory Holiday. To
-14-
qualify for this holiday pay, employees must work out their layoff notice or report for work on recall when required as the case may be.
8,03	Sick Pay and Compensation in Holiday Weeks: An employee who is absent for reasons of sickness or non-compensabla accident during the period in which a Statutory Holiday occurs, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular rate for such Statutory Holidays as occur during such absence. In case of continued absence, the Company may request a Doctor's certificate to substantiate any illness. It is understood that where an employee is receiving benefits from the Workers Compensation Board the Employee will receive the difference between Workers Compensation benefit and eight (8) hours pay.
ARTICLE 9 • AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
9,01	(a) The Company will provide the Union with three (3) months notice in writing of intention to introduce automation equipment or technological changes which wiH result in displacement or reduction of personnel.
(b)	Employees becoming redundant due to technological change, new equipment or procedures shall be eligible for retraining to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedures, or to qualify for new positions. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employea(s).
(c)	Incases where the retraining of employees is not practical, or where other positions with the Company are not available, the employae(s) shall elect for termination of employment or shall elect to be placed on the recall list. An employee on recall under this section, shall receive all the benefits helshe
•15-
had accrued during employment at the end of the recall period or at such earlier time as he/she may elect to terminate. Employees on recall under the provisions of this clause shall report to work within the stipulated period of time as outlined in Article 12, section 12.11.
(d)	A specified extension of the recall period where recall is applied undersubsection V above may be mutually agreed by the employee andthe Company, subject to written approval by the Union.
(e)	Employees whose services are terminated because of automation or technological change, shall receive a separation allowance in accordance with the scale outlined in Article 23 of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 • SHIFT PREMUMS
10,01	Each employee shall receive an off shift premium of fifty-five (55) cents per hour for all hours worked commencing between 12:00 noon end 7:00 a.m. Such premiums shall be considered as part of an employee's basic rate.
ARTICLE 11 • VACATION POLICY
11.01	The Company agrees, subject to the provisions set forth within the following sections to grant the following vacations with pay to employees covered by this Agreement. The amount of vacation entitlement for which an employee is entitled will be based upon the amount of service completed as of their own individual anniversary date.
Effective January 1,1987
After one (l)year	two (2) weeks
After three (3)years	three (3) weeks
16
After eight (8) years After thirteen (13) years After seventeen (17) years After twenty-two (22) years
four (4) weeks five (5) weeks six (6) weeks seven (7) weeks
It is understood and agreed that the "regular rete" shall be defined as the rate being paid at the time vacation is taken cr vacation pay is requested.
11.02	Calculation of Holiday Pay: All employees shall receive pay on the bask of forty (40) hours at his/her regular rate for each week of vacation or two percent (2%) of his/her total earning for the previous year per each week of vacation, whichever isthe greater amount.
11.03	(a) Employees absent for reasons of sickness and/or accident, who return to work following these phases, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 11, section 11.01 and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in clause 11,03 (b) and these days of absence shall be considered as days worked for the purposes of this Agreement.
(b)	Inthe case of sickness,compensable or noncompensable accident, an employee upon his/her return to service with the Company shall receive service credit for each week of such absence not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks as if earning shad been received, on the basis of forty (40) hours per week at this regular rate of pay. The provisions of tiis clause shall be restricted to one application per calendar year.
11.04	(a) Earned vacation privileges not exercised shall be paid if end when an employee quits cr is discharged for cause from service, at a rate equal to the amount of vacation earned. Employees are entitled to receive their vacation pay in advance if they so request.
17
(b)	The Company agrees that upon four weeks notice they shall pay to an employee vacation pay to which an employee is entitled based on his/her regular rete. Such payment to be made on the first pay day in January. The Company further agrees that if the "Holiday Pay Calculation" under section
11.02	provides the employee with a greater amount of vacation pay, said difference shall be paid to the employee on the second pay day in January. Upon requests the Company agrees to show to an employee the calculations on which his/her vacation pay a based.
11.05	Every Bargaining Unit Employee shall become eligible for vacation on January 1st. of each year. The Company and the Union agree to the principle of establishing a common anniversary date. An employee who has received his/her first vacation is thereafter eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations any time on or after January 1st. in the succeeding vacation year in accordance with the provisions of 11,06, If, due t o the provisions of fre clause, employee(s) are entitled t o an amount of vacation providing for service of less than one (1) year, such employee(s) shall have their calculation of vacation pay determined as outlined under the provisions of Section 11.02 of this Article.
11.06	The selection of vacation periods shall be on the basis of seniority in each department with the senior employee being given first preference. Vacation may be granted at any time, subject to the demands of the business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees.
During the period of June 1st to September 30th. inclusive employees shall be allowed only three (3) weeks of their vacation unless agreed otherwise.
The Company in full co-operation with the Chief Steward will post a Vacation Schedule beginning the first Monday in
18
December on the Union bulletin board in order to determine the employee's desiredvacation times. The selection of vacations will be completed not later than March 1st. in each year with the allotted times signed by both parties and copies immediately provided to the Chef Shop Steward. The Company and the Union agree to a formula of 10% of the employees per department off on vacation
The following shell be considered as departments for "all" purposes of this Agreement.
Kill
Eviscerating
Cryovac &Lidding & Box Room ShippingJDrivIngfWare house Freezer Cleanup Maintenance Boning
11.07	If a paid holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with pay, one day prior to vacation or one day after vacation or at such other fne as the employee may designate, such designation shall be subject to mutual agreement.
11.08	(a) Employees entitled to vacation will not be allowed to take money in liau thereof or work overtime on the Sunday prior to their vacation or commence work after vacation before their scheduled day of work. Employees may choose to work the Saturday before they commence vacation provided they notify the employer of their availability.
(b)	An employee eligible for a third and subsequent weeks of vacation entitlement may accumulate such weeks of vacation to be taken in the following vacation year at e time designated
19
by the employee not later than December31, in the year prior to exercising his/her accumulated vacation.
(c)	Accumulated vacation credits referred to herein may not be exercised between June 1 to September 30 inclusive in each year.
(d)	Employees shall notify the Company in writing of their desire to defer vacation credits not later than December31, in the year prior to their intention of accumulating vacation credits.
(e)	Accumulated vacation entitlement shell be paid at the rate equal to the highest rate of pay the employee received, subject to Article 11, section 11.01, during the year in which the vacation entitlement was earned.
11.09	An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off because of reduction in his/her crew shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he/she has qualified.
11.10	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee by separate cheque.
ARTICLE 12 • SENIORITY
12.01	Seniority shall operate on a total plant basis.
12.02	After an employee has accumulative period of service of sixty (60) days worked with the Company, he or she shall be granted seniority, which shall date retroactively to the date he or she entered the employ of the Company.
12.03	In the Bargaining Unit, the filling of vacancies in classified jobs shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority
-20-
shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed twenty (20) working days, however, if mutually agreed, this period may be extended a maximum of ten working days. Employees shall receive the applicable job rate provided for in the wage rata schedule for the job or jobs they haw been posted or appointed to when they become qualified. The word "qualified"as used in this agreement slid be interpreted to mean regularly perform the job without assistance. All postings and/or appointments shall be designated in writing with a copy to the grievance committee. Tfe initial vacancy shall be posted and subsequent vacancies, caused as a result of this posting, shall be filled by temporary assignment until the initialvacancy has been filed permanently.
12,04	Vacancies in classified jobs within the BargainingUnit shall be posted for Ihe (5) working days to ge employees with seniority ample time to apply. In the case that no application b received for any posting tho vacancy shall be filled by appointment, and the appointee automatically given posted status. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded. When a posted employee is laid off he/she shall return to his/her prior position upon recall providedthat the period of layoff does not exceed three (3) months. Temporary vacancies such as sickness, compensation and holidays need not be posted
12.OB The Company agrees to post permanent labour rated job vacancies when they occur. Vacancies shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. I n making such transfers the Company agrees to give consideration on the basis of seniority, however, it is not the intent of this clause to restrict Article 3 ■ Management.
12.06	(a) Employees shall, inthecase of longterm ill health or injury, be given an opportunity of being rehabilitated on specific jobs within the plant, should an opening Occur at the
•21-
time they are released to return to the work force, or within 10 days following the time they are able to return to the work fore#. If for medical reasons they are unable to return to woric, and there are no job openings available, they will be laid off until a recall or vacancy occurs.
(b)	Employees covered under the provisions of this clause must present a Doctor's certificate authorizing their return to the work force.
(c)	If the employee lacks sufficient seniority over other employeesfor a posted job vacancy the Company may, subject to mutual agreement assign the returning employee to that vacancy for rehabilitation and so inform the Local Union.
(d)	Employees being assigned under the provisions of this clause shall be eligible to receive the customary trial period in orderto qualify for such postings as outlined in section 12.03 of this Agreement.
12.07	Seniority records will be made available to the Union each three (3)months.
12.08	Seniority service records shall not be considered broken and there shall be no interruption in en employees continuity of seniority rights except as specifically provided herein;
(a)	When an employee voluntarily leaves the service of the Company.
(b)	When an employee has been discharged for cause and such termination has not been reversed by the grievance procedure.
(c)	When an employee has been let out of employment by the Company for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
22
Length of seniority At Date of Separation
Length of Allowable Time Off Payroll
Over30 working day Time equivalentto one-half (1/2) to 6 months	his/her length of service
Over 6 months
Time equivalent to l ength of service up to two (2) years.
12.03	(a) On reducing end increasing forces seniority shall govern provided the senior operator has the qualifications to handle the work performed by the operator of lesser seniority. In cases of dispute, it shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure. It is understood that the order of lay off or recall shall be in accordance with the seniority records list referred to in section 12.07.
(b) If it is anticipated that a lay off will exceed four weeks any employee to be laid off out of seniority order shall be given the opportunity to prove his/her ability to perform the required work before being laid off. Ability being sufficient after e reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed twenty (20) working days on the job, however, if mutually agreed this period may ha extended.
12.10	The Chief Steward of the plant shall be given a list in advance of employeesto be laid off cr recalled.
12.11	When forces are increased, former employees will be reemployed and paid the rate of the job to which they are assigned. Employees who have been laid off and are rehired shall not lose the credit for their previous experience in computing their pay rates and shall not have their pay rates reduced.
23
12.12	Any employee who has been notified by registered letter at his or her last known address to return to work and within seven (7) working days has failed to do so, or failed to contact the office, shell be considered to have quit his/her employment voluntarily and his/her existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is sent to any employee by registered letter, copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union Committee.
12.13	If an employee is absent from work because of sickness, approved leave of absence or accident he or she shad not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his or her absence, a to one of equal rating, providing hi a she is capable of performing former duties. Intho case of such absence, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reasons for absence and how long they expect their absence will last. Employees absent due to illness or accident over one (1 )month shall be requiredto notify the Company each thirty (30)days and report his/her progress. Undertho provisions of this clause employees shall continue to accumulate seniority during such absences.
12.14	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee’s service with the Company and the BargainingUnit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he/she was first employed,'unless his/her seniority was broken in which event such calculation shall be from lie date he/she returned to work following the last break in his/her seniority.
12.15	Employees while on layoff and who return to work following layoff, within the time of allowable breaks as outlined above shall continue to accumulate seniority during the layoff period as outlined in section 12.07.
24
12.16	Incase of layoff, all employees shall receive notice in accordance with the following scale or receive pay in lieu of notice:
After one (1) year seniority	5 working days
After six (6) month's seniority	3 working days
Less than six (6) month's seniority	2 working days
Two (2) working days where possible in the event of layoff due to a mm-kill day. This clause shall not be interpreted in such a manner so as to reduce the "weekly guarantee" as outlined undertbe provisions of Article 25 herein. Inthe event of circumstances beyond the Company's control, both parties shall meet to discuss ways and means of decreasing the guarantee to avoid sporadic layoffs.
ARTICLE 13 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	(a) A Grievance Committee, the number not to exceed three (3)who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and tho Company shah be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee.
(b)	Shop Stewards, the number to be decided by the Union, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shah bo kept informed of the personnel of the Shop Stewards.
(c)	AH grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regularworidng tours.
(d)	If a Steward has to leave his/her job a department in connection with a grievance, he/she shall first secure permission from the foreman before leaving the job or department. Such permission shell be granted as promptly as
-25-
possible but shall in no case, exceed one-half (1/2) hour. For the purposes of facilitating the grievance procedure, the Chief Shop Steward shall be free to leave his/her job or department in order to investigate any grievance brought to his/her attention.
(e)	It is agreed that the purpose of the grievance procedure will be to settle all grievances promptly, and that consultation at any step on the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction or animosity will be reduced to a minimum
13,02	(a) The following procedure shall be applicable
progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
First Step: Between the Union Steward, the Chef Steward with or without the employee and an equal number of representatives designated by the Company. A decision must be rendered within two (2) working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise. Failing settlement at this step, the matter shall then be referred to:
Second Step: By the Grievance Committee of the Union who shall take the matter up with the Committee designated by the Company. In case of an emergency a meeting can be called by either party. Outside representatives of the Union and the Company. may be called in if so desired. A decision to be renderedwithin three (3)working days unless mutually agreed otherwise. All grievances and decisions at this stage are to be in writing. Should either party intend to proceedtothe "Third Step" they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days from the date the decision was rendered under Step 2 of the grievance procedure. Both parties will then proceed as outlined in the Third Step.
Third Step: Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising underthis Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction
-26-
of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of this Article shall upon the written notice of either party be submitted to an Arbitration Board, which shall be bound by the rules of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of one member named by the Union, one named by the Company and the third agreed upon by the two parties. In the event of failure to agree to e third party within one (1)week, hefshe shall be appointed by the Minister of labour for the Province of British Columbia. Any expense incurred as a result of the appointment of the third party shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union. Decisions of the Arbitration Boardshall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board. The decision of the Board shall be renderedwithin two (2) weeks,
(b)	In areas where there is no Steward, the grievance shall be taken upas outlined inthis Article by the Chief Shop Steward, or his/her designated representative.
(c)	The Company recognizes the right of the Grievance Committee to process any grievance that is brought to their attention, or to pursue matters affecting relations between the Company and employees.
(d)	Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as "working days" wherever this pnrase occurs in this Article.
13,03	When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement the wage of an employee k increased, such increase shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in the earnings was made. If the date cannot be established, then the increase shall be effective the date the grievance was laid or such other date as may be agreed upon.
27
13.04	(a) When the Company otem it necessary to discipline an employee, they shaB have the union Steward present. The Union steward shall be the one who is chosen by the employees and who is available in the plant. If the employee or employees concerned feel they have been unjustly dealt with, they shall grieve within two (2) working days. In the case of suspension or dismissal the Union Steward and Chief Steward or his/her designated representative shall be present In the case of dismissal, the procedure shall be as in section 13.04 (b).
(b) If an employee is dismissed for any reason, whatsoever and feels that he/she has bean unjustly dealt With, he/she shall, within three (3)woridng days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee who shall within one (1) working day notify tho Company in writing. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure, beginningwith the "Second Step." If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position and shall be paid for this period during which he/she has not worked as if he/she had not been dismissed or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
13.05	The Company must give the Local Union notice in writing of the suspension or discharge of any employee and the reasons on the day such action is taken.
13.06	When settlement is reached at any stage of these proceedings, such decision shall be final and binding. It is understood that no decision will be made unless representatives of the Union are present.
13.07	Warnings issued by the Company as a result of offences committed by employees shall be void after six (6) months, provided, there is not an additional warning issued for
•28-
the same offence within the next six (6) months. When any such notice is sent to any employee, copy thereof shall be sent to the Local Grievance Committee. The above is subject to the right of the Union to grieve.
ARTICLE 14 • LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	When an employee's personal affairs make it desirable for him/her to be relieved temporarily of Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the regular vacation to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason. "Good and sufficient reason" as referred to herein shall be the subject of mutual agreement and shall not be established arbitrarily by either party.
14.02	leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try out new wok, orventure into business for himself.
14.03	leave of absence before being granted, must be requested inwriting and approvedby the Company.
14.04	Permission for leave of absence extending over a period of morethantwo (2) weeks must be received in writing and in no case exceed a three (3) month period, provided however, that it may be extended upon agreement by the parties hereto.
14,06 Requests for leave of absence because of pregnancy will be granted upon application in writing and supported by e Doctor's Certificate. Upon the expiration of the leave of absence, the employee may signify that she wishes to return to wok, end in such case she will be reinstated within one week provided she has the necessary seniority and is able to perform the requiredwork. Upon return to work the employee will return to the position previously held cr to one of equal
-29-
rating. Under the provisions of this clause, employees shall continue to accumulate seniority.
14.06	Leave of absence shall be granted upon request by an employee who has been elected or appointed to attend any function on behalf of the Union. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement and upon their return to work shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave or one of equal rating. Employees on leave under the provisions of this clause shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for Statutory Holidays which occur during such leave of absence.
14.07	One (1) employee who may be elected a appointed to a full time position with the Unbn, upon proper notice to be agreed upon by the parties, shall be granted a leave of absence, without pay, not to exceed the life of this Agreement. Upon one week's notice of his/her desire to again return to work for the Company, he/she shall be placed upon his/her job previously held, a one of equal pay, without loss of seniority, provided he/she is physically fit and capable of performing the work. Leave of absence under this clause will be given inwriting by the Company.
ARTICLE 15 • PAY PERIODS
15.01	All employees shall be paid on Company time.
15.02	The Company shall continue to pay all employees their pay cheques on the Pay Day presently in effect. Inthe event that there is a reduction in the working force on tile regular Pay Day; employees will be issuedtheir pay cheques on the day prior to the regular Pay Day. It is agreed that for the purposes of this clause, the Pay Day referred to shall be defined as Friday.
30
15.03	Deductions which are variable shall be shown on the cheque stub. Deductions which do not vary week by week,
shall be itemized on a card to be furnished each employee, which may be changed periodically as required. The amount of regular hours, overtime hours, and rate of pay shall be shown separately on the cheque stub.
15.04	Any errors in payroll earnings which are fifty dollars ($50.00) or greater shall be corrected within three (3) days or less. Payroll errors lass than fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be corrected on the next payroll period.
ARTICLE 16 • WORK CLOTHING
16.01	All employees requiring rubber gloves and aprons shall ba supplied gloves and aprons free of charge upon request.
16.02	The Company agrees to supply employees where requiredtodofreezerworkwithfreezer coats and mitts andto provide insulated boots for the employee who is regularly assigned to work in the blast freezer. Rubber gloves and/or aprons, rubber pants andlor coats, where specified by the Company as required by employees in the performance of their assigned duties will be provided by the Company. Such clothing remains the property of the Company, shall not be removed from the Company's premises and must be returned for reissue or upon separation. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Employees shall purchase the first set of rubber boots. The Company shall provide replacement pairs at no cost to the employee on an exchange basis. Those employees who elect to purchase an alternative footwear to rubber boots, shall be granted an allowance toward the purchase of such alternative footwear, which is equivalent to the cost of the rubber boots. It is understood that only employees in the box room, shipping
•31 •
department and lidding room are eligible for this allowance and it is restricted to two (2) applications peryear.
Steel toed safety footwear required by employees of the maintenance and shipping departments and truck drivers shall be supplied by the Company up to a maximum amount of $76.00 as required. Steal toed safety footwear shall be provided by the Company, in areas other than those referred to herein, where required by the Safety Committee.
16.03	Laundry service shall be maintainedas agreed between the Union and the Company. All employees shaH be supplied with clean laundry when required, "daily for the e.vberating department."
16.04	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a a change in working conditions.
16.05	The Company agrees to keep knives and scissors properly sharpened at all times.
ARTICLE 17 • NONDISCRIMINATION
It shall be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate becuse of race, sex, creed, colour, age, religion, national origin, ancestry cr union activities.
ARTICLE 18 • BEREAVEMENTLEAVE
18.01	When an employee is absent on three (3) of his/her scheduled days due to the bereavement of an immediate relative, he/she shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular rate for each such day. Five (5) days for out of Province funerals subject to employee verification if requested
-32-
by the Company. For the purpose of this clause an immediate relative shall be one of the following: Wife, Husband, Son, Daughter, Sister, Brother, Mother, Father, Mother-inlaw, Father-in-law, Grandparents, Grandchildren.
18.02	Ex Relatives are not considered immediate relatives with regard to bereavement pay.
18.03	Employees who are on compensation during bereavement of an immediate relative shall receive the difference between their compensation rate of pay and their regular rate of pay for three (3) of the schedule days. Employees who are on vacation, lay off, leave of absence, statutory or special holiday, sickness or accident leave shall not receive bereavement pay.
ARTICLE 19 • EMPLOYEE BENE
19,01	(a) Newemployees must complete three (3) months of service with tie Company before being eligible to receive Life Insurance, Weekly Indemnity and Extended Health benefits underthis section.
(b)	Effective the first (1st.) of the month following date of ratification of this Agreement, sick pay (weekly indemnity) shall be sixty percent (60%) of the individuals weekly pay, based on forty (40) hours per week, with a minimum weekly indemnity benefit of not less than 60% of the top labour rate based on 40 hours worked.. In the case of normal illness, a three (3) day waiting period is to be observed; payment of benefits commencing on the fourth (4th.) day. However, where an employee is hospitalized due to illness within the waiting period or where an employee is unable to work due to a noncompensable accident, the waiting period shall be waived. The scale of benefits mentioned herein shall be as follows:
33
Service Factor
Benefit Duration
The cost of providing this coverage shall be borne by the Company.
(c)	M.S.P. of B, C, (Medical Services Plan of British Columbia) The Company shall pay the full premium cost of this Plan to cover all employees within the Bargaining Unit. The provisions of this clause shall also include the M.S.A. (Medical Services Association) Extended Health Plan. In the event that there is an increase in premiums charged for the coverage referred to in this clause for whatever reason, including but not limited to the opting out of Provincial plant by Doctors or the establishment of deterrent fees, the Company shall absorb such additional costs, if any to a maximum of ten dollars ($10.00) per visit. The Company shall be free to provide t-b extended health plan through the carrier of it's choice provided, that such "Plan" is not less favourable in either terms and/or coverage than that contracted for under M.S.A,
Effective the date of ratification of thio Agreement the present "Hearing Aid" coverage shall be extended to cover employees and their dependents.
(d)	Life Insurance: The Company agrees to maintain the present provisionsfor life insurance providing for $25,000.00 coverage for all employees within the bargaining unit. The cost of providing thio coverage shall be borne by the Company.
34-
(e)	Effectivethe date of ratification the Company shall initiate a prepaid Dental Plan with M.S.A. providing 80% coverage under Plan 'A", 70% coverage under Plan ”B" and 50% coverage under Plan "C" for all bargaining unit employees who have attained six (6) months seniority. The Company shall pay the cost of this "Plan" to cover all bargaining unit employees. The Company shall be free to provide this dental coverage throughthe carrier of its' choice, provided, that such "plan" is not less favourable in either terms and/or coverage than that contracted for under M.S.A.
19.02	Any benefits or working conditions now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
19.03	The Company agrees to provide for payroll deduction for those employees wishing to enrol in a savings bond purchase plan of their choice.
19.04	The Company shall not be required to pay the premiums, and benefit coverage ceases under this Agreement when an employee has:
(a)	been laid off for six (6) continuous months or more
(b)	has been absent due to a non-compensable accident or illness for 18 months or more
fc) has been absent due to compensable accident or illness for 36 months or more.
ARTICLE 20 - CONTRACTINGOLfT
20.01	The Company agrees that it will not during the term of this contract, enter into new contracts that will have an adverse affect on the employees. When work performed on the premises by outside contractors materially change in practice and has an adverse affect on present employees
35
affected by such change in practice, the matterwill be subject to grievance procedure and may be taken to arbitration. This clause will not preclude the Company from hiring outside trucks and drivers in case of emergency deliveries.
ARTICLE 21 • APPEARANCE IN COURT
21.01	An employee summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or one who have been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness shall be paidthe difference between what he/she would have earned for his/her scheduled hours at his/her paid rate and the court fee received. Employeesshould notify their Foreman as soon as possibleafter receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment underthis section. Leaves under the provisions of this clause shall be recognizedand granted on a full day basis and apply to all shifts.
An employee charged with a criminal offence and subsequentlyfound guilty shall not be entitled to remuneration underthis clause.
ARTICLE 22 • SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
22.01	Should it become necessary to close the plant or a portion of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be reemployed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one (1) or more years' seniority
(b)	They have not been granted retirement pension
36
(c)	The closing is not broi^t about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
(d)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in e satisfactory manner as long as required.
(e)	Effective the date of ratification the separation allowance shall be sixty percent (60%) of the individuals' weekly pay, based upon forty (40) hours per week times the number of years of service,
(f)	In the event of a whole or partial plant reduction, all employees affected shall receive six (6) weeks notice or receive pay in l ieu of notice.
22.02	Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of thb clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or any other Agreement between the signing parties.
22.03	In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible t o received separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees so long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above section. Those reemployed on this basis shall continue to accumulate seniority during the period of layoff.
22.04	In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Dental Plan, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization Plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to
-37-
four (4) months, following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
Effective October 1, 1981 such contributions shall continue for a period of five (5) months.
ARTICLE 23 • HOT GOOD
23.01	The Company agree that in the event of a legal strike amongst the employees of aconcernwith which the Company is doing business, it will not ask, require or in any way force or compel members of the Union to service such a strike-bound firm. It is further agreed that members of the Union will not be asked, compelled or forced in any way to handle "hot goods" from any strike-bound firm when such "hot goods" have been made available for handling through some subterfuge that seeks only to circumvent the legally established picket line(s) at the struck plant or concern.
ARTICLE 24 -WEEKLY GUARANTEE
24.01	The Company agrees to guarantee every employee with seniority in excess of one year, and not otherwise excluded, in every week of employment thirty-two (32) hours pay at regularrates, subject to tie following provisions:
(a)	The Company shall at its discretion adjust the work force in proportion to the work available or expected. To provide employees with their weekly guarantee the Company shall be free to distribute available work equitably within the work force.
(b)	The guarantee shall be reduced by pay for the number of hours for which an employee is not eligible for payment of
-38-
rages. This will include tardiness, or absence from work on any day, or part of a day, quitting a hiring during the week, being engaged in a stoppage of work, suspension, or dismissal or being on layoff.
(c)	The guarantee shall be the same in weeks in which the paid public holidays occur as in others Pay received for public holidays shall be regardedas part of the guarantee. If holidays other than the agreed public holidays are observed, by agreement or as required by law. the guarantee in such weeks shall be the number of hours available for work.
(d)	When an employee's working hours are reduced below the minimum in one fiscal week and correspondingly increased in another fiscal week as a consequence of changing shifts, the guarantee, if any, for each of the two weeks affected shall be calculated and paid on a proportionate bask as thirty-two (32) is to the numberof hours inthe normal work week.
(e)	In consideration of the foregoing, the Union agrees and the Company expects that employees will perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them conscientiously.
24,02	Any employee who k called for work for the express purpose of relieving an employee because of sickness, shall not be entitled to the thirty-two hour guarantee provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 25 • SANITATION
25.01	The Company agreestokeep the plant clean, healthful, sufficiently ventilated and in a well lighted condition at all times, and agrees to pay particular attention to the question of sanitation and health wherever help is to be provided for, and further agrees that where the present condition are not satisfactory, to adjust the matter as far as that reasonably
-39-
may be possible to the satisfaction of employees as represented by the Union's Committee.
25.02	The Union agrees that all employees will make every effort to cooperate with the Company in this matter of cleanliness, sanitation and health.
25.03	Soap end a maximum of two towels daily shall be provided for live hangers at no cost to the employees.
ARTICLE 26 • TOOL REPLACEMENT
26.01	The Company shall provide for the equal value replacement of tools broken or worn out on the job.
26.02	The Company shall supply metric tools where required by employees in the performance of their duties. The Company shall purchase and own these tools and employees will have full access to them.
26.03	The Company shall reimburse the First Aid Attendant and the designated backup First Aid Attendant for all cost incurred in the maintenance of First Aid tickets required in the performance of their duties.
ARTICLE 27 • PENSION PLAN
27.01	(a) The employer agrees to participate in and contribute to the CANADIAN COMMERCIAL WORKERS INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN.
(b) The Employer agrees to increase contributions to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan from 15 cents per hour to 24 cents per hour effective January 1,1991. The additional nine (9) cants is to be applied
-40-
to purchase a pension credit for past service to a maximum of
five (5) years. Effective January 1, 1382 the Company will begin contributing a further five (5) cents per hour to be applied to current and future service for all employees in the bargaining unit. Thus, as of January 1, 1992 the total Company contributin will be twenty-nine (29)cents per hour • twenty (20) cents for current and future service credit and nine (9) cents for past service credit.
Amend to provide for increased contributions as follows for current and future service:
July 1,1992	five cents (5C) per hour
July 1,1993	five cents (50) per hour
July 1,1994	four cents (40) per hour
(c)	Rr purposes of paragraph (b) above, hours paid means all hours paid to all employees.
The maximum number of hours paid per week is the number of hours of the normal week of a full time employee in the bargaining unit.
The said hours paid shall include hours worked, hours paid by the Employer for the time not worked because of vacations, statutory holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty, or grievance meetings, etc.
(d)	The Employeragreestosignthe "participation Agreement" and to supply any other documents, forms, reports cr information requastad/required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan.
(e)	The EmployershaH forward all contributions, supported by a report in a format to be designated by the Trustees, together with a list of all employees and the number of hours paid for each employee in each month. Contributions shall be made
•41-
within 15 days following the end of each month.
The Employer agrees to comply with all requests of the Board of Trustees in regard to entry into the Plan, to abide by all the rules and decisions of the Board of Trustees as decided from time to time and specifically, to pay late remittance penalties and any costs incurred by the Board of Trustees because the Employer failed to remit contributions in the form or on the date required by the Trustees.
WAGE SCHEDULE
JULY 1/92 JULY 1/93 JULY 1/94
Labour: Start Rate	10,00
After 2 months	11.20
After 4 months	12.50
After 6 months	14,07
10.00	10.00
11.20	11.20
1Z50	12.50
14.42	14.78
Graders	14.29
Boning Room-Hangers	14.29
Boning Room. Skinners	14.29
Turkey Boners	14.29
Coolerman	14.27
LungSucker	14.29
First Aid	14.46
Freezer Man	14.37
Live Poultry. Hangers	14.74
Smokehouse Operator	14.74
Assistant Shipper	14,56
Stickers	14,74
Utility Person	14.74
Head Shipper	15.90
Truck Driver	15.79
Truck Driver. Semi	16.04
Maintenance & Engineers 18.17
14.64	15.00
14.64	15.00
14.64	15.00
14.64	15.00
14.62	14.98
14.64	15.00
14.81	15.17
14.72	15.08
15.09	15.45
15.09	15.45
14.91	15.27
15.09	15.45
15.09	15.45
16.25	16.61
16.14	16.50
16.39	16.75
18.52	18.88
42
Long Haul Driver Drivers who must make return trips in excess of four hundred (400) kilometers shall be paid on a rate per kilometer basis. Thb rate shall be twenty-five (25) cents per kilometer. The Company will reimburse the Driver for meals and accommodations costs incurred on the trips.
The Company and the Union agaree to delete the classification of lead hand. The parties further agree that there shall no longer be any references to the bad hand function in any manner whatsoever.
It is agreed that employees receiving the rate of pay under the lead hand classification, shall have such rates protected as per Article 4, section 4,08.
LETTER FUNDER___________
ARTICLE 7 • HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
7.04 (e) Employees who are paid at overtime rates for work performed prior io the commencement of then scheduled shift shall not be penalized by this clause if they leave work prior to their scheduled finishing time.
If an employee responds to work late, it is agreed that any time worked past his/her scheduled finishing time shall be voluntary.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF
THE COMPANY	THE UNION
Lilvdale Co-operative United Food & Commercial Limited	Workers, local 1518
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Should the Company open a plant in British Columbia or transfer any of its' present operations covered by this 'Agreement' and present employees are displaced because of this, the Company agrees that such employees will be the 'first' to be employed, in order of seniority, at such new plant or operation. The selection of available jobs, shall be on the basis of seniority. Previous service with the company shall be recognized for the purposes of vacations, separation allowance and welfare plans.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF
THE COMPANY	THE UNION
Lilydale Co-operative United Food & Commercial limited	Workers, local 1B18
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company and the Union recognize that lower staffing levels, due to absenteeism, place a greaterwark loadfor those employees on the Ina The parties agree to study this problem, during the term of this Agreement, with a view of achieving a solution which will be acceptable to both parties.
Sit ON \m F
IH___________l
Lit	Co-operative
limited
5 ON BEHALFOF
_______ON
United Food & Commercial Workers, local 1518
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Regarding Deli Sales
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between:	Lilydale Co-operative Limited
Abbotsford, B. C,
And United Food and CommercialWorirers International Union, Local 1518
Without Preiudioe
RE Driver Sales Person
The Union agrees that the Company may employ Driver Sales Persons. Driver Sales Persons shall not delivery products previously or customarily delivered by bargaining unit employees.
The implementation of this letter of Understanding shall not adversely effect bargainingunit employees.
SIGNED ON BEHALF CF THE COMPANY LilYdale Co-operative Limited
SIGNED ON BEHALF CF THE UNION United Food& Commercial Workers, Local 1518
47
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
13
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
INDEX
PAGE
General
BargainingAgency
Management
Wages
Safety and Health Duration of Agreement •
Hours of Work and Overtime Statutory Holidays
Automation & Technological Changes Shift Premiums Vacation Policy Seniority
Grievance Procedure Leave of Absence Pay Periods Work Clothing Non-discrimination Bereavement Leave Employee Benefits Contracting Out Appearance InCourt Separation Allowance Hot Goods Weekly Guarantee Sanitation Tool Replacement Pension Plan Wage Schedule Letters of Understanding
1
2
3
4 6
7
8
13
15
16 16 20 25
29
30
31
32
32
33
35
36 36 38
38
39
40 40 42 44