^SOURCE EFF.	i			
			!	l
TERM.	7		L	■ —• t —-
No. Of 1 EMPLOYEES				
NOMSRE D'tMPlOvfs		■! f f'i . ■		
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
RATIFIED THIS 13
DAY OF JULY 1987
BETWEEN :
LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED, a body corporate carrying on business in the City of Edmonton, Alberta hereinafter referred t o as the
"EMIG£R'
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 312A, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO d CLC, hereinafter referred to as the
"UNION"
00273 (02)
INDEX
PAGE
Purpose of Agreement	2		
Recognition and Jurisdiction—	2		
Union Security	2	5	3
Basic Work Week and Overtime	3	6	4
Janitorial and Maintenance	4		
Shift Premium	5		
Time Clocks	5		
Daily Guarantee	5		
Rest Periods	5	6	6
Work Schedule	6		
Seniority Job Postings	6	6	7
	7	&	8
Leaves of Absence	9		
Pregnancy Leave	9		
Paternity Leave	9		
Funeral Leave	10		
Jury Duty	10		
Wages	11		
Statutory-Holidays	11	E	12
Vacat ions	12	E	13
Severance Pay	13	5	14 5 15
Sick Leave	15		
Hospitalization and the Alberta Health Care Insurance and Dental Plan	15		
Group Life Insurance	15		
Weekly Indemnity	16		
Dental Plan	16		
Safetv and Welfare	16	5	L7
Promotions and Job Assignments—	17		
General Provisions	18	5	19
Union Representative calling on Plant	19		
Time Off to Vote	19		
Managements Rights	20		
No Discrimintation - Sexual Harassment	20		
Successors and Assigns Clause.	21		
Grievance Procedure	21		
Board of Arbitration	22		
Guaranteed Work Week	22	5	23
Termination and Renewal Clause.	24		
APPENDIX A	25	6	26
Letter of Understanding	27		
1
purpose of agreement
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote, improve, and maintain industrial, economic and harmonious relations between the Union, the employees and the Employer, and to set forth herein the agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment,, to be observed by the Employer, its employees end the Union during the terra hereof.
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
1.1
Bargaining Agency end Unit
The Employer recognizes the Union as purpose of collective bargaining of operated at Edmonton Alberta as more the certification granted the Union Relations in the Province of Alberta.
the sole agency for the all employees in the Plant particularly set forth in by The Board of Industrial
ARTICLE 2 UNION SECURITY
2.1
The Employer agrees to retain in his employ within unit. as outlined in Article 1 of this Agreement 1971 employees who are now or hereafter members of maintain their membership in the Union as employment.
the bargaining as of April 5th. the Union, shall a condition of
The Employer shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first day of employment, end become members within thirty (30) days. All employees shall pay to the Union the regular dues. Employees hired through an outside agency and maintain employment after thirty (30) days shall pay dues retroactive to first day of employment.
2.2	The Employer agrees to provide each new employee at the tine of employment with a form outlining to the employee, his or her responsibility in regard tu Union membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee tovhom they have presented the form .'Letter, along with the employee’s dote of hire.
The Union shall bear the expense of printing the forms, the contents of the forms to be such that it is acceptable to the Employer. The Employer further agrees to provide the Union, once a month, -with n list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
a
ARTICLE 2 cont.
2.3	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fee, monthly dues, assessments, or other deductions be are authorized by the Local Union or upon request of the employee affected where no notification from the said is received. Notification of any change in dues, assessments as aforesaid to be given by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
The money deducted during the month shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, not later than the tenth (10th) day of the following month. together vith a written statement of the names of the employees for whom deductions have been made and the mount and purpose of each deduction.
2.4	The Employer agrees that only employees included in the bargaining unit shall perform any of the work coming within the j ur i sd i c t i on of this Agreement.
Foremen and those above rank of foreman shell not assume duties that are performed by members of the bargaining unit except where such duties ere limited to occasional work, negligible in arount, for the sole reason to overcome production difficulties caused by absence of an employee. In such cases, the Company will obtain a replacement within two (2) hours unless qualified replacement is not mailable.
ARTICLE 3
BASIC WOKK WEEK AND OVERTIME
3,1	Forty (40) hours per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each. Monday to Friday inclusive, shall constitute the basic work week. All time worked in excess of the daily hours. or the basic work week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 & 1/2) the regular hourly rote, The Employer will pay double time on all hours worked Over ten (10) hours per day or forty-five (45) hours per week.
El In a week in which one (1) Statutory Holiday occurs, employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work thirty-two (32) hours.
In a week in which two (2) Statutory Holidays occur. employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work twenty-four (24) hours.
b]	Uhen overtime is necessary the moat senior employee in the department cball have the first opportunity io declare their availability. If there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, then the selection of employees shall be on c reverse seniority basic.
3
ARTICLE 3.1 b] cont.
DEPARTMENTS are defined tie follows:
Kill and Live Hang
Eviscerating
Packaging
Shipping
J a n it orial
Maintenance
c]	Packaging Department:
It is understood that for the months of June to September, inclusive, the forty-five (45) hour/week condition referred to in Article 3.1 shall not apply.
3.2	The basic work day shall be between 6:45 a.m, and 5:30 p.m. and work performed before 6:45 a.m. end after 5:30 p.m. shall be paid et the overtime rate set out :in this Agreement.
3.3	Janitorial and Maintenance
The basic work day may have varied starting and quitting times providing these hours do not exceed forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) consecutive days of eight (E) hours each, with a two (2) day break between work weeks.
All time worked in excess of the daily hours of the basic work week as set out in this Agreement shall be paid as per Article 3.1.
Maintenance employees shall have their work schedule of hours and days posted in an appropriate place at least one (1) week in advance,
"he schedule of an employee may only be changed in the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees or in the event of emergencies such as fire, flood or breakdown in machinery. The employees will be provided with a list of names and phone numbers of individuals to call if they are the only employee who shews up €or their shift.
Employees will work on a four (4) weeks rotation basis.
3.4	All work performed on Saturday shall be paid at one end one-half (1
&	1/2) timea the hourly rote for the first four (4) hours and
double time the hourly rate for all time after four (4) hours.
ARTICLE 3,4 confc
All work performed on Sunday will be paid at two and one- half (2 & 1/2) timeG the regular hourly rate. If an employee reports for work when ordered to do Co on the above day they will be given a minimum of four (4) houre work car four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay for that day. Except where en employee regularly works on a Saturday or Sunday i.e. Engineers and Maintenance, i n which case the employee chall be paid two (2) times the regular rate if required to work on their day off in lieu of Saturday or Sunday.
a]	Truck Drivers - (City Delivery)
The Employer will schedule these employees to work on Saturday on a rotating basis. All work performed on Saturday will be paid for as outlined above in this Section.
3.5	Shift Premium
The Company agrees to pay a thirty cent (30(d) premium to all employees working shift work, for any other shift than the normal day shift. ThiE premium shall, not be considered as part of Euch employees' banic rates.
3.6	Time Clocks
The Employer agrees that he shall provide time clocks to enable employees to record their hours worked for payroll purposes. Employees chall punch their own time at the time they commence and finish work and the time they commence and return from meal periods. Early starts end late finishes will be initialed by the Foremen.
3.7	It is agreed between the parties time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime pay.
3.8	Daily Guarantee
Each employee called for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that call, if there is no work available. Upon reporting for work, as scheduled, all waiting time shall be paid at the regular rote of pay.
3.9	Rest Periods
Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception of a fifteen (15) minute rest period to commence not earlier than one and one-half (1 & 1/2) hours after starting of the shift nor less than one and one-half (1 & 1/2) hours before the meal period. Heal periods shall not exceed one (l) hour. Employees working more than one (1) hour aDd thirty (30) minuteD in the afternoon shift of their regular scheduled vork uny shall be given n fifteen (15) minute rest period. Drp'loyees shall not be required tovork core than five (5) hours without a first meal period and an additional four and one-half (4 L 1/2) hours without a second ceal period.
5
article 3*9 cant.
3.10
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
An employee required to work in excess of the first five (5) hours will be paid two (2) times their- regular rate for all time worked until the meal period is granted. An employee required to work in excess of the second four and one-half (4 fit 1/21 hour portion of shift, the Company will allow thirty (30) minutes with pey at the rates paid for that period for such meal period. The employee shall have the choice of a hoi meal ok five dollars ($5.00) on their nest cheque.	Poultry killer shall have adequate time for
personal cleaning before all jest periods and meal periods.
Work Schedule
Scheduled hours of work (starting and quitting) shall be posted not later than the employee's lunch break for the following day.
Notice of overtime shall be posted before the employee's lunch break, with approximate quitting time,
Employees needed in a department other than their regular department will be told before lunch break.
ARTICLE 4 SENIORITY
When an employee has completed thirty (30) calendar days in the service of the Company or any extended period mutually agreed upon by Union and Management, they shall be granted seniority from date of hire.
The Company shall maintain and post a seniority List every three (3) months for all employees and this list shall be available to all employees for reference at any time during working hours. A copy of the said seniority list to be forwarded to the Union office.
Length of continuous service with the Company shall be the determining factor governing ley-off and re-employment after layoff.
By local arrangements between the Company and the Union, the names of employees to be laid off or recalled will be available to the Union on the same day the employees are notified or the day prior. A list of the names ohall be forwarded to the Union vithin one corking day of notification.
Promotions shall be based on seniority, ability and merit. Ability end merit being equal, seniority shall preveil. In doubtful cases, the Company shall discuss the natter with the Union and Dhnll tlloar the employee to qualify for a period not exceeding two (2) t/onths.
G
ARTIQ.E 4 cont.
4.6	Promotions shall be defined an n transfer to a position paying a higher rate, and no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless they are transferred to a position paging a lower rate.
4.7	Seniority will prevail vhen a higher job classification become6 vacant provided the Employee can perform the job within thirty (30) days. If the employee cannot perform the job satisfactorily within the said period of time then the employee shall be returned to the former job without lose of seniority. However, if the said period of time is in question it may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
4.8	If an employee is absent from work because of sickness or accident they shall not lose seniority rights, and shall return to the position held prior to their abaence. It shall be the duty of each employee go absent to notify the Company of the reasons of the absence, and how long their absence will last.
4.9	New employees will be on probation for a period of thirty (30) calendar' days or any extended period mutually agreed upon by Union and Management during which time they may be Isid-off without reference to seniority and the Company is under no obligation to re-hire such employees. All employees retained beyond the thirty (30) day probation period shall become regular employees and entitled to seniority in accordance to the length of service and entitled to all benefits under this Agreement and may be discharged only for just cause. In the event that it is found that an employee is wrongfully fired, they shall not suffer any lose of seniority, if reinstated as an employee, Any employee with three (3) or more months of service with the Company and is laid off, terminated, or terminates voluntarily end ii; rehired within one (1) year, shall upon completion of thirty (30) days of employment receive the rate of pay for the job classification as specified in Appendix A of this Agreement.
4.10	The words "qualified" or "qualifications" as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without other assistance.
4.11	Job Pontings
When job vacancies: occur with the exception of Lead Hand above the basic job classification in the plant end the Employer requires replacements, and when the Employer creates new jobs they shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days during which time applications nay be made by the employees. Such applications made Ghall receive first consideration with the department concerned. She moot senior applicant shall receive such job posting. If no mitcble cppl icctionG ere received, then the Company nay hire a person to fill the jab. It is understood to apply for o posting in the Maintenance tDd Shipping Department, un
ARTICLE 4.11 cont.
employee must be qualified. Temporary appointments may be made by the Employer pending receipt of epplicetions.
An employee who received a promotion through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall be posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will not be posted but will be filled i n accordance with the terms of Article 4.5.
An employee receiving a new job posting will be on a trial basis for up to thirty (30) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall be returned to their prior job.
4.12	An employee shall not lose seniority rights if he/she is . temporarily absent from work because of illness, accident or leave
of absence.
An employee shall loGe their seniority in the event:
a]	is discharged for just cause;
b]	resigns;
c]	is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) working days after being notified in writing by certified mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Compary informed of their current address and telephone number.
d]	is laid off €or a period exceeding twelve (12) months.
4.13	After absence due to injury or illness the employee must be returned to his/her job without loss of seniority when capable of performing his/her dutieG provided two (2) years have not elapsed between the return end the last day worked, in the case of compensable accident and one year in the case of illness or non— compensable accident.
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee vill give the Employer one (1) weeks notice of his/her intention to return to work.
If there is a reoccurrence oj: the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (1) month from the date of return then the absence is considered to have continued. It is understood that the actual time worked will be added to the time limits specified above before the terminntion ic affected.
C
ARTICLE 5 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
5.1	Permission for leave of absence extending over a period of more than one (1) week must be received in writing, and in no case to exceed three (3) months, provided however, that it may be extended by parties hereto. The Company will return their answer to a request in writing within seven (7) days. Absence without cause shall constitute grounds far dismissal.
5.2	Leave of absence without pay may be granted, by mutual agreement, in addition to regular vacation, however, employees' with four (A) or more years seniority may request and shall be granted two (2) weeks of unpaid leave in addition to their regular vacation when travelling overseas. Request for leave of absence 6hall be made in writing stating reasons therefore.
This request shall be limited to once every four years with a limit of four (A) persons.
5.3	Pregnancy Leave
The requirements of the Employment Standards Act as amended September 20, 1982 are hereby recognized.
Employees with twelve (12) months of service with the Employer may request, and will be granted, leave of absence because of pregnancy.
Employees shall submit request for such leave, in writing, at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave together with a medical certificate certifying she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave shall be for a period not exceeding four (4) months prior to confinement and the period, if any. -between the date of confinement mentioned in the certificate end the actual date.
Within two (2) months following delivery and being physically fit, however, if in the opinion of the employee's doctor that the time before or the date of return t o work will endanger her health, an additional extension of leave will be provided up to six (6) weeks. Such extension will be substantiated by e doctor's Certificate. Upon return to work the employee will be reinstated and given credit €or seniority accu.3ul.nted from the date leave of absence commences until the date of the employee's return to work.
c] Paternity Leave
Paternity leave of one day, with pay, will be granted on the
occurrence of the birth of n child.
ARTICLE 5 cont.
5.A Funeral Leave
a]	An employee shall be granted not less than two (2) days off from work. - with pay, in the event of death in the immediate family, length of such leave chall be determined by the Employer. The term immediate family i:hall mean mother-in-law, father- in-law, grandparents, stepfather, stepmother, ctepbrother, stepsister, and grandehildren.
b] Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the death ie a case of spouse, father, mother, child, brother or sister, the employee shall be entitled up to four (4) days rind further consideration of leave of absence with pay at the time of bereavement.
c] If the death is a case of daughter in-law or Eon-in-law. the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence, without pay. up to three (3) days.
d]	Consideration will also be given with respect to travel time. Employee's day off or vacation will not be used to circumvent funeral leave.
e] The Employer agrees to include the common-law relationship.
5.5	The Employer agrees to grant necessary time off, without pay’, and without loss of accrued seniority to any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labour convention or to 6erve in a 9 capacity on legitimate official Union business, provided however, that sufficient notification is given the Employer so that such employee's position can be filled.
Where a leave of absence is granted an employee by the Employer, provided such leave does not exceed one (1) year, the employee shall suffer no loss of.seniority for that period.
5.6	Jury Duty
An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such jury service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled t o work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there is not less: than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (B) hours combined with jury duty and tine worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime and paid ut applicable overtime rates.
10
ARTICLE 6 WAGES
6.1	The Employer agrees that during such time as this Agreement is in force, it will pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement, not less than the rntee set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement and if any employee is receiving a wage in excess of the rates contained in Appendix A of this Agreement such wage rates shall not be reduced by reason oi the signing of this Agreement.
It is agreed that in the event that other work classifications other than those set forth hereto are instituted, the Employer and the Union shall meet and negotiate a rate of pay for such employees.
ARTICLE 7 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
7.1
The following days shall be considered be paid holidays for all employees:
New Pear' s Day
Good Friday
Empire Day
Dominion Day
First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
and all other public holidays proclaimed by the Dominion, Provincial or Municipal gewernments provided other major poultry plants in the area close.
a]	All employees that have been employed for thirty (30) or more calendar days shall be paid for the agreed holidays, subject to Sections b], c], and d].
b] Employees shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or Holidays, provided they work their ichecluled work day before and after the holiday unless absent by reason of bona fide sickness, accident or emergency.
c] If any of these days fall on Saturday or Sunday the following Monday shall be observed cs the holiday.
d] Any employee required to work on any of the above Statutory Holidays listed in the Agreemcnti chnll be paid at the regular rate for the Statutory Holiday, end in addition receive two (2) times their regular rate for nil fcoura worked on such a day.
:u
ARTICLE 7.1 cent
e]	Union post notice in lunch room and no one will be refused days off without pay to observe Christmas and/or New Year's at different times.
ARTICLE 8 VACATIONS
8.1
8.2
Employees regularly working full-time shall receive vacation with
pay in accordance with the terms of the following schedule setting out consecutive years of service. Effective March 21, 1982:
Two	(2)	weeks	vocation	after
Three	(3)	weeks	vacation	after
Four	(4)	weeks	vacation	after
Five	(5)	weeks	vacation	after
Six	(6)	weeks	vacation	after
one ( 1) years service four ( 4) years service nine ( 9) years service fifteen (15) year6 service twenty (20) years service
Vacation pay for each week ol vacation shall be computed as the greater 'of:
a]	Two percent (2%) of the employee's total gross earnings on which he is eligible to receive vacation pay, or
b]	Forty (40) hours at the employee's current rate of pay subject to the following conditions -
The forty (AO) hour calculation will be pro-rated Over a fifty-two (52) week period when:
i)	the employee is taking holidays prior to his eligibility date (i. e. anniversary date) .
ii)	the employee haa been absent due to a leave of absence in excess of two (2) weeks during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
iii)	the employee has been absent due to illness and/or accident in excess of thirty (30) days during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
(Note:	the balance wing, if any,, will be paid Once the anniversary date
is passed)
It is understood that where lest:	than twelve (12) months have
elapsed since the employee last took vacation the forty (AO) hour calculation referred to in part (b) above vill be pro-rated over a twelve (12) month period.
3.2
ARTICLE 8 cent
8.3	a] The selection of vacation period shall be on the basis of seniority in each department with the senior employee may be granted at first preference. Vacations may be granted at any time su bj ect to the demand of the business but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees. Vacations t o be taken during the months of January 1st to December 31st of each year. Where employees are entitled to three (3) weeks of paid vacation the additional week or weeks may be scheduled at the discretion of the Employer.
The Company further agreed where employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation and request them to be taken i n a period between the months of January 1st end April 30th of each year can take them consecutively.
b]	Holiday request forms wil] be handed out privately and assigned in private. After all holidays are assigned, the schedules shall be posted.
8.A When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will receive an additional days pBy, when their vacation falls between April 30th and September 30th they will receive the Statutory Holiday pay before such vacation, if the vacation falls between October let and Hay 1st the employee may request an extra day i n lieu thereof. However, the employee at the time he/she requests his/her vacation must inform the Employer of such request and granting of such recuest must be by mutual agreement. If the request is granted, it will be in writing.
8.5 Employees terminating their employment shall receive payment for vacation allowance on total wages arid salary earned by the employee during the period of employment fox which no vacation allowance has been paid.
to less then three	(3)	weeks	vacation -	A%
Three	(3)	weeks	vacation -	6%
‘Four	(A)	weeks	vacation -	8%
five	(5)	weeks	vacation -	102
Six	(6)	weeks	vacation -	122
JJtTlCLE 9 ' SE1ERAJJCE PAY
9.1	Employees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the Employer, except employees terminated for proper cause, which shall include but not be limited to dishonesty, drunkenness, 6r drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordinction, shall be given individual notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof ns follows:
13
ARTICLE 9.1 cont
1]	One (1) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (GO) daj'E service.
2]	TVo (2) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have two (2) years service.
One additional weeks notice for each full year of service or pay in lieu up t o a maximum of twenly-four (24) weeks.
9.2	Complete Plant Closing
When it becomes necessary to clone the Plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to those employees, subject to the following:
a]	They have one (l) or more years seniority;
b]	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have, been 1 aid-off within the thirty (30) day period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence* up to one (1) year and receiving Worker's Compensation or off sick wi 1 1 be eligible;
c]	They have not refused an offer of other employment by the Company in another unit, the location of which is reasonably accessible;
d]	They have not been transferred to another unit of the Company;
e]	The closing is not brought about by war, strike. walkout. work stoppage, slow down or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God;
f]	In order to qualify for separation allowance. employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required;
g]	The scale of separation allowance shall be bb follows:
Years of
Completed Service
Amount
$ 200.00
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
1,100.00
1.225.00
The ten (10) y nr allowance plua £175.00 for each year over ten.
’ ’/he twenty (20) year ellcwnnce plus P225.00 for each year over twenty.
300.00
400.00
500.00
600.00
725.00
850.00
975.00
10
11 - 20
21 and over
ARTICLE 9.2 cont
Employees who accept /separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on so doing, terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company end shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
It is understood that employees who are eligible for payment under this clause, shall not be eligible for severance pay as outlined i n Section 9.1.
ARTICLE 10 SICK LEAVE
10.1	The Employer agrees to provide side leave with pay. earned at the rate of one (1) day sick leave for each month of employment. Sick leave with pay shall be cumulative up to twenty (20) days.
a]	On a day that an employee works less than three (3) hours and goes home sick, that day shall he counted as first day of sickness. Sick employees shall not be requested to remain in the plant beyond the three (3) hours to circumvent first day of sickness.
b]	No employee on sick leave shall receive pay for the first day of absence. except those employees who are off six (6) day6 or more and have accumulated credits.
c] The Employer agrees to pay out unused sick leave credits to employees after six (6) months of illness, eighteen (18) months of lay-off and immediately upon retirement.	All holidays will be considered as time worked when computing sick leave.
d]	Doctor’s note is not required for (2) or less days of illness.
ARTICLE 11
HOSPITALIZATION AND THE ALBERTA HEALTH CARE INSURANCE AND DENTAL PLAN
11.1	The Company agrees to maintain the Alberta Health Care Insurance and further agrees to pay 75% of the cost. The employee to pay 25%
of the cost.
21.2	Group Life Inrurnnce
The Company agrees to provide,as u condition of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement u group life insurance to pay a minimum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or me times (lx) employee's nnnuol gross earning/; to the next one thousand dollars and i n case of accidental death double the amount will be paid.
15
ARTICLE 11.2 cont.
Weekly Indemnity
Weekly Indemnity benefits to equal maximum Unemployment Insurance Benef i t :
Benefits payable on the first day of accident; payable on the fourth (4th) day of sickness.,
11.3	The Company further agrees that the full cost of the premium for the Group Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity will be paid seventy-five percent (75%) of the premium by the Employer and twenty- five (25%) of the premium bj' the employee.
11.4	Dental Plan
a]	The Employer agreea to participate in and contribute to the Alberta Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan.
b]	Effective July 28,	1985, the Employer will contribute to the
jointly administered Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan twenty- seven cents (27d) per hour to a maximum of ten dollars and eighty cents ($10.80) per week or forty-three dollars and twenty cents ($43.20) per four (4) week period for each straight time hour worked by employees covered by this Agreement in the bargaining unit.
c] The Employer and the Union agree to the original method of selection of Employer and Union Trustees to administer the Plan. It is agreed that the terms of the Plan and it6 administration will be entirely the responsibility of these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is administered consistently With	this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable government lew or regulation and with the intention of meeting all of the requirements for continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing. the Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the actions taken by the Employer and the Union Trustees under the Plan.
11.5	It is agreed that the Company's extended Health Care Program will be made available to all employees. The premiums payable under this progrem are 100% paid by the employee.
ARTICLE 12 SAFETY AMD V1XFAEB
12.1	The Company shall make provision for the cafety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and other equipment deemed n« censnry to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company.
ARTICLE 12.1 cont
a] The Company shall have on the premises, persons qualified and responsible to provide FIRST AID care to injured employees and shall take the necessary measures to provide them with medical attenti on.
The FIRST AID persons shall bo identified by a RED CROSS on their helmet.
12.2	"he Company further agrees to provide adequate heating facilities and a buffer wall to prevent drafts from open doorways as mutually agreed by the Union and Management.
12.3	There shall be a Union Management Safety Committee appointed and shall constitute two (2) representatives appointed by the Union and two (2) representatives appointed by Management. Both parties shall be motivated by the need for appointing members to the Committee who shall be beGt capable of promoting safety throughout the Plant. Regular meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held each month. A list of names of the Safety Committee members shall be kept posted on the bulletin board in the lunch room.
12.4	An employee injured while working in the Plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if;nc r. result of such injury they are sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention and transportation will he provided.
12.5	No employee will be required to work alone at any time at the Plant as stated in Article 3.3.
ARTICLE 13
PROMOTIONS" AND JQ3 ASSIGNMENTS
13.1	The Employer agrees that all promotions and job assignments involve an increase in pay will be based on seniority of the employee affected, provided qualificat:ione und ability are comparatively equal.
13.2	Employees required to temporarily fi 1 1 a higher rated job, ehall receive the classified rate for balance of shift, but if required temporarily to fill e lower rated job. shall receive their regular rate of pay.
17
ARTICLE 14 GENERAL PROVISIONS
14.1	A suitable ruck will be furnished in the dressing rooms or elsewhere on which to hang wet clothes and aprons. This rack shall be i n a place that io heBted so that clothing will dry in a reasonable time.
14.2	The Company will allow adequate relief as well as the necessary time for changing clothes or equipment necessitated by change from one job to another where working conditions are different.
14.3	The	Employer agrees that the Union will	have the right to	use	the
bulletin board, to be used for porting notices of official Union business exclusively, and not to be used for discriminating political propaganda. All such notices Ghall be submitted to a Company official €or approval before posting.
I
14.4	The	Union agrees not to call a meeting of its members	who	are
employees of the Company during working hours that will interfere with the normal operations of the Company.
14.5	tIB"	classification employees shall not	be permitted to	lift	in
excess of thirty-five (35) pounds, at any one time during the performance of their duties.
14.6	All	uniforms, smocks, aprons, caps, hairnets, gloves and new boots
and any other special veering apparel an employee is required to wear, shall be furnished and laundered by or at the expense of the Employer. The first issue of new plastic coats on wet lines will be charged out at cost and further issues at no charge on exchange. The employee shall be responsible for any such apparel they may lose providing adequate lockers are supplied.
The Employer further agrees to supply and clean Truck Drivers uniforms at no cost to the employee. It is understood and agreed that all such wearing apparel is the property of the Employer.
a] Appropriate freezer coats and gloveG will, be provided for employees working in holding coolers or freezing units. The Company shall provide woolen gloves end felt insoles with each issue of new rubber boots. The number of coats eupplied shall be determined by the Employer. It 1b understood that ouch wearing apparel ia the property of the Employer and the employee must not teke cuch wearing apparel awny free the premises.
ao
ARTICLE 14.6 cont.
b] Maintenance employees and other employees in the Plant required to wear safety shoes upon completion of six (6) months of employment shall receive fifty dollars ($50.00) toward a new pair of safety shoes thereafter be limited to fifty dollars ($50.00) every eix (6) months, if needed. To qualify for the reimbursement the old pair of safety shoes must be turned in to the Company. The Company further agrees that where the employees are required to wear rubber boots, the employees will buy their first issue of rubber boots, any other issue thereafter the Company will reimburse the employee by the amount of thirteen dollars rind fifty cents ($13.50) toward a new pair, provided the old boots are turned in. At the employee's request the Company will replace suitable rubber boots at no cost to the employee. The Company also agrees to maintain a proper supply of rubber boots for employees.
The Company agrees to supply proper external hearing protection.
14.7	Union Representative calling on Plant :
Any authorized Union representative may, upon receiving permission from the Employer, enter the Plant, providing however, the said representative shall not unduly occupy the time of employees during working hours.
The employee shall have the right to request the presence ,of a Union Steward at any disciplinary meeting, which may result in a suspension or termination of an employee.
14.8	Time Off to Vote:
The Employer agrees to fully comply with any law requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
14.9	Employees will be granted time off without pay to keep doctor or dentist appointments .or other appointments providing however, the Employer is given one (1) weeks notice in advance except in emergency.
14.10	The Employer agrees to display the Union Shop card which shall be furnished to the Employer free of charge by the Union.
.9
ARTICLE 15 MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
15.1	The Management of the- Plant and the direction of the working force
including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) the right to hire, suspend or dii charge for cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department,	to increase and decrease the working force, to
determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production, and the methods, processes	end	means of production and handling are vested
exclusively with the Company provided these rights will not be used to discriminate against employees.
15.2	Cases of disagreement shall be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure as outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 NO DISCRIMINATION
16.1	No employee shall be transferred, dismissed or discriminated against in any way for any lawful Union activity, or for serving on a Union Committee outside of business hours, or for reporting to the Union any violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
Any employee	alleging wrongful transfer.	dismissal, or
discrimination, may place his or her allegation before the Union Representative and if said Representative considers that the objection ha6 merit, the transfer. dismissal or lay-off shall become a grievance and be subject to the Grievance Procedure as established in this Agreement;.
There shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or obey a lawful Union order. The Employer further agrees that there will be no discrimination with reference to Hunan Rights Act, Section 6, 1A and B.
16.2	Sexual HarasEnent
Where an employee alleges that sexual harassment has occurred on the job, the employee shall have the right to grieve under the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 17
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS CL ADSB
17.1	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company herein. and its
successors and assigns, and no provision herein contained, shall be nullified or affected in any manner as a result	of any
consolidation, sale, transfer, or assignment, or any other form of business organization, or by any change geographical or otherwise, in the location of the Company herein. The Company agrees an Agreement hac been entered into, as a result of which this Agrement shall continue to be binding on the person or persons or any business organization continuing the business. It is the intent of the parties thal this Agrement shall remain in effect €or the full term thereof, regardless of any kind of change, of any kind, in management, location, form of business, organization or ownership.
ARTICLE 18 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
18.1	Any complaint, disagreement, or difference of opinion between the parties hereto concerning the interpretation. application and operation, or any alleged violation of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
All grievances not presented to the Employer within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the grievance arose, shall be waived.
It is further agreed that seven (7) calendar days shell apply with respect tc grievances concerning the dismissal of any employee.
First Step:
The employee shall discuss the matter with his or her immediate superior, or may request the Shop Steward or Union Representative 10 do so or his ot fier behalf.
If the Employee is not satisfied with this settlement, then:
Second Step:
Grievances shall be presented in writing and shall clearly set forth the grievance end the contentions of the aggrieved party following which the Union Representative or Representatives. end the Labour Relations Representative of the Employer shell meet end in good faith chnll endeavour to m ttle the grievance submitted. If a satisfactory oettlement cannot be reached, or if the party fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance, cither party nay, by written notice served on the other require submission of the grievance to o Board of Arbitration. Such board t o be estcbliabed in the manner provided in Article 19 of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 19
BOARD OF ARBITRATION
19.1
The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of three (3) members and shall be established as follows;
Within ten (10) working days (excluding Sundays and holidays) following receipt of such notice, the Employer and the Union shall each select a representative to aerve on the Board of Arbitration. The Representative so selected shall meet within five (5) days (excluding Sundays and ho3idByc) after they have both been selected, and choose an additional member to act as Chainnan. In the event of failure of the nominees of the Union and the Employer, to agree upon a Chairman within five (5) days a6 specified, the Minister or Deputy Minister of Labour shall be immediately requested to name a third member who shall act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. Within five (5) days of the appointment of the impartial Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter in dispute and shall render a decision within fourteen- (14) days after its first session. It is understood and agreed that the time limits as set forth herein may be altered by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
No person shell serve on the Board of Arbitration vho is involved or directly interested in the controversy under consideration. Grievances submitted to an Arbitration Board shall be in writing and shall clearly specify the nature of the issue. In reaching its decision the Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter this Agreement in any of its parts, but may, however, interpret its provisions. The expense of the impartial Chairman shall be berne equally by the Employer and the Union, unless otherwise provided by law. The findings and the decisions of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of the majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
ARTICLE 20
GUARANTEED WORK WEEK
This Section shall apply only to those employees who are permanent full-time employees of the Employer.
For the purpose of this Section "full-time permanent employees** shall mean any employees employed on a full-time basis for a period of time exceeding three (3) conoecutive months.

ARTICLE 20 cont.
Where an employee entitled 1:o the guaranteed work week is called to work during the week they shall Le entitled to receive pay not lees than on the following basis each year:
January let to Hay 31st receive thirty (30) hour pay for that week; June 1st to December 31t:t	- thirty-sir (36) hours pay for that
week:
regardless of the fact that such employee may not work for that many hours.
Effective July 11th, 3978 employees hired during the period between January 1st to Kay 31st upon completing thirty (30) calendar days of employment, with the Employer shall receive thirty (30) hours pay regardless of the fact that such employee mBy not work for that many hours.
The following provisions shall apply in this regard:
a]	The Employer will adjust employees in proportion to the work available or expected to he available. To provide such regular employees with guaranteed hours of work, the Employer shall be free to distribuee within departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, reasonable consideretion being given to seniority, ability and to any extreme changes in physical working conditions.
b] The Employer expects all employees will perform conscientiously, whatever task may be assigned to them in their respective departments. If any employee refuses to perform the work assigned to them, the Employer shall be absolved from ary guarantee in respect of the work performed during that week.
c]	The guarantee shall be 'the same for weeks in whish one (l) of the ten (10) Statutory Holidays occur as in other weeks, the pay received for said Statutory Holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee.
d]	Any employee who is absent from work after having started to work on a week which would entitle them ta receive the guaranteed work week, shall have their guarantee reduced by the time so lost.
c) Any employee who is laid off in crceBs of one (1) month is not eligible for the guaranteed work week provision i n the week of recall.
ARTICLE 21
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL CLAUSE
This Agreement shall be effective fr(im March 21 , 1987 until March 31,	1989
and shall remain in force thereafter from year to year, but either party nay not less than sixty (60) days before expiry or renewal date of such Agrement, give notice in writing to the other party to terminate Guch Agrement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE EMPLOYER
Signed this /0 day of	—j'’ 1987
APPENDIX A
All employees on payroll gg of 22 March 1987 and still on payroll shall receive a lump sum payment of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
Effective 23 March 1987 nev? hire rate of pay will $9.00 per hour in classification A and B.
Retroactive Pay:	Effective Monday after ratification (20 July 1987)
increase in wages for all classifications by twenty cents (20(f) per hour retroactive to March 23, 1987.
Effective Monday after ratification (20 July 19871 increase saw operators by an additional nine cents (9(f) pei hour.
Effective A April 1988 - increase wages by an additional twenty cents 20(5 per hour to all classifications excluding starting rate.
WAGES .
CLASSIFICATION A
Effective Effective 23 Mar 87	04 Apr 88
Starting Rate After 3 months After 6 months
$ 9.00	$ 9.00
10.83	11.03
Assembling order:;	1
Condemned (Utility)	)
Feather Room	}
Ice Control '	)
Ice Packing	J	11.03
Janitorial	3
Night Clean Up	J
Pallet Loading	)
Reverse Hanging	(Custom Kill) }
Tank Mover	)
Truck and Crate	Wash	3
11.23
Freezer Hand
11.18	11.38
Fork Operators Ma int enance Receiver-Shipper Truck Driver
3
J
3
f
11.18
11.38
Hangers Live Poultry Killer Load Hand Working Foreman Engineers
11.28	11.48
11.33	11.53
il .38	11.58
11.53	11.73
11.88	12.08
25
APPENDIX A cont.
WAGES
CLASSIFICATION B
Effective Effective 23 Mar 87	04 Apr 88
Starting Rate After 3 months
$ 9.00	$ 9.00
1U.26	10.46
After 6 months	10.43	10.63
(All categories other than those listed in Classification A or as listed belcv)
Scalers, Graders	}
Vacuum E Cryovac Operators	}	10.45	10.65
Kitchen Staff	}
Saw Operators
Lead Hand Light Duty
First AH.d (Full-time)
Ef f ective 23 Mar 87
10.59
10.78
11.23
Effective Effective 20 Jul 87	04 Apr 88
10.68 10.88
10.98
11.43
26
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	Lilydale Co-operative Ltd,
Edmonton, Alberta
and:	United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 312A, Edmonton, Alberta
Effective the first fiscal quarter subsequent to the date of ratification of this Agreement, the Employer will initiate an attendance bonus program. For any employee who does not miss a regularly scheduled work day in a fiscal quarter, they shall receive twenty-five dollars ($25.00) on their first paycheque of the subsequent fiscal quarter.
The fiscal periods are as follows:
Approved absence as allowed for in Article 14.9 do not disqualify the employees eligibility for attendance bonus. The employee must provide a certificate to the Employer verifying such absence.
It is understood that this program is experimental in nature and shall expire and be subject to review upon termination of this Agreement.
January
April
July
October
March
June
September
December
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE EMPLOYER
27