SOUUCt			
	fo\&!e_		Ou
TERM.	f3S nb		0/
No. OF EMPLOYEES		/£z>	
NOM5RE D'eMPL-OYES		azr	
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
P & K FOODS HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175 (A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.)
EFFECTIVE HATE
June 2nd, 1990 up to and including June 1st, 1992
OCT 10

NAME ........
ADDRESS .....
PHONE .......
SOC. INS. NO. WORK ADDRESS WORK PHONE .. UNION STEWARD
PHONE .......
Kitchener Off ice:
United Food & Commercial Workers Union, Local 175 124 Sydney St. S. Kitchener, Ontario N2G 3V2
Telephone: (519) 744 - 5231
It Doesn't Cost — It Pays to Be Union
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCALS 175/633
Dear Fellow Members:
This contract is one of the most important documents you own. It ,i? a written {pamfastfWKwm!?security. Like an insurance policy, it gives you piece of mind because you cannot lose your job arbitrarily. Non-Union workers do not enjoy this security.
This contract allows you to plan for the future because you know what your income will be as much as two years in advance. Non-Union workers' can~fiaveYrieit Wages" arid Ounem^uuiiaTiy uTn«
without warning.
Please do not take this collective agreement for granted. Protect it as you would your valuable property. Be on guard. Do not let your contract rights be violated in any way.
If you believe you are not being treated fairly by the company, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is trained by the Union to handle complaints and grievances. If your problem is a complicated one, a full-time Union Representative can be called on at any time to assist you.
We should all be proud of our Union's achievements. We have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently and profitably.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers’ Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied on to protect your rights.
Your Union can be counted on for help when you have problems with management.
Your Union is 100% dedicated to improving your wages, benefits and job security.
Your Union offers you protection from and representation before the Workers’ Compensation Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can in the interim.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers under the union umbrella. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as 'Jnxm members.1 Jse them.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up to date about legislation concerning Sunday work, pay equity, UIC, and pensions, to name a few.
Your Local Union represents some 44,000 members across Ontario. As we have continued to grow, so have we moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other professionals there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union and your thoughts are what really counts.
In Solidarity,
Jim Crockett, President, UFCW Local 175
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 170,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This merger took place on June 6,1979, The new union represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is nwrcffed \t> Vra nahsaip ^1 orotaV/yfija,.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633
Your local union, with over 44,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union,and thaterqpst. tRsal,union.of any union in Canada. Your
local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Jim Crockett, Mississauga SECRETARY-TREASURER
Robert Murphy, St. Catharines
RECORDER
John DiNardo, Toronto
VICE-PRESIDENTS Wendy Absolom, Espanola Rick Alagierski, Mississauga
Toni Armstrong, Orillia Larry Bain, Utopia Reg Baughan, Hamilton Michael Brennan, Scarborough Catherine Clermont, Hamilton Susan Colpitts, Oshawa Diana Crago, Thunder Bay Walter Cuculicti, Harriston Jack Pacette, Orleans David Fox, Napanee Michael J. Fraser, Thunder Bay Sheila Grant, Tweed Barry Haywood, 'Aurora Ronald Hughes, Stevensville Bill Kalka, Eagle River
Phyllis Kelly, Cobourg Bruce MacDonald, Belleville Ken McCarvil, Nepean Morag McWilliam, Frankford Detores Merretl, London Ian Miller, Deseronto Jim Montgomery, Welland Gerry Morris, Thunder Bay Frank Palmer, Hamilton Helen Parks, Kitchener Carol .Rariodgs, London Terry Rom bough, Cavan Ron Roy, Mississauga Ron Springall, Kitchener Linda Terpstra, Blenheim Garry Thayer, Port Dover Thomas Williams, Baltimore
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
A. G. Sherman, Innerkip SECRETARY-TREASURER
Don Morin, Garson
RECORDER Floyd Gutcher, Thorold
VICE-PRESIDENTS:
Gerald Clifford, Cumberland Beech Bernice Dow, Downsview Karl GommamT, St. Catharines
What You Get For Your Union Dues
Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than nonunion workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
Job Secur i ty. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove ust cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dol ars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplinedfor a very minor mistake? fne Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a nonunion workplace you have no rights except what manage ment chooses to allow you.
Problems with Workers’ Compensation orUIC? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Nonunion workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance,
etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are taxdeductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or "impulse” gifts.
YOUR OFFICERS AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
Jim Crockett President Chief Executive Officer
Robert Murphy Secretary-Treasurer
JohnDiNaido
Recorder
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-today operations of your Local Union. We represent some 44,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 28,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we must be supported by a staff equally knowledgeable in their field of expertise. These include your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, a staff lawyer and communications. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
SOUTHWEST REGION
Ron Springall
Regional Director
Jack Colvin	Michael Duden
UnionRepresentative	Union Representative
Glen Oram	A. G Sherman	Gariy Thayer
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone:(519)744-5231 (800) 265-6345
TORONTO-NIAGARA REGION
KathieChrysler
Union Representative
Regional Director	Sharon Gall
Union Representative
Wayne Hanley Janies Hastings	Frank Kelly
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative A&P Chairman	MFM Chairman
JayNair	Harry Sutton	Theresa Suppa
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
61 International Blvd., Suite 302, Rexdale, Ont. M9W 6K4 Phone: (416) 674-0606	Watts Line: (416) Area: 1-800-387-4874
(519), (613), (705) Areas: 1-800-387-4864
MID-NORTH REGION
Ian Miller	Don Morin	Ian Reilly
Union Representative Union Representative Co-ordinator,
Industrial & Service Division
REGIONAL OFFICE:
81 Mill Street, Box 150, Frankford, Ont. KOK 2C0 Phone:(613)398-6156 Watts: 1-800-267-8046
ORGANIZING TEAM
Susan Bayne Organizer
Mary Duchesne
Organizer
C. W. Richardson Organizer
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
(416) 674-0606
Patrick Hayes	Julia Noble	Sarah Shartal
Communications	Staff Lawyer	Research &
Benefits Coordinator
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Unions believe that colleges and universities should be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union have three scholarship programs available to ail members and their children. Prft'rrtfwrtoiiJvlrriss pam	-appMcarte
across North America. These are the James A. Suffridge Fund and the Earl W. Jimerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a number of William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mattieu Scholarships every year to Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals 175/633 award Mattie McKay and Pat Thompson Scholarships worth up to a maximum of $750 each.
Local members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications for the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December 31 of the year you plan to enter a post secondary institution.
For the Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships, you must apply before September of the year you first enter college or university.
The deadline for the Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 of the year you plan to enter post secondary education.
There are a limited number of scholarships available, so everyone who needs and deserves one cannot always receive one. However, you will never get one unless you apply. Call or write the UFCW, Locals 175/633, Education Committee for details.
Good Luck!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act (Bill 70). For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and trainingsothat the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Aquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
In stores, foa Swpwfscr. is normally Ate .Stoc? ,Ma (taper Ate must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment. If a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
. Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
. Remove or turn off any safety device.
. Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker
. Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe 'Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
. Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or • Tbft ‘KBriifiiw. ^ foa workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continue to refuse to work, provided you have reasonabl^oroumb to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable aftemative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
The Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) is an employer-paid insurance program that protects workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
What do I do if I have an accident at work? All accidents, even minor ones, must be reported to management immediately. If the accident is serious enough to leave work, you must seek medical attention as soon as possible. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have.
What forms must be filled out to receive compensation? Two forms are essential in order to receive WCB benefits. First, the yellow "Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Diseases” must be filled out by management if, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time beyond the day of the accident.
Please note that you do not have to actually lose time from work in order to initiate a WCB claim. Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day, your employer must file their report. This is known as a “No Lost Time" claim.
The second form is a pink form called “Doctor’s First Report". There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well. This is filled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB.
What are WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive 90% of your net pm-acddent earnings. WCB benefits are ncn-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are now$38#XL00 yearly. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident claim will take from four to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away.
Now long do WCB benefits last? Most people who have workplace accidents are back to work within six weeks. Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from. For between one year and eighteen months if you are judged to be totally disabled and the disability is considered temporary, the WC8 will continue to pay benefits. After that, a wage loss system will begin. If you are permanently injured, the WCB can award you a very small permanent pension for the pain and suffering caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
If you are injured after January 2,1990, you have a right to reemployment after the injury. This right lasts for two years. Even if you have permanent limitations on your ability to work, you still have the right to return to work. There are four steps in this process.
1.	If you can do your old job without any restrictions, your employer has to offer
it to you.
2.	If you could do your old job if it were modified, then that has to be done, a If you can't do your old job even if it were changed, then your employer has
to offer you another job.
4. If you can do another job if it were modified, then your employer is required
to do this.
What if I have a health problem that is caused by my job but I didn’t have an accident at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc., are just a few of the work-related disabilities suffered by UFCW members. If you feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category, first consult your doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is or is likely to have been caused by your job, a Doctor's First Report should be submitted right away. Inform your employer of your doctor’s opinion and ask that the Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimate claim.
What happens if my claim is turned down by the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB. The Union will assist you and represent you, without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldn’t I be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases, NO. However, if you have a non-accidental disability which requires you to take time off from work, consult the Union for advice.
Does the WCB cover part-timers? Yes. The same rules and benefits apply, regardless of the number of hours you work per week.
What if my benefits are late or ate cut off for some reason? Contact the Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence.
Remember Never let management talk you out of tiling a WCB claim. Ifou may regret it later, when your disability won’t go away. It is Hlegai for management to interfere with your right to make a WCB claim. It you have any problems or concerns, contact the Union office.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
INDEX
PACE
Purpose ..................................
Recognition ..............................
Management ...............................
Union Security ...........................
Slowdown and Interruption of Production
Grievance Procedure ......................
Hours of Work, Overtime, and Holiday Pay
Pay For Holidays Not Worked...............
Sickness and Accident ....................
Vacations ................................
Seniority ................................
Safety and Health ........................
General ..................................
Separation Allowances ....................
Wages ....................................
Leave of Absence .........................
Credited Service .........................
Bereavement...............................
Health & Welfare .........................
Disciplinary Warnings ....................
Education & Training Fund ................
Duration of Agreement ....................
Classification and Wages .................
1
2
2
4
4
7
10
11
16
18
23
24 27
29
30
31 33 35 40
40
Letters of Understanding:
RE: Article 7.01................................. 45
RE: Article 7.01	................... 46
RE: Article 10.03................................ 47
Acceptable Medical Evidence	Form ........ 48
Canadian Commercial	Workers	Industry Pension	49
Plan
COLLECTIVEAGREPPtT
BETWEEN:	PIH FOODS
478 Fourteenth Street Hanover, Ontario
(Hereinafter called "the Company")
- and -
UNITED FOOD & CQKRCIAL YORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union")
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01 It is the intent of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling grievances which may possibly arise, as well as to set .-forth	on of •p.nir.lrymsi'J', ,*-ates of pay, and
hours of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bar-oafninp agent for all employees of its poultry processing Plant, 478 Fourteenth Street, Hanover, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, sales staff, fieldmen, and hatchery staff.
ARTICLE 3 - HWGEHBIT
3.01	The Management of the Plant and the direction of the
working force, including the right to hire, promote
and	‘cmLl.oyees, to suspend or discharge for just
cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees within the Plant, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine product to be handled, produced or manufactured, the schedules of production and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employees or the Union or for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	The Company agrees that these rights will not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4- UNIONSgaiMTY
4.01	The Company agrees that, subject to compliance with the procedure hereinafter set out, it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly Union dues.
4.02	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against this application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union, and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence any employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
3
4.03
4.04	a)
b)
c)
4.05	a) b)
4.06
4.07
If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure established by this Agreement.
Emp’rtiywra on the payroll of the Company as of September 8, 1990, may become and thereafter remain members of
the Union as a condition of employment.
All employees of the Company hired on or after September 8, 1990, shall, upon completion of the probationary period, become and thereafter remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
The Company shall remit to the Union, within thirty (30) calendar days following the completion of the probationary period, the United Food & Commercial Workers Membership Application Form signed by the new employee.
All employees shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the deduction of Union dues and initiation fees. Such deductions will commence with the employee's first pay. This deduction shall not include any special assessment.
The Company agrees to make the deduction, set out in Article 4.05 (a) from each employee in the bargaining unit. The Company will remit the total sum so deducted to the Union on or before the 15th calendar day of the following month, accompanied by a list of employees and their Social Insurance numbers from whose pay such deductions have been made.
The Company agrees to list the amount of Union dues paid on employees’ T4 forms for income tax purposes.
The Plant Chairman and Union Office shall be furnished with the name and address of each new employee and each employee who is to be laid off or terminated. Such list shall be provided once each month.
4.08
The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, the amount of the Union dues and the initiation fee which the Company is required to deduct from each eligible employee. The Company will be advised, in writing, of any further changes in the Union dues or initiation fees.
ARTICLE 5 - SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION OF PROPUCTICH
5.01	It is agreed that the Union and its members individually
and collectively will not, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit or take part in any strike. The Company reserves the right to discipline any employee taking part in any violation of this provision of this Agreement. There shall be no lockout by the Company during the term of this Agreement. Strike and lockout shall be defined in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	Should differences arise between the Union and its members and the Company as to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, every such difference shall be submitted by the aggrieved employee to adjustment in the manner and order provided in the grievance procedure set forth below.
6.02	To facilitate the orderly handling upon the part of the Union of cases arising under this Article, the Union may designate a Plant Grievance Committee composed of two (2) employee representatives.
6.03	It is mutually agreed that the parties shall adhere faithfully to the following procedures:
6.08
6.09
6.10
ARTICLE
7.01
7.02	a) b)
The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his record regarding his work or conduct, a Steward or Local Union official is on the Plant premises. The employee may request\l(<fvt[le,'5lt^fard■'0r, Local'■ un'i o n‘' OT f 1 fc 1 ell ’ reave the meeting.
Proven theft shall be just cause for immediate dismissal, and the arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall not have any power to modify or alter such penalty or to substitute any other penalty therefore.
If any employee fs absent for more than three (.Tnrswu'tlve working days, without good and proper reason, or without he or his agent having advised the Company of the reason for such absence prior to the expiration of such three (3) consecutive work day period, unless unable to do so for good and sufficient reason, he shall be subject to immediate dismissal. Agent, when applied to this Clause 6.10> shall mean spouse, family member, or Union official.
- HOURS OF WORK. OVERT I HE. AND HOLIDAY PAY
It is recognized by both parties that employees may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week, but no employee will be required to work an unreasonable number of hours.
The normal work week for all employees except Engineers and one (1) mechanic shall be Monday through Friday inclusive.
The normal work week for Engineers and one (1) mechanic, who were hired prior to date of ratification 1990 and maintenance employees hired after date of ratification 1990 shall be five (5) consecutive days per week.
8
7.03	a) An employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours In a day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week, or on Saturday.
b)	An employee shall be paid two (2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked on Sundays or Paid Holidays.
This provision does not apply to Engineers who will continue to be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
c)	An employee who is required to work in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate of pay for all time so worked.
d)	Reference to hours worked in Article 7.02 (a) and (b) shall include hours paid by the company.
e)	There shall be no accumulating of overtime premiums for the same hours worked, but the highest single premium shall apply, under the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 7.03 (a) and (b) of this Article.
f)	Notwithstanding 7.03 (a) above, a sanitation or a mechanical department employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8). hours in a day except when a period of twelve (12) hours exists between the completion of the first shift and the commencement of the second shift in the same day, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
g)	The following shall be observed as Paid Holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria day
Canada Day Civic Day Heritage Day (3rd
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day BoxViry Day Remembrance Day in February)
Monday
11
employee wishes to make an election as provided for in Clause 8.03 (b) hereof, he shall advise the Company of such election within a reasonable time prior to the vacation period assigned to or chosen by him.
8.04	Regular employees drawing sickness and accident pay when a paid holiday occurs, shall receive under this Article 8 only the amount by which the pay for the paid holiday hereunder exceeds such sickness and accident
pay.
8.05	If one or more of the above holidays 0<je0r while an employee is away on leave of absence dn accordance with Article 16.01, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday.
8.06	"Regular employee" or "regular full-time employee" as used in this Article and elsewhere in this Agreement, shall mean all employees except part-time employees. "Part-time employees" are those who do not normally work more than twenty-four (24) hours in the week, or part-time employees hired for a specific job of short duration not to exceed four (4) weeks.
ARTICLE 9 - SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT
9.01	At the onset of any disability, an employee will be transferred from the active payroll to the applicable benefit payroll. Except as provided in Clause 9.05, benefits to which an employee may be entitled hereunder are determined by his service and status at the onset of the disability.
9.02	In case any sickness or non-compensatable accident benefit payments, lesser in amount or duration than those payable under this Article are provided for by Provincial or Federal laws, it is understood that the difference only, if any, between such Provincial or
15
9.05
9.06
For an employee having eight (8) or mure*years
of credited service, two (2) weeks for each year of credited service at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other absences during the one (1) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributable to a disability which has resulted in any other absences during the immediate preceding three (3) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
(f) In cases of disability due to pregnancy or pregnancy related illness, payments and the extent thereof will be on the same basis as aforesaid, except that payments shall not be made during or in respect of any period:
1. that commences ten (10) weeks before the week in which her confinement for pregnancy is expected and terminates six (6) weeks after the week in which her confinement occurs.
2; of maternity leave taken pursuant to Provincial law.
3. for which maternity benefits are paid to her under Section 30 of the Unemployment Insurance Act.
If, during a period when an employee is absent due to sickness or accident and is receiving benefit payments under Article 9, this Collective Agreement provides for a wage rate increase, such sickness and accident benefit payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
The Company shall have the right at all times to unilaterally amend any of the provisions of this Article 9 in order to remain qualified for the Unemployment Insurance premium reduction, provided the amended provision does not result in a reduction in benefits to an enployee.
16
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS
10.01	For the purpose of calculating eligibility, the anniversary date shall be determined from the employee's date of hire.
10.02	Vacations with pay will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following:
1 year but less than 5 years employment -- 2 weeks off at 4? of T4 earnings;
5 years but less than 12 years employment - - 3 weeks off at 6* of T4 earnings;
12 years but less than 18 years employment --4 weeks off at 8? of T4 earnings;
18 years, but less than 25 years employment -- 5 weeks off at 10? of T4 earnings;
25 or more years of employment --6 weeks off at 12? of T4 earnings.
10.03	The Company shall implement a vacation shutdown period of two (2) consecutive weeks between July 1st and August 31st. The period selected for vacation shutdown will be posted by January 15th of each vacation year. All eligible employees must take a minimum of two (2) weeks vacation during this shutdown period. If necessary for the orderly operation of the further processing department, the vacation shutdown period referred to above may be scheduled as per Article 10.09.
10.04	For the purpose of Article 10- Vacations, T4 earnings do not include previous vacation paid during that year.
17
10.05	Employees who become sick or are injured prior to receiving their vacation shall be entitled to reschedule such vacation at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee.
10.06	Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of vacation periods is left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the Poultry Processing Plant. Every reasonable effort will be made to permit each employee to take his vacation between May 1st and October 1st. In the choice of vacation dates, Department seniority shall prevail. Vacation lists will be posted in each Department,
10.07	Vacations will be granted only in the vacation year (January 1 to December 31) in which they are due and may not be carried over to the following vacation year. If, however, due to some emergency, an employee is not permitted to take his vacation during the vacation year in which it is due, he shall have the right to take it in the ensuing vacation year.
10.08	Employees entitled to vacations will not be allowed to take money in lieu thereof.
10.09	(a) An employee eligible for vacation who is laid
off because of reduction in his gang, shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified.
(b)	An employee eligible for vacation whose employment is terminated for any reason shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he had become eligible. In the case of death, such pay shall be paid to his Estate or the person legally entitled.
10.10	Employees shall be entitled to receive their vacation pay at the beginning of their vacation period if so desired.
18
10.11	All of the vacation provisions of the Agreement shall be read, subject to applicable Provincial and/or Dominion Statutes and to the extent that the benefits required under such statutes are more favorable to the employees than the vacation benefits provided by this Agreement, such statutes shall prevail.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	Seniority of employees shall be defined as length of continuous employment with the Company in the bargaining unit.
11.02	Service is defined as length of continuous employment
with the Company.
11.03	Throughout the Agreement, the following shall apply:
(a)	seniority shall apply to all Articles except vacation, pension, wages, separation pay, and sickness and accident;
(b)	service shall apply to vacations and wages;
(c)	total credited service as defined in Article 17 earned prior to September 8, 1990 plus service earned following September 8, 1990 shall apply to separation pay and sickness and accident benefits;
(d)	credited service as defined in Article 17 shall apply to the existing Company Pension Plan.
Credited Service:
The Company shall advise each employee of their total amount of credited service as of September 8, 1990, with a copy to the Union Office. This information will be provided on or before November 1,1990.
To
20
work except that which is performed within such seniority Department, unless otherwise directed by the Compaiy.
11.08	(a) Layoffs from the Plant occasioned by gang rearrange-
ments pursuant to a reduction in volume of work to be handled will be made according to Plant seniority, provided that an employee who would thus be retained can satisfactorily perform the job that is assigned.
(b)	For the purpose of staffing the Further Processing
Department during layoffs from the Plant as per Article 11.08 (a), the Plant seniority list shall not prevail.
During these times, the Further Processing Department will be staffed by following the Department seniority list.
(c)	During a layoff in the Further Processing Seniority
Department, that Department's seniority list shall not prevail for the purpose of Further Processing employees bunping into other Departments.
11.09	Seniority Departments and the Plant working force will be increased in the following manner:
FIRST:	An employee who has been assigned from his
original Department to another Department shall be recalled to his original Department.
SECOND:	An employee with Plant seniority will be
recalled in order of Plant seniority provided such employee is qualified to perform the job which is open.
THIRD:	By implementing employees approved requests
for transfers pursuant to Clause 11.10.
11.10	An employee with Plant seniority who desires a transfer to another Department or job may submit a written application to the Plant Superintendent. If a vacancy occurs
22
such time not to exceed the period that such disability, as shown by acceptable medical evidence, prevents their return to work.
(c) Has been out of employment by the Company for a period of twelve (12) months or longer due to lack of work.
11.12	An employee having acquired seniority who is later employed by the Company outside of the bargaining unit, shall when subsequently returned to the bargaining unit, have all of his service with the Company included in the seniority assigned to him on such return.
11.13	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, he shall., upon his return to work:
a)	be returned to his job previously held. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work, then;
b)	he shall be placed on a job of equal pay provided he possesses the ability to qualify for that position. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work, then;
c)	all efforts shall be made to provide work the employee is physically able to perform.
It is understood that in no instance will a new job be created for the purpose of re-employing of such employee.
11.14	Plant and Department seniority lists will be posted bi-monthly. If no question concerning the seniority of any employee in the bargaining unit as set forth on said list is presented by the Union to the Plant Manager within fourteen (14) calendar days after posting of such list, the Union and the employees shall be deemed to have agreed to the seniority of each employee
23
in the bargaining unit as shown in the list posted by the Company. A copy shall be given to the Chief Steward and one copy mailed to the Union with the Union dues remittance.
11.15	An employee proved to have been laid off out of turn or recalled out of turn, will be restored to his former position, provided a grievance is filed within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of layoff or failure to recall in turn. An employee so restored to his former position will be made whole for loss of earnings at this regular rate of pay during the period that he should have been at work for the Company, less any money he or she earned in other employment.
11.16	The Company will advise the Chief Steward twenty-four (24) hours in advance, the names of employees being laid off or recalled.
ARTICLE 12 - SAFETYAMP HEALTH
12.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices, procedures, and other safety equipment deemed necessary by the Company properly to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company and worn by the employees. First Aid shall be available for workers on both day and night shifts. Failure to comply with the provision of Article
12.01	referring to procedures and equipment, shall result in disciplinary action being taken.
12.02	The Company will continue its present practice of paying one hundred percent (100X) of the monthly premium established by the Ontario Health Insurance Commission for regular employees for standard ward hospital care, provided the employees are on the active or benefit payroll, have worked five or more regular work days intJua* particular month, and have not less than six
25
out vests returned to the Company will be replaced at no cost to the employee.
NOTE:	The style and type of vest will be based upon
the recommendation of the Health & Safety Committee.
The vests so supplied are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the plant.
13.04	The Company will furnish white or coloured outer coats and/or coveralls to employees working in areas that require the wearing of these coats and/or coveralls. The coats and/or coveralls so supplied are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken off the Plant. Employees are to deposit the soiled coats and/or coveralls in the proper containers.
The Company will supply laundry service for the above-mentioned coats and/or coveralls.
13.05	a) Each employee who is required by the Company to wear
rubber boots or vests will be furnished the same at no cost, except a probationary employee who will be reimbursed the full cost thereof upon the completion of his probationary period. An employee required to wear rubber boots or vests shall be supplied a voucher by the Company and said employee will then purchase the required type of rubber boots or vests from the recommended supplier. Such rubber boots or vests which, in the opinion of the Company, are worn out, shall be returned to the Company before being replaced at no cost to the employee, up to a maximum of two (2) pairs during any twelve (12) month period and as necessary for vests.
b) Where in the opinion of the Company deemed necessary, the Company agrees to provide to employees a monetary allowance of up to sixty-five dollars ($65.00) towards the purchase of C.S.A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job. Such employees will become eligible
26
for this allowance one (1) year from the date of the previous purchase. Freezer employees only will become eligible for this allowance six (6) months from the date of the previous purchase provided, in the opinion of the Company, replacement C.S.A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job is deemed necessary at the time of purchase. In the event that the Union should disagree with the Company's opinion as to whether safety footwear on the job is or is not deemed necessary, the Company agrees to discuss the issue with the Plant Safety Committee with a view to arriving at a satisfactory • atnViliTnetrV ctymr<nh\r to both parties.
c)	In accordance with 13.05 (a), the Company agrees to offer a fleece type lined rubber boot in lieu of non-lined rubber boots in cool room areas.
d)	Employees who are .'-'wjiAwt by the Ootiij&wj to wear rubber gloves will be furnished these at no cost to the employee. Rubber gloves worn out or damaged shall be replaced immediately.
13.06	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit exrept as follows:
a)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or anployees on a new job, or instructing employees;
b)	For the purpose of taking an employee's place temporarily in such cases as failure to show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reason, is temporarily absent from the job;
c)	In locations which are isolated or gangs which are not sufficiently large to justify the fulltime use of a supervisor or managerial employee, and only if it has been the practice in the past to use such employees.
27
d)	In the absence of a shift Engineer due to absenteeism or vacations, the Chief Engineer will be permitted to work the day shift and re-schedule shift Engineers as required.
13.07	Employees unable to report for work shall notify the Company as soon as possible.
ARTICLE 14 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCES
14.01	Separation payments shall be made to employees having one (1) or more years ofcfeartdO "service who ar'e-permanently separated from the service of the Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of iDepartment or Unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be reemployed.
14.02	Separation payments shall not be made:
1.	To employees who have less than one (1) year's credited service;
2.	To employees who are laid off in gang reductions;
3.	To employees who are discharged for cause;
4.	to employees who voluntarily resigns;
5.	To employees who are retired on Pension;
6.	To employees who refuse an offer of employment by the Company in another unit of its business, the location of which is reasonably accessible to the location of the place of employment from which the employees are being dropped from the service.
28
14.03	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule, which is to be used in computing the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service subject to Article 11.03	(c).
Payments are to be computed on the basis of average hours worked during the previous four (4) full weeks at his regular rate of pay.
YEARS OF
CREDITED SERVICE	WEEKS OF PAY
2 ..............................
3	............................
4	............................
5	............................
6	............................
1 ..............................
8 ..............................
9	............................
10	...........................
?? w.d over, add to . . .
1
1 1/2
2
2 1/2
3
3	1/2
4	1/2
5	1/2
6	1/2 7 1/2 3 1/2
11/2 weeks' pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Example:
12 years of credited service;
First ten (lO)years credited service -7 1/2 weeks' pay.
Service over ten (10) years (12 - 10 = 2 x 1 1/2) three (3) weeks' pay.
Total separation allowance -- 10 1/2 weeks' pay.
To the separation allowance computed as per example, add vacation pay for the current calendar
29
year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
14.04	The amount due under the policy shall be paid as follows:
1.	Amounts less than or the same as the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay --in one lump sum.
2.	Amounts more than the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay -- weekly Installments of full wages until the total sum is exhausted. If for good and sufficient reason a lump sum settlement is requested, it may be made when it is assuredly to the benefit of the employee.
3.	In the event of death, any unpaid balance shall be paid to the widow or dependents.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
15.01	Job Classifications and Wage Rates for each classification shall be as outlined in Schedule "A" attached.
15.02	Pay Cheques
All employees who finish their shift prior to 2:00 p.m. on Thursday shall be entitled to receive their pay provided such pay cheque is in order and available to be handed out.
15.03	When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate.
When an employee is permanently transferred to a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate for a period of twelve (12) weeks from the date of such transfer and thereafter he shall receive the rate applicable
31
ARTICLE 17 - CREDITED SERVICE
This Article is applicable only to those Articles or Clauses outlined in Article 11 Clause .03(c) and .03(d).
17.01	"Credited Service" shall mean the total of:
(1) for employees who were employed by Swift Canadian co., Limited prior to January 14, 1981, and who were employees of the Company on January 14, 1981, their credited service up to ‘January 14, 1981, as determined under article 17 of the Collective Agreement executed on February 24, 1981, between Swift Canadian Co., Limited and the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (Local Number 175); and,
(2)	for employees on and after January 14, 1981, the
period of service which they accumulated while on the Company's payroll, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The period of absence due to the following causes will be credited to the employee's service but only after the employee's return to work from such period of absence.
1.	Absences due to sickness, accident, or pregnancy where such absence is supported by acceptable medical evidence.
2.	Miscellaneous	approved absences, such
as those due to vacation, jury service, bereavement.
3.	Absence while in the military, naval, or air force of Canada.
4.	Authorized leave of absence up to a maximum period of three (3) months.
34
regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of eight (3) regular hours.
(c) Where an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend a memorial service for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his -reyuYdr rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours. The Company may require from the employee proof of his attendance at such memorial service before it reimburses him hereunder.
18.02	(a) Provisions of this Article shall not apply to
employees then receiving other Company benefits such as vacation pay, sickness and accident payments or on an authorized leave of absence, without pay, for any reason.
(b)	An employee will not be entitled to receive under this Artlelt 18, bereavement pay in respect of a day for which he is receiving holiday pay.
18.03	Jury Duty
When a regular employee is absent from work to perform jury service or to testify as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay him his regular rate of pay for each hour he would have worked had he not been on jury duty less any jury fees, or as a witness less any witness fees received by him for performing such service or ‘giving such evidence.
35
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AMD WELFARE
PAH FOODS SUPPLEMENTARY COMPREHENSIVE 19.01 Medical Plan:
(a)	The payments of benefits to employees and dependents
covered by the Plan will begin when the deductible has been satisfied. Benefits will be eighty-five percent (853J) of the eligible spouse incurred by the individual during the calendar year.
(b)	The twenty-five dollars ($25.00) deductible will
apply only once each calendar year to each person, even though there may be several accidents or illnesses. No more than two twenty-five dollar ($25.00) deductibles per family will apply in one (1) calendar year.
(c)	An additional benefit will be included to cover expenses incurred for the purchase of prescription eye glasses and frames. This benefit is limited to a maximum of seventy-ffve dollars ($75.00) [Effective October 1» 1990 - $125.00 and effective June 1, 1991 - $150.00] each twenty-four (24) consecutive months for each person covered by the Plan. The normal deductible and co-insurance provisions of the Medical Plan do not apply to this benefit.
(d)	Supplementary Health, Vision and Dental Benefits
are available to all permanent full-time employees, spouses of employees, and their dependent children. New employees become eligible for plan benefits following six (6) months of continuous employment. Benefits are available to an employee's legal or common-law tpoait. Please see your Personnel Administrator for details.
“Dependent children" are defined as natural or adopted children under twenty-one (21) years of
37
will be reimbursed), with allowable expenses based on the 1989 Dental Association Fee Schedule where such a schedule exists, otherwise, on the prevailing schedule prior to 1989, and with a maximum annual payment of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) to each employee or dependent,
3.	Where claims charges are estimated to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for any employee or dependent, a treatment plan will be submitted to the Insurance Company before treatment commences.
4.	Eligibility will be the same as for the Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan.
5.	Covered dental expenses do not include and no payment will be made for:
-	Service not included in the above
Services provided under any Government Plans or Workers1 Compensat i on
Services covered under any other Insurance Cosmetic Treatment ~ Charges for broken appointments
-	Dentures	replacing an existing appliance which
is less than three (3) years old or which can be made serviceable
-	Dentures within three (3) years from the date that dentures were provided under this Plan
Theft or loss of dentures
■ Services coimenced or dentures ordered prior to the effective date of the Plan
6.	Effective June 1, 1991, the 1990 Dental Association
fee will apply, if available.
38
19.03 ftroupLife Insurance:
Eligibility
All hourly employees covered by the contract who have attained six (6) months of service. Life Insurance coverage becomes effective the first of the month following the month in which he/she have attained six (6) months of service.
Benefits
Straight Life Insurance in the amount of $10,000.00 per employee with no (A.D.D.) premiums will be paid for eligible employees on the payroll and coverage will cease upon:
(1)	At the end of the month in which termination of
emp1oyment occurs.
(2)	The last day of the third (3rd) full calendar month following the month in which the employee was laid off.
(3)	When coverage has ceased under item (2), eligible
employees will be reinstated for coverage immediately upon their return to work.
(4)	In the event that an employees absence due to sickness or accident exceeds the term for which he/she is entitled to under Article 9.04" extent of payment", then the Insurance coverage shall remain in effect for the balance of time up to twelve (12) months in the case of sickness or accident and eighteen (18) months if absent due
to Workers' Compensation compensable accident,
provided the seniority of the employee is not considered broken under the terms of Article 11.09.
(5)	At the end of the month in which the end of an approved leave of absence, granted in accordance
41
21.02	The Company will contribute three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) towards printing of copies of the Union Agreement.
ARTICLE 22- DURATION OF ASREEHENT
22.01 This Agreement shall take effect as of the date of ratification and shall remain in full force and effect up to and including the 1st day of June, 1992, and from year to year thereafter, unldSS WfTEten notice of intention to terminate or amend is given by registered post by either party to the other at Hanover, at least thirty (30) days prior to its expiration date.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE PARTIES HERETO BY THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES THIS 3rd DAY OF MAY, 1991.
UNITED FOOD A C0MCRCIAL
WORKERS, LOCAL 175	PAH FOOOS
Jack Colvin Lome Whittaker Sharon Fldler Joyce Ziegler Bruce Dostnan Karen Wilson Ron Springall
Richard E. Ratte Clare F. Godfrey
opelu 343
42
SCHEDULE ‘A*
CLASSIFICATION AND MAGES
A.Ol	JUNE 2
JOB OASSIFZCtTim	1990
Turkey Deboner	11.72
Cutting Tails	11.72
Cut Vents and Bar Cuttings	11.72
Knife and Scissor Sharpener	11.72
Slit Neck	11.72
Grader	11.82
Draw Evlscera	11.72
Operate Cry-O-Vac Machines	11.77
Cut Off Feet	11.77
Remove Necks	11.77
Pul1 Crops	11.87
Vacuum Gun Operator	11.77
Trusser	11.77
Freezer mail	ii.77
Fork Lift Truck Operator	11.77
Receiver	11.77
Sticker or Killer	11.92
Live Hangers	11.97
Sanitation (Night Clean-Up)	11.72
Cut Gizzards	11.72
Engineer - 4th Class	12.52
- 3rd Class	12.72
- 2nd Class	12.97
A. Mechanic (Gov't Certificate)	12.71
B. Mechanic (Not Certified)	12.51
Mechanic Trainee	11.77
Mechanic Trainee (WHh 60 Days' Credited Service)	12.12
Mechanic Trainee (With 120 Days' Credited Service)	12.51
JUNE 2 1991
12.32
12.32
12.32
12.32
12.32 12.42
12.32
12.37
12.37
12.37 12.47
12.37
12.37
12.37
12.37
12.37 12.52
12.57
12.32
12.32 13.12
13.32
13.57 13.31 13.11
12.37
12.72
13.11
43
A.02 Effective June 2, 1990,for all hourly paid employees who are on the payroll on or after the date of receipt by the Company of written notice of ratification of this Agreement, and effective June 2, 1991, the minimum hourly rates shall be as follows:
JUNE 2	JUNE 2
1990	1991
Starting Rate
Upon completion of 45 days of service with the Company
Upon completion of 60 days of service with the Company
$11.32	$11.92
11.52	12.12
11.62	12.22
A.03 LEAD HAND:
A Lead Hand designated by the Superintendent shall be paid as determined by the Plant Superintendent, a minimum of thirty-five cents (35$) per hour over his/her regular win rate for the hours worked performing the duties designated by the Plant Superintendent of a Lead Hand.
Lead Hands will be chosen from the bargaining unit employees.
A.04 KNIFE PREMIUM:
Effective September 8, 1990, employees required to use a knife to perform their duties shall be paid a premium of ten cents (10$) per hour. Employees lithe Further Processing Department will continue to receive a premium of ten cents (10$)per hours.
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDIW6 #1
Between:	P & H Foods, Hanover, Ontario
-and- United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 175, AFL-CIO-CLC
RE; Article 7.01
The Company will continue its current practice of considering the needs of individual employees in conjunction with the needs of the Employer when staffing overtime in conjunction with the overtime clauses of the contract.
DATED AT HANOVER, ONTARIO THIS 3rd DAY OF MAY, 1990.
FOR THE UHIOH
FOR THE COIffAHY
Jack Colvin Lome Whittaker Sharon Fldler Joyce Ziegler Bruce Dosman Karen Wilson
Richard E. Ratte
Clare F. Godfrey
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTAHDIHG #2
Between:	P & H Foods, Hanover, Ontario
- and - United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 175, AFL-CIO-CLC
RE: Article 7.01
That a committee be established consisting of four (4) persons appointed by the Company and four (4) persons appointed by the Union. The Committee shall have the power to make recommendation to the Company and the Union. The recommendation of the Committee may be implemented upon written mutual agreement of the parties.
DATED AT HANOVER, ONTARIO THIS 3rd DAY OF MAY, 1990.
FOR TIC UMIOH
FORM COMPANY
Jack Colvin Lome Whittaker Sharon Fidler Joyce Ziegler Bruce Dosman Karen Wilson Ron Springall
Richard E. Ratte
Clare F. Godfrey
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Between:	P & H Foods, Hanover, Ontario
- and - United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 175, AFL-CIO-CLC
RE: Article 10.03
The Company and the Union will appoint a Committee to meet during the term of this Agreement attempt to make a recommendation to resolve the issue of Plant Shutdown.
DATED AT HANOVER, ONTARIO, THIS 3rd DAY OF HAY,1990.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Jack Colvin Lome Whittaker Sharon Fldler Joyce Ziegler Bruce Dosman Karen Wf1 son Ron Springall
Richard E. Ratte
Clare F. Godfrey
48
EXHIBIT "A"
P A H FOODS
ACCEPTABLE MEDICAL EVIDENCE FORM
DATE: _________________________
NOTE TO PHYSIC1AH
The P & H Foods Sickness and Accident Program is Company insured.
This form and the questions 1t contains were agreed upon between the Company and the Union which represents the employees.
(employee's signature)
KMC:	is under my care.
(First)	(Last)
Does the nature of his/her illness prevent the employee from carrying out the essential duties of his/her job as outlined?
Can the employee do any light duty work? __________________________
Light work: _______________________________________________________
If not, please complete the balance of the form.
THE TREATMENT BEGAN ON:	__________________________________________
(Day) (Month)	(Year)
THIS PERSON IS EXPECTED TO BE UNDER TREATMENT FOR APPROXIMATELY: (Days) (Weeks) (Months)
THE ESTIMATED DATE OF RETURN TO WORK IS: __________________________
(Day) (Month) (Year)
(Signature of Physician)
49
CANADIANCOHHERCIAL yorkf.rsihdustrypehsichplah
P a H FOODS - HANOVER
Effective January li 1991:
(a)	The Employer agrees to contribute thirty cents (30$) per hour to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") for all hours worked for all full-time 'and part-time employees, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
(b)	The Employer agrees to sign a 'Participation Agreement"
and supply any other information required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan. The Employer shall forward all contributions together with a 11st of full-time and part-time employees and the number of hours worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15)days following the end of each of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period.
SIGNED THIS 3rd DAY OF MAY, 1991.
FOR THE UHIOH
Jack Colvin
R. E. Ratte