Collective Agreement Between
Schneider EmployeesAssociation S.E.A.
and
Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Ayr Ontario
Begins:
01/01/2006
Terminates:
12/31/2010
00282 (09)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Sec. No.
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE.................
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION.............
ARTICLE 3 -ASSOCIATION SECURITY
Membership......................... 3.1
Casual Employees....................3.2
Payment of Dues.....................3.3
Contracting Out.................... 3.4
Team ManagersWorking............... 3.5
Officersand Stewards of the Association. 3.6 ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...
ARTICLE 5- DISCRIMINATION...........
ARTICLE 6 -GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE.
Grievance Committee................ 6.1
Substitution of Members............ 6,2
Initiation Time of Grievance........6.3
Time Limits........................ 6.4
Grievance Steps 1-3................ 6.5
Company Grievance.................. 6.6
Association Grievance.............. 6.7
Request for Arbitration............ 6.8
ARTICLE 7-ARBITRATION...............
Arbitrable Matters..................7.1
Appointment of Arbitrators......... 7,2
Decision of the Board.............. 7.3
Power of the Board..................7.4
Expenses of Arbitration.............7.5
Time Limits........................ 7.6
8
8
8
8
9
10 10 11 11 12 13 13 13
13
14 14
14
15
15
16 16 16 17 17
17
18 18

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Sec.	No.
ARTICLE 8 - DISCIPLINE, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
Discipline, Suspension or Discharge
For Just Cause...................... 8,1
S.E.A. Notification..................8.2
Appeal Procedure, Suspension
or Discharge........................ 8.3
Disciplinary Notification............8.4
ARTICLE 9 - RATES OF PAY
Two (2) Job Rates....................9.1
Rates on Temporary Transfer..........9.2
Rateson PermanentTransfer............9.3
Rates - Changes in Method of Production.9.4
Full Time Rate Progression...........9.5
S.E.A. Notification..................9.6
Work Measurement and Job Standards .9.7
Job Standards Disputes...............9.8
Method of Payment....................9.9
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS............................
Regular Work Week................ 10.1
Changesto Weekly Schedule.........10.2
Daily Overtime....................10.3
Sixth Shift and Unscheduled Saturday. 10.4 Seventh Shift and Unscheduled Sunday 10.5 Scheduled Saturday and/or Sunday... 10.6 Work Performed on Statutory Holidays 10.7 Off-Shift Premium.................10.8
18
18
19
19
20 20 20 20 21 21 22 23 23
23
24
24
24
24
25 25
25
26 26 26
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Sec. No.
No Accumulation of Premiums........10.9
Missed Overtime....................10.10
ARTICLE 11 - GUARANTEES AND CALL-INS
Minimum V\feek.....................11.1
Statutory Holiday in Minimum V\feek.. .11.2
Exclusions to Minimum V\feek.......11.3
Reporting Minimum - Normal Shift___11.4
Reporting Minimum - 6th or 7th Shift
or Statutory Holidays.............. 11.5
Call-In............................11.6
Compensable Accident...............11.7
ARTICLE 12 - REST PERIODS AND MEALS
Straight Eight Hour Shifts.........12.1
Sixth, Seventh or Statutory Holiday Shift
and Emergency Call-backs...........	12.2
Out-of-Town Meals..................12.3
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS..
Designated Statutory Holidays.....13.1
Qualificationsfor Pay.............13.2
Statutory Holiday in Vacation.....13.3
ARTICLE 14 - BEREAVEMENT..........
ARTICLE 15-JURY DUTY..............
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY............
Probationary Period...................16.1
Seniority on Transfer.................16.2
Job Elimination/Combination
Bumping Procedures................ 16.3
S.E.A. Stewards...................16.4
27
27
27
27
28 28 28
29
29
29
30 30
31
31
31
31
33
34
35 35 35
35
36
36
40
3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Sec. No.
Absence Due to Accident or Illness —16.5
Discharge. Termination or Lay-off...16.6
Leave of Absence....................16.7
Provisions for Trainees.............16.8
ARTICLE 17 - LAY-OFFS AND RECALLS
Order of Lay-Offs...................17.1
Order of Recall.....................17.2
S.E.A. Notification.................17.3
Benefits on Lay-Off.................17.4
Plant Closing.......................17.5
ARTICLE 18 - PROGRESSION...........
Job Progression.....................18.1
Job Vacancies.......................18.2
ARTICLE 19 - TRANSFERS.............
Temporary Transfers.................19.1
ARTICLE 20-VACATIONS...............
Vacation Year.......................20.1
Length of Service...................20.2
Vacation Schedule...................20.3
Completion of Required Service......20.4
Advance Vacation....................20.5
Vacation Pay........................20.6
Choice of Vacation..................20.7
No Accumulation.....................20.8
ARTICLE 21 - RETIREMENT............
Normal Retirement...................21.1
Optional Early Retirement...........21.2
Canada Pension Plan.................21.3
40
42
43
44
45
45
46 46
46
47 47
47
48
49 49 49 49 49
49
50
50
51
52
52
53 53 53 53
4
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Sec. No.
Company Pension Plan............21.4
Pension Plan Amendments.........21.5
ARTICLE 22 ■ SAFETY, HEALTH
AND SANITATION..................
ARTICLE 23-WELFARE PLANS
Eligibility.....................23.1
Health Insurance................23.2
Life Insurance..................23.3a
Optional Life Insurance............23.3b
Weekly Indemnity...................23.4
Long Term Disability Insurance.....23.5
Dental Care........................23.6
Claim Eligibility..................23.7
ARTICLE 24 - CLOTHINGAND PERSONAL
EQUIPMENT..........................
New Employees......................24.1
Replacementand Additional Clothing .. 24.2
Transferred Employees..............24.3
Laundering.........................24.4
Maintenance Mechanics Tools........24.5
ARTICLE 25- BULLETIN BOARD....
ARTICLE 26 - GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS ARTICLE 27 -COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION
OFAGREEMENT...................
Effective Dates...............27.1
No Strike or Lockout..........27.2
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES RATES OF PAY..........
53
55
56
57
57
58
59 59
59
60 63 63
64
64
64
64
65 65 65 65
65
65
66 66 67
5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sec.
Page
No.
MAINTENANCE RATES.....
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1 . LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2. LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3 . LETTER OF AGREEMENT #4. LETTER OF AGREEMENT #5. LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6. LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7. LETTER OF AGREEMENT #8. LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9.
LETTER OF INTENT #1...
LETTER OF INTENT #2...
68
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF THE 9th DAY OF APRIL 2006 MADE BY AND BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC. Ayr, Ontario
(Hereinafter called the Company) and
SCHNEIDER EMPLOYEES’ASSOCIATION “S.E.A.”
(Hereinafter called the Association)
7
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain and promote harmonious relations between the Company and the Association and the employees who are represented by the Association and to provide the negotiatedterms and conditions of employment cf such employees. Both parties agree that their mutual interest lies in friendly co-operation to promote the mutual interest and welfare of both the Company and such employees.
ARTICLE 2 ■ RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Association, which is certified by the Labour Relations Board of Ontario, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees at Ayr, save and except Team Managers, persons above the rank of Team Managers, Office Staff (excluding Office Clerks) and Sales Staff. Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine. Where the term Association is used, it shall mean the Executive Officers Of The Association. When the Front Office Clark position becomes vacant for any reason, it will be removed from the Bargaining Unit.
ARTICLE 3 - ASSOCIATION SECURITY
(3.1)	Membership
All new employees covered by this agreement shall be required, on or before the first work day of actual employment, become a member of the Association and sign a dues deduction authorization form and be
a
introducedto his Union Steward and Safety rep by the Team Manager.
(3.2)	Casual Employees
Casual employees are to be used for emergency and Summer Vacation employment on a day to day basis for the hours required.
The Company shall not hire casual employees for the purpose of eliminating or reducing overtime opportunities that would have been available for full-time employees.
Casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full-time employees except where it is agreed with the Executive Officers.
“Management will conduct a staffing review weekly with its appropriate Stewards using the approved procedure.” Where the work performed by casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full time employee, this will be done. The intent of the Parties regarding the hiring of Casual employees to Full-Time positionswill be as follows:
1)	All permanent jobs will be filled and staffed by full time staff.
2)	Item #1 will be offered to existing casual employees on the basis of job performance and date of hire with job performance being the deciding factor before outside hiring occurs.
3)	Item #2 above does not preclude the Company from hiring directly from outside in the case of skilled trade job openings.
The Company will continue as much as possible to follow the current practice of recalling Casual employees on the basis of length of service when there is a requirement.
Casual employees are not entitled to the provisions of Articles 6 to 23 inclusive except;
(a)	Article	6.7
(b)	Articles 9.9,10.3 to 10.10 inclusive
(c)	Article	11.7
(d)	Article 12.1,12.2
(e)	Articles 13.1,13.2
(f)	Article	17.1
(g)	Article	20.6(b)
(h)	Article	22
(3.3)	Payment of	Dues
The Company agrees that it shall deduct from the pay of each employee the dues of the Association as determined by it from time to time, in accordance with the constitution of the Association. Such deductions from pay shall be remitted every week by the Company to the Treasurer of the Association inthe week following such deduction.
(3.4)	Contracting Out
The Company prefers to have the work done by its employees, although, at times, it is necessary to have work done by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out the work will be as follows:
10
Availability of the required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost and availability of equipment.
Any job that the Company feels may be contracted out will be discussed with the Association before a decision is made. The Company agrees that it will deal fairly and honestly with any decision to contract out. Inemergency situations a discussion will be held with the steward in advance, if possible.
The word “prefers” as used in this article, means the Company's first choice is to utilize its own employees. The Company agrees to utilize the present “outside contractors form” unless agreed by the Company and the Association to change the form.
Where the work is of a repetitive nature, i.e. project work, week-end maintenance etc., an initial form will be provided.
Any changes in installations or truck routes presently covered by bargaining unit employees will be discussed in advance with the Association.
(3.5)	Team Managers Working
Team Managers shall not do any bargaining unit work except for training, product testing or in cases of emergency. Team Managers shall not perform any overtime work normally done by a bargaining-unit member unless there is no bargaining-unit member available or qualified to do the job.
(3.6)	Officers and Stewards of the Association
The Company recognizes that Stewards of the Association are required, from time to time, to
11
investigate and process grievances or discuss with supervision other matters affecting employees. When it becomes necessaryfor a Stewardto leave his/her job to attend to these matters, they will give supervision as much advance notice as possible, at which time, supervision will make arrangements for the Steward to be relieved within one hour after receiving such request. A Steward who is required to represent more than one shift, will be permitted to be called in under Article
(11.6)	to represent any member as per this Article, if no other Steward is on the premises. The Association will exercise its rights in a fair and just manner.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The management of the plant and the direction of the working force are vested exclusively with the Company. The Company retains the sole right to hire, discipline, discharge for just cause, lay-off, assign duties, promote and transfer employees, and to determine the starting and quitting time and the number of hoursto be worked; to determine the product to be handled, produced or manufactured; the schedules of production and the methods, processes and means of production or handling subject only tot he restrictions and regulations governing the exercise of these rights as are expressly provided in this contract. Management shall exercise its rights in a fair and just manner. The Company agrees that it will exercise it's management rights in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
12
ARTICLE 5 • DISCRIMINATION
The Company and the Association agree that every employee has the right to equal treatment with respectto employmentwlthout discrimination on any of the prohibited grounds as listed and defined in Human Rights legislation. Employeesfurther have a right to freedom from harassment, based on any prohibited grounds, In the workplace by the employer or agent of the employer, or by any other employees, vendors, consultants, visitors, or customers of the Company. The prohibited grounds include Union Activity, race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, age, sex, sexual orientation, record of offences, marital status, same-sex partnership status, family status or disability.
ARTICLE 6 ■ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(6.1)	Grievance Committee
The Association shall establisha grievance committee of not less than three or more than five and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of such committee.
(6.2)	Substitution of Members
In the event of the absence of any members of Management or the Association, substitution may be made by members of equal rank on either side.
13
(6.3)	Initiation Time	of	Grievance
A grievance will not be considered by the Company or the Association unless grievance procedure is initiated within seven (7) full working days of the event on which the grievance is based.
(6.4)	Time limits
Time limits imposed in this article shall apply equally to the Company and the Association, but may be extended by mutual agreement. Working days, as referred to in this article, shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or Statutory Holidays.
(6.5)	Grievance Steps 1	-3
Should any differences arise as to the interpretation, application or non-application of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort will be made to settle the same in the following manner:
FIRST - There will be a discussion between the aggrieved employee, the department Steward and the Team Manager. This step of the grievance procedure is to be completed within seven (7) working days of the grievance being initiated.
SECOND - If a settlement is still not reached, the grievance shall be presented in writing to Human Resources (or his delegate) within seven (7) working days who shall then convene a meeting consisting of the appropriate managements representatives, the department Steward, Chief Steward and the Grievor. This step of the procedure to be processed within five
14
(5) full working days and a decision rendered in writing within another five (5) full working days.
THIRD - If a settlement is still not reachedthe grievance shall be presentedwithin five (5) full working days of the decision under the second step to the Plant Manager (or his delegate in his absence), who shall then convene a meeting consisting of the appropriate management representatives, the Association Grievance Committee and the grievor. This step of the procedure to be processed and a written decision rendered within five (5) full working days.
(6.6)	Company Grievance
The Company has the right to present a grievance against the Association, its officers, its members in the bargaining unit or other representatives for failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement. Any grievance by the Company shall be in writing to the Secretary of the Association and shall be dealt with by the Grievance Committee of the Association and shall be entered at the third step of the grievance procedure.
(6.7)	Association Grievance
The Association has the right to present a grievance against the Company for alleged violations of this Agreement, provided that such grievance could not be filed under the terms of this Agreement by an individual employee or provided that the interest of the Association, or the interest of a majority of the members of a department, or the majority of the members of a group of departments in an area, is affected. Any
15
grievance presented by the Association shall be in writing to the Manager of Human Resources and entered at the third step of the grievance procedure.
(6.8)	Request for Mediation
Where the parties are in agreement, the services of a mediator, mutually agreed upon by the parties, will be used in an effort to resolve grievances prior to the arbitration process. Where this is done, the cost of the mediator will be shared equally by the parties.
(6.9)	Request for Arbitration
If an amicable settlement is not arrived at through the foregoing procedure, the matter in dispute shall be referred to arbitration. The request for arbitration must be made within five full working days of the completion of the third stage of grievance referred to in this article.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
(7.1)	Arbitrable Matters
Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the appropriate steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6, and which has not been settled, or any dispute as to whether a matter is arbitrable, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
16
(7.2)	Appointment of Arbitrator
The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one personappointed by the Association, and a third person to act as chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board. Each party will notify the other, in writing, of the name of its appointee within five working days of the request by either party for a Board.
Should the person chosen by the Company and the person chosen by the Association fail to agree on a third person within ten days of the notification mentioned above, the Ministerof Labour of the Province of Ontario, will be asked to nominate a person to act as chairman. The Association and the Company shall have the right to refer any arbitrable matter to a single arbitrator. The selection of the single arbitrator shall be the subject of mutual agreement of the parties. In the event of a failure to agree upon a single arbitrator, the arbitrable matter shall then be referred to a three member board as provided above.
(7.3)	Decision of the Board
The decision of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding on both parties and upon any employee concerned in, or affected by, the decision.
(7.4)	Power of the Board
The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
17
(7.5)	Expenses of Arbitration
Each of the parties to this agreement will bear the expenses of the nominee appointed by it to the Arbitration Board, and the parties will jointly bear the expense, if any, of the chairman. I n the case of the appointment of a single arbitrator, the parties will jointly bear the expense, if any.
(7.6)	Time Limits
Time limits imposed in this article shall apply equally to the Company and the Association, but may be extended, by mutual agreement, and shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and Statutory Holidays.
ARTICLE 8 - DISCIPLINE, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
(8.1)	Discipline, Suspension Q Discharge
For Just Cause
The Company reserves the right to discipline, suspend or discharge for just cause any employee without notice for cause, including having or consuming intoxicants or unauthorized drugs on company property; theft, disorderly, immoral or indecent conduct; continued absence or irregular attendance; habitual lateness; loitering during working hours; smoking in prohibited areas; insubordination or refusal to do work assigned; willful or deliberate violation of safety practices or plant rules; or for any offense that, while not specifically listed, is considered to be detrimental to the welfare of this Company and its employees.
No discipline, suspension or discharge will be processed unless there is a Departmental Steward or an
18
Officer of the Association in attendance, to represent the employee. Any employee who feels he has been unjustlydisciplined, suspended or discharged shall have the right to appeal through the grievance procedure. Employees discharged or suspended may not remain on company property after their discharge or suspension. The only time they may return is to attend a grievance hearing.
(8.2)	S.E.A. Notification
The Association secretary shall be notified within 24 hours, in writing, of all suspensions and discharges.
(8.3)	Appeal Procedure, Suspension or Discharge
Grievances dealing with discipline other than suspension or discharge shall be processed in accordance with Article 6.3 commencing at the first step. In the case of grievances dealing with suspension or discharge, the employee must notify the Grievance Committee within two (2) full working days after suspension or discharge and the Grievance Committee must present the matter in writing to the Manager of Human Resources or his delegate, within two (2) full working days after receiving notification from the suspended or discharged employee and the same shall be entered at the third step of the grievance procedure. If upon review by Management, it is found that an employee has been unfairly suspended or discharged, he shall be awarded whatever discipline is appropriate, or, if circumstances warrant, he shall be reinstated and recompensed for loss of earnings resulting from such unfair or unjust suspension or discharge.
19
(8.4)	Disciplinary Notification The Company will remove references to disciplinary action from the employee's record as follows: Verbal Warning after twelve (12) months, written warning after an eighteen (18) month period; suspension after a twenty four (24) month period provided however, there has been no further disciplinary action taken against the employee during the applicable period referred to above. Exceptions to the above include suspensions for the following serious offenses: illegal strike, slow-down, work stoppage, willful damage, insubordination or fighting.
ARTICLE 9 ■ RATES OF PAY
(9.1)	Two (2) Job Rates
When an employee regularly performs two (2) or more jobs, he will receive the higher rate for eight (8) hours if the higher rated job exceeds two (2) hours.
(9.2)	Rates on Temporary Transfer
Pay rates of qualified employees on temporary transfer to higher rated jobs shall be adjusted to the higher rate for;
a)	all hours worked on the higher rated job if the higher rated job is performed for more than one (1) hour during the regular shift.
b)	all time worked on the higher rated job during overtime, except for daily overtime that is scheduled for thirty (30) minutes or less.
c)	all “higher rate time” will be rounded to the closest one half hour.
20
d)employees temporarily transferred to lower rated jobs at their request or on the advice of their physician, will assume the rate of such job commencing the first full shift on the lower rated job.
(9.3)	Rates on Permanent Transfer
Any employee permanently transferred to another job will be paid his existing rate or the rate of the job to which he has transferred (whichever is the lesser). When qualified, or within three months, his rate shall be adjusted to the prevailing job rate. On jobs requiring a high degree of skill, it may be mutually agreed between the Company and the Association, that a longer period is justified.
Qualified as used above shall mean the ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance.
(9.4)	Rates - Changes in Method of Production
Where changes in method of production or new jobs are introduced, the Company will determine the new Job Class based upon a comparison of benchmark jobs established by the Company within each Job Class. The Chief Steward will be notified in writing of all new or revised Job class assignments. Where the Company has determined a Job Class assignment,the Association will be granted access to the Company studies (including job descriptions where they exist) pertaining to the review. If a Job Class assignment is in dispute the Plant Manager and Chief Steward will discuss the differences and attempt to resolve the issue. If they are unable to resolve the issue it may be referred to Arbitration in accordance with Article 7.
21
(9.5)	Full Time Rate Progression Employees hired priorto April 9th, 2006 shall be paid at 85% of the applicable Job Class rate. Automatic increases of 5% of the Job Class rate will be granted every 6 months. After 18 months the full Job Class rate will be paid, Referto chart listed under “ JOB NUMBERS, JOB DESCRIPTIONS, RATES OF PAY' at the back of the Agreement.
The starting rate for full-time employees hired after April 9th, 2006, will be in accordance with the start rate In the scale listed below. At 6 months, an increase equal to 50% of the difference between the start rate and job rate will be provided. Upon completion of 12 months, employees hired after April 9th, 2006, will be entitled to the full job rate as outlined In the scale below.
Job Class	April 9 2006	Dec 31 2006	Dec 30 2007	Dec 28 2008	Jan 3 2010
Start	11.00	1120	11.40	11.60	11.80
Class A	12.50	12.70	12.90	13.10	13.30
Class B	13.00	1320	13.40	13.60	1330
Class C	14.00	1420	14.40	14.60	14.80
Class D	15.45	15.65	15.85	16.05	1625
Casual	1025	10.35	10.45	1055	10.65
Maintenance employees will be hired at 95% of the applicable maintenance rate.
After 6 months the full rate will be paid.
22
(9.6)	S.E.A. Notification
Subject to the provisions otherwise specified in this Agreement. the Company agrees that the Officers of the
Association be provided with information regarding the pay rate and progress of any individualemployee.
(9.7)	Wb± Measurementand Job Standards The Company will utilize recognized and accepted techniques to measure work and establish job standards. Only qualified full-time employees with appropriate skills and ability will be studied for the purpose of establishing permanent work standards. Whenever possible, this will bee an employee(s) who normally performs the work.
(9.8)	Job Standards Disputes
It is understoodthat the Company will make every effort to establish fair and accurate work standards and that employees and the Association will give every work standard a fair and just trial by working conscientiously against those standards.
If after the fair and just trial period, the Association is still not satisfied that an average qualified worker, working conscientiously can maintain a performance of 100%, a re-check study will be made by the Company when requested.
If the standard is still in dispute after the Company audit, a qualified member of the Association may conduct a study using established Company work measurement techniques.
Should the new job standard remain in dispute after a comparison of the Company and the Association
23
studies, it may be introduced as a grievance starting at the second step of the grievance procedure.
It is further agreed that where the new job standard remains in dispute at the third step of the grievance procedure, the Company and the Association may, by mutual agreement, appoint a qualified independent industrial engineer to conduct a separate study. The expense of such study shall be shared by the Company and the Association.
(9.9)	Method of Payment
The Company will pay employees in a manner it deems to be most efficient. For each pay period the employees will be provided with an itemized calculation of all earnings and deductions. For the duration of this Collective Agreement employees will be paid on a weekly basis.
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS
(10.1)	Regular Work Week for Full-Time Employees
The regular work week shall consist of five consecutive shifts, eight hours per day, 40 hours per week from Sunday 10:00 p.m. to Saturday inclusive.
(10.2)	Changes to Employee Schedule
No employees' schedule shall be changed without at least twenty-four hours prior notice from the start time of their existing shift.
In the event it becomes necessary to change an employees' weekly schedule without at least twenty-four 24
(24) hours prior notice from the start time of their existing shift, time and one half will be paid for any work performed in the first shift of the new schedule.
In the event it becomes necessary to change an employees' daily start time without at least twenty-four (24) hours prior notice from the start time of their existing shift, time and one half will be paid for any work performed outside the existing shift.
(10.3)	Dally Overtime
One and one-half times the hourly rate will be paid for all hours in excess of eight hours per shift, except those hours in excess of 12 per regularshift will be paid at two times the regular hourly rate. Vacation hours will not be credited to hours worked in calculating daily overtime. An employee who volunteers to work overtime prior to his regular shift will be paid the overtime rate for those hours worked up to his regular start time and must work his regular shift thereafter.
(10.4)	Sixth Shift and Unscheduled Saturday
One and one-half times the hourly rate will be paid for the first eight hours worked on an unscheduled Saturday, or sixth shift. Two times the regular hourly rate will be paid for hours in excess of eight. If during the week preceding the sixth shift or unscheduled Saturday, the employee has been inexcused, he shall receive his regular rate to a maximum of eight hours and time and one-half thereafter.
(10.5)	Seventh Shift and Unscheduled Sunday
Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for work performed on an unscheduled Sunday, or seventh shift.
25
If during the week preceding the seventh shift or unscheduled Sunday, the employee has been inexcused, he shall receive one and one-half times the regular rate to a maximum of eight hours and two times the regular rate thereafter.
(10.6)	Scheduled Saturday and/or Sunday
Employees whose regular work schedule includes a Saturday or Sunday, will be paid one and one-half times their regular rate for hours on a shift which begins on a Saturday or Sunday to a maximum of eight (8) hours. Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for hours in excess of eight. This premium shall not apply to hours after midnight on Friday, which are part of the Friday shift, or to employees whose regular schedule starts on a Sunday night.
(10.7)	Work Performed on Statutory Holiday
Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for all work performed on a designated Statutory Holiday.
(10.8)	Off-Shift Premium
An off-shift premium, per hour, of .40 cents in the first year, .45 cents in the second year and .50 cents in the third year of a four year agreement, shall be paid to shift workers whose regular work schedule starts between noon and midnight. Employees working on shifts beginning after 12 midnight and before 6:00 am. shall receive the off-shift premiumfor all hours worked up to 6:00 a.m. This premium shall apply to workers who are receiving overtime pay for overtime worked.
26
(10.9)	No Accumulation of Premiums
There shall be no accumulating of overtime premiums for the same hours worked, and/or paid for, but the highest overtime premium shall apply.
(10.10)	Missed Overtime
If a qualified employee is missed as a result of a good faith mistake when it was his opportunity to work overtime, he shall be given the opportunity to work overtime, subject to seniority rights, on work for which he is qualified, when the next comparable overtime is required. The missed overtime work opportunity will be made within thirty (30) calendar days or paid out. However should an error occur than above, the Company will pay the amount of the missed overtime opportunity.
ARTICLE 11 - GUARANTEES AND CALL-INS
(11.1)	Minimum Week
Hourly rated full-time employees who are scheduled to work and who are at work are guaranteed a pay equal to 37 hours at their regular hourly rate. Should the lack of work be attributable to circumstances over which the Company has no control, excluding mechanical breakdown, this guarantee will be reduced by the number of hours lost.
Each hour of overtime worked during the minimum week will be credited as one hour against this guarantee, to a maximum of three hours. Pay received for hours worked on the sixth and seventh shifts will not be included in this guarantee. If the employee fails to avail himself of the regular hours of work provided, the guaranteed minimum week shall be reduced by the 27
difference between actual hours worked and the hours of work made available.
Any employee recalled to work from lay-off will not be eligible for the guarantee for the week of recall.
(11.2)	Statutory Holiday in Minimum Week
Statutory Holidays paid for during any week where the minimum guarantee is effective shall be considered as part of and included in the pay for the minimum week Any hours worked on a Statutory Holiday shall be counted against this minimum week. Statutory Holidays falling on the 6th or 7th shifts will not be included as part of the minimum guaranteed week.
(11.3)	Exclusionsto MinimumWeek
Provisions of items (11.1) and (11.2) shall not apply to probationary employees.
(11.4)	Reporting Minimum- Normal Shift
Any employee who reports for his normal shift and is sent home before four consecutive hours' work have been completed shall be paid a minimum of four hour pay at his regular rate. To qualify, the employee must be available and willing to accept such work as may be provided, providing that such work is made available during normal working hours. Should the lack of work be attributable to circumstances over which the Company has no control, excluding mechanical breakdown, this guarantee is waived and the employee will be paid only for the time worked.
28
(11.5)	Reporting Minimum - 6th or 7th Shift or Statutory Holidays
Employees who are scheduled and report on their sixth shift, seventh shift, or Statutory Holiday will be guaranteed a minimum pay of six hours at their regular rate.
(11.6)	Call-In
Any employee who is requested to return to work after leaving the plant and the work period is four (4) hours or less, he shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate with a minimum equivalent of four hours’ pay at the regular rate. If the hours worked exceed four (4), it will then be considered as a second shift worked in that day and paid according to Article (10.3). The employee shall be through when the job for which he has been called back is completed or at the commencement of his regularly scheduled shift, whichever occurs first. Employees will be allowed to complete their regular schedule for the balance of that week. Hours worked on the sixth shift of that week will be included for the purpose of the guaranteed minimum week. Scheduled call-in on weekends and statutory holidayswill be paid the equivalent of 4 hours regular pay. Emergency call-in on the weekend and statutory holidayswill be paid as per Article 11.5.
(11.7)	Compensable Accident
Employees who are injured and lose pay as a result of a compensable accident during a shift, will receive an amount equal to their regular rate for the regularly scheduled shift to a maximum of eight hours. However, if the employee has started into overtime, or if the
29
overtime scheduled at the shift end is normally and regularly worked by the employee, an amount equal to the scheduled overtime shall be paid to the injured employee.
This is applicable to the 6th and 7th shifts and Statutory Holidays provided the employee has actually commenced work on such shifts.
ARTICLE 12 • REST PERIODS AND MEALS
(12.1)	Straight Eight HourShifts
Employees who are working on a straight eight hour shift basis, other than those who eat their meal on the job, shall receive two paid twelve minute rest periods and a paid twenty minute lunch period in each shift. If the work period is five hours or less, the employee shall only qualify for the break periods that would normally occur in the first five hours of his shift. In the event of back to back five hour shifts, the employees will qualify for two ten minute rest periods only.
Employeesshall qualify for an additional ten minute rest period if scheduled to work overtime in excess of two hours and a thirty minute paid meal break plus a meal allowance of $5.00 if scheduled to work overtime in excess of two hours. The paid thirty minute break will not be counted as time worked in calculating when an employee qualifies for any additional rest periods or meal allowances. When the overtime work period exceeds two and one-half hours after the first meal allowance, the employee shall qualify for a ten minute rest period and ifthe overtime work exceeds five hours, a second meal allowance will be provided, along with a paid thirty minute meal break 30
(12.2)	Sixth, Seventh or Statutory Holiday Shift and Emergency Call-backs
Employees will qualify for two twelve minute rest periods when working more than five hours and one twelve minute rest period if working less. Inthe event of back to back five hour shifts, they will qualify for two ten minute rest periods.
Employeeswho work more than five hours on their sixth or seventh shift, Statutory Holiday or emergency call-back will be provided with a thirty minute paid meal break plus a meal allowance of $5.00. Employees will qualify for a second thirty minute meal break and meal allowance five hours after the first paid meal break. The paid thirty minute meal breakwill not be counted as time worked in calculating when an employee qualifies for any additional rest periods or meal allowances.
(12.3)	Out-of-Town Meals
Employees required to work out of town will be allowed up to $5.00 per meal. They will be paid time in which to eat the meal if they so qualify under section (12.1) or
(12.2)	of this article.
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
(13.1)	Designated Statutory Holidays
Employees will be paid their regular hourly rate for regular hours not worked, Monday to Saturday inclusive, on New Yeafs Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, one floating day and one individual. All Statutory Holidays falling on a Saturday or Sunday shall be observed on the preceding 31
Friday or the following Monday, unless changed by mutual agreement. In order to meet the needs of the business, the Company reserves the right to designate the observance of statutory holidaysto another date for those employees it deems necessary to do the requiredwork. Inthe event provincial or federal government legislation requires the observance of an additional public holiday during the term of this Agreement, that day shall become a paid holiday. The Company will grant the individual holiday to be taken at a time agreed upon between the employee and management. Probationersor casuals will not qualify for the individual holiday. The individual holiday must be taken by the end of the contract year. Casual and probationary employees will qualify for designated Statutory Holiday pay as per the Employment Standards Legislation.
Designated Stat Holidays Holidav 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010					
New Years Day	Monday Jan2	Tuesday Jan2	Tuesday Jan 1	Thursda Jan 1	Firiday Jan 1
Good Friday	Friday Apr 14	Friday Apr 6	Friday Mar21	Friday Apr 10	Friday Apr 2
Victoria Day	Monday May22	Monday May21	Monday May19	Monday May18	Monday May 17
Canada Day	Monday July 3	Monday July 2	Tuesday July 1	Wednesday July 1	Thrusday July 1
CMc Holiday	Monday Aug 7	Monday Aug 6	Monday Aug 4	Monday Aug 3	Monday Aug 2
Labour Day	Monday Sept 4	Monday Sept 3	Monday Sept 1	Monday Sept 7	Monday Sept 6
Thanksgiving Day	Monday Oct9	Monday Oct 8	Monday Oct 13	Monday Oct 12	Monday 1 Oct 11 ,
32
Christmas	Monday	Tuesday	Thursday	Friday	Friday
Day	Dec 25	Dec 25	Dec 25	Dec 25	Dec 24
Tuesday Monday Thursday Friday Monday Dec 26 Dec 24 Dec 26 Dec24 Dec 27
Floater Monday Monday W6dnesday| Thursday Friday Jan1 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31
(13.2)	Qualifications for Pay
In order to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, the employee must work the required regular shift immediately preceding and following the Statutory Holiday. However, the employee will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay if he has been excused from working the required regular shift by his Team Manager, or has been laid off, providing he has received payment for hours worked during the week containingthe holiday or during the preceding week if the holiday falls on Monday.
An employee who is absent on either or both the regular shift immediately preceding or following the paid holiday due to personal illness which is verified by a Doctor's certificate, which specifies his restrictions or inability to perform a job, will be paid for the Statutory Holiday.
If the employee is eligible for any payment to which the Company contributes either directly or indirectly for the day on which the Statutory Holiday is observed during his absence, the Company will pay as per Employment Standards.
Employees who accept overtime for Statutory Holidays and/or Sunday, and then fail to show up for work will be treated as if the day or days missed were the same as a regular shift for purposes regarding Statutory Holidays, recorded sickness, etc.
33
(13.3)	Statutory Holiday In Vacation
Full-timeemployees whose vacations include any of the Statutory Holidays mentioned inthis article shall receive an additional regular day's pay, or an alternate day off. Such day off to be taken at a time convenient to the employee and management.
To qualify for the additional day Statutory Holiday pay in a vacation week that has been arranged in advance, the employee must work his required regular shift, preceding and following the Statutory Holiday, except if absent due to illness confirmed by a Doctor's certificate, which specifies his restrictions or inability to perform a job, will be paid for the Statutory Holiday
ARTICLE 14-BEREAVEMENT
Where an employee is absent and loses pay because of a death of a sister, stepsister, brother, stepbrother, spouse, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, mother or stepmother, father or stepfather, father-in-law, mother-in-law, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate for three consecutive work days including the day of the funeral.
Employees who experience bereavement during a bookedvacation will be allowedto defer that part of their vacation affected by bereavement. Deferred vacation day(s) will be taken at a time mutually agreed upon by the employee and his supervisor.
If the employee is absent and loses pay because of a death of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepbrother, stepsister, grandparent or grandchild, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate for regular hours lost on
34
up to one regular day. Grandparents to mean grandparent of employee or spouse.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to probationary employees.
ARTICLE 15-JURY DUTY
An employee summoned to appear or required to serve Jury Duty or who is subpoenaed as a crown witness shall be paid for his regular hours at his regular rate. Employees shall be required to furnish a notice of selectionfor Jury Duty, or being subpoenaed as a crown witness as soon as possible. For employees working afternoons the time off should be following Jury Duty. For employees working nightsthe time off should be the shift prior to Jury Duty.
When an employee works after his regular hours on a day in which he served Jury Duty or appeared as a subpoenaed witness, those hours will be calculated as overtime.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to probationary employees.
ARTICLE 16-SENIORITY
(16.1)	Probationary Period
From the time of hiring, new employees shall be considered probationers and shall possess no seniority and service until they have accumulated twenty-six (26) weeks' time worked.
"Weeks time worked" to be defined as a minimum of twenty (20) actual hours worked per week
35
Upon completion of the probationary period, the seniority and service date shall be the employment date. A probationary employee shall have recourse to the full grievance procedure relating to matters other than suspension or discharge. Probationary employees who feel they have been unjustly suspended or discharged shall have the right to appeal as stated in Article (8.3).
(16.2)	Seniority on Transfer
Any employee covered by this agreement who is appointed to a position outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate service. In the event of a transfer back to the bargaining unit, the employee will return with service and previous bargaining unit seniority only.
Any full-time employee who is permanently transferred within the bargaining unit will carry seniority and service provisions with him.
(16.3)	Job Elimination/Combination Bumping Procedures
The following is the procedure agreed to, between the Company and the S.E.A., for an employee affected by a permanent job elimination or job combination. The individual affected may exercise his/her seniority rights, to bump downward, to junior seniority positions. The only purpose of the bumping procedure is for job security. The Company will advise the Association of any job eliminations or job combinations and give in writing details of such changes at least twenty (20) working days in advance. If bumping applies it will be after the 20 day notice.
36
Job Elimination
A job elimination occurs in the following circumstances: - thejob is permanently transferred to a different shift -the work required to be performed is discontinued NOTE:	A job is not eliminated by reason of the start
time changing within the same shift. (Shift meaning days9 a.m.-1 1:59 am, afternoons=12:00 noon-6:59 p.m., nightshift=7:00 p.m.-2:59 am.
Job Combination Procedure A job combination occurs when two (2) jobs or more on the same shift are combined, and in such case the employee(s) with the least seniority will be bumped.
The bumped employee(s) will proceed through the bumping procedure under job elimination.
Bumping Procedure
1)	The employee must fill any job vacancy in the Plant that has not been filled under Article 18. If the job vacancy is on a different shift, the employee may
displace the most junior employee on his shift, in his
department. If he is unable to perform the vacant job or the job of the mostjunior employee, he may displace the second least senior employee on his shift and so on until he reaches a job he can performconsistentwith his seniority rights in his department. This paragraph will also apply to the bumped employee.
2)	The junior employee bumped in his department, will have the option of bumping the junior employee on his shift in the Plant. If he is unable to performthis job, he can move up the seniority list as described in item #1.
3)	The employee bumped off his shift plant wide will
37
have the option of bumping in his department on the remaining shifts. If unable to bump in his department will bump plant wide on the remaining shifts. Shift preference will be at the employees option, if the elected shift has a vacancy, must be filled before a bump occurs. If unable to perform this job he can move up the seniority list as described in item #1.
4)	When a number of employees are displaced due to job elimination, the corresponding number of least senior jobs in the department and/or plant, whichever is applicable, will be identified and the most senior of the displaced employees can choose the job he wants. In the event that two or more of the same job classifications are identified within this group of least senior jobs, the junior man in the job classification will be the first to be displaced. This process will continue in order of seniority until all employees are assigned job ownership. If one of the displaced employees is unable to perform the job to which his seniority entitles him, he may move up the seniority list until he reaches a job he can perform consistent with his own seniority rights.
5)	lf the employee is unable to bump in accordance with the above steps, he/she will be laid off.
6)	An employee whose job was eliminated or the bumped employee will have recall rights to his departmentand/or job if that job is reinstatedas follows: twelve (12) months if the employee has less than fifteen (15) months seniority; twenty-four (24) months seniority from the date of displacement if additional full
38
time staff is required as determined by the Human Resources Managerfollowing discussion with the S.E.A. President or his delegate. Recall shall be by seniority.
7)	Employees who do not have plant seniority can exercise their seniority rights in accordance with steps 1, 2 and 3.
8)	When a Maintenance job is permanentlytransferred or eliminated, the employee has the option of applying for the job. If the employee does not apply for the job, he will bump the most junior employee within his job ownership. The employee who is bumped off their job ownership, will have the right to bump the most junior employee whose job he qualifies for, within the Maintenance department.
The employee bumped out of the Maintenance department, will proceed to step#1 of the procedure.
NOTE - The Company and the Chief Steward and/or delegate plus the Department Steward will mutually determine if any employee is able to perform any job to which his seniority entitles him. Any disagreements regarding an employee's ability to perform a job may be entered as a grievance at the second step of the grievance procedure.
Job Transfers
1) When a job is transferred to another department, the employee who has job ownership has the option of moving with the job. If the employee elects not to follow the job, the following procedure will apply:
39
2) A) If no employee volunteers to move with the job to the new department, the job will be posted in accordance with the job posting procedures.
B)The employee who had job ownership and who elected not to move with the job, will exercise his seniority rights and follow the bumping procedure as described in Article 16.3.
(16.4)	S.E.A. Stewards
For the purpose of vacations and lay-off only, Stewards of the Association shall, for the term of their Stewardship, be granted top seniority on their respective shifts, and will remain on their shift during the lay-off.
The Company will provide up to six (6) working days per year for the purpose of furthering the formal education of the Association Stewards. The educational days utilized shall be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the S.E.A. Additional educational days, at the expense of the Association, may be taken when the dates are mutually agreed upon in advance.
In the event an employee acquired a job as an S.E.A. Executive Officer, their job would be protected for the duration they are in office and their job will be staffed on a temporary basis.
(16.5)	Absence Due to Accident or Illness
An employee with seniority, absent due to accident or illness, shall continue to accumulate seniority and to be
40
credited with service. An employee will have job ownership protectionfor two (2) years.
An employee who will be unable to return to work within the two (2) year limit will forfeit job ownership after it has been concluded by the Committee not to extend the time limit. This review will be done no later than the last month prior to the expiration of the two (2) year limit.
When an employee returns to work in less than the two (2) years, and medical information indicates he will be unable to performthe regular duties of his job, he will be temporarily assigned within his department or Plant to a job he can perform until such time as a job vacancy becomes available that he can perform. This employee will then apply for the job vacancy under Article 18 or whichever is applicable.
Where the employee provides medical information that indicates he is unable to perform the regular duties of his job within the two (2) years, he may voluntarily relinquish job ownership and be assigned to best advantage.
A Committee of four (4) equal in numbers between the Association and the Company will deal with the process of extending the two (2) year limit and assigning such employees to modified work. If the employee is in disagreement with the decision of the Committee, he may appeal this decision to the Committee, provided such appeal is filed within seven (7) working days.
41
An employee may enter a grievance at the third step of the grievance procedure if the Committee fails to reach an agreement on extending the time limits.
This Committee will also convene meetings to determinethe availability of modified duties/jobs that may be available to accommodate employees on WSIB or Wl for long-term placements.
Employees on Workers' Compensation claim are required to keep the Company informed of their expected returnto work date, updated at least every two (2) weeks.
Employees establishing a compensation claim must advise the Company as soon as possible after the injury occurs.
(16.6)	Discharge, Termination or Lay-Off
The seniority of an employee will be considered broken, all rights forfeited and the employee will be terminated when he/she:
a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for just cause.
b)	Fails to return to work within three days when recalled from layoff without a reasonable excuse.
c)	Has completed the probationary period but has less than fifteen (15) months seniority and has been laid off by the Company for twelve (12) months.
d)	Has fifteen (15) months seniority or more and has been laid off by the Company for twenty-four (24) months.
e)	Is absent for three consecutive workdays and fails during that time to notify Human Resources with a reason for the absence.
42
f)	Use Leave of Absence for any purpose other than for the reason granted.
0) Hasbeenabsentfrom workdueto illnessor injuryfor thirty (30) months and there is no medical evidence of their ability to return to the workplace. “This is applicable to employees hired January 1, 2002 or later.” h) In the case of probationary employees when recall rights which are equivalent to their number of full weeks of employment at the time of layoff, expire.
(16.7)	Leave of Absence
Leave of Absence may be granted at the discretionof the Company in an emergency up to ninety calendar days. Leave of Absence may be granted for Association business.
Maternity, Adoption, Parental and Emergency Leave will be granted as required by government legislation.
When applying for a Leave of Absence due to pregnancy, the employee must give two weeks notice in writing together with a medical certificate estimating the date of delivery.
Employees granted Leave of Absence subject to the considerations listed in the preceding paragraphs, shall continue to accumulate seniority and service during such Leaves of Absence.
Leave of Absence for reasons other than emergency, compassionate grounds, S.E.A. business or pregnancy may be granted subject to the requirements of business and other reasons at the discretion of management. Applications for Leaves of Absence under this clause will normally only be considered for the months of October to June, inclusive. Weeks which include or
43
precede or immediately follow a Statutory Holiday usually require our entire work force, therefore, Leaves of Absence will normally not be granted during those periods. Leaves of Absence under this clause will normally not exceed three weeks.
When planning activities for which a Leave of Absence is anticipated, employees are expected to make maximum use of vacation schedules to which they are entitled. Employees are expected to exercise discretion in judgment when submitting requests for Leave of Absence. Absences should be planned as far in advance as possible.
Management’s decision in granting or refusing such leave will not be arbitrable. In the event that absence is granted under the provisions of this article seniority shall continue to accumulate.
The Extended Health Insurance, Dental Care, and Life Insurance plans will be continued for the Leave of absence. The employee will reimburse the Company (other than Maternity Leave) for the cost of these benefits at the current rates. The Association will be informed of changes to the benefit rates with an explanation of the changes four (4) weeks in advance of the new rates becoming effective. Contributions to the Company Pension Plan will be suspended for the Leave of Absence.
(16.8)	Provisions for Leadership Roles Persons whom the Company is training to fill technical, commercial, or supervisory positions may be employed or retrained in employment in plant operations irrespective of the seniority provisions of this Article as follows:
44
Current bargaining unit employees who enter the Leadership program will relinquish job ownership upon commencement of the program. Employeeswho wish to leave the program or those who are not meeting the requirements of the position will be removed from the program and will acquire job ownership by applying under Article 18.
The rate of pay for leadership roles will be $19.50 per hour and will receive the same annual wage adjustments as the Job Class“D” classification,
The Secretary of the Association shall be advised of such appointments,
ARTICLE 17 ■ LAY-OFFS AND RECALLS
(17.1)	Order of Lay-offs
When necessary to reduce the work force, the order of lay-off shall be:
First - Casual employees
Second - Probationary employees, provided that the remaining employees can satisfactorilyperform the jobs assigned.
Third - Employees with seniority in order of seniority, provided that the remaining employees can satisfactorily perform the jobs assigned.
Employees who can qualify reasonably quickly will be given an opportunity to do so. Where such employee cannot qualify reasonably quickly, the job will be given to the second most junior employee in the plant and so on up the line until a job is reached that he can perform satisfactorily or qualify for reasonably quickly. Those given such opportunityto qualify, must within one week, have the ability to perform the job satisfactorily.
45
Employees exercising their seniority rights under this article will only be entitled to one opportunity for training on the job, per twelve months, for the duration of this contract, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties.
Employees may apply for a leave of absence as per Article 16.7.
(17.2)	Order of Recall
When increasing the work force, the reverse procedure to lay-offs will be followed.
Any employee who has been laid-off and who has been notified in writing at his address, according to the Company's records, to return to work and within three days has failed to do so without reasonable excuse, shall be considered to have quit his employment voluntarily.
(17.3)	S.E.A. Notification
The Association Secretary and Association Steward shall receive prior notification of all lay-offs and recalls. Weekly staffing assignments shall be posted and a copy provided to the Chief Steward.
(17.4)	Benefits on Lay-Off
Laid-off employees with seniority will continue to be covered under Article 23 (except Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability) for up to eight weeks of lay-off. Upon any recall to work, the eight (8) weeks will start over.
Up to five additional weeks' coverage will be automatically provided at the employee's expense if lay-off continues, unless the employee advises the Company in writing in advance of his desire not to 46
accept such coverage, This procedure must be repeated on each occurrence if the employee does not wish to continue the five (5) weeks benefit coverage. This cost of continued coverage will be deducted from the employee's first pay cheque upon recall.
(17.5) Plant Closing
Employees with a minimum of twelve (12) months seniority shall be eligible for transfer to another division of the Company. Benefits shall continue until the end of the month following the month in which the lay-off occurs. These provisions shall apply where lay-offs occur due to a plant closing or partial closing.
If the employee declines a transfer to another division of the Company, the following severance schedule shall apply:
Upto one year, one weeks pay for every year offull time service to a maximum of 26 weeks.
In the event that the Employment Standards legislation provides a greater benefit than detailed above, then it shall prevail.
ARTICLE 18 - PROGRESSION
(18.1)	Job Progression
The Company agrees to recognize the principle of seniority in job progression in a fair and equitable manner having regard not only to the length of service, but as well, to the knowledge, training, skill, efficiency, and physical fitness of the employee or employees concerned to do the work assigned. The Company reserves the right to test employees for skills, 47
knowledge and ability to perform the available work. The tests will be relevant to the vacant job. The Company will only test the senior applicant to an established threshold.
(18.2)	Job Vacancies
When a permanent job vacancy occurs within the plant, the vacancy will be posted on the plant notice board for two (2) working days.
Interested employees must sign job postings on the plant bulletin board. Applications shall be considered according to the same principle as defined in Article
(18.1). An employee absent from work who is able to return within a four (4) week period, will have their names added to the posting by management. If they wish to accept the job posting without a trial periodthey will have their application granted.
Employees classified as inactive are not eligible for job postings under this article unless they have notified management of their ability to return to work within a four (4) week period, Employees who have notified management will be eligible for job postings following such notification.
When an applicant on the same rated job is accepted, the change will be made as quickly as possible without undue disruption within the plant. When an applicant on a lower rated job is accepted, the move will be made promptly.
Applications from any employees for a posted vacancy, other than progression, will not be consideredwithin six (6) months of granting such previous application, except employees whose present job is the result of Article 16.3.
48
ARTICLE 19- TRANSFERS
(19.1)	Temporary Transfers
The Company will fill daily and weekly staffing requirements with consideration given to shift seniority and qualifications. Significant changes to the staffing process will be reviewed with the Chief Steward.
When the Company must transfer an employee to a different shift the Company will first consider those who have requested in advance, provided this requested transfer will not jeopardize the efficient operation of any shift. Those people requesting shift changes will not qualify for premiums as per Article 10.2 and 10.3.
If there are no requests the junior qualified employee will be transferred.
ARTICLE 20-VACATIONS
(20.1)	Vacation Year
The vacation year will be from May 1st to the following April 30th.
Horizon Poultry (Maple Leaf Consumer Food Ltd.) will recognizeall past service and seniority.
(20.2)	Length of Service
The length of vacations will be based on the length of service and shall be calculated from the employment date for each employee to the 30th of April of each year.
(20.3)	Vacation Schedule
The length of vacation will be determined on the following schedules.
a)	Employeeswith one full year's service will receive two weeks' vacation.
49
b)	Employees with five full years' service will receive three weeks’ vacation.
c)	Employees with ten full years’ service will receive four weeks’ vacation.
d)	Employees with eighteen full years’ service will receive five weeks’ vacation.
e)	Employees with twenty-five full years’ service will receive six weeks vacation.
f)	Employees with thirty-five full years’ service will receive seven weeks’ vacation.
Employees hired after April 9, 2006 will not be entitled to the provisions of Article 20.3 (e) and (f) and will be eligible for five (5) weeks of vacation following the completion of twenty (20) years of service.
(20.4)	Completion of Required Service
Employees who after May 1st and prior to the end of the vacation year reach the service required to entitle them to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation schedule in paragraph (20.3) (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f), will become eligible for such additional week of vacation on the completion of the required years of service as of their individual date of employment.
(20.5)	Advance Vacation
Employees who have vacation entitlement earned by May 1st during any vacation year may draw the earned portion of such vacation on or after December 25th preceding the vacation period or sooner by mutual agreement of the parties.
Preference will be given to employees with current vacation, during the week of Christmas and New Year's, providing their names are on the list.
50
(20.6)	Vacation Pay
(a)	Full-Time
Vacation pay shall be the regular daily or weekly hours at the employee's regular hourly or weekly rate in effect at the time of vacation.
The amounts stated above will be reduced by 1/52 for each week of absence during the previous vacation year excepting absences which are:
-with permission up to twenty working days annually; -due to lay-off up to twenty working days annually;
-up to (1) one year maximum from date of injury due to compensable accident covered underthe W.S.I.B;
-due to sicknesswhich exceeds the following scale :
-15 weeks from date of illness for employees with less than 5 years’ seniority;
-26 weeks from date of illness for employees with less than 12 years’ seniority;
-52 weeks from date of illnessfor employees with more than 12 years’ seniority.
Employees returning from long term absence will only be considered as being back to work upon the completion of two weeks' (10 working days) continuous attendance following such absence.
In addition, vacation pay on overtime and premium earnings calculated at 2% times the number of weeks of vacation entitlement will be paid in a lump sum once a year, to be distributed no later than the third pay week of May or sooner if available.
Vacation pay supplement will be paid to the family of an employee whose employment has been terminated due to death.
51
(b)	Casual or Discharged Employees
Casual and discharged employees will be eligible for vacation pay as provided by the Employment Standards Act.
(c)	Termination
Any full-time employee who voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, shall be entitled to a proportionate vacation pay allowance based on that portion of the year worked since May 1st and the total number of completed years of continuous service according to the provisions of Article (20.6) (a).
(20.7)	Choice of Vacation
Employees shall, as far as possible, be given choice of vacation in order of seniority. The times at which vacations shall be taken shall be fixed by the Company. The third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh week of vacation shall be taken during the months of October to May, inclusive, or at the convenience of the Company. Employees will have the opportunity to book two (2) weeks vacation from the last full week of June up to and includingthe first full week of September.
Employees with 25 years of service will be allowed to book three weeks in the months of June, July and August.
(20.8)	No Accumulation
Vacations with pay shall not be accumulated from year to year. Employees musttake their vacations within their vacation year, except as provided in Article (20.5), or with Managements consent.
52
ARTICLE 21 - RETIREMENT
(21.1)	Normal Retirement Normal retirementshall be at age 65.
(21.2)	Optional Early Retirement
An employee may take an early retirement on the first of the month following the attainment of age 55,
Members of the Company defined benefit pension plan will be entitledto a pension unreducedactuariallyfor the period of 48 months immediately prior to the employee's normal retirementdate. Employees retiring with a reduced pension, the benefit is reduced by 1/2 of 1% for each month by which the date of commencement of pension payments precedes the month in which the member attains age 61.
(21.3)	Canada Pension Plan
All employees must contribute to the Canada Pension Plan.
(21.4)	Company Pension Plan
All employees hired prior to January 1, 1996 must continue to participate in the Company defined benefit pension plan in which they are a member. It will be a condition of employment for new employees hired after January 1, 1996 to participate in the defined contribution pension plan aftercompletingtwo (2)years of service.
Contribution Schedules:
For all members eligible for the defined contribution provisions of the pension plan after January 1,2002, they will contribute at the rate of 3% of earnings. The 53
Company will match such employee contribution and vesting of these contributions will take place after two (2) years of plan membership.
For employees in the defined contribution pension plan prior to December 31, 2001, they will remain in the current contribution schedule of 2.4 % of earning up to the YMPE and 4% in excess of the YMPE. The Company will contribute an amount for each member of the defined contribution pension plan based upon the following scale:
Years of Service
at least 0 5 10 20
30-35
but less than
5
10
20
30
%of
Members nf Qnntributions 50 75 100 125 150
In addition, current members of the defined contribution pension plan will be given the option of switching to the new contribution schedule of 3% of earningswith 100% Company match, the election to switch contribution schedules must be made prior to June 1,2002 and such election is irrevocable.
Members of the defined benefit pension plan will contribute 2.4% of earning to the YMPE and 4% of earning in excess of the YMPE. Pension plan vesting (lock-in) will take place aftertwo (2) years membership for pension earned from January 1,1987.
Earnings shall mean all earnings received by a Plan Member from the Employer in a calendar year including
54
regular rate of pay, overtime pay, shift premium, vacation pay and vacation supplement. Not to include bonuses, incentive pay and any other type of remuneration.
Benefits from the defined benefit pension plan at normal retirement will be:
*	Basic Benefit of $50.00 per year for each $100.00 contribution made by the employee
*	Non-Contributory Supplement shall be $16.10 per month per year of service paid to all active employees for continuous service priorto December31,2010.
*	Contributory Supplement of $3.30 per month for each full year of Company Pension Plan participation priorto December31,2010 shall be paidtothe employees.
*	The normal earned pension shall be guaranteed for a minimum of sixty (60) monthly payments
(21.5)	Pension Plan Amendments
The Company agrees to make available to the Association a copy of any and all bargaining unit pension plan text amendments affecting employees covered by this collectiveagreement at least twenty-one (21) days prior to presenting such amendments to the Board of Directorsfor execution.
The Company agrees to an immediate partial wind-up amendment if there is a lay-off as per Article 17.5 and to give all reports pertaining to the wind-up as soon as possible. This letter to be received at a further date.
The Company and the Association agree to add one representative from the Ayr plant to the Pension Advisory Committee in Kitchener.
55
ARTICLE 22 ■ SAFETY, HEALTH AND SANITATION
The Company shall continue to make provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment.
Protective devices on machinery and other necessary equipment to safeguard employees from injury shall be provided by the Company and must be used by the employee.
Any worker has a right to refuse work that he believes is unsafe. There must be reason to believe that; equipment, physical conditions or contravention of the Occupational Health and Safely Act, is likely to endanger themselves or co-workers.
The worker shall promptly report the circumstances of refusal to their supervisor. The supervisor and a committee member shall forthwith investigate in the presence of the worker.
If the worker still has reasonable grounds to believe there is an unsafe condition, an inspector from the Ministry of Labour shall investigate. Pending the inspector's investigation another worker may be assigned the work. Knowledge of refusal and reasons must be given to this worker. This worker may also refuse.
There shall be no dismissal, discipline, suspension, penalty or intimidation of a worker who acts in compliance of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The Company recognizes the need to have Safety Committee members and workers who are well trained. The Company will continue to train the Committee members to seek further training both through direct
56
training sessions internal and externally and by encouraging members to take external courses for which they are reimbursed as per Company Policy.
The Company recognizes the need to foster the process of employee involvement in making and evaluation of recommendations.
Privacy in washrooms, as defined by the Health and Safety Act, will be provided by the Company.
Employees will, and the Association shall, encourage its members to co-operate fully in maintaining cleanliness and orderliness in the use of all facilities and devices provided by the company.
ARTICLE 23-WELFARE PLANS
(23.1)	Eligibility
Full-time employees are eligible for coverage in the following benefit plans after they have accumulated twenty-six (26) worked weeks of service, with the exception of:
-Weekly Indemnity - eligibility is after 13 worked weeks of service.
-Long Term Disability - eligibility is after 2 years of accumulated service.
Benefit coverage will be provided in accordance with the Group Benefits Insurance Booklet. It is understood that the employer is responsible for premium payments where applicable, on the basis stipulated in Article 23. The selection of the insurance carrier is vested exclusively with the Company.
Any claim which is an eligible expense underthe terms of the Group Benefits Insurance Policy which is rejected by the Insurer, will be paid by the Company according to
57
the term of the Group Benefits Insurance Policy. Dependents must be enrolled in the plans to be eligible for coverage. Eligible dependents (spouse and children) of deceased employees will continue to be eligible for EHIPand Dental benefitsforupto one year from the first of the month following death but not beyond the date that the deceased employee's spouse remarries or becomes eligible for comparable coverage.
Employees hired prior to January 1st 2002 who retire from employment are eligible for coverage in the appropriate Retiree Benefit Insurance plan.
(23.2)	Health Insurance
The Company will providean Extended Health Insurance Plan and pay 100% of the insurance premiums for the following benefits:
‘Managed Healthcare Drug Plan at 100% of all eligible expenses for the Drug Benefits (does not include any drug that is available on an over-the-counter basis whether or not prescribed), and the Supplementary Health Care Benefit. Maximum dispensing fee payable is $8.00.
‘Vision Care at $200 every twenty-four months, ‘Hearing Aids at $1000 every 10 years ‘Supplementary Health Care Positive enrollment - all employeeswill be provided with enrollment forms to identify the names of dependents and their birth dates who are to be provided with dependent coverage. Benefit claims for dependents will initially be claimed by the spouse whose birthday occurs first in the year when the spouse has coverage available from another source.
58
(23.3a) Life Insurance
The Company will provide a Group Life Insurance Plan and pay 100% of the insurance premiums for the following benefits:
*	$30,000 for all active full-time employees
*	$2,000 for all employees who retire
*	Accidental Life (double indemnity)
(23.3b) Optional Life Insurance Family life insurance will be made available for the employee's spouse and dependent children in the following units:
Plan 1 - Spouse $5,000 Dependents- $2,000 Plan 2 - Spouse $10,000 Dependents-$5,000 Optional Life Insurance(Employeesonly) - Optional Life Insurance will be made available for employeesonly, in units of $10,000 to maximum of three (3) units.
This life insurance will be at 100% employee cost. Cost of insurance may increase based on experience.
(23.4) Weekly Indemnity The Company will provide a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan and the cost of this insurance is shared by the Company and the employee on a 50-50 basis. The E.l. Premium reduction on behalf of employee contributions towards the Weekly Indemnity benefit shall be applied to reduce employee Weekly Indemnity premiums.
*	For absence due to illness or accident, benefitsfor up to fifteen (15) weeks at the rate of 66 2/3 (to the E.l. benefit level maximum) of the employee's regular daily or weekly hours at the regular hourly rate in effect at the
59
time of illness or accident. Probationary employees who have accumulated thirteen (13) worked weeks of service are eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits only.
*	Benefits shall begin on the first day of absence if due directly to an injury caused solely by accident and disability began within 30 days of the initial injury. Benefits shall begin on the first day of absence if a debilitating procedure has been performed. Benefit shall begin on the fourth day of absence if due to other illness, except benefits for eligible probationary employees which shall begin on the fifteenth day of absence if due to other illness.
*	The employee must see a Doctor within 7 days of the commencement of the disability in order to be considered eligible for full payment.
*	Statutory holiday pay received during the waiting period will extend the waiting period by the equivalent number of days for which such statutory holiday pay was received.
*	An employee returning to work on a reduced work week rehabilitation program will have his Weekly Indemnity benefit reduced by $.50 (fifty cents) for every dollar earned on the rehabilitation program. For purposes of calculating the benefit reduction, the applicable employee base rate will be used.
(23.5)	Long Term Disability Insurance
The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Insurance Plan and both the Company and the employee pay 50% of the insurance premiums for the following benefits:
*	For absence due to illness or accident, a benefit of
60
60% of the employee’s basic wage or salary to a maximum of $1322 per month.
*	The monthly disability benefit is reduced for primary benefits received on a dollar for dollar basis by a disability income payable under Canada Pension Plan Disability Benefits.
*	Employees no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity Benefits must apply for E.I. medical disability benefit. If the disability continues beyond thirty (30) weeks from commencement, L.T.D. benefits will then be applicable. The Company will top-up the E.l. benefit paid to ensure the employee receives60% of his basic wage to a maximum of $1,322.00 per month. An additional top-up will be provided to offset any difference in the employee’s tax payable as a result of receiving E.l. disability benefits in lieu of the L.T,D. benefits. The Company will provide upto four (4) weeks of E.l. bridge benefitto any employee who has signed an agreement with the Company to repay such moneys, when there is an unusual delay in receiving E.l. benefits which is not attributable to the employees.
*	During the qualifying period and the 24 month period immediately following it, “totally disabled” means the employee is unable due to medically determinable physical or mental impairment due to injury or disease to perform the regular duties of any occupation which the Company may make available to the employee.
*	After the 24 month period, “totally disabled means the employee is unable, because of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment due to injury or disease to perform the duties of any occupation for remuneration or profit within the range of his
61
education, training or experience.
*	An employee is not considered totally disabled unless he is under the active and continuous care of a physician for that disability.
*	An employee is not considered totally disabled due to the use of drugs or alcohol unless he is being actively supervised and receiving continuous treatment for that disability from a rehabilitation centre or an institution provincially designated for that treatment.
*	Employeeswho are absent from work and in receipt of Weekly Indemnity benefits and who would have achieved two (2) years service during that period had they actively been at work, will be deemed to have met the service requirements to become eligible for this benefit.
*	Employees who are collecting Long Term Disability benefits and are eligible for an unreduced pension from the Company Pension Plan and who are expected to remain totally disabled until normal retirement age, may elect to retire from the Company. The L.T.D, benefit will be reduced by $.50 (fifty cents) for every dollar of pension received from the Company Pension Plan. Increases in pension payments for retired employees will apply to employees who have retired under this provision. Employees reviewing this option with the Company may have an S.E.A. executive representative attend the meeting if they desire.
*	An employee returning to work on a reduced work week rehabilitation program will have his Long Term Disability benefit reduced by $.50 (fifty cents) for every dollar earned on the rehabilitation program. Only regular earnings will be applied to this reduction.
62
(23.6)	Dental Care
The Company will provide a Dental Cate Insurance Plan and pay 100% of the insurance premiums for the following benefitsafter one (1) year:
-	Basic restorative & preventative at 80% reimbursement
• Denturesand denture repairs at 50% reimbursement
-	Porcelain Crowns, at 80% reimbursement
-	The Dental Fee Guide shall be:
EffectiveJanuary 1,2006 Suggested Fee Schedule EffectiveJanuary 1, 2007 Suggested Fee Schedule EffectiveJanuary 1,2008 Suggested Fee Schedule Effective January 1, 2009 Suggested Fee Schedule EffectiveJanuary 1, 2010 Suggested Fee Schedule
the 2005 O.D.A the 2006 O.D.A the 2007 O.D.A the 2008 O.D.A the 2009 O.D.A,
(23.7)	Claim Eligibility
Where a claim for Weekly Indemnity or Income Continuance benefits is in dispute based upon the insurance carrier's assessment of the medical information provided by the employee's physician, the employee will be medically assessed by a third physician, mutually agreed upon by the parties, and this assessment will be determinative of employee's eligibility for benefit. The cost of this independent medical will be borne by the Company.
63
ARTICLE 24 ■ CLOTHING AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT
(24.1)	New Employees
Initial clothing requirementsdesignated by the Company shall be purchased by the new employees, hired after date of ratification. Such initial cost will be deducted by equal amounts over 5 pay periods by the Company from employees pay.
The Company will supply equipment requirementsto the employee at no cost.
(24.2)	Replacement and Additional Clothing
Replacement and additional clothing and equipment will be provided by the Company at no cost to the employee when authorized by the Team Manager. This clothing and equipment remains the property of the Company and must not be removed from the plant. Casuals shall be required to pay half the cost for replacement of personal clothing, including safely shoes. Operators with job ownership will be supplied with uniforms.
Each employee is responsiblefor the use and care of the clothing and equipment and is liable for full replacement cost if lost or maliciously damaged.
(24.3)	Transferred Employees
Employees transferring from one job to another or from one department to another, may be required to turn in clothing and equipment not needed on the new job but shall be given any new equipment or clothing requiredat no cost to the employee.
64
(24.4)	Laundering
The Company will provide and pay for the full cost of laundering of all clothing.
(24.5)	Maintenance Mechanics Tools
Maintenance Mechanics will be supplied with necessary tools at no cost to the employee. These tools remain the property of the Company and are not to be removed from the Company premises.
ARTICLE 25 - BULLETIN BOARD
The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board in a conspicuous place in the plant for the display of Association notices and material, provided that all such notices and material bear the signature of an Association official and the approval of the Plant Manager or his delegate before posting.
ARTICLE 26 - GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
It is the intention of both parties to this Agreement to operate within the laws and regulations of the Government of Canada and that of the province in which work is performed with respect to wages and other payments, hours, conditions of work and other related matters.
ARTICLE 27 - COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
(27.1)	Effective Dates
Except as otherwise provided, this Agreement shall become effective on the 1 st day of January, 2006 and
shall continue in effect until the 31 day of December 2010 and there after, from year to year, unless either party gives written notice to the other of termination or amendment of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration. Where notice to amend the agreement is given, the provisions of this agreement shall continue in force until a new agreement is signed orthe right to strike or lock out accrues, whichever first occurs.
(27.2)	No Strike or Lockout
There shall be no strike or lockout during the life of this Agreement and in no event shall the Association cause, take part in, or tolerate any movement encouraging a slow down or stoppage of work.
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC. (Ayr, Ontario)
GEORGE MACKIE TODD CHARTERS DEREK DOUGLAS
SCHNEIDER EMPLOYEES' ASSOCIATION
DENNIS LESPERANCE RONSIEBERT SYLVIA ROCKE JOHN GILLIES EUGENE COCKERTON PAUL MAZUR DAVE PREISS GUY PFAFF 66
JOB NUMBERS, JOB DESCRIPTIONS, RATES OF PAY
Job Class A
Load and Pack
Load and Pack Spare
Office Sanitation
Job Class B
Line Set-up
*Overwrapper
*Oven Glaze Applicator
*These are jobs that are not consistently performed more than three days per week. These jobs will not be posted but above rate will be paid when performed by qualified personnel. These jobs are non-rotational.
Job Class C
Office Clerk Quality Assurance Shipper Receiver Maintenance Helper
Sanitation bs
Ovens
Backend Oven Oven Packoff Formed Fryer Fillet Line Fillet Fryer
Operator Jobs
Oven
Backend Oven Formed Line Blender Auto Bagger Fillet Line
Formed Line Raw Packoff & Tunnels Technical Equipment Miscellaneous Tanks & Tubs
Job Class D Head Receiver
Job Class	Effective Rate Jan 1,2006		Effective Rate Dec 31,2006		Effective Rate Dec 30.2007		Effective Rate Dec 28,2008		Effective Rate Jan 3,2010
A	14.91		15.26		15.61		15.96		16.31
B	15.19		15.54		15.89		16.24		16.87
C	15.47		15.82		16.17		16.52		16.87
D	15.82		16.17		16.52		16.87		17.22
Maintenance Wages		Effect Rale Jan 1/06		Effect Rate Dec 31/06		Effect Rate Dec 30/07		Effect Rate Dec 28/08	Effect Date Jan 3/10
Sewage Treatment Plant Operator		26.34		27.00		27.68		28.37	29.08
General Maintance		26.02		26.67		27.34		28.02	28.72
Journeyman Malntaince Mechanic		27.05		27.73		28.42		29.13	29.83
3rd Class stationary Enaineer		26.34		27.00		27.68		28.37	29.08
4th Class Stationary Engineer		25.53		26.17		26.82		27.49	28.18
Chief Engineer		27.41		28.10		28.80		29.52	30.26
Journeyman Electrician		27.05		27.73		28.42		29.13	29.86
68
Maintenance employees, who are licensed in two trades and are regularly performing work in both trades as assigned by management, shall receive the journeyman rate plus $1.00 per hour.
Maintenance employees who are licensed in two trades and who are temporarily assigned by management to work in their second trade will be paid a $1.00 per hour premium or will be paid in accordance with Article 9.2a, whichever is greater.
69
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
MEDICAL AND LICENSE FEES
The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of licenses, and all medical required in the performance of their duties upon presentation of a paid receipt.
70
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2
To ensure there is no misunderstanding with regard to “personal necessity time” for emergency situations, this letter will state the Company's position.
“The Company recognizes that from time to time or for certain medical reasons, employee may require more personal necessity time than was agreed to at negotiations. The Company will allow employees more personal necessity time or frequencies when it is absolutely necessary. However, these occasions must be the exception rather than the rule.”
In other emergency situations, employees are expected to observe no more than the normal personal necessity breaks during their shift.
71
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3
Mr. Charles Losier President
Schneider EmployeesAssociation 321 Courtland Avenue East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 3X8 Dear Mr. Losier:
The Company agrees that in the event of sale of the Company to a new buyer, the Company shall requirethe Purchaser to cause to be registered a new pension plan which shall provide the transferred employee with pension benefits which are no less favourable to the employees than those currently provided under the Plan and which shall provide for amendment or termination of that pension plan on terms no more favourable to the Purchaser than those currently found in the Plan.
Yours truly
J.E. Nolan
Manager, Human Resources
72
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #4
Mr. Charles Losier President
Schneider EmployeesAssociation 321 Courtland Avenue East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 3X8 Dear Mr. Losier:
Once Management has signed ana verified their overtime schedule it will be posted on the appropriate bulletin board in the first four (4) hours of the shift, any errors or omissions will be brought to the attention of the scheduler by the missed employee (excludes Maintenance). Failure to do so will nullify any right to the grievance procedure.
Yours truly
J.E. Nolan
Manager, Human Resources
73
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #5
Mr. Charles Losier President
Schneider Employees Association 321 Courtland Avenue East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 3X8 Dear Mr. Losier:
When an employee is called in for a voluntary information meeting outside the normal hours of work the appropriate overtime rate will be paid for time spent at the meeting with a minimum of two hours at regular rate. Attendance will be on a voluntary basis for such meetings.
Yours truly
J.E. Nolan
Manager, Human Resources
74
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6
MEDICAL CERTIFICATES AND NOTES In this matter, the issue is that of supervisors with reasonable grounds, requesting Doctor's notes of employees who have called in sick to substantiate their casual absence for illness.
If the Company directs an employee to provide medical information from a doctor for reasons other than providedfor in our Collective Agreement the cost of the note will be paid for by the Company upon presentation of a paid receipt. The Doctor's note must state the employee was disabled and incapable of working during the period of absence and signed by the doctor.
Employees are free to submit medical information on their own, not requested by the supervisor, to substantiatetheir casual absence from work for medical reason, however this will not be paid for by the Company.
Doctor's notes are to be submitted to the Health Centre Nurse who will notify the appropriate supervisor of the expected return and any work restrictions that may apply.
75
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7 DEFINITION OF A SPARE
Full-time position whose function Is to replace employees absent in the plant as assigned by management due to illness, injury, leave of absence, excused, inexcused, open jobs, or other duties as assigned according to the job posting.
76
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #8
OVERTIMEWORK-DEFINITION
“Overtime Work” Is defined as minutes or hours of time worked before or after the normal daily schedule of hours or the normal weekly schedule of hours.
Overtime will be determined and scheduled by management and will become available to employees only when the Company cannot produce or attain its requirements with bargaining unitemployeesworking regular hours.
Rules for the distribution of overtime will be established by Department Overtime Policies, as developed by the Management and Stewards, approved by senior Managementand S.E.A. officials, then voted on by the department employees. Department overtime policies are subject to be reviewed every two (2) years unless mutually agreed that changes are required.
When overtime work is made available by management, it will be awarded according to the Overtime Policy and paid for according to the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
77
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
The Company and the Association agree that the operation of the apprenticeship program will be In accordance with the “Apprenticeship Standards” document.
78
LETTER OF INTENT #1
Mr. Charles Losier President
Schneider EmployeesAssociation 321 Courtland Avenue East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 3X8 Dear Mr. Losier.
This will confirm our discussion during contract negotiationsthatthe Company will not schedule regular productionforthe 10:00 p.m. Sunday start. This time is intended for preparation work (if necessary), to ensure productwill be readyfor day shift production.
Yours truly
Brian Keller Plant Manager
79
LETTER OF INTENT #2
Mr. Charles Losier President
Schneider Employees Association 321 Courtland Avenue East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 3X8 Dear Mr. Losier:
This letter will confirm the commitment made by the Company during the Ayr Collective Agreement negotiationsto the effect that, the company will provide, on a voluntary basis training and upgrading in emergency response procedures and emergency First Aid to all employees the company requires.
Yours truly
J.E. Nolan
Manager, Human Resources
80