BETWEEN;
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
SOURCE			Jo	
EFF.			&1,	lin
TERM.	an		Qln	
No. Of ' EMPLOYEES				
NOM&RE D'EMPLOYES		j;i\\		
P & H FOODS
478 Fourteenth Street
Hanover, Ontario
(Hereinafter called the "Company")
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter called the "Union")
TERM:
June 1, 1992 to June 1» 1994
00280 (06)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1	-	PURPOSE ......................................... 1
ARTICLE 2	-	RECOGNITION ..................................... 1
ARTICLE 3	-	MANAGEMENT ...................................... 1
ARTICLE 4	-	UNION SECURITY .................................. 2
ARTICLE 5	-	SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION	OF PRODUCTION	...	3
ARTICLE 6	-	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ............................. 3
ARTICLE 7	-	HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME,	AND HOLIDAY	PAY	...	6
ARTICLE 8	-	PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED.....................  8
ARTICLE 9	- SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT......................... . .	9
ARTICLE 10	- VACATIONS................................ . . . .	12
ARTICLE 11	-	SENIORITY	............................. .....	14
ARTICLE 12	-	SAFETY AND	HEALTH ...................... .....	19
ARTICLE 13	-	GENERAL ................................. .....	19
ARTICLE 14	-	SEPARATION	ALLOWANCES ................... ....	22
ARTICLE 15	-	WAGES.........................................   24
ARTICLE 16j	-	LEAVE OF ABSENCE............................ 24
ARTICLE 17	-	CREDITED SERVICE ............................... 25
ARTICLE 18	-	BEREAVEMENT.................................27
ARTICLE 19	-	HEALTH AND WELFARE.............................. 28
ARTICLE 20'	-	DISCIPLINARY WARNINGS	....	  32
ARTICLE 21	-	EDUCATION AND TRAINING	FUND ................32
ARTICLE 22	-	DURATION OF AGREEMENT........................... 33
SCHEDULE "A'L............... ...........................34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11 : I : . '................. 36
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING #2................................37
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING if3...............................38
EXHIBIT "A"	......................... .................40
1
	COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS 478 Fourteenth Street Hanover, Ontario (Hereinafter called the "Company") - and -
	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175 (Hereinafter called the "Union")
ARTICLE 1	- PURPOSE-
1.01	It is the intent of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling grievances which may possibly arise, as well as to set forth conditions of employment, rates of pay, and hours of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTTCT.F, ?		- RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bageaining agent for all employees" f its poultry processing plant, 478 Fourteenth Street, Hanover, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, sales staff, fieldmen, and hatchery staff.
ARTICLE 3	- MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Management of the Plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, promote and demote employees, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees within the Plant, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine product to be handled,
2
3.02
ARTICLE
4.01
4.02
4.03
4.04
produced or'manufactured, the schedules of production and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employees or the Union or for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement.
The Company agrees that these rights will not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
- UNION SECURITY
The Company agrees that, subject to compliance with the procedure hereinafter set out, it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly Union dues.
No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against
this application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union, and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practised to compel or influence any employee to join the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practised or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become Wfvnk/±'ZS of the union.
If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure established by this Agreement.
(a)	Employees on the payroll of the Company as of
September 8, 1990, may become and thereafter remain members of the Union, as a condition of employment.
(b)	All employees of the Company hired on or after
September 8, 1990, shall, upon completion of the probationary period, become and thereafter remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
(c)	The Company shall remit to the Union within thirty
(30) calendar days following the completion of the probationary period, the United Food & Commercial Workers Membership Application form signed by the new employee.
3
4.05
4.06
4.07
4.08
ARTICLE
5.01
ARTICLE
6.01
(a)	All employees shall, as a condition of employment,
authorize the deduction of Union dues and initiation fees. Such deductions will commence with the employee's first pay. This deduction shall not include any special assessment.
(b) The Company agrees to make the deduction, set out in Article 4.05 (a) from each employee in the bargaining unit. The Company will remit the total sum so deducted to the Union on or before the 15th calendar day of the following month, accompanied by a list of eR\cLl0,v-ees and their Social Insurance Numbers from whose pay such deductions have been made.
The Company agrees to list the amount of Union dues paid on employees' T4 forms for income, tax purposes.
The Plant Chairman and the Union Office shall be furnished with the name and address of each new employee and each employee who is to be laid off or terminated. Such list shall be provided once each month.
The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, the amount of the Union dues and the initiation fee which the Company is required to deduct ’from each eligible employee. The Company will be advised, in writing, of any further changes in the Union dues or initiation fees.
5	~__SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION OF PRODUCTION
It is agreed that the Union and its members individually and collectively will not, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit or take part In any strike. The Company reserves the right to discipline any employee taking part in any violation of this provision of this Agreement. There shall be no lockout by the Company during the term of this Agreement. Strike and lockout shall be defined in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
6	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
'Should differences arise between the Union and its members and the Company as to the interpretation, application , administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, every such difference shall be submitted by the aggrieved employee to adjustment in the manner and 'order provided in the grievance procedure set forth below.
4
6.02
It is mutually agreed that the parties shall adhere faithfully to the following procedures:
Step 1
The aggrieved employee will present his complaint to the foreman of his Department and may be accompanied by the Department Steward or the Plant Chairperson if he so chooses. If the employee decides to handle his own grievance, the Foreman will notify the Department Steward. The Foreman will advise the Department Steward within three (3) working days, in writing, as to whether the complaint has been resolved. Failing settlement of the complaint the complaint will proceed to the next step.
Step 2
In the event a settlement is not reached, the grievance will be reduced to writing. The Department Steward will present the grievance to the Plant Superintendent.	The
grievor and the Department Steward and the Plant Chairperson and the Plant Superintendent will meet to discuss the grievance. If the grievanceis not resolved, then it will proceed to the next Step.
Step 3
If the grievance is not resolved, then the grievor, if requested by the parties, the Department Steward, Plant Chairperson and the Union Representative may meet with the Plant Manager or his alternate in an attempt to resolve the grievance.
Arbitration
In the event a settlement is not reached in the third step, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall consist of three (3) members, one (1) nominated by the Union, one (1) nominated by the Company, and the Chairman appointed by such two (2) nominees. The costs and expenses of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union, except that each of the parties will bear costs and expenses of the nominee appointed by it. Neither party will be responsible for the expense of the witnesses called by the other.
j.n me event that such two (2) nominees are unable to agree on a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, or such person as the Minister of Labour shall appoint. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employees.
5
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
Any employee who is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he or she has been unjustly dealt with, shall have the right, within seventy-two (72) hours from the receipt, of -syfvb-notice of dismissal, to notify the Union and the Company, in writing, that he or she desires the dismissal in question to constitute a grievance subject to the Grievance Procedure. If, subsequently, subject to Clause 6.09, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he or she shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall-be compensated for all money lost at his or her regular rate of pay less any money he or she earned in other employment.
A grievance affecting the rate of pay of an individual shall be handled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure and if subsequent settlement results in rates of any pay being increased, the effective date of such increases shall be decided upon as part of the decision, but such date shall not be prior to the date on which the grievance [was presented.
The Plant Chairperson and the Union Steward will be allowed the necessary time off, with pay, in the first three (3) steps of the Grievance Procedure set forth in clause 6.03, for time lost during hours worked by his or her gang including any applicable overtime penalty, to attend grievance meetings with the Company-designated representatives for the purpose of settling grievances. If it is necessary for the Plant Chairperson and/or Union Steward to leave their jobs in order to handle the grievance with the Company representatives, they shall not leave their jobs without first securing permission to do so from their respective Foreman or Supervisor, provided that the Supervisor will grant such permission as promptly as it is possible without duly interfering with production.	Such permission will not be
unreasonably denied.
No employee shall be suspended or discharged without written notice being given for such action, with a copy being ■given-ub~Life* Chief Steward.
The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his work record regarding his work conduct, the Plant chairperson or Union Steward will be present providing they are on the Plant premises. The employeemay request that the ‘Plant Chairperson or Union Steward leave the meeting.
Proven theft shall be just cause for immediate dismissal, and the Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall not have any power to modify or alter such penalty or to substitute any other penalty therefore.
6
6.09
ARTICLE
7.01
7.02
7.03
If any employee is absent for more than three (3) consecutive working days, without good and proper reason, or without he 0 r his agent having advised the Company of
the reason for such absence prior to the expiration of such three (3) consecutive work day period, unless unable to do so for good and sufficient reason, he shall be subject to immediate dismissal. Agent, when applied to this Clause 6.09, shall mean spouse, family member, or Union official.
- HOURS 0E WORK. OVERTIME. AND HOT,I DAY PAY
It is recognized by both parties that employees, may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week, but no employee will be required to work an unreasonable number of hours.
(a)	The normal work week for all employees except Engineers and one (1) Mechanic shall be Monday through Friday inclusive.
(b)	The normal work week for Engineers and one (1) Mechanic, who were hired prior to date of ratification 1990 and Maintenance employees hired after date of ratification 1990, shall be five (5) consecutive days per week.
(a)	An employee shall be paid one and one-half (1-Jr) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week or on Saturday.
(b)	An employee shall be paid two (2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked on Sundays or Paid Holidays.
This provision does not apply to Engineers who will continue to be paid one and one-half (14-) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
(c)	An employee who is required to work in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate of pay for all time so worked.
(d)	Reference to hours worked in Article 7.02 (a) and (b) shall include hours paid by the Company.
(e)	There shall be no accumulating of overtime premiums
for the same hours worked but the highest single premium shall apply under the provisions of the preceding paragraphs. 7.03	(a) and (b) of this
Article.
7
7.04
7.05
(f)	Notwithstanding 7.03 (a) above, a Sanitation or a
Mechanical Department employee shall be paid one and one-half (1*) times his regular rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day, except when a period of twelve (12) hours exists between the completion of the first shift and the commencement of the second shift in the same day unless otherwise mutually agreed.
(g)	The following shall be observed as Paid Holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day 'Christmas Day Boxing Day -Remembrance Day
Heritage Day (3rd Monday in February)
All paid holidays shall be observed between Monday and Friday inclusive.
Employees ordered to report for work shall be furnished four (4) hours work, or pay at their appropriate rate in lieu of work, providing they report within fifteen (15) minutes of the time designated.
The four (4) hour guarantee will be reduced by the amount of time late in excess of fifteen (15) minutes to a maximum of one (1) hour. The four (4) hour guarantee will be waived should the employee report late in excess of one ( 1 ) hour.
Adequate relief for personal needs will be provided. A ten (10) minute break will be scheduled as near the midpoint in each half of the shift as possible.
Employees working in excess of nine (9) continuous hours in any one (1) day will be entitled to one (1) additional relief period of ten (10) minutes and such relief period will be scheduled within the first forty-five (45) minutes of the first hour of overtime, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties.
Consideration will be given in each Department to the distance from the Department to the cafeteria and washroom corridors that employees must travel to get to these areas. Fair consideration is to be given to employees who must, remove gloves and aprons and wash hands upon leaving or re-entering their Department.
The intent of this language is to ensure employees receive a full ten (10) minute break from the time they enter the employee welfare areas, (i.e. washrooms and cafeteria corridor areas).
8
7.06
7.07
ARTICLE
8.01
8.02
8.03
8.04
Employees shall not be required to work over five (5) hours without a meal period, except that employees may work six (6) hours in order to finish the day's work.
There will be a one (1) hour lunch period.
- PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED
All regular full-time employees (not including part-time employees) shall be paid their regular rate of pay for 'eight (8) hours on each statutory holiday set for in paragraph 7.03 (g) of Article 7.
Part-time employees (those employees who work regularly but only for a part of the regular work day or work week), shall be paid for each statutory holiday set forth in paragraph 7.03 (g) of Article 7, an amount equivalent to that percentage of eight (8) hours' pay at their regular rate which the total number of hours worked by each part-time employee in the week in which the holiday occurs is of forty (40) hours,
An employee who is late "absent" in excess of one (1) hour on the last working day preceding or the next work day following the holiday shall have deducted from such holiday pay, the sum determined by multiplying the hours missed by one-half (1/2) his regular rate of pay, unless such absences were due to illness or causes beyond the control of the employee.
If one of the paid holidays outlined in Clause 7.03 (g) occurs within an employee's vacation period, the employee may elect either of the following:
(a)	To receive eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate
for such paid holiday in addition to his vacation pay, or;
(b)	Elect to take an additional day off, with pay, at a
time mutually agreed between the Company and the employee. - If no suitable agreement can be reached between the parties, the final decision shall be determined by local Management. If the employee wishes to make, an election as provided for in Clause 8.03 (b) hereof, he shall advise the Company of such election within a reasonable time prior to the vacation period assigned to or chosen by him.
Regular employees drawing sickness and accident pay when a paid holiday occurs, shall receive, under this Article 8, only the amount by which the pay for the paid holiday hereunder exceeds such sickness and accident pay.
• /<?
9
8.05
8.06
ARTICLE
9.01
9.02
9.03
If one or more of the above holidays occur while an employee is away on leave of absence, in accordance with Article 16.01, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday.
"Regular employee" or "regular full-time employee" as used in this Article and elsewhere in this Agreement, shall mean all employees except part-time employees.
"Part-time employees" are those who do not normally work more than twenty-four (24) hours in the week, or parttime employees hired for a specific job or short duration not to exceed four (4) weeks.
9	- SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT
At the onset of any disability, . an employee will be transferred from the active payroll to the applicable benefit payroll. Except as provided in Clause 9.05, benefits to which an employee may be entitled hereunder are determined by his service and status at the onset of the disability.
In case any sickness or non-compensatable accident benefit payments, lesser in amount or duration than those payable under this Article are provided for by Provincial or Federal laws, it is understood that the difference only,'if any, between such Provincial or Federal required payments and the amount the employee is entitled to under this sickness or non-compensatable accident payment plan will be payable. If such Provincial or Federal required payments are greater than those payable under this Article, no payments shall be made under this Article.
(a)	All employees who are absent for a period of four (4) or more consecutive work days shall be required to submit to the Company acceptable medical evidence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are habitually absent shall be required to submit acceptable medical evidence (as per Exhibit "A" attached) for each and every absence. For the purposes of the foregoing	and Clause 9.04,
"acceptable medical evidence" shall mean a letter or other document signed by the employee's physician which indicates the reason for his absence (nature of his illness), the date of treatment, the estimated treatment period, and his estimated date of recovery.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse the employee one hundred percent (100%) of the cost to a maximum of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) charged by
10
9.04
the employee's Doctor to complete the acceptable medical evidence.
For the purpose of this Sub-Article 9.04, credited service is as defined in Sub-Article 11.03(c) of this Agreement.
When employees are absent from work because of disability or non-compensatable accident, and when such absences and their continuation as required by Clause 9.03 (a) are supported by acceptable medical evidence, part wage payments shall be made in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
(a)	Payments shall not be made when employees are absent from work because of disability due to sickness or injury caused by or as a result of the employee's own act or misconduct. All absences shall be considered as starting with the loss of the first day on which the employee was scheduled to work.
(b) SCHEDULE
Service Required
While being credited with service within the meaning of Article 17 and after three (3) months or more of credited service at the time of the onset of the absence, all of which service must have been performed subsequent to the employee's most recent (if any):
1.	Discharge for cause unless such discharge is
reversed thrryi£,b. the . evance	or
arbitration.
2.	Quit.
3.	Layoff in excess of one hundred and eighty (180) days.
4.	Failure to return to work for the Company within the times limited by Clause 11.11 (b) hereof when recalled.
(c)	Waiting Period
First day of hospitalization;
First day outpatient with surgery;
Third consecutive calendar day for sickness; Third consecutive calendar day for accident.
(d) Amount of Payment
The amount of payment shall be as follows:
Consecutive Weeks of Compensatable Disability
Percentage of wages
First Four Weeks
Fifth and Subsequent Weeks
65%
70%
On the basis of the applicable percentage (X) of the employee(s) average straight time weekly earnings in the four (4) full calendar weeks immediately proceeding the disability or the applicable percentage (X) of thirty-five (35) hours, whichever is greater.
In cases involving absences of less than a full week, the daily payment shall be one-fifth (1/5) of the above weekly benefit.
(e) Extent of Payment
For an employee having three (3) or more months of credited service as hereinbefore provided, but having less than eight (8) years of credited service up to fifteen (15) weeks at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other such absences during the one (1) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributable to a disability which has resulted in an-y other absences during the immedi-ate preceding three (3) months, in which case the amount of reduction shall be all payments made on account of absences attributable to such disability during the three (3) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
For an employee having eight (8) or more years of credited service, two (2) weeks for each year of credited service at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other, absences during the. one (1) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributable to a disability which has resulted in any other absences during the immediate preceding three (3) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
12
(f) In cases of disability due to pregnancy or 'pregnancy related illness, payments and the extent thereof will be on the same basis as aforesaid, except that payments shall not be made during or in respect of any period.
1 . As per the Employment Standards Act with respect to Pregnancy and Parental Leave.
2.	For which maternity benefits are paid to her under Section 30 of the Unemployment insurance Act.	.
9.05	If, during a period when an employee is absent due to sickness or accident and is receiving benefit payments under Article 9, this Collective Agreement provides for a wage rate increase, such sickness and accident benefit payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
9.06	The Company shall have the right at all times to unilaterally amend any of the provisions of this Article 9 in order to remain qualified for the Unemployment Insurance premium reduction, provided the amended provision does not result in a reduction in benefits to an employee.
ARTICLE 10	~ VACATIONS
10.01	For the purpose of calculating eligibility, the
anniversary date shall be determined from the employee's date of hire.
10.02	Vacations, with pay, will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following:
1 year but less than 5 years employment -------------- 2 weeks off
at four percent (4%) of T4 earnings;
5 years but less than 12 years omrt1..Qxrv^T?Jt-..w •	-	off
at six percent (6%) of T4 earnings;
12 years but less than 18 years employment------4 weeks
off at eight percent (8%) of T4 earnings;
18 years but less than 25 years employment ----- 5 weeks
off at ten percent (10%) of T4 earnings;
25 or more years of employment ---- 6 weeks off at twelve
percent (12%) of T4 earnings.
13
10.03	(a) Vacations during the period July 1st to August 30th
will be scheduled by department and department seniority.
(b)	All employees eligible for two or more weeks'
vacation will be allowed up to two (2) weeks’ vacation during this period. This provision is subject to the f^Lloving jfsvamyJdf:
Number of people in department divided by 4.5 = maximum employees away on vacation in any week during July and August.
(c)	Vacations during this period are not mandatory, and
eligible employees may take one week's vacation during July and August if they choose.
(d)	As much as possible joint vacations for spouses who
work at the plant and are eligible for vacation may be accommodated. Final determination will be made subject to (a) and (b) of 10.03.
(e)	Unusual or special occasions will be given consideration of a reguest for more than two (2) week's vacation during this period if requested. Final allocation will be made by the superintendent.
(f)	By seniority employees who are entitled to three
(3) or more weeks' vacation and would prefer to take one (1) additional week during the months of July and August may select the additional week once all employees have selected their vacations during July and August, subject to the formula in 10.03
(b).
10.04	For the purpose of Article 10 - Vacations, T4 earnings do not include previous vacation paid during that year.
10.05	Employees who become sick or are injured prior to receiving their vacation shall be entitled to reschedule such vacation at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee. It is understood and agreed that employees are not required to take their vacation entitlement while on layoff.
10.06	Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee., but final allocation of vacation periods is left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the Poultry Processing Plant. Every reasonable effort will be made to permit each employee to take his vacation between May 1st and October
■ 1st. In the choice of vacation dates, Department seniority shall prevail, Vacation lists will be posted in each Department.
10.07
10.08
10.09
10.10 10.11
ARTICLE
11.01
11.02
11.03
14
Vacations will be granted only in the vacation year (January 1 to December 31) in which they are due and may not be carried over to the following vacation year. If, however, due to some emergency, an employee is not permitted to take his vacation during the vacation year in which it is due, he shall have the right to take it in the ensuing vacation year.
Employees entitled to vacations will not be allowed to take money in lieu, thereof.
(a)	An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off
because of reduction in his gang, shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified.
(b)	An employee eligible for vacation whose employment
is terminated for any reason shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he had become eligible. In the case of death, such pay shall be paid to his Estate or the person legally entitled.
Employees shall be entitled to receive their vacation pay at the beginning of their vacation period, if so desired.
All of the vacation provisions of the Agreement shall be read, subject to applicable Provincial and/or Dominion Statutes and to the extent that the benefits required under such statutes are more favourable to the employees than the vacation benefits provided by this Agreement, such-statutes shall prevail,
11 - SENIORITY
Seniority -of employees shall, be defined as length of continuous employment with the Company in the bargaining unit.
Service is defined as length of continuous employment with the Company.
Throughout the Agreement, the following shall apply:
(a)	seniority shall apply to all Articles except vacation, pension, wages, separation pay, and sickness and accident;
(b)	service shall apply to vacations and wages;
(c)	total credited service, as defined in Article 17
earned prior to September 8, 1990, plus service earned following-September 8, 1990,shall apply to separation pay and sickness and accident benefits;
15
11.04
11.05
11.05
(d)	credited service, as defined in Article 17, shall apply to the existing Company Pension Plan.
Credited Service
The Company shall advise each employee of their total amount of credited service as of September 8, 1990, with a copy to the Union Office. This information will be provided on or before November 1,1990.
In the event an employee disagrees with his credited service earned, such employee must advise the Company and the Union on or before November 30, 1990.
Seniority shall operate on a combination of Department and Plan t fiasis. An employee shall acquire Plant and Department seniority rights after he has attained forty-five (45) days’ worked or three (3) calendar months of service, whichever occurs first. Until that time, he shall be considered a temporary employee and may be separated from the Company's employ at any time without reference to seniority and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire him. However, if an employee completes more than forty-five (45) days’ worked or three (3) calendar months, whichever occurs first of service, his seniority shall commence from his original date of employment.
(a) There will be seven (7) seniority Departments as
follows:
Receiving and Eviscerating
I:	Cry-0-Vac
3.	Shipping and Freezer Handling
4.	Further Processing
5.	Mechanical
6.	Sanitation
7.	Engineering
8.	Specialty Department
(b) Union Stewards and Plant Chairperson:
The Union will have the right to appoint or -elect seven (7) Union Stewards and a Plant chairperson. The names of these Stewards and Plant Chairperson will be submitted to the Company, in writing. No employee will be recognized as Union Steward or Plant chairperson until they have completed their probationary period.
16
Receiving and Eviscerating One
Steward
Cry-O-Vac
Shipping & Freezer Handling
Further Processing Specialty Department Mechanical, Engineering Sanitation
One Steward One Steward
One Steward One Steward One Steward One Steward
11.06
11.07
11.08
11.09
In the event that there is no Steward in a Department, the Plant Chairperson will assume the duties of a Steward until a new Steward has been elected or appointed.
Overtime in a seniority Department will be performed by those employees having seniority in that Department. If there is not a sufficient number of employees having Department seniority in the Department where the overtime is to be worked, the Company has the ri'^nt to assign employees from other Departments to that Department to perform such overtime work on a seniority basis, providing the employee is qualified to perform the work required.
EmplvyyH\fvf who 'tvw’p^iv.ence ,. d u c e « hour, of work within a
seniority Department shall have no right to do any work except that which is performed within such seniority Department, unless otherwise directed by the Company.
(a)	Layoffs from the Plant occasioned by gang rearrangements, pursuant to a reduction in volume of work to be handled, will be made according to Plant seniority, provided that. „ employee who
. would thus be retained can satisfactorily perform the job that is assigned.
(b)	For the purpose of staffing the Further Processing
and Specialty Departments during layoffs from the plant as per Article 11.08 a), the plant seniority list shall not prevail, except for the purpose of bumping part-time employees.
During these times, the Further Processing and Specialty Departments will be staffed by following their separate department seniority lists.
(c)	During a layoff in the Further Processing or Specialty Departments, seniority in these departments seniority lists shall not prevail for the purpose of Further Processing or Specialty employees bumping into other Departments, except for the purpose of bumping part-time employees.
Seniority Departments and the Plant working force will be increased in the following Manner:
17
First:	An employee who has been assigned from his
original Department to another Department shall be recalled to his original Department.
Second:	An employee with Plant seniority will be
recalled in order of Plant seniority provided such employee is qualified to Perform the job which is open.
Third:	By implementing employees approved requests
for transfers, pursuant to Clause 11.10.
11.10	An employee with Plant seniority who desires a transfer to another Department or job, may submit a written application to the Plant Superintendent. If a vacancy occurs in that Department, an application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority, provided the employee possesses the necessary qualifications to perform the job. An employee who is transferred to another Department will have his seniority transferred to that Department.
Where a permanent job vacancy occurs within a seniority Department, employees within that seniority Department shall be permitted, at their request, to fill the said vacancy on the basis of ability, merit, and Department seniority, notwithstanding that the said vacancy may carry a higher, a lower, or the same authorized wage rate.
It is understood that where the ability and merit are sufficient, Department seniority shall prevail in the application of the preceding sentence. Permanent job vacancies which cannot be filled within .the Department shall be posted on a Plant basis, for a HlTiaamurv/if three (3) days.
11.11	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights . forfeited, and there is no obligation to rehire when he:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or di.s.c.b.Ar&e/i for cause.
(b)	Fails to return to work when recalled or cannot be
located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. Employees will be notified by the present method of contact (or by letter or by telegram, etc.) at their last known address, and they will be expected to report as directed. Failure to do so, or failure to accept a comparable job offered, shall forfeit their seniority rights provided, however, that in cases of inability to report as directed upon immediate notification to the
18
Company, they will be given five (5) additional days within which to report. Employees who are unable to report within this five (5) day period because of sickness or accident, will be given additional time within which to report, such time not to exceed the period that such disability, as shown by acceptable medical evidence? prevents their return to work.
(c)	Has been out of employment by the Company for a period of twelve (12) months or longer due to lack of work.
11.12	An employee having acquired seniority who is later employed by the Company outside of the bargaining unit, shall when subsequently returned to the bargaining unit, have all of his service with the Company included in the seniority assigned to him on such return.
11.13	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, he shall, upon his return to work:
(a)	be returned to his job previously held. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work,
then:
(b)	he shall be placed on a job of equal pay provided
he possesses the ability to qualify for that position. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work, then;
(c)	all efforts shall be made to provide work the employee is physically able to perform.
It is understood that in no instance will a new job be created for the purpose of *v\rjr\=ijTiJxoying 3uch
employee.
11.14	Plant and Department seniority lists will be posted bimonthly. If no question concerning the seniority of any employee in the bargaining unit, as set forth on said list is presented by the Union to the Plant Manager within fourteen (14) calendar days after posting of such list, the Union and the eny?J.oyaes shall be deemed to have agreed to the seniority of each employee in the bargaining unit as. shown in the list posted by the Company. A copy shall be given to the Chief Steward and
one copy mailed to the Union with the Union dues remittance.
11.15	An employee proved to have been laid off out of turn or recalled out of turn, will be restored to his former position, provided a grievance is filed within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of layoff or failure to recall in turn. An employee so restored to his former
19
	position will be made whole for loss of earnings at his regular rate of pay during the period that he should have been at work for the Company, less any money he or she earned in other employment.
ARTICLE	12 - SAFETY AND HEALTH.
12.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices, procedures, and other safety equipment deemed necessary by the Company, properly to protect employees from injury, shall be provided by the Company and worn by the employees. First Aid shall be available for workers on both day and night shifts. FaiJAtne to comply with the *viojvLsion of Anhi/tLe, 12.01 referring to procedures and equipment, shall result in disciplinary action being taken.
12.02	The Ontario Employer Health Tax: The Company will continue its present practice of paying one hundred percent (100X) of the premium established by the Ontario Employer Health Tax.
12.03	The Company agrees to provide the Dental Insurance Plan outlined in sub-article 19.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE	13 - GENERAL
13.01	The Company will provide a locked bulletin board for Union notices only. Union notices may be posted on such bulletin board, subject to the approval of the Manager as to context and contents. Such approval shall not unreasonably be withheld. The Union shall have sole possession of the keys.
13.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company or the Union to take any action which shall be unlawful by reason of any applicable, present, or future statute, order or regulation of the Province of'Ontario or of the Dominion of Canada.
13.03	(a) The Company will furnish freezer coats, hair nets, paper hats, rubber aprons, rubber gloves, steel gloves, sleevettes, cotton gloves, and other protective equipment which, in the opinion of the Company, is deemed necessary and all such equipment shall be worn by-the employees.
20
(b) The Company will furnish vests to employees required to perform work in temperature of 12 degrees C. or less, worn out vests returned to the
Company will be replaced at no cost to the employee. '
Note:	The style and type of vest will be based
upon the recommendation of the Health & Safety Committee.
The vests, so supplied, are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the Plant.
13.04	The Company will furnish white or coloured outer coats and/or coveralls to employees working in areas that require the wearing of these coats and/or coveralls. The coats and/or coveralls, so supplied, are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the Plant. The employees are to deposit the soiled coats and/or coveralls in the proper containers.
The Company will supply laundry service for the abovementioned coats and/or coveralls.
13.05	(a) Each employee who is required by the Company to
wear rubber boots or vests will be furnished the same at no cost, except a probationary employee who will be reimbursed the full cost thereof upon the completion of his probationary period. An employee required to wear rubber boots or vests shall be supplied a voucher by the Company and 'stiiifi employee will then purchase the required type of rubber boots or vests from the recommended supplier. Such rubber boots or vests which, in the opinion of the Company, are worn out, shall be returned to the Company before being replaced at no cost to the employee, up to a maximum of two (2) pairs during any twelve (12) month period and as necessary for ..st..
(b) Where, in the opinion of the Company deemed necessary,	the Company agrees to provide to
employees a monetary allowance to a maximum of one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00) once each calendar year towards the purchase of C.S.A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job. ’ Such employees will become eligible for this allowance one (1) year from the date of the previous purchase. Freezer employees only will become eligible for this allowance six (6) months from the date of the previous purchase provided, in the opinion of the Company, replacement C.S.A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job is deemed necessary at the time of purchase.
21
In the event that the Union should disagree with the Company's opinion as to whether safety footwear on the job is or is not deemed necessary, the Company agrees to discuss the issue with the Plant
Safety Committee with a view to arriving at a satisfactory settlement agreeable to both parties.
(c)	In accordance with 13.05 (a), the Company agrees to
offer a fleece type lined rubber boots in lieu of non-lined rubber boots in cool room areas.
(d)	Employees who are required by the Company to wear
rubber gloves will be furnished these at no cost to the employee. Rubber gloves worn out or damaged shall be replaced immediately when old gloves are returned.
13.06	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
(a)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or employees on a new job, or instructing employees;
(b) For the purpose of taking an employee's place temporarily in such cases as failure to show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reason, is temporarily absent from the job;
(c)	In locations which are isolated or gangs which are
not sufficiently large to justify the full-time use of a supervisor or managerial employee, and only if it has been the practice in the past to use such employees;
(d) In the absence of a shift Engineer due to absenteeism or vacations, the Chief Engineer will be permitted to work the day shift and re-schedule shift Engineers as required.
13.07	Employees unable to report for work shall notify the Company as soon as possible.
13.08	The Companyagrees to supplysufficient scissors, knives,
steels, mesh gloves and any other tools to employees in order that they can perform their jobs properly and safely, upon return of the worn out or broken above items.
22
13.09 Part-time:	Effective June 1, 1992:
The Company agrees that part-time employees who are hired from May 1st to August 31st will not accumulate seniority. Part-time hired for the summer, which will be from May 1st to August 31st, have no seniority rights for the yulpuse of hours of work, overtime hours, Jr guarantee of hours. Should a summer part-time employee continue to remain in the employment of the Company after August 31st, he will then commence a probationary period (same as full-time probation) . A full-time employee who bumps a part-time employee will not be bumped by another full-time employee.	The full-time employee who bumps a
part-time employee will work the hours that the part-time employee was scheduled to work.	Should a full-time
vacancy becomes available a part-time employee may apply for the full-time vacancy.
The Plant Chairperson will receive a list of names and date of hire of all part-time employees.
ARTICLE 14 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCES
14.01	Separation payments shall be made to employees having one (1 ) or more years of credited service who are permanently separated from the service of the Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed.
14.02	Separation payments shall not be made:
1.	To employees who have less than one (1) year's credited service;
2.	To employees who are laid off in gang reduction;
3.	To employees who are discharged for cause;
4.	■ To employees who voluntarily resign;
5.	To employees who are retired on Pension;
6.	To employees who refuse an offer of employment by the company in another unit of its business, the location of which is reasonably accessible to the location of the place of employment from which the employees are being dropped from the service.
23
14.03	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule, which is to be used in computing
the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service, subject to Article 11.30(c). Payments are to be computed on the basis of average hours worked during the previous four (4) full weeks at his regular rate of pay.
Years of	"
Credited Service	Weeks of Pay
1 ......................... 1
2	.................... H
3	.............	2
4	.................... 2i
5	.................... 3
6	. . ................ 3*
7	.................... 4*
8	.................... 54r
9	  6i
10	.................... 7i
11	and over, add to......... 7-J-
11/2 weeks' pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Example:
Twelve (12) years of credited service:
First ten (10) years credited service----7-J- weeks' pay.
Service over ten (10) years (12 - 10 = 2 x 1-£) three (3) weeks' pay.
Total separation allowance-----10-J weeks' pay.
To the separation allowance computed as per example, add, vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
14.04	The amount due under the policy shall be paid as follows:
1.	Amounts less than or the same as the equivalent of
four (4) weeks' pay ---- in one lump sum.
2.	Amounts more than the equivalent of four (4) weeks'
pay ---- weekly instalments of full wages until the
total	sum is exhausted.	if, for good and
sufficient reason, a lump sum settlement is requested, it may be made when it is assuredly to the benefit of the employee.
24
ARTICLE
15.01
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
ARTICLE
16.01
3.	In the event of death, any unpaid balance shall be paid to the widow or dependents.
5	- WAGES
Job Classifications •• and Wage Rates for each classification shall be as outlined in Schedule "A" attached.
Pay Cheques
All employees who finish their shift prior to 2:00 p.m. on thursday shall be entitled to receive their pay provided such pay cheque is in order and available to be handed out.
When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate, but if
required temporarily to fill a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate.
When an employee is permanently transferred to a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate for a period of twelve (12) weeks from the date of such transfer and thereafter he shall receive the rate applicable to the lower rated job, unless such transfer was for the convenience of the Company.
Employees requesting a transfer to a lower rated job will receive the rate applicable to the lower rated job effective the date of the transfer.
Regular employees working between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will receive additional compensation of forty-five cents (45$) per hour for each hour so worked. Employees who work on a second shift shall be paid the premium for all hours worked on the second shift.
Employees cheque stubs shall show gross earnings, itemized deductions, regular hourly rate and net amount payable.
16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Leave of absence for the purpose of this Agreement, is defined to mean an absence from work with permission for a period of seven (7) days or more, without pay or compensation of any kind.
25
16.02	Leave of absence, without pay, beyond regular vacation to
which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason on the basis of the length of credited service as follows:
Leave of Absence
Length of Absence
Under 10 years
Over 10 years and under 15 years Over 15 years
1	month
2	months
3	months
16.03	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of
allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
ARTTCLF. 17 - CREDITED SERVICE	.
This Article is applicable only to those-Articles or Clauses outlined in Article 11, Clause .03 (c) and .03
(d).
17.01	"Credited Service" shall mean the total of:
1 . for employees who were employed by Swift Canadian Co. Limited prior to January 14, 1981, and who were employees of the Company on January 14, 1981,their credited service up to ■'‘January 14, 1981, as determined under Article 17 of the Collective . Agreement executed on February 24, 1981,between Swift Canadian Co. Limited and the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (Local Number 175); and,
2.	for employees on and after January 14, 1981, the period of service which they accumulated, while on the Company's payroll, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The period of absence due to the following causes will be credited to the employee's service but only after the employee's return to work from such period of absence.
1.	Absences due to sickness, accident, or pregnancy where such absence is supported by acceptable medical evidence.
2.	Miscellaneous approved absences such as those due to vacation, jury service, bereavement.
26
3.	Absence while in the military, naval, or air force of Canada.
4.	Authorized leave of absence up to a maximum period of three (3) months.
(b) Employees will not be credited with service
during the period of absence where they are:
1.	Discharged for cause, laid off, voluntarily leave the service of the Company, or separated from the Company's employ as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
2.	Absent due to being on strike.,
3.	Absent due to disciplinary action.
4.	Absent on the part of an unauthorized leave of absence which is in excess of three (3) months.
(c) Employees on the payroll during any part of a payroll week shall be credited with one (1 ) week of credited service for that payroll week.
17.02	Employees will lose all credited service if they:
(a)	are discharged for cause.
(b)	voluntarily leave the service of the Company.
(c)	fail to return to work when recalled from layoff within the time provided in Article 11 - Clause 11.11 (b). or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company.
(d)	have been out of employment by the Company due to a layoff for a period of two (2) years.
(e)	are separated from the Company's employ as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
27
ARTICLE
18.01
18.02
If subsequently re-employed, no credit will be given for prior service.
18 - BEREAVEMENT
(a)	1. When an employee is absent from work on a
regular work day to attend the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of such absence up to a maximum of five (5) consecutive regular work days.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate
relative shall be defined as follows ----------
father, mother, spouse, son or daiAiahter.
2. When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day to attend the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of such absence up to a maximum of three (3) consecutive regular work days.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate
relative shall be defined as follows ----------
father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, and grandchild.
(b)	When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend the funeral of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours.
(c)	Where an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend a memorial service for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost, up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours. The Company may require from the employee proof of his attendance at such memorial service before it reimburses him hereunder.
(d)	The term "spouse" as used in Article 18.01	(a)
above, includes common-law.
(a) Provisions of this Article shall not apply to employees then receiving other Company benefits such as vacation pay, sickness and accident payments, or on an authorized leave of absence, wiihhj\v.f pay, for any .reason.
28
(b)	an employee will not be entitled to receive under this Article 18, bereavement pay in respect of a day for which he is receiving holiday pay.
18.03 Jury Duty
When a regular employee is absent from work to perform jury service or to testify as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay him his regular rate of pay for each hour he would have worked had he not been on jury duty less any jury fees, or as a witness less any witness fees received by him for performing such service or giving such evidence.
ARTICLE 19	- HEALTH AND WELFARE
P & H FOODS
COMPREHENSIVE
19.01	Medical Plan
(a)	The payments of benefits to employees and dependents covered by the Plan will begin when the deductible has been satisfied. Benefits will be eighty-five percent (85%) of the eligible spouse incurred by the individual during the calendar year.
(b)	The twenty-five dollars ($25.00) deductible will
apply only once each calendar year to each person even though there may be several accidents or illnesses. No more than two (2) twenty-five dollar ($25.00) deductibles per family will apply in one (1) calendar year.
(c)	An additional benefit will be included to cover
expenses incurred for the purchase of prescription eye glasses and frames. This benefit is limited to a maximum of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) [effective dba'mhrr’l, 1990 .	-$125.00’and .ff.ctiv.
june 1,	1991	—	$150.00] each twenty-four (24)
consecutive months for each person covered by the Plan. The normal deductible and co-insurance provisions of the Medical Plan do not apply to this benefit.
(d)	Supplementary Health, Vision and Dental Benefits
are available to all permanent full-time employees, spouses of employees, and their dependent children. New employees become eligible for plan benefits following six (6) months of continuous employment.
29
Benefits are available to an employee's legal or common-law spouse. Please see your Personnel AdminisVni'-ciTi for cfetaiff.
"Dependent children" are defined as natural or adopted children under twenty-one (21) years of age who are dependent upon the employee for financial support (i.e. not.working on a permanent basis).
"Dependents" also include children over twenty-one (21) years of age who are in full-time attendance at a specialized school, college or university; and physically disabled or mentally retarded children of any age who are totally dependent upon the parents for financial support.
Newly hired employe?* must enroll in the Plans as a
condition of employment (enrollment is not required of new employees who are already covered by another Dental Plan).
19.02	Dental Plan
Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, the Company agrees to provide a Dental Plan as follows:
1.	The following services will be covered:
—	- Examinations
—	Consultations
Specific Diagnostic Procedures
—	X-Rays
Preventative service such as scaling and polishing and fluoride treatments
—	Routine Fillings
—	Extractions
—	Anaesthesia
—	Periodontal Treatments
—	7 Endodontics Treatments
—	Surgical Services
—	Dentures, denture relining and/or rebasing, repairs, and adjustments
2.	The Plan will reimburse the employee for eighty percent (80%) of allowable expenses (except for charges related to dentures, in which case seventy-five percent (75%) will be reimbursed), with allowable expenses as per the Fee Schedule as outlined in 19.02, #6, and with a maximum annual payment of one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ($1250.00) to each employee or dependent.
3.	Where claim charges are estimated to exceed Jnra
hundred dollars ($200.00) for any employee or
30
dependent, a treatment plan will be submitted to the Insurance Company before treatment commences.
4.	Eligibility will be	the	same as for the
Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan.
5.	Covered dental expenses do not include and no payment will be made for:
Service not included in the above.
Services provided under any Government Plans or Workers' Compensation.
Services covered under any other Insurance.
Cosmetic Treatment
— Charges for broken appointments.
Dentures replacing an existing appliance which is less than three (3) years or-which can be made serviceable.
Dentures within three (3) years from the date thaY dentures were provided -under this Plan.
Theft or loss of dentures.
Services commenced or dentures ordered prior
to the effective date of the Plan.
6.	Effective July 16,	1992, the 1991 O.D.A. (Ontario
Dental Association) Fee Guide will apply. Effective January 1, 1993, the 1992 O.D.A. Guide Fee will apply.
19.03	GROUP T.TFE INSURANCE
Eligibility
All hourly employees covered by the contract who have attained six (6) months of service, Life Insurance coverage becomes effective the first of the month following the month in which he/she have attained six (6) months of service.	’
Benefits
Straight Life Insurance in the amount of $10,000.00 per employee with no (A.D.D.) premiums will be paid for eligible employees on the payroll and coverage will cease upon :
31
1.	At the end of the month in which termination of employment occurs.
2.	The last day of the third (3rd) full calendar month following the month in which the employee was laid off .
3.	When coverage has ceased under item (2), eligible employees will be reinstated for coverage immediately upon their return to work.
4.	in the event that an employee’s absence due to sickness or accident exceeds the term for which
he/she is entitled to under Article 9.04 "extent of payment", then the Insurance coverage shall remain in effect for the balance of time up to twelve (12) months in the case of sickness or accident and eighteen (18) months if absent due to Workers' Compensation compensable accident, provided the seniority of the employee is not considered broken under the terms of Article 11.11 a), b)andc).
5.	At the end of the month in which the end of an approved leave of absence, granted in accordance with the terms of Article 16, if the employee does not return to work.
6.	conversion privilege and total disability provisions are available as per the terms of the
Policy as purchased by P & H Foods.
7.	All other conditions and terms shall prevail as per the Group Life Insurance Policy.
19.04	Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan
P & S Foods. Hanover
(a)	Effective January 1, 1991, the Employer agrees to
contribute thirty cents (30#) per hour, and effective January 1, 1993, thirty-five cents (35#) per hour, and effective January 1,	1994, forty
cents (40#) per hour to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") for all hours worked for all full-time and part-time employees, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
(b)	The Employer agrees to sign a " 'Participation Agreement" and supply any other information required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan. The Employer shall forward all contributions together with a list of full-time and part-time employees and the number of hours worked for each employee in
32
19.05	each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of each of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. Except as provided in Article 19.03, the Company will continue paying the premiums of employees who are on layoff not to exceed sixty (60) days for the following benefits: Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan
ARTICLE 20 ~ DISCIPLINARY WARNINGS
20.01	Where an employee receives a written disciplinary warning and receives no l-orVirtiT discipline for a period of sixteen (16) clear months from the date of the warning, or the warning is withdrawn by grievance and arbitration procedure, suchwarning shall be removed from the employee's record and shall not be used in any subsequent disciplinary action or arbitration proceedings.
ARTICLE 21- EDUCATION AND TRAINING FUND
21.01	Effective June 1, 1993, and June 1, 1994, the Company will contribute six thousand dollars ($6000.00) per calendar year to the U.F.C.W. Education and Training Fund, provided a minimum of two (2) other Poultry Plants contribute to the Fund, one of which is either Canada Packers or Cuddy Foods.
21.02 21 .03	The Company will contribute three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) towards the printing of copies of the Union Agreement. During the month of October of each year, the Company will deduct from the pay of each bargaining unit employee ten dollars ($10.00). Such amoxmt shall be remitted to the Union's Southwest Regional Office on or before January 15th of the following year and will include the employees name and amount deducted. Receipts will be provided by the charity receiving the employee(s) donation.
21 .03
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01 This Agreement shall take effect July 16, 1992, and shall remain in full force and effect up to and Including the 1st day of June, 1994,and from year to year thereafter, unless written notice of intention to terminate or amend is given by registered.post by either party to the other at Hanover, at least thirty (30) days prior to its expiration;
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE PARTIES HERETO BY THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES THIS H	DAY OF_____FeJ*________, 199 1 ■
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
34
SCHEDULE "A"
CLASSIFICATION AND WAGES
A.01			
JOB CLASSIFICATION	JUNE 2/92	JUNE 2/93	JAN. 2/94
Turkey Deboner	$ 12.62	$ 12.87	$ 13.12
Cutting Tails	12.62	12.87	13.12
Cut Vents & Bar Cuttings	16.62	12.87	13.12
Knife & Scissor Sharpener	12.62	12.87	13.12
Slit Neck	12.62	12.87	13.12
Grader	12.72	12.97	13.22
Draw Eviscera	12.62	12.87	13.12
Operate Cry-O-Vac Machines	12.67	12.92	13.17
Cut Off Feet	12.67	12.92	13.17
Remove Necks	12.67	12.92	13.17
Pull Crops	12.77	13.02	13.27
Vacuum Gun Operator	12.67	12.92	13.17
Trusser	12.67	12.92	13.17
Freezer Man	12.67	12.92	13.17
Fork Lift Truck Operator	12.67	12.92	13.17
Receiver	12.67	12.92	13.17
Sticker or Killer	12.82	13.07	13.32
Live Hangers	12.87	13.12	13.37
Sanitation (Night Clean-up)	12.62	12.87	13.12
Cut Gizzards	12.62	12.87	13.12
Engineer - 4th Class	13.42	13.67	13.92
- 3rd Class	13.62	13.87	14.12
- 2nd Class	13.87	14.12	14.37
Mechanic (Gov't Certificate)	13.61	13.86	14.11
Mechanic (Not Certified)	13.41	13.66	13.91
Mechanic Trainee	12.67	12.92	13.17
'Mechanic Trainee (With 60	13.02	13.27	13.52
Days Credited Service			
Mechanic Trainee (With 120	’13.41	13.66	13.91
Days Credited Service			
35
A.02
A. 03
A.04
A.05
Effective June 2, 1990, for all hourly paid employees who are on the payroll on or after the date of receipt by the Company of written notice of ratification of this
Agreement, and effective June 2, 1991, the minimum hourly rates shall be as follows:
		JUNE 2/92	JUNE 2/93	JAN. 2/94
Starting Rate		$ 12.22	$ 12.47	$ 12.72
Upon completion days of service the Company	of 45 with	12.42	12.67	12.92
Upon completion days of service the Company	of 60 with	12.52	12.77	13.02
LEAD HAND				
A Lead Hand designated by the Superintendent shall be paid as determined by the Plant Superintendent, a minimum of thirty-five cents (35$) per hour over his/her regular wage rate for the hours worked performing the duties designated by the Plant Superintendent of a Lead Hand.
Lead Hands will be chosen from the bargaining unit employees.
KNIFE PREMIUM
Effective September 8, 1990, employees required to use a knife ihr pwform their* crtittAnr shall) Jtr pvTid1 a premium of ten cents (10$) per hour. Employees in the Further Processing Department will continue to receive a premium of ten cents (10$) per hour.
RETROACTIVE PAY
Employees on the payroll of the Company as of July 16, 1992, shall receive thirty cents (30$) per hour for all hours worked or paid from June 2, 1992. The payment of retroactive wages shall be provided to each employee within thirty (30) calendar days of ratification.
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
Re:	Article 7.01
The Company will continue its current practice of considering the needs of individual employees in conjunction with the needs of the Employer when staffing overtime in conjunction with the overtime clauses of the contract. The eniployee will make the effort to work the overtime.
DATED AT /S/fueur/t THIS 7 7 DAY OF Af/?______________________________, \99J_.
UNli'ED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
BETWEEN:	P & H foods, hAnoVer, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
EfiJ_Reduced Hours per Clause 11.07
The Union and the Company agree that during a period of reduced hours, not to exceed two (2) days in a calendar week a seniority department experiencing reduced hours of work shall have no right to do any work outside such department until a maximum period of two (2) days has lapsed, at which time Clause 11.08 a) will prevail subject to 11.06, 11.08 b) and c).
DATED AT tJAvaorA THTS d___ DAY OF
199 5 .
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
Re:	Temporary Assignments and Overtime
Notwithstanding Articles 11.06 and 11.07, any hours less than eight (8) hours will be identified as reduced hours as per Article 11.07.
Employees temporarily assigned to another department for that day, in accordance with this Letter of Understanding 7/3, will remain in that department for eight (8) hours or conclusion of the shift, whichever occurs first.
Any overtime beyond eight (8) hours will be offered according to plant seniority that is signed on the daily notice.
Employees that return to work extra hours will be paid time and one-half (1 1/2) their regular hourly rate for all hours worked in the department where the overtime premium commences upon completion of that shift.
The requirement to pay overtime to an employee returning to work to fill an overtime position will not become effective until that employee has worked eight (8) hours, if the reason the employee had reduced hours was due to his leaving work for any reason other than the Company had no work for the employee at the time the hours in the Department the employee was working were reduced.
For the purpose of this provision, the requirement by the Company to recall workers to fill overtime positions will not extend beyond the daily recall and voluntary overtime list which will be posted daily.
39
Recall From Reduced Hours and Voluntary Overtime list:
The recall and voluntary overtime list will be followed on the basis of seniority and ability to fill overtime positions without reference to the plant-wide seniority or Department seniority list and only after the provisions of Article 11.06 allowing overtime to be performed by those having seniority in the Department where overtime is to be worked.
DATED AT /Jam oOfA. THIS ____CL
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
DAY OF feA________________, 199J? .
P &■ H FOODS
40
F.XHTRTT "A"
P & H FOODS
ACCF.PTABT,F. MF.DTCAT, FVTDF.NCF. FORM
DATE:
NOTF, TO PHYSTCTAN
The P & H Foods Sickness and Accident Program is Company insured.	#
This form and the questions it contains were agreed upon between the Company and the Union which represents the employees.
(Employee's Signature)
NAME:	__________________________________________
(First)	(Last)
is 'inri/tt. • may care. Does the nature of his/her illness tan?vent
the employee from carrying out the essential duties of his/her job as outlined?
Can the employee do any light duty work? ______________________________
Light Work? ___________________________________________________________
If not, please complete the balance of the form,
THE TREATMENT BEGAN ON:	_____________________________________________
(Day)	(Month)	(Year)
HOSPITALIZED:____________________ OUTPATIENT: _________________________
THIS PERSON IS EXPECTED TO BE UNDER TREATMENT FOR APPROXIMATELY
(Days)	(Weeks)	(Months)
THE ESTIMATED DATE OF RETURN TO WORK IS: ______________________________
(Day) (Month) (Year)
(Signature of Physician)
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL,UNION, LOCAL 175
RE: Safety Boot Allowance
Engineers and Maintenance workers will qualify for the $65.00 boot allowance once each calendar year.
The reference to $130.00 in article 13.05b applies to Freezer employees only.
DATED AT	THIS ____^7_DAY OF	___________, 199 _?	.