UNION AGREEMENT - 1988
1HIS UNION AGREEMENT entered into as of the 1st day of April, 1988
BETWEEN:
BURNS MEATS
DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMnED,WINNIEEG, MANITOBA hereinafter called “the Company”
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL 111
affiliated with the A.F.L. - C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress (C.L.C.) hereinaftercalled “the Union”
In considerationof the mutual covenants herein contained the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows:
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency.
The Company will not bargain collectively with any otherlabour organization affecting employees in the bargaining unit.
— SOURCE			 .	0 ■	
EFF.	W>	of	ol
TERM.	9|		5L
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
RECOGNITION............
1.	PURPOSES ...............
2.	BARGAINING UNIT.........
3.	MANAGEMENT..............
4.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....
5.	ARBITRATION.............
6.	UNION SECURITY..........
7.	CHECK-OFF...............
8.	HOURS OF WORK
AND OVERTIME.........
9.	37 HOURS PAY GRARANTEE..
10.	SENIORITY...............
11.	TRANSFERS...............
12.	PROMOTION AND JOB PO STING.
13.	LEAVE OF AB SENCE.......
14.	LAY-OFF AND REHIRE......
15.	VACATIONS...............
16.	GENERAL ................
17.	SEVERENCEPAY............
18.	WAGES...................
19.	METHODS AND
.NO IMPROVEMENTS............
(20/ DURATION OF AGREEMENT .
2F APPLICATION..............
SCHEDULE “A“ —
APPLICATION OF RATES...
SCHEDULE “B” —
PAID HOLIDAYS..........
SCHEDULE “C” —
12 HOUR SHIFT AGREEMENT MEMORANDUM REGARDING
WELFARE PLANS......
SCHEDULE OF GRADES .....
NOTES
1
2
2 to 5 5
5 to 12 12, 13 14 15, 16
16 to 22 23 to 25 26 to 30 30 to 32 32 to 34 34 to 39 39 to 41 41to46 47 to 51 51 to 54 55 to 57
57 to 59
59
60
61 to 69
69 to 73
74 to 76
76 to 80 81 to 96 89, 90
ARTICLE 1 — Purposes
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and itsemployees;to provide an amicablemethod of settling any grievances or differences which might possibly arise; to promote the mutual interests of the employer and the employees. The Company and the employees jointly recognize the continuing need for maintaining efficient production in the packinghouse industry at all times and the necessity of rendering efficient service to the producers and consumers and realizing their mutual responsibility pledge full cooperation to that end.
ARTICLE 2 — Bargaining Unit
2.1	The bargaining unit is comprised of all the employees on the plant payroll, as distinguished from the office payroll, with the exception of:
(a)	Watchmen.
(b)	Assistantforemenand those above the rank of assistant foreman.
(c)	Employeesrepresented by any certified bargaining agent other than the Union.
2.2	It is generally the practice of the Company to have work within the plant performedby employees of the Company. However, because
[2]
of reasons such as the availability of skilled employees, complexity of the work, the cost of equipment required to do the work in relation to its use, the scope of the work, the duration and frequency of the work, the cost to have the work performed by employees as compared to other alternatives, it may become necessary to have the work within the plant performed by outside contractors.
Where outside contractors perform work within the plant and such work represents a material change in practice creating an adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such material change in practice, the matter may be processed as a grievance under Article 4 of this Agreement. Should thegrievance be referred to an arbitration board as provided under Article 5, the arbitration board will consider the reasons mentioned in the first paragraph of this section in its determination of the use by the Company of such outside contractors and where the arbitration board determines that the use of such outside contractors does create such an adverse effect, the Company will, within a reasonable period, either discontinue the work or have it performed hy employees.
The foregoing shall not apply to the cafeteria, country deliveries, construction and installation work.
[3]
The Company may introduce work utilizing Company employees on a trial or test basis. If the result of such an experiment indicates that, for reasons set out in the first paragraph of this section, the work should be transferred to an outside contractor this shall not be construed as being a change in general practice.
2.3	The Company agrees that:
1.	Foremen and those above the rank of foreman, and
2.	Unless otherwise mutually agreed, an assistant foreman appointed to a newly created assistant foreman position on or after October28, 1966 shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such a foreman or assistant foreman shall in no way be restricted from work which:
(a)	is of confidential clerical nature.
(b)	is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absentfrom his/herj ob during the day, sharpening knives, coping with an emergency. An emergency as herein contained shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
[4]
is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absence of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half ('/ ) day.
ARTICLE 3 — Management
The Union recognizes the sole right of the Company to manage the plant anddirectthe work of the employees including the right to hire, promote,demote, suspend, discharge for cause, lay-off, assign to jobs and shifts, transfer employees from department to department; increase or decrease the working forces, determine the products to be handled, processed or manufactured; the schedule of production and the methods, processes and means of production and the handling of same. The Company shall not discriminate against present and prospective employees whether or not they are members of the Union. This Article shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effect of the other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 — Grievance Procedure
4,1 Should any difference arise under this Agreement between the Company and the employee members of the Union it shall be settled by the following method, each step to be taken
[5]
progressively without delay unless the difference has been settled in an earlier step:
FIRST the employee or the steward of the department or both, shall take the question up with his/her foreman. In respect to any settlement effected by the employee without the steward, the steward may reopen the question by discussing samewith the employee and the foreman. Grievances may be submitted in writing if either party considers it necessary. If the question is not settled by the end of the next work day; then
SECOND the Chief Steward, or his/her designated representative both of whom shall be employees of the Company and members of the bargaining unit as defined under Article 2, with or without the steward of the department, shall present the question in writing to the appropriate manager, or in his/her absence the Company’s designated representative. If the question is not settled by the end of the next two (2) working days; then
THIRD within five (5)working days the question shall be presented in writing to the plant management by the Grievance Committee of the Union which may be accompanied by a full time staff member of the Union (not necessarily an employee), a decision to be rendered within five (5) working days of the date of discussion. The
16]
wording of grievances may be changed or amended for the purpose of clarification at any time up to and including the third step of the grievance procedure.
FOURTH If the difference remains unresolved, then within one (1) calendar month of the date of decision under the third step of the grievance procedure, and the grievance remaining outstanding, measures shall be taken under the procedure as outlined in Article 5 hereof.
For the purpose of this section the term “working days” shall not includeSaturday, Sunday or any paid holiday referred to in Schedule “B”.
4.2	The Grievance Committee, comprised of regular employees of the Company who have attained seniority, shall be elected by the Union, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of that committee. The number of employees on the Grievance Committee at the plant shall not exceed four (4).
4.3	It is understood and agreed that the time limits set out in Article 4 may be extended as agreed between the parties provided such agreement is in writing and signed by both parties.
m
4.4	The employee may be present if (s)he so
desires in any of the steps outlined in Section 1 hereof. Where the griever is on a shift differing from that in which the grievance meeting is held (s)he will be paid, along with the Grievance Committee, at his/her regular job rate for time spent with plant management at such grievance meeting.
4.5	When a decision is reached under any one of the methods outlined in Section 4.1, immediately preceding, such decision shall be final and binding and shall be retroactive to the dateof the original submissionin writing unless otherwise d ireeted in such decision. If the grievance affects a rate of pay it shall be retroactive to thedateitwasfirstsubmitted in writing, orifthe cause of such grievance arose prior thereto then the adjustment will be made retroactively to the date the error was made or such other period as may be agreed upon
4.6	exceptas provided under the first paragraph of Article 10, Section 1 if an employee deems (s)he has been unjustly suspended, unjustly discharged or unjustly laid off from the service of the Company,(s)he shall submithis/ her differencein writing through the Grievance Committee of the Union within five (5) working days afterdate of separation, and the difference will be considered commencing at the second
[8]
step of Section 1 of this Article. In the event of such employee being reinstated, (s)he shall be paid for this period during which (s)he has not worked as if (s)he had not been suspended, discharged or laid off, subject to such adjustment as the settlement may determine.
4.7	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union as to the meaning and application of the provisions of the Agreement, the question shall be taken up commencing at the third step of Section 1 hereof.
4.8	Pending settlement of a difference as outlined in Section 1 and 7 hereof, an aggrieved employee shall perform the duties assigned to him/her by the person in charge of the department, provided however,where such duties involve a transfer reasonable consideration shall be given to ability and in the case of an immediate transfer, extreme changes in temperature. Where an employee has a question concerning his/her transfer and the department Steward is not available for consultation, (s)he will register the question with the foreman. The foreman will arrange to have the department Steward discuss thematterwith theemployee withinone (1)hour of such transfer.
4.9	Shop stewards and assistant shop stewards, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Company who have attained seniority, the number to be decided by negotiation between
19]
the Union and the Company, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. A list of all such stewards stating the department or groups each represents shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union in writing of any change in this list. The assistant shop steward will act only when the shop steward is absent from the -plant.
4.10	Before a steward, or an executive officer, (or a member of the Grievance Committee in case the grievance has reached the third step) leaves his/her job or his/her department (s)he shall first notify the person in charge of that department of the difference (s)he wishes to investigate or process and shall then, within one (1) hour, be granted permission to leave. Should the Steward or executive officer of the Union go into any department (s)he shall first reportto the person in charge of that department, provided (s)he is available, giving the difference (s)he wishes to investigate or process.
4.11	If an employee is being interviewed privately by hi s F oreman abouta matter that could result in his discharge or suspension, he may, if he desires, request that his Department Steward be present as a witness. If such interview is conducted by a Manager, who is above the rank of Foreman, the employee shall have the Chief Steward or designate present as a witness.
[10]
If an employee is discharged, suspended or issued a written reprimand, the Company shall notify the Union in writing within two (2) working days stating the reason for such discharge, suspension or reprimand.
4.12	No Cessation of Work. There shall be no strikes, or lockouts during the term of this Agreement and thereafter while negotiations are under way for a renewal or extension thereof, and the Union and its members shall not during the aforementioned period authorize, call, encourage support or take part in any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work in or on the Company’s plant or property which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company. The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Local Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement. The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members will be taken during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension of the Agreement until an attempthas been made in good faith to settle any differences arising in such negotiations by conciliation or some other form of mediation.
4.13	An employee who has accumulated a disciplinary record will have that disciplinary record removed providing (s)he can work within]
outdisciplinary action being taken fromhim/her foraperiod offour(4)years from the date of his/ her last disciplinary infraction. To qualify for this amnesty, the employee will have to maintain an 80% attendance rate during each of the four (4) years.
Employees on leave as a result of Union Business granted under Article 13.1 a)and 13.2 shall have that period of leave deemed to be days ofattendanceforthepurposeofthisSection4.13.
ARTICLE 5 — Arbitration
5.1	Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of Article 4 hereof, shall, upon the written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board, provided the grievance involves the interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall consist of three (3) members, one of whom shall be nominated by the grieving party who will name its nominee to the board no later than one (1) calendar week from the date of written notice of its intent to arbitrate the grievance, and one by the otherparty who will name its nominee within another calendar week, and a Chairman to be selected by the two nominees no later than two
(2)	calendar weeks thereafter. In the event of
[12]
failure of the two nominees to agree upon the selection of a Chairman, such Chairman, who will be someone other than a civil servant, shall be appointed as provided by the Manitoba Labour Act.
5.2	The matters and things to be considered and the decision rendered by such Board shall be governed by theprovisionsofthis Agreement.
5.3	It is agreed that neither the Company nor the Union will prevent the other party from referring a difference to arbitration to determine if the difference is arbitrable. A question of arbitrability need not be raised during the grievance procedure. If the Arbitration Board determines the grievance is arbitrable, the same Board shall then consider the grievance itself.
5.4	Decisions shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
5.5	The Union and the Company shall pay the fees and expenses of their respective nominees and the fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
[13]
ARTICLE 6 — Union Security
6.1	Any employee who on the date hereof was a member of the Union in good standing or who becomes a member after that date shall maintain such membership as a condition of employment.
6.2	Anew employee shall become amem-ber of the Union within thirty (30)calendar days following his/her date of hire. The Company agrees to obtain applications for membership in the Union at time of hire from such employees and membership in the Union will be granted within thirty (30) calendar days.
6.3	Employee Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay the regular Union dues, initiation fees and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
6.4	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his/her application for membership or for reinstatement as a member of the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
[14]
ARTICLE 7 — Check-off
7.1	The Company agrees to deduct the monthly Union dues from each employee’s pay on his first pay day in each calendar month during the term of this Agreement and in the case of a newly hired employee, on the first pay day in the same month the employee was hired.
a) Twice the regular monthly Union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding.
7.2	Upon receipt of written authorization signed by the employee, the Company will deduct the initiation fee from the pay of employees joining the Union and such deduction will be made from the employee’s pay in the payroll week next following the week in which such authorization form is received by the Company.
7.3	The Company will deduct a special assessment uniformly required of all members of the Union and such deduction shall be made from the employee’s pay commencing on his/ herfirstpayday next followingthedateonwhich notice of such authorization is received from the Union.
7.4	The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the amount of the initiation fee, dues and assessments authorized by the employees in keeping with the Constitution and ByLaws of the Union.
[15]
7.5	The Company will transmit the total amount so deducted from all such employees, complete with an alphabetical listing of those employees who had Union dues deducted, to the Financial Secretary of the Union on orbefore the 5th day of the following calendar month. In addition, the weekly and monthly statements will be included. Such listing will include the address and phone numbers, known to the Company, of those employees referred to in this Section 6.5.
ARTICLES—Hours of Work and Overtime
8.1	For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out in Schedule “C” the hours of work, which may vary from department to department and between employees within a department. The hours set out in Schedule “C” shall total not more than eight (8) in any day or forty (40) for any payroll week, unless otherwise mutually agreed. At the commencement of each year, but in any event no later than January 15th, the Company will provide the Union with copies of all current Schedule “C’s”. Further, any Schedule“C” revised as provided under Section 2. immediately following, will also be provided to the Union.
8.2	Schedule “C” may be changed from time to time as required to meet the needs of the business, but such changes shall not be made
[16]
effective until seven (7) days notice has been given in the case of a gang, or twenty-four (24) hours notice in the case of individual employees. When an individual employee is required, before the expiry of the said twenty-four (24) hours notice, to work before or afterhis/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work.
Similarly in the case of a gang when an employee is required, before the expiry of the said seven (7) days notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work. Provided however, when the only change is that the starting time is set back by the Company to a later hour, suchchange shall not be regarded as a change in the scheduled hours under the provisions of this Section2 but overtime shall commence after the normal end of the shift. Changes contemplated in a gang schedule will be discussed with the Union before they are made and, where feasible contemplated changes in the schedule for any individual will also be discussed.
8.3	The Company and the Union recognize that it may be necessary for employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock receipts and vari-ablevolumebut the Company willlimitthehours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable
[17]
a)	Should overtime be required, the Company
shall, whenever practical, notify the Steward of the departmentwhere the overtimeis required. Overtime will rotate on the basis of the senior qualified employee(s) within the department being provided the first opportunity to work the overtime through to thejunior qualified employee(s) within the department:
i)	if after going through the rotation no qualified employee is available, then the Company will attempt to obtain a qualified replacement from another department. In the event that no qualified replacement is available, then the Company can assign the work to the junior qualified employee in the rotation.
ii)	when the rotationiscomplete, another rotation will commence and continue
on such basis,
iii)	ifaqualified employee is inadvertently missed in the rotation, that employee will be given the first opportunity to work the next time overtime work is required,
iv)	in the event that there is sufficient overtime work for the full rotation, the notice of overtime will be posted in a
[18]
conspicuous location in the department. Employees may request leave from overtime duties on the basis that should a qualified employee not be available for replacement, leave will not be granted,
v)	when overtime is required on non-scheduled days or shifts, the Company will advise the Department Steward of the call-ins.
8.4	Continuous shift operators, such as firemen and engineers, may be required to work forty-four (44)hours in apayroll week, but shall receive overtime rates for the hours worked in excess of forty (40), but overtime shall not apply where work shifts of varying lengths do not average more than forty (40) hours.
8.5	For all hours worked in excess of the numberofhours set out in Schedule “C” an hourly paid employee, other than a continuous shift operator, shall be paid overtime at one and one-half (1 V2) times his/her regular hourly rate or temporary rate whichever is being paid when overtime commences. For all hours worked in
excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours--
such rate shall replace one and one-half (1 '/*). After thirteen (13) hours of continuous work a second_meal will be furnished by the Company, to be eaten on Company time, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
[19]
8.6	An employee, who has left the Company's premises, specially called outsidehis/her scheduled hours for emergency work shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, (s)he shall be paid four (4) hours at his/herjob rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
8.7	An employee who works more than one and one-half (1 V2) hours overtime afterthe end of his/her regular shift will be furnished a meal by the Company, to be eaten on Company time, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes. Employees other than those who eat their meal on thejob, if required to work in excess of five (5) hours on non-scheduled days, (not to include Paid Holidays falling on scheduled workdays), will be provided with a meal, but will not be entitled to pay for the meal period.
a)	When a meal cannot be supplied by the Company, a meal allowance of $5.00 will be paid in lieu.
8.8	Sunday Work. Double the regular hourly rate shall be paid to hourly-paid employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if (s)he works on his/her day off in lieu of Sunday. In the case of employees
r20]
starting a night shift prior to midnight Sunday, the hours worked before midnight will not be considered as Sunday work as these hours are part oftheir Monday shift. Where an employee's scheduled days off do not include an actual Sunday, then the second day off shall be deemed to be his/her Sunday.
8.9	Employees, when called for work, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that "day at the regular hourly rate. Employees who leave of their own accord when work is available will not receive this guaranteed minimum four (4) hours pay. Where less than four (4) hours work are regularly scheduled, such scheduled hours shall constitute the guarantee.
8.10	An employee shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours after the scheduled starting time without a lunch period, or more than two and one half (2 7 ) hours afterthe scheduled starting time without a fifteen (15) minute rest period, nor more than two and one half (2 7,) hours after a lunch period without such rest period. An employee who works more than five (5) hours after the lunch period will be granted a further fifteen (15) minute rest period except where the Company furnishes a meal as provided under Section 7 of this Article:
[21]
i)	the Union agrees that except in cases ofpersonal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day,
ii)	the Union agrees that rest periods must not be abused,
iii)	when a transfer occurs during working hours that necessitates a change of work clothing, employees will not be expected to utilize their fifteen (15) minute rest period in the forenoon or afternoon.
These provisions shall not be applicable in cases of emergency nor to continuous shift operators such as Firemen or Engineers.
8.11	During a mechanical breakdown time shall continue to accumulate to an employee transferred temporarily to other work or in- < structed by his/her foreman to wait on the premises of the Company.
8.12	The payment of overtime, holiday or Sunday rates in this Schedule “B” shall not be construed to require duplication of overtime, holiday or Sunday pay involving the same hours of work. More particularly, it is understood that no unforeseen or unexpected costs, above and beyond the actual premium rate provided for herein because of conflicting provisions elsewhere in the Collective Agreement will be incurred to the Company.
[22]
ARTICLE 9 — 37 Hours Pay Guarantee
9.1	Based upon the present prevailing hours of work, as outlined in Schedule“B” hereof, if a regularemployee’s weekly earnings, excluding overtime, night premium, and knife sharpening bonus, do not amount to the equivalent of thirty-seven (37) hours pay at his/her job rate, hereinafter called the “guaranteed payment”, the Company shall make up the difference subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The provisions of this Article 9 shall not apply to:
(i)	employees hired on a casual basis for such work as cured hide take-up, snow shovellers, wreckers, and
(ii)	employees discharged for cause, suspended^ voluntarilyleavingthe service of the Company.
(b)	Overtime payments made to an employee under Section 2 (of Article 8 of this Collective Agreement shall not be deemed to be “overtime” for the purposes of Article 9 Subsection 1.
(c)	The guaranteed payment shall be. reduced one quarter ('/,) hour for each quarter hour or fraction thereof an employee is absent from work during scheduledworking hours.
[23]
(d)	For purposes of the 37 hours pay guarantee, if an employee does not perform the work assigned to him/her the guaranteed payment forthe payroll week in which such absence occurs shall be reduced by the number of hours (s)he missed.
(e)	An employee who is employed after the first of the plant week shall be guaranteed, for such week, that fraction of the guaranteed payment which the normal hours remaining of the plant week is of forty (40) hours.
(f)	Employees on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given, and should the notice extend into a subsequent week then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of thirty-seven (37) hour)s pay which the normal hours forthose days ofthe notice occurring in such week is of forty (40).
(g)	Where the observance of a holiday other than any of the stipulated Paid Holidays, leaves less than thirty-seven (37) scheduled hours in the payroll week, the guaranteed payment shall be the number of scheduled hours available for work.
[24]
(h)	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guarantee pay can be used on other work, they shall be entitled to any guarantee pay due their gang, plus whatever they earn on the other work, provided they have been present each work day and worked all hours as ordered.
9.2	In order to meet the demands of the business in filling rush orders, the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for workoftwenty-four (2+4) hours or less in a payroll weekprovided the Union isnotified when such part-time workers are hired. In the event there is a person with seniority on lay-off, (s)he will be given the first opportunity for such part-time work provided (s)he has the necessary qualifications to perform such work. Part-time workers will be the first to be laid off in the event of a general lay-off occurring in the plant.
9.3	Subject to other provisions of this Article 9, in a payroll week containing a recognized Paid Holiday or holidays the “guaranteed payment” shall be theemployee’sj ob rate multiplied by hours as follows:
Hours set out in Schedule“C” less three
(3)	hours for days apart from recognized Paid Holidays plus eight (8) hours for each such holiday in that week.
[25]
ARTICLE 10 — Seniority
10.1	Seniority is defined as the length ,of an employee’s service with the Company determined by inclusion on the plant payroll, referred to herein as “plant work”, provided however, that an employee will be on probation and not subject to the seniority provisions contained herein, until (s)he has completed fifty (50) scheduled days of employment, on plant work, within a consecutive nine (9) month period and has received pay for each such day at least equal to the minimum provided under Article 8, Section 9 hereof. Until a probationary employee has acquired seniority, (s)he may be separated from the Company’s employ at any time without reference to the grievance procedure and the Company shall be under no obligationto rehire. Upon completion of such probationary period the employee’s name will be placed on the seniority list. An employee’s service shall be calculated as the elapsed time from the date (s)he was first employed on plant work, unless his/her seniority was broken, in which event the calculation shall be from the date (s)he returned to plant work following the last break in seniority, subject to the following:
(a)	continuous service with the Company in any capacity prior to September 2, 1948, will be included in establishing an employee’s seniority date.
[26]
(b)	service in the capacity of foreman or assistant foreman prior to November I, 1966, will be included in establishing an employee’s seniority date.
(c)	an employee returning to plant work from another part of the Company’s service will be credited with his/her previous service in plant work, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Article relating to seniority.
(d)	On April 1 st each year, the Company will issue a seniority list showing those persons who have attained seniority. The list shall be posted in conspicuous places throughout the plant, and a copy delivered to the Chief Steward, stewards and three (3) local officers at the plant, with a supplementary correction list each three (3) months thereafter. When an employee completes the probationary period and attains seniority, as defined under Section 1 of this Article, the Union will be advised by the end of the payroll week next following.
10.2	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there is no obligation to rehire when he:
[27]
(a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause; or
(b)	fails to return to work when called, or cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. A registered letter directed to his/her last known address with a copy to the Union, shall constitute reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The employee shall within five (5) working days (ifthe address is in the city in which the plant is located) or seven (7) days (if the addressisoutsidethecity in which theplant is located) of the date of such notice notify the Company with respect thereto, and in sucheventtheemployee shallreturnto work within a reasonable time to be determined
by the Company and the Union.
(This clause shall not apply to work of a temporary nature of less than ten (10) days duration.)
In cases where itis necessaryto secure workers in less time than the required notice the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligibleemployee,may recall the next senior employee, and so on down the list, until thevacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time (s)he shall
[28] .
be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled; or
(c)	has been on lay-off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Allowable Length of Seniority	Time Off
at Date of Lay-off	Companj Payroll

Less than two years
Equivalent to length of service with a minimum of 6 months
Over two years
2 years
10.3	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness (s)he shall accumulate seniority while off work, up to the time limits set out under Article 10, Section 2, Subsection (c), exceptthat an employee with two or more years service shall accumulate seniority for a period equivalent to his/her length of service up to a maximum of four years, and shall be returned to the job previously held or to a job carrying a rate equal to that previously held subject to seniority providing (s)he can perform the required work satisfactorily. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his/her previous job and is not placed on a job carrying an equal rate of pay, (s)he shall, subj ect to seniority be placed on a job (s)he can satisfactorily per-
[29]
form. Application for reinstatement after the expiry of the allowable period shall be considered on its merits.
10.4	It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his/her current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
ARTICLE 11 — Transfers
11.1 PermanentTransfer. In the event of an employee being transferred from one department to another(s)he shall retain his/her seniority in the original department until four (4) months have elapsed except that where such a transfer is due to promotion through posting of a preferable vacancy as set out in Article 12, Section 1, his/her seniority shall be transferred to the new department immediately. After the expiration of four (4)months in the new department his/her seniority shall be transferred to that department, unless within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the four (4)month period the employee signifies in writing to the Management that his/her seniority in the original department be maintained. When a vacancy occurs in the original department the senioremployee who has signified his/her wish will be returned before an employee with less seniority is placed on such work.
11.2	TemporaryTransfer.Whenatem-
porary transfer is made from one department to another or to an off shift from within the same department, the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the employeeto do the required work satisfactorily. Where an employee is permanently transferred to another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his/her previous department because of his/her qualifications to perform the work, (s)he may express his/her dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority,make areasonableeffort to obtain a replacement who can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer.
11.3	Written applications submitted to the Management, on the appropriate form, a copy of which shall go to the Union, will be accepted from employees with six (6) months seniority, who are regularly employed on the night shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the day shift, or from employees regularly employed on the day shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the night shift, so that employees applying can be considered along with other
[31]
senior employees who have suitable qualifications. When a suitable opening arises, consideration of transfer will he based on seniority, for applications that have been on file for one (1) month or more, always having regard to the ability of the employee to perform the available work and the requirements of the Company to conduct its operations in an efficient and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 12 —Promotion and Job Posting
12.1	Promotion within the bargaining unit shall be based on ability, merit and seniority. Ability andmeritbeing sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Employees accepting promotion will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify. Preferable vacancies will be posted for six (6) full working days so that employees applying will be considered along with other senior employees who have suitable qualifications. Such vacancies will be filled as set out in the first paragraph ofthis section. Employees filling such vacancies will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify and if it is determined the employee cannot qualify, (s)he will be returned to his/her previous job if (s)he so desires. Any employee who has been granted a promotion under Article 12,1 will be precluded from making application foranotherposition posted under thisprovision foraperiod of 12months from the date (s)he was awarded the position. A job
[32]
vacancy occurs when an employee leaves the Bargaining Unit after having been employed for at least twelve (12) months since his last date of hire.
12.2	Notwithstanding the foregoing pro-
visions of this Article 12 and of Article 11, suitable modified duties or alternate work arrangements may be reserved for employees who have physical restrictions, and those situations so reserved are not to be filled in accordance with the provisions of Articles 11 and 12:
a)	Employees returning from occupational injury and who require a modification of duties in the short term shall present the appropriate medical documentation to the Company advising of the physical restrictions that apply. The Company will then determine if suitable duties are available and discuss the matter with the Local Union.
b)	For those employees who require modified duties in the long term, they will likewise advise the Company of their limitations supported by appropriate medical documentation. The Company will determine w^iaf if any suitablepositions are available and will discuss the matter with the Local Union.
Employees who are accommodated under this
provision, 12.2 a), shall not be considered to be
[33]
permanently assigned to the position or tasks they take up during the recovery period and shall be returned to their regular duties once they have completed the predetermined recovery period.
12,3	The provisions of Article 12, Section 1, shall not apply inthe appointment of group leaders as defined under Schedule “A” 10.
ARTICLE 13 — Leave of Absence
13.1	Leave of absence will be granted to an employee who provides written request:
at
At least one (1) weeks in advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of the employee’s appointment or election to a full- time Union position.
b)
At least two (2) weeks in advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of the employee’s election to a full-time positionto a School Board, J2.ivic Council,Federal Parliament, Provincial Legislature, the Manitoba Federation of Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress, with the proviso that the total number of employees applying for leave under this Section 13.1 shall not exceed two (2)at any one time.
[34]
Employees requesting leave shall advise the Company of the length of such leave at the time of application for leave. In the event that additional leave is required, it shall be again given in writing indicating the commencement and termination of such leave, and it shall be renewed. In the event that the employee wishes to return to the employment of the Company, that employee shall notify the Company in writing of that intent at least one (1) month prior to the date (s)he is to return. Employees on leave under this Section shall not accumulate seniority and upon returning to the Company, their seniority date shall be adjusted accordingly.
13.2	Employees chosen by the Union to attend to Union business outside the plant shall be granted leave of absence not exceeding sixty (60)days providing that the absenceof each such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operation of his/her department. Such leave will be extended up to a maximum of a further thirty (30) days upon reapplication by the employee. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such period of leave of absence. Unless otherwise agreed, the maximum number of employees permitted on leave of absence at any one time will be five (5).
13.3	Leave of absence may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the em-
ployee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. If leave of absence isfor a period of one (1) week or more, written application shall be made by the employee tothe Company, and ifthe leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Secretary of the Union. Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence.
The Union will be advised of the final disposition of all written applications for leave of absence.
13.4	Every employee who has completed six (6)months seniority who applies forleave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the day she intends to take leave supported by a medical certificate from her doctor which certifies that she is pregnant and specifies the estimated date of delivery shall be granted a maternity leave of seventeen (17) weeks duration from the actual date of delivery or the date leave was requested:
a)	In the event that delivery occurs after the leave commences, then the period between the date of leave and the date of delivery shall be added to the leave.
b)	An employee may apply foradditional leave of nine (9) weeks which will be granted, however, in no case will there quest forleave exceed twenty-six (26)weeks.
[36]
c)	Employees on such leave will upon the expiry of the leave be reinstated in the position she occupied at the time her leave commenced or in a comparable position with not less th=n the same wages and benefits.
d)	Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave.	,
13.5	Jury Duty & SubpoenaPay. The
Company shall continue to pay an employee for scheduled hours athis/her regular hourly rate for time (s)he is away when summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or when (s)he has been served withasubpoenaissuedby the Crown to appear in a court of law. Within one (1) month of the employ ee's return to work (s)he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the employee will report to workduring regular hours that (s)he is not required to attend court andmay be required to produce a certificate of service from the court office if requested by the Company.
13.6	Funeral.
(a)	Where an employee is absent to arrange or attend the funeral of a sister, brother, husband, wife, son, daughter, grandfather, grandmother, grandchild, mother or mother-in-law, fatherorfather-in-law(s)he
[37]
shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate for scheduled hours lost on three (3) scheduled days ending with the second day after the funeral.
(b)	When an employee is unable to attend the funeral of an immediate relative due to geographical limitations, (s)he shall receive 8 hours pay athis/her regularrate forthe day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to the absence from work on one of his/her regularly scheduled work days. For the purpose of 16.11(b) an immediate relative will mean wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law. The employee will be required to furnish verification of the date of the funeral to the Company. Where an unusual circumstance exists with respect to the funeral of said relative, then the employee may present these circumstances to the Company for review. The Company may then, at its discretion, agree to pay the eight (8) hours pay under this section for an appropriate day of mourning.
13.7 Medical Aid. An employee, in-j ured while performing his/her work, who leaves for medical aid arranged through the plant nurse or a Company official shall be paid the difference between Workers Compensation benefits and pay for his/her scheduled hours lost:
[38]
(a)	on the day of the accident and/or
(b)	up to a maximum of three (3) subsequent absences occurring within six (6) calendar weeks of such accident.
The foregoing provisions shall also apply to an employee injured while performing overtime work and in such case (s)he shall be paid for the balance of those overtime hours (s)he would have worked had (s)he not been injured.
1 ?
ARTICLE 14 —Lay-off and Rehire /■
14.1	An employee with seniority may not be laid off unless it is found that there is r.ojob available for which such employee is qualified. The Management shall decide as to the availability of a job and the qualifications of an employee, subject to the right of appeal by the Union under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure.
14.2	In the event of reduction of staff and rehiring of employees seniority shall apply, ' provided the employee with the greater amount
of seniority can satisfactorily perform the job (s)he is assigned to, or canleam the j ob within a reasonable time. However, in the rehiring of employees if the j ob is one requiring immediate qualifications then the Company may recall the senior employee possessing the necessary qualifications.
[39]
14.3	The Company shall advise the Union when a lay-off is about to occur and shall on the day of issuance of lay-off notice give the Union a list indicating the name and department of all employees affected. Similarly the Com-' pany shall on the day of rehire give the Union a list of all those employees to be rehired. Likewise the Union will also be advised of all deletions or additions to the bargaining unit payroll, in writing, on a monthly basis.
a) The Company will provide a list on daily absenteeism, for each day, to the Chief Steward.
14.4	In the case oflay-offemployees shall be given one (1) working day's notice for every completed six (6) months seniority, with a maximum notice of five (5) working days and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. . If the Company determines that additional work is available at the time any lay-off notice is to become effective, the lay-off notice shall be extended to senior employees then on lay-off notice provided they have the necessary qualifications to perform the required work satisfactorily. If the extension of the lay-off notice exceeds seven (7) working days, it will be cancelled.
In the case of recall of an employee for work of less than ten (10) days duration, the requirements in respect of notice of lay-off shall not
[40]
apply provided the employee and the Union are given notice at the time of recall that such work is of a temporary nature. Employees shall be laid off from such work in order of seniority.
14.5	Employees whom the Company wishes to train for supervisory, technical or commercial positions outside of the bargaining unit may be retained in employment without being subject to the lay-off provision of the Agreement for a period of two (2)years. One (1) month’s notice will be given to the Union before a selected employee becomes a trainee. The number of such employees at any one time shall not exceed 1% of the number of employees in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 15 — Vacations
15.1	Vacation for an employeehired after January 1st, 1947, shall be calculated to and in recognition of service ending with a cut-off date of April 1st each year, and such employee shall become entitled to his/her first vacation not exceeding one (1) week on April 1st in the calendar year next following the date (s)he was hired. On each April 1st thereafter (s)heshall become entitled to a regular annual vacation.
15.2	Vacation for those hired prior to January 1st, 1947, shall be calculated to and in
[41]
recognition of service to the seniority anniversary date occurring in the calendar year of vacation which shall be referred to as the cut-off date, but this is not intended to limit regular annual vacations to the period after the seniority anniversary date.
15.3	The duration of the vacation shall be based on the length of seniority service on December 31 st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be granted, as follows:
15.4	Each employee shall take his/her vacation during the calendar year in which (s)he becomes entitled to it except as provided in section 15.6 of this Article. Vacations may be given at any time during the year subject to the demands of the business. The Company shall make every reasonable effort to meet the wishes of the employees in allocating vacation periods, preference being given to those with the greatest seniority.
Length of Seniority
Length of Vacation
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
[42]
15.5	Where anemployeeisentitledtofour
(4)	or more weeks vacation, those weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) shall be taken at a time other than during the months of June to September inclusive.
15.6	An employee eligible for four (4) or more weeks of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his/her foreman, accumulate those
i	weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) from - year to year to be taken ata later time convenient ' to the Company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof.
15.7	Vacation pay shall be granted to an employee at the time (s)he leaves on his/her vacation.
15.8	If one of the Paid Holidays stipulated in Schedule “B” hereof falls within the vacation period assigned to or chosen by an employee,the Company will, at the discretion of such employee;
(a)	Pay eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate for such Paid Holiday at the time the employee leaves on his/her vacation. This shall be in addition to vacation pay provided in Section 15.9 of this Article, or
[43]
(b)	If advised by the employee at least two (2) calendar weeks prior to his/her vacation period, grant the employee an alternate day off, with eight (8)hourspay athis/herregular hourly rate, in place of the Paid Holiday to be taken at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee.
In the event the employee elects option (b) but does work on the day agreed upon as hisfher alternate day off, it shall be considered as work performed on a Paid Holiday and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article 8, Section 9.
15.9	Vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly rated employees shall be the basic weekly hours at the regular hourly rate pro-ratedon the number of weeks of earningsfor which vacation pay has not been granted in the twelve (12) months (for first vacation the full period of service)immediately preceding the cutoff date. Leave of absence not exceeding four (4) weeks shallberegarded as weeks of earnings. In the case of illness certified by a practicing physician orsurgeon an employee,upon his/her retumto the service of the Company, shallreceive vacation credit due to illness up to four (4) weeks annually or such longer period as an employee may be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity under the Sickness and Accident Plan. An employee upon his/her return to the service of the Company aftera compensable accident shall
[44]
be granted up to one year’s vacation credits as if earnings had been received
15.10	Except where otherwise provided by legislation an employee who is discharged for cause forfeits his/her vacation privileges accumulated since his/her last cut-off date, but in the case of an employee who leaves the service of the Company for reasons other than being discharged for cause, and (s)he has had more than four (4) months service, (s)he shall receive vacation pay up to the date of leaving calculated back to the last cut-off date for which (s)he has already received vacation pay. (For an employee who leaves before his/her first cut-off date the calculation shall be made back to the date (s)he was employed.) The employee may request the Company in writing to hold his/her vacation pay for a period of up to three (3) months but in no case shall such period extend beyond December 15th in the year of separation.
15.11	When an employee leaves the service at the normal retirement age before the cutoff date in that year, the period between retirement and the cut-off date shall be regarded as weeks of earnings for purposes of Section 15.9 of this Article.
15.12	Where vacation with pay is greater under provincial legislation, it shall replace the foregoing.
[45]
15.13	When an employee is injured in a non-occupationalaccident or becomes sickwhile on vacation (s)he can become eligible for the weekly indemnity benefit as set out in the Sickness and Accident Plan provided:
(a)	He deposits with the Company the vacation pay for the unexpired portion of his/ her vacation.
(b)	He furnishes a certificate of medical attendance satisfactory to the Canada Life Assurance Company.
(c)	He takes the remainder of his/her vacation at a time granted later in the same calendar year.
In case of sickness, no payment (weekly indemnity or vacation pay) will be made during the waiting period prescribed in the Sickness arid Accident Plan.
15.14	Where an employee returns to work due to an emergency while (s)he is on vacation (s)he will be entitled to the provisions of Schedule “B”, Section 6 for each calendar day (s)he reports to work, or alternatively (s)he may arrange with his/her foreman to take an alternate day off for each such calendar day, during the samecalendar year, at a time mutually agreeable to both the Company and the employee.
ARTICLE 16 — General
16.1	Protective Services. In the event of any strike, walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent powerhouse staff such as firemen, engineers, and an electrician from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore regular production.
16.2	Laundry. The free laundry service for employees’ work clothes shall be continued and the Company will make necessary repairs to such work clothes where they are of the overall apparel type available through the Company’s stores department.
16.3	Company Stores. Working apparel and equipment purchased by employees at the Company’s stores shall be sold at cost. Deductions for apparel or equipment purchased by a new employee shall be made out of the first two wage payments due such employee.
16.4	Safety. In order to provide safe and hygienic working conditions for all employees. the Company agrees that the minimum accept-
[47]
able standard for the safety and health of its employees will be as provided in the Manitoba health and safety legislation and accident prevention regulations. Theprovisionsforthesafety / committee shallbe maintained as outlined inthe^-Company safety policy. The Company shall provide safety equipment free of charge to employees whose work makes it desirable in the interest of safety to use such equipment. The employees shall use and assume responsibility for the reasonable care of all safety equipment supplied to them. In the event that such safety equipment is lost or is not returned on demand, the Company shall be entitled to deduct the cost of same from the employee’s wages. It is understood that the said safety equipment shall not be deemed to include such personal necessities as overalls, or any other article which become the personal property of the employee.
Employees with more than six (6) months seniority who purchase safety footwear through the Company for use on thejob, shall receive an allowance of up to thirty dollars ($30.00) towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who purchase such footwear shall be reimbursed up to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months seniority. For a sub-sequentpurchase, employees will again become eligible forthis allowanceoneyear from the date
[48]
of their previous purchase under this provision. Effective April 1, 1989, the $30.00 boot allowance shall increase to $40.00.
16.5	Bulletin Boards. The Company shall designate bulletin boards for the use of the Union atconspicuousplaces throughout the plant. All bulletins shall be submitted to the management for approval before posting, saveand except routine notices calling Union meetings posted by officers of the Union who are employees of the Company.
16.6	Welfare Plans. The Pension and Life Insurance Plan, the Sickness and Accident Plan, the Dental Plan, Vision Care Plan, Hearing Aid Plan, Long Term Disability Plan and the Major Medical Plan will be amended as mutually agreed and remain in effect for the term of this Agreement.
16.7	Tools.
(a)	The present practice for sharpeningof tools will continue.
(b)	The Company will supply tools to employees engaged in the maintenance department to replace worn out or broken tools which are to be turned into the Company stores at the time of such replacement. With the advance of technology, the Company recognizes the need for better and improved
[49]
tools and will agree to suchpurchases where it deems necessary. It is recognized that employees of the maintenance department require tools in varying degrees in the performance of their work which will involve varying replacements but no replacements and purchases shall exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for any one employee in a contract year. Any unused portion of this maximum amount may be carried over to the following contract year but such carryover shall not exceed the total maximum allowance for the year.
16.8	Licences. The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licences required in the performance of their duties.
16.9	Clothing. Clothing specified under the present plan will be issued without charge to employees who have attained seniority and the Company will establish regulations in respect thereto. In addition where the Company determines rubber boots are required by an employee for the performance of his/her duties, the Company will pay one-half ('/2) the cost of the first pair and the full cost of all necessary replacements. Employees with more than six (6) months seniority, who purchase a quilted vest or
[50]
liner through the Company for use on the job shall receive an allowance of up to sixteen dollars ($16.00) towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed up to sixteen dollars ($16.00) towards such purchase on attainment of six (6)months of seniority. For a subsequent purchase employees will again become eligible for this allowance three (3)years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
16.10 The Company will provide a filing cabinet and a wall/desk or other work surface for the use of Local Union Officials.
ARTICLE 17 — Severance Pay
17.1	If the Company deems it necessary to close the plant or a substantial portion of the plant resulting in the permanent termination of service of employees therein, or where an employee is eligible under Article 19, notice at least equal to, but not in addition to, that provided in Article 14, Section4 hereof with minimum notice of one (1) month, shall be given to employees then on the payroll. The guaranteed payment as set out in Article 9 hereof shall apply during the period of such notice. A list of employees affected by the closure will be given to the Union concurrent with the issuance of notice.
[51]
17.2	Such employees whose service is permanently terminatedbecause of such closure shall receive severance pay in accordance with the table set out in this Article, but no such payment will be made to
(a)	except as provided under Article 19, an
employee with less than one (1) year’s seniority.
(b)	an employee granted retirement onpension.
(c)	an employee discharged for cause within the period of notice.
(d)	an employee who applies for a vacancy in another plant of the Company and is hired by that plant.
(e)	an employ eewho has been onlay-off under Article 14, Section4, foraperiod of thirty (30) calendar days or more prior to the date of notification of closure.
17.3	Severance pay shall not apply:
(a)	where close down results from Queen ’ s enemies, insurrection, government action, atomic fallout, Acts of God or any other cause beyond the Company’s control; or
(b)	where close down follows, or is caused through any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work.
[52]
17.4	When an employee receives sever-ancepay, all his/her rights andprivileges including seniority ceaseexceptinghis/her optionrights under the Pension and Life Insurance Plan and the Sickness and Accident Plan in respect to termination of service.
17.5	The scale of severance pay shall be as follows:
Years of Completed Seniority at Closing Date Amount
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18 19
$ 380 380 580 780 980 1,180 1,380 1,580 1,780 1,980 2,320 2,660 3,000 3,340 3,680 4,020 4,360 4,700 5,040
Years of Completed
Seniority at Closing Date	Amount
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
5,380
5,790
6,200
6,610
7,020
7,430
7,840
8,250
8,660
9,070
9,480
9,925
10,370
10,815
11,260
11,705
12,150
12,595
13,040
13,485
13,930
Employees whose combined age and years of service,as set out above,total65 will be entitled to a supplement of $2,500 plus an additional $ 125 for each year the combined total exceeds 65.
ARTICLE 18 — Wages
18.1	Labour rates and Scheduleof Grades.
(a)	Labourrates On April 1st, 1988, the labour rate shall be $13.42.
(b)	Scheduleof Grades Tfie Schedule of Grades in effect on June 1st, 1984 shall be as follows:
Cents Per Hour Above the Labour Grade
0	Od	14	$1.12 |	28	$2.24
1	8	15_AM'k	29	2.32 fri
2	16	16
3	24	17
4	32	18
5	40	19
6	48	20
7	56	21
8	64	22
9	72	23
10	80	24
11	88	25
12	96	26
13	1.04	27
1.28	30	2.40
1.36	31	2.48
1.44	32	2.56
1.52	33	2.64
1.60	34	2.72
1.68	35	2.80
1.76	36	2.88
1.84	37	2.96
1.92	38	3.04
2.00	39	3.12
2.08	40	3.20
2.16	41	3.28
the labour rate shall be the labour rate shall be
18.2	Grade for New or Changed Job. The Company will establish the grade for a new or changedjob by comparing the job with similar jobs already contained in the Scheduleof Grades. If there is no comparable job included in the Schedule of Grades, the Company will in the establishment of the grade consider rates paid for the same or similarjobs in other meat processing plants.
The Plant Management will send written advice of the established grade to the Chief Steward of the Local Union.
Within fifteen (15) calendar days ofnotifi-cationdescribed in the preceding paragraph, and upon objection by the Local Union to the newly established grade, the Management will discuss the matter with the Unit Chairperson or his/her designate. If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days after such discussion it will be referred in writing for further review, such written notice to contain a submission in support of the objection to the newly established grade.
If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of written notice, the parties shall appointa qualified consultant in Job Evaluation to determine the grade and his/her decision shall be final and binding. The expenseof suchconsultant will be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
[56]
If the parties cannot agree on the appointment of a qualified consultant in Job Evaluation then proceedings will be taken under the fourth step of Article 4. In assessing the grade established by the Company for the new or changed job, the arbitration board shall consider the factors set out in the first paragraph of this section in reaching its decision.
18.3	Application of Rates. Provisions respecting the application of rates are set out in Schedule “A” attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 — Methods andlmprovements
19.1	The Company continually strives to improve methods and costs and in doing so will purchase and install new and improved equipment. Such installments shall constitute a Technological Change.
19.2	In the event that a Technological Change is contemplated by the Company, the Company shall notify the Union sixty (60)days prior to the implementation of the Technological Change.
19.3	The Company and the Union shall discuss the Technological Change and the impact it will have on the employees in the Bargaining Unit.
[57]
i)	If it is determined that employees will be adversely affected, then the Union and the Company may enter into an agreement on the matter of those employees affected and the disposition of their situation.
ii)	In the event that agreement cannot be reached under 19.3 i) above, then senior employees will be transferred to a position for which they have sufficient qualifications.
a)	Employees who are transferred to a position which causes a reduction in theirjob rate shall have that reduction apply as per the provisions of Schedule “ A 7.
b)	Intheeventthatanemployee with five
(5)	years of seniority or more is displaced and cannot be accommodated under Article 19, Section 19.3 i)and ii) a), then that employee will be eligible for provisions of Article 17.
19.4	This Article shall supercedethe provisions of Technological Change as prescribed by the Labour Relations Act of Manitoba.
19.5	If an employee alleges that there has been an unreasonable increase in his/her work,
rcoi
the Union may request that the matter be reviewed I with the Company. Representatives of the Union (not to exceed two) and, if desired, a full time staff representative of the Union may meet with Plant Management to discuss the facts of the case and endeavour to resolve the issue. The employee concerned may be present at these meetings if so desired by the employee or by either party.
ARTICLE 20 — Duration of Agreement
The term of this Agreement shall be from .April 1. 1988 to March 31. 1991 and shall continue in force after March 31, 1991 on yearly basis, which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the term of the Agreement, until terminated by either party giving the other party not more than ninety (90) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, notice in writing prior to the expiration date. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in the ensuing term, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90)days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to March 31, 1991. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shall remain in force.
ARTICLE 21 — Application
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective at the commencement cf thepayroll week next following the date the Company receives notification from the Union that this Agreement has been ratified, except as otherwise specifically provided.
This Agreement is signed by the duly authorized officers of Local 111 U.F.C.W., and by the authorized local Management of the Company, as evidencing their agreement to and concurrence in its terms.
BURNS MEATS A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS LIMITED WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 111
SCHEDULE“A” -APPLICATION OF RATES
1. The term “grade” shall mean the rate set down for labour operations under the Company’s schedule, provided however the following rates apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of earnings:
a) For Employees hired prior to August 24,
1988:
Effective April 1, 1988 to March 31, 1989:
tarting Rate............................$10,07
Upon completion of
six (6) months........................10.74
Upon completion of
twelve (12)months.......................11.41
Upon completion of
sixteen (16) months.....................12.08
Upon completion of
twenty (20) months......................12.75
Upon completion of
twenty-four (24) months.................13.42
Effective April 1, 1989 to March 31, 1990:
Starting Rate............................$10.40
Upon completion of
six (6) months..........................11.10
Upon completion of
twelve 02) months.......................11.79
Upon completion of
sixteen (16)months......................12.48
Upon completion of
twenty (20) months......................13.18
Upon completion of
twenty-four (24)months..................13.87
[61]
Effective April 1, 1990 to March 31, 1991:
Starting Rate............................$10.78
Upon completion of
six months...............................11.50
Upon completion of
twelve (12) months........................12.21
Upon completion of
sixteen (16) months.......................12.93
Upon completion of
twenty (20) months........................13.65
Upon completion of
twenty-four (24)months....................14.37
b)	For Employeeshired on or after August 24,
1988:
Effective August 24, 1988:
Starting Rate............................$ 8.00
Upon completion of
twelve (12) months.........................9.81
Effective April 1, 1989:
Starting Rate.............................$8.00
Upon completion of
twelve (12)months..........................9.96
Upon completion of
twenty-four (24) months...................11.87
Effective April 1, 1990:
Starting Rate.............................$8.00
Upon completion of
twelve (12)months.........................10.12
Upon completion of
twenty-four (24) months...................12.24
Upon completion of
thirty-six (36)months.....................14.37
[621
Ic)	Twelve (12) months shall equal 52 weeks.
In order for an employee to qualify for an increment they must work at least one day in each of the 52 weeks. F or each week that an employee fails to work, at least one day, the 52 week period will be extended by that/ those week(s).
Vacations shall count as days of work, as will written authorized leaves over which the company has control.
d) The $8.00 starting rate will apply to employees at time of hire, with exception of those classified as improvers or above in the Mechanical Department,and those hired in Fourth Class Shift Engineers or above in the Powerhouse. The starting rate for these two departments shall be$ 13.02 provided, however, that the $ 13.02 start rate shall be reduced by nine (9) cents until the completion of six (6) weeks of earnings. Thereafter, the $13.02 will be reduced by only four (4): ents until the completion of twelve (12) weeks of earnings. Earnings referred to above means earnings at least equal to the guaranteed payment in any fourteen (14) month period.
2. The term “job rate” shall mean the hourly rate determined by a combination of grades of work regularly performed by the
[63]
employee, and thejob rate shall be rounded off to correspond to the nearest grade after calculating as follows:
(a)	The two highest grades covering work regularly performed by the employee shall be used; the highest at the actual time worked and the second highest for the remainder of the time worked.
(b)	When an employee spends 50% or more of his/her time on the highest grade, then the highest grade shall become the job rate.
3.	A new employee or a recalled employee shall receive thejob rate for the work to which (s)he is assigned when (s)he becomes qualified but such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6) weeks.
4.	PermanentTransfer.Form300 shall indicate a permanent transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the Chief Steward immediately after the employee is advised. If an employee is transferred permanently to work where the job rate is higher, (s)he shall receive the higher rate when (s)he becomes qualified, but for purposes of application of rates such qualifying period shall not exceed six (6) consecutive weeks, after which the higher job rate shall apply.
If an employee is permanently transferred to work where thej ob rate is lower, such lower rate shall start twelve (12) weeks, including layoff, after the date of such transfer. The twelve [64]
(12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employeeisrequired to return temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work. Where the employee returns temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work for a period in excess of three (3)consecutive weeks, the twelve( 12)week period set out in the foregoing paragraph will recommence when the employee is again transferred to the work where the job rate is lower.
a) Employees shall be given the opportunity to sign their form 300 whenever that form 300 is issued or changed.
5.	Temporary Transfer. When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job (s)he shall receive the higher rate provided however that such higher rate shall not be used as part ofthejob rate referred to in Sections 2,3, and 4 of this Article. The employee’sregu-larjob rate (Form 300) shall apply immediately such temporary assignment ceases.Form 301 shall indicate a temporary transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the department steward. Where an employee is kept on the same temporary assignment for a period of three (3) months the rate for such assignment shall be regarded as a permanent transfer under Section4 above.
6.	If an employee at his/her own request is transferred permanently from work where the job rate is higher, the lower rate shall prevail immediately upon transfer.
[65]
7.	Where an employee is transferred to work where thejobrate is lower as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment or where an employee remains on ajob reduced in value following a technological change, his/her rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including lay-off, provided the employee accepts all opportunities for transfer to work where thejob rate is higher. In the application of rates or adjustment of grades such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid at time of transfer except for reasons of a general wage increase after date of transfer. At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) grades. At twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) grades shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
8.	Anemployee whose schedulecalls for
work to commence at any time other than between 6 am to 9 a.m. inclusive shall receive a night shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour for all hours worked between 4 p.m. and 7 a.m., such premium to be continued for hours worked after 7 a.m. where the employee was entitled to the premium for hours immediately before 7 a.m. Such premium shall not be a part of his/herregular hourly job rate. Effective April 1,1990 the thirty-five (35 ) cents premium shall become forty (40 ) cents.	^
[66]
9.	Effective February 1,1989, for sched-
uled hours worked between 12:01 A.M. on Saturday and midnight on Sunday, an employee shall receive one and one half (1 1/2) times his/ her regular hourly rate. The foregoing shall not apply for any hours on Saturday or Sunday for which overtime or paid holiday rates are paid; nor does it apply where an employee commences a shift on the Sunday night and that shift runs into the Monday A.M., so long as no more than three (3) hours of that shift fall on the Sunday. Part-time workers and employees hired on a casual basis shall receive a premium of twenty (20) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Saturday and thirty (30) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Sunday. Such premium shall not be a part of an employee’s regular hourly job rate. The premium shall not apply for any hours for which overtime rates are paid.
10.	1. Employees who use a knife one hundred percent of the time in the performance of theirduties shall receive one hour'spay per week at their regular rate (exclusive of any premium pay).
2.	Employees who use a knife more than fifty percent of the time. but less than one hundred percent of the time in the performance of their duties shall receive one half hour pay per week at their regular rate (exclusive of any premium pay).
167]
3.	Employees shall sharpen theirknives on their own time.
4.	Employees shall purchase their own knives, steels and stones.
5.	The Company shall provide safety scabbard, apron and meshed glove.
11.	An employee in the Bargaining Unit designated by the Company as a group leader, a deputy of theforeman, shall receive five (5) cents above the highest rate actually paid to employees under his/her directionexcept in cases where the groupleaderisthe highest rated man in which case five (5) cents shall be added to his/her job rate. The steward will be kept informed by the Company of employees under the direction of the group leader. It is agreed that a group leader shall not hire, lay-off, suspend, discharge or exercise other discipline, nor shall the group leader transfer employees to other departments unless (s)he is directed to do so by a member of management. It is further understood and agreed that a group leader shall not be retained in his/ herdepartment under Article 11, Section2, solely because of his/her duties as a group leader.
12.	In the case of an employee who has signified his/her wish to return to his/her original department under Article 11, Section 1, but is prevented from returning solely because of the lack of a qualified replacement, (s)he shall be paid the job rate to which (s)he would be [68]
entitled in his/her original department orthe rate (s)he is paid on the date (s)he is prevented from returning to his/her original department, whichever is greater.
SCHEDULE “B” — PAID HOLIDAYS
Paid Holidays.
1.	(a) Ten Paid Holidays shall be rec-
ognized as follows:
New Year’s Day	Good Friday
Victoria Day	Dominion Day
Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	Remembrance Day
First Monday in August (usually referred to as the Civic Holiday).
Boxing Day (unless mutually agreed that the day before Christmas be substituted in place of Boxing Day).
In addition to the Paid Holidays above employees on the payroll as of April 1st each year shall begranted one (I ) Individual Holiday, which shall betaken in the calendar year in which the employee becomes eligible for such Individual Holiday, and at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Except by permission of the Plant Management, an Individual Holiday shall not be granted during the period June 15th to September 15th.
[69]
Should the plant be required by law to observe any holiday(s) other than those listed above, suchholiday(s) shall replace the Individual Holiday. Where, in the absence of such a legal requirement, Heritage Day is commonly observed as a holiday by a plant’s major customers, then the plant shall observe Heritage Day as a holiday in place of an Individual Holiday. Where permitted under labour legislation if any of the Paid Holidays fall on a S unday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will be observed as the holiday in lieu of Monday.
If Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or New Year’s Day, where applicable, fall on a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed and where Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday will be observed in lieu of Friday.
(b) For each recognized Paid Holiday eight (8) hours holiday pay at his/her job rate shall be paid to a regular hourly paid employee, provided (s)he is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Article 9 hereof andprovided (s)he has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing the holiday. In order to qualify for holiday pay, such an employee must be in attendance at work on the scheduled work day preceding and the scheduled workday following such
[70]
holiday, unless there is ajustifiable excuse for the absence satisfactory to the Company.
In the case of an employee having seniority who is laid off prior to a Paid Holiday occurring in the same payroll week as the lay-off occurs and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week during which such Paid Holiday occurs, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. When an employee having seniority is laid off on a Friday and a holiday occurs on the Saturday, Sunday or Monday immediately following and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week in which the lay-off occurs, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. Similarly, if an employee having seniority is recalled from lay-off in a plant week containing a Paid Holiday and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in such week, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay.
Upon his/her return to work, an employee granted leave of absence under Article 13, Section 2. will be eligible for eight (8)hours pay for any Paid Holiday occurring during such period of authorized leave of absence.
(c)	In addition to (b) above, such employee shal 1 be paid double his/herjob rate for all hours
1711
worked on the holiday as provided under (a) above.
2.	A regular hourly paid employee otherwise entitled to paid holiday pay under this Schedule“B” who does not have earnings in the plant week containing a holiday, and who is or becomes eligible for Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation benefits, will, upon return to work, be compensated for a paid holiday occurring during such absence on the following basis:
a) AbsenceduetoNon-Occupational Sickness or Accident:
i)	every employee will be considered a member of the Welfare Plan even though he may have refused tojoin the Plan or does not have sufficient service to be eligible for Welfare Plan benefits,
ii)	when absence is due to sickness and the holiday falls during the four (4)day waiting period under the Welfare Plan, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
iii)	when absence is due to sickness or nonoccupational accident and a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the employee’s benefit period, he will be paid the holiday pay less one-fifth (V3) of the weekly benefits,
[72]
iv)	ifapaid holiday occurson anon-scheduled day during the employee’s benefit period, he will be paid full paid holiday pay.
b)	Absence due to Occupational Sickness or Accident:
i)	where a paid holiday falls during the waiting period for Workers’ Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
ii)	where a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the first twelve (12) months of Workers’ Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid holiday pay less the amount he receives in Workers’ Compensation benefits for the day of the holiday,
iii)	if a paid holiday occurs on anon-scheduled day during the first twelve (12) months of Workers’ Compensation Benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay.
c)	Individual Holidays will also apply for such payment as prescribed under subsection a) and b) above providing the employee returns to work after December 3 1st of the year in which the holiday was to be taken.
[73]
SCHEDULE “D” —
12 HOUR SHIFT AGREEMENT FOR POWER ENGINEERS
The parties agree that during the life of this Collective Agreement, a “Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule” will be implemented which will provide that Powerhouse Engineers work an average of forty (40) hours per week over a five (5) week period (i.e. two-hundred (200)hours over a five (5) week period). The provision of two-hundred (200) hours over a five (5)week period is subject to change,by the Company, in order to provide appropriate shift coverage in the Powerhouse.
The implementation of the “Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule” will affect the Collective Agreement as follows:
1.	The thirty-seven (37) hour pay guarantee shall reduce to the actual hours scheduled where those scheduled hours total less than thirty-seven (37) hours in a specific week.
2.	The fifty (50) scheduled days of employment referred to in Article 10, Section 1 shall be equal to fifty (SO) scheduled shifts regardless of the lengths of the shifts which meet the criteria set forth in Article 10, Section 1.
[74]
3.	Vacation pay shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour day.
4.	Funeral pay shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour shift for each day of leave granted.
5.	Medical aid shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour shift in that the maximum payment that will be paid under the Article 16, Section 12 will be eight (8) hours including the payment for hours worked, unless the hours worked are greater than eight (8) hours, then payment will be made for those hours worked.
6.	Shiftpremiumshallnotbepaidforthe hours worked between 7:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M., regardless of the start time of the shift, but will be paid foreach hourworked between 4:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M.
7.	Overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employees’ regular rate only if an employee has worked in excess of twelve (12) hours when a twelve (12) hour shift is scheduled, and
a)	a meal shall be provided as per Article 8.7,
b)	Article 8.5, will govern the payment of the double time rate and the application of the second meal, however, where the contract reads 13,17 shallbe substitutedinthetwelve (12) hour shift situation.
[75]
8. The meal and restperiods shall remain as they are for an eight (8)hour shift, that is, one-half (V2) hour unpaid lunch break and two fifteen (15) minute, Company paid, rest periods which may be taken at a time suitable to the Engineer given that operationalrequirements do not necessitate that he attend to his job.
9.	Paid holidays will be paid on the basis of an eight (8) hour shift so that;
a)	holiday pay for a twelve (12) hour shift worked will equal eight (8) hours pay at regular rates, plus,
b)	twice the hourly rate for each hour worked on the calendar holiday,is paid
Note - an individual Holiday is a paid holiday
10.	The general principle underlying the implementationofatwelve (12)hour shift schedule is that the Company will not incur any additional costs in wages, premiums, replacement coverage or the like, and that in each situation where a dispute arises over the interpretation of this Schedule “D”, it will be decided on the basis ofthis principle. Thus, the dispute will be settled on the basis of the cost calculated for an eight (8) hour shift schedule applied to the twelve (12) hour shift scheduled.
[76]
MEMORANDUM REGARDING WELFARE PLANS
Weekly Indemnity
Weekly Indemnity, effective the first full pay week next following ratificationof the Agreement shall be:
- 60% of the employeesjob rate to the maximum of 60% of the U.I. Maximum Insur-' able Earnings Level (In 1988 that 60% of the U.I. Maximum is $339.00)
The Company will continue to pay the first $4.00 of each monthly premium for the above benefits, with the balance of each monthly premium to be shared equally between the Company and the employees.
Where the employee portion of the required sick pay premium in Pay Grade Category 1 exceeds$25.00, and proportionately in Pay Grade Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5, the Company will pay the full amount of such excess premiums.
If a premium reduction is subsequently implemented, the full amount of the reduction will apply to the Company portion until such portion is reduced to $29.00 for Pay Grade Category 1, and proportionately for Pay Grade Categories 2. 3, 4 and 5. Any premium reduction below this level will be applied according to the cost-sharing provision above.
[77]
The schedule for the above benefits is as follows and indicates consecutive weeks of benefits which allow for the divorcing of this plan from the Unemployment Insurance sickness benefit:
Maximum Benefits
—	3 months seniority
to 5 years seniority....................26	weeks
—	5 years seniority up
to 10 years seniority...................39	weeks
—	10 years seniority
and over................................52	weeks
Asa result of theplan’s non-alignment with the U.I.C. plan the full amount of reduction in the Unemployment Insurance Premiums shall be applied towards the cost of the Welfare Plan Benefit.
In the event any Government legislation provides benefits for accident, illness or pregnancy during the term of this Agreement, such benefitsshall be substituted for the above.
Dental Insurance Plan
Effective the first full pay week next following ratification, allowable expenses will be based on the 1988 Manitoba Dental Association fee , schedule if such a scheduleexists, otherwise on the prevailing schedule prior to 1988.
|78]
Effective April 1st, 1989, allowable expenses will be based on the 1989 Manitoba Dental Association fee schedule if such a schedule exists, otherwise on the prevailing schedule prior to 1989.
Effective April 1st, 1990, allowable expenses will be based on the 1990 Manitoba Dental Association fee schedule if such a schedule exists, otherwise on the prevailing schedule prior to 1990.
Group Life Insurance and Pension Plan Life Insurance
Life Insurance shall equal the Earnings Class of each eligible employee.
Pension Pian
Provide a non-contributory Pension Plan where: Effective January 1, 1989 the company will contribute twenty-seven (27) per qualifying hour to the Union Pension Fund (C.C.W.I.P.P.). After an employee has three full months of service.
Vision Care Plan
j) On the date of ratification contact lenses are included in the vision care plan on the same basis as eye glasses
[79]
ii) On April 1, 1988, the coverage under vision care will increase from seventy-five (75) dollars to one hundred (100) dollars every two year period as prescribed by the plan.
Health Care Effective January 1,1989, Ambulance coverage shall be increased from twenty-five (25) dollars to seventy-five (75) dollars, as defined by the plan.
BURNS MEATS A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS LIMITED WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL / UNION LOCAL 111
Date Signed: May 16, 1989 [80]
SCHEDULE OF GRADES COVERING PLANT OPERATIONS	
BEEF DRESSING	
1	Driving
7	Knocking
5	Shackling
12	Sticking
2	Catch blood
14	Head skinning
0	Cut off horns
4	Cut off head - Loosen tongue
3	Cut off front feet
20	Skin hind leg, skin flank, rim over
2	Operate hoist
17	Drop bung, skin tail, mark aitch
23	Siding (Power Knife)
20	Clear around forequarters
15	Tend hide puller
2	Hide disposal
4	Operate winch puller
6	Saw breast bone
6	Gullet raising
4	Caul fat saving
12	Remove viscera
13	Sawing down (complete electric)
5	Scribbing
6	Trim neck, remove glands
5	Defatting
4	Trim beef
1	Washing
7	Shrouding
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0	
	[81]
5	Scaling
2	Clean and hang rollers
4	Skin slunks
BEEF COOLERS	
5	Scalers (Carlots)
2	Sack, wrap, stencil, stamp, brand
2	Carcass to coolers
1	Remove shrouds
5	Transfer beef using beef shifter
5	Ribbing beef
2	Lifting beef
1	Push carcass in cooler
15	Skin veal, split
0	All other operations
BEEF	CUTTING
13	Head Beef Cutter (1 man)
11	Beef Cutters (commercial cuts, also cutting for plant market)
1	Beef cutting helpers
15	Beef boners (Boning whole or cut up ccs,, quarters, chucks loins and steak pieces for cuts for sale or for manufacturing)
7	Beef boners (Boning shanks, plates, briskets, ribs or flanks for sale or for manufacturing)
2	Beef packers
8	Operate bandsaw (make cuts)
4	Trim meat for sausage or canning
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0 [82]	
5	Rolling beef and veal
0	All other operations
BLOCK READY BEEF
11 Remove tip and prepare for breakup
11	Operate bandsaw, break primal cuts 9 Trim primal cuts (bandsaw)
12	Trim primal cuts and semi-bone
3	Bag primal cuts
3	Vacuumize primal cuts
4	Pack, scale and record
HOG DRESSING
1	Driving
5	Immobolizing
5	Hanging Immobolized hogs
15	Stickers
3	Dropping
2	Scalding (assistant)
8	Scalder
3	Feed dehairing machine
6	Open up gam cords
3	Hanging off
2	Hang off from conveyor 2	Toe nail pulling
2	Singeing (tunnel)
0	Hand Singe (scaiders)
6	Shaving shoulders, backs, bellies
3	Scraping hind feet
6	Open breast bones
4	Open aitchbones
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[83]
11	Open bellies
0	Cutting off teats
2	Cutting out pizzle
12	Drop bungs
12	Remove viscera
11	Drop tongues
9	Hog header
2	Heading (helpers)
4	Print-0-matic scaler
4	Inspector’s helper
6	Pull leaf lard
7	Facing hams
3	Taking out kidneys
2	Taking out ovaries
0	,Tagging rail grades
2	Scraping leaf lard
2	Taking out head glands
11	Saw backbone
4	Chiseler (continental)
13	Splitting (cleaver only - no saw)
8	Mark backbone, power saw
8	Cleaver split after saw
2	Strip marking
1	Washing
3	Cutting off heads
2	Remove hog skirts (hot)
2	Government stamp hogs
2	Clean and hang rollers
3	Raise ham artery
9	Clean held hogs
1	Place hogs in cooler
4	Shave heads
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0 [84]	
HOG CUTTING
1	Pushing Hogs
11	Chop shoulders	(cleaver)
8	Saw hams - cut	off feet
5	Feed circular knife
0	Pinning shoulders
9	Bandsaw, make	cuts
7	Shaving hams
8	Lift neckbones
9	Pull butts and shoulders
9	Trim butts
9	Trim picnics
9	Trim shoulders
9	Trim hams
4	Split middles
9	Saw backbones	(power)
4	Remove	buttons
7	Remove	tailbones
2	Remove	tenders
3	Trim tenders
1	1	Rib bellies
I	1	Trim bellies
4	Feed belly roller
II	Rib backs
I	1	Bone backs
II	Pull back fat
11	Fat and trim backs and loins
2	Trim jowls
8	Mechanical back and loin puller
3	pork trimming from pork cuts
2	Skin back fat (hand)
5	Whizzard knife operator
FOR ANY JOBNOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0 [851
0	Tanking
7	Bone carcasses or cuts
7	Bone picnics, shoulders, butts
6	Work up hog heads
4	Clerk
11 Bone, roll, stitch fresh hams
3	Skinning machine operator 0 Truckers
2	Truck and scale
4	Chop necks, place on table
2	Trim and wash feet
3	Rolling and tying machine operator
2	wrap cuts
3	Pack and scale
S.P. CELLARS — CURING
5	Pumpers (Incl. artery)
4	Put down-cuts
4	Put down semi dry
4	Pullers - cuts
4	Ham graders
4	Belly graders
2	Other graders
7	Pickle makers
3	Pickle makers (asst.)
2	Filter pickle
0	Repair and wash trucks
0	Overhauling, trucking and other general labour
1	Feed Injecto machine
2	Freezer wrap
4	Injecto machine operator
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[86]
6	Make dry cure and mix 0	Unload cars and trucks
4	Forklift and high stacks
S.P. CELLARS / CONVERTING
5	Defat hams
11 Ham boner - remove bones from ham 5	Defat hams - internal defatting
5	Operate ham boning machine
6	Convert bone and roll for smoke or S.P. (hand)
6	Grind and tumble cure
3	Operate rolling machine
3	Stuffing
2	Brand in washroom
1	Stockinetter
7	Scaler and cellar books
3	Part or fully skin hams
7	Bone picnics
11	Smoke house operator
1	Scraper
3	Skinning machine operator
4	Skin bacon (knife)
2	Clean smoke houses
0	General lafbour in washroom
2	Caging
1	Hanger
2	Comber
1 Clean trees, trolleys and combs 4 Fill smoke house - start smoke
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[87]
S.P. CELLARS — COOKED HAM MFG,
2	Ham Presser
7	Ham Cook Tank operator
3	Pack hams to moulds
2	Stuff Mepaco hams
FREEZER
6	Bookkeeping and scaling
5	Freezerman
4	Scaling (car loading, etc.)
2 Grading
2 Clean ammonia coils 2 Trucking and scaling
BY-PRODUCTS — TANKHOUSE
6	Wet tank operator
12 Rendering cooker operator 8 Expeller 4 Curb press 8 Operate Titan Centrifuge — external defatting
14	Lard pumpers
5	Whizzard knife operator 5	Catch basin
2	Feed hasher
8 Drying blood 4 Taurine centrifuge operator 3 Loading tank cars 6 Bookkeeper 9 Skin deads
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[88]
0	Other general labour
3	Loadcooker
4	Save foetal bovine blood
11 Operate sharpies equipment
BY-PRODUCTS — LARD
8	Lard roll operator 11 Votator operator
11	Refinery operator
12	Deodorizer
3	Filling lard containers
2	Carton Packer
0	Packing and closing cartons and boxes
0	General Labour
2	Clean lard filter and press
BY-PRODUCTS — HIDES
6	Hide inspector
4	Hide trimmer
4	Hide scaler
1	Bundling hides
3	Salter
1	Truck and pile hides
CASINGS — BEEF AND VEAL
5	Trim paunches
5	Remove bung and ruffle fat
2	Open and wash tripe
7	Running rounds
2	Hand slime bungs and rounds
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[89]
3	Turning beef casings
2	Flush middles
2	Flush bungs
3	Run fatting machine. slime crusher or
4	sliming machine Grade beef casings
2	Hanking and salting
4	Packing
5	Finishing tripe (edible)
5	Split head, save brains
0	Clean tripe for fox food
7	Work up beef heads
5	Trim plux
4	Trim tongues
2	Pack fancy meats
3	Trim glands, cheek meat, etc
0	Tanking, trucking, sweeping
0	General labour
CASING —HOGS	
4	Handle reject sets
5	Trim plux
6	Pulling bungs
2	Turning bungs
2	Washing bungs
6	Trimming bungs
4	Grading bungs
2	Salting bungs
6	Pulling small casing and grader
0	Stripping
4	Crushing machine
5	Casing cleaning machine
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0	
	[90]
0	Put down or take up hides
7	Grading hog casings (not bungs)
4	High lift and stack
3	Hanking and salting
4	Packing casings and bungs
6	Work up hog heads
5	All trimming of offals
0	General labour
3	Count, Inspect, Test Received Casings
2	Save pancreas gland
3	Pull weasand meat
3	Open and flush hog stomach
5	Save stomach linings
6	Separate beef casings
3	Open middles
6	Hand fatting middles
STORES	
7	Trim bungs
4	Storekeeper (head)
3	Stripping rounds
3	Storekeeper (asst.)
2	Make boxes
0	Unloaders, truckers and general labour
4	Highlift and stack
SHIPPING	
7	Deskman
4	Runner
2	Stocker
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0 [91]	
LOADING
7	Checking on loading dock
11	Receiver
7 Beef luggers (into cars only)
0	General loaders and labourers
4	Sort and load mixed merchandise
5	Sort and load mixed merchandise (including beef)
5 Separate plux and viscera
TRUCK DRIVING
5	Truck operator
12	Driver deliveries
4 Swamper (truck driver’s helper)
STOCKYARDS
2	Tend Linker
2	Tattooer
4	Tractor operator
4	Yardman
1	Livestock driving and labourers
5	Sort and weigh
4 Sort for and feed kill floor
JANITORS, LAUNDRY, ETC.
0	Janitors
2	Operator elevator
4	Cleanup
1	Incinerator attendant
5	Laundry (head)
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[92]
3	Seamstress (1st class)
6	Sort and record returned product
2	Seamstress (2nd class)
2	Laundry (sort, fold, press)
1	Shipping
2	Washroom
1	Cleanup in chem. lab
0	General labour
SAUSAGE	
4	Mechanical deboner
7	Silent cutter and mixing
2	Chop frozen blocks
11	Sausage maker
7	Sausage cooker and vat tender
4	Sausage cookers
8	Cooker and jellied meats formulator
5	Make mincemeat
5	Grinding
4	Vacuum mixer operator
3	Stuffing
5	Test clerk
4	Delicatessen
2	Clean smoke houses
11	Smoke house operator
2	Smoke house helper
5	Set-up and operate Frank-a-matic
2	Load stuffers (piston style)
2	Linking and hanging
2	Prepare casings
2	Cooked meats and loaves
2	Sausage and cooked meats cooler
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0 1931	
11	Preclip a.c. casing
2	Tend linker 2 Weigh spices 2 Clerk
0	Washup and general labour 3	Frank-a-matic attendant
2 Casing applier
3	Skinless sausage machine operator 7 Pre-blend operator
PACKAGING
4	Operate flex vac
2	Tempering man
0	Trucking 2 Chill room man 3 Kartridge pak weiner peeler 2	Wrap and pack
1	Stitch corrugated cartons
2	Vacuumizing product
2	Wrapping smoked meats
2	Machine operator and scaler
1	Townsend skinner
0	General labour
3	Operate Cashin Slicer
3	Operate Cashin Shadow Graph scale
2	Slicing machine operator
2 Sausage skinning machine operator 3	Press bacon
LARD
2	Feed carton machine
2	Fill I lb. cartons
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[94!
1	Close and pack
3	Operate Redington machine
1	Make cartons (hand)
0	General labour
MECHANICAL Leading Hands
41	Special machinist
41	Electrician
38	High pressure fitter
38	Carpenter and finisher
38	Pressure welder
38	Auto mechanic
Journeymen
31	All trades
Improvers
21	All trades
Helpers
4	AH trades
Miscellaneous
17	Saw filer (hand file)
13	Saw filer (machine file)
21	Scale repairer
1	I	Mechanical cost clerk
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
[95 {
4	Mechanical storekeeper 14 Painter
6	Greaser and oiler
0	Labour
POWERHOUSE
40 Shift Eng. where 2nd class papers required
3	|	Shift Eng. where 3rd class papers
required
1 \	Shift Eng. where 4th class papers
required
11	Boiler fireman (with papers)
7	Boilerman (no papers)
0	Power house labour
6 Temperature man
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0 [96]