BETWEEN; P 4 H FOODS
478 Fourteenth Street Hanover, Ontario (Hereinafter called the "Company")
and
UNITED FOOD &COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter called the "Union")
TERM: June 2, 1994 to June 1, 1997
(HPT ■/ 9 1996	/ y.'tS
Name.........
Address......
Phone........
Soc. Ins. No.
Work Address..
Work Phone....
Union Steward. Phone........
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. Locals 175 and 633 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565-8329 Fax (905)821-7144
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCAL 175
Dear Fellow Members:
I wishtowelcome new membersto Locals175 and633 ofthe United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and 10 thank long standing membersfortheircontinuedsupportandassistanceover the years.
New or seasoned, I hope you will all readthls contractand become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. It is an importantdocument Itidentifies and guaranteesyourincome, benefits andjob security whileyou workforyourcurrent employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, orthedeedto your home, it is an agreement you accepted when you took the job. I you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, like any other, it is of little value to you personally.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be two years in advance. Your rights and benefitsare written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Be aware of your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you .with concernsand grievances in the workplace. Ifthe problem cannot besettled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted at any time to assist you.
Wfe work as your full-time representatives and advisors.
In addition to Stewards in the workplace and Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support
Wife shouldall be proud of ourUnion’s achievements. Wife have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently and profitably.
]n the United Food and CommercialWbrkers' Union, we are committed to job security i n an ever changing social environment Only your Union can be relied uponto protedyour rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Wforkers’ Compensation Board. If you are injured on the job, ourtrained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers under the union umbrella. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call
Wife also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. Inthis regard, the UFCW offersanumber of scholarships at the local, nationaland international level. They are for your benefit as Union members. Use them.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning Sunday work, pay equity, UiC and pensions, to name a few.
Your Local Union represents some 40,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members' support Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other professionals there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained overyears of hard negotiationsand obtain what is right-
fully ours In the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell It cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This Is your Union. You put the 'U' In our Union.
In Solidarity,
Michael J. Fraser, President,
U.F.C.W. Local 175.
UNITED FOODS COMVERCIALWORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerfuland respected unions in North America. You aieone of 170,000 membersin Canada and 1,300,000 members in Mi America.
TheUFCW ithe result ofa merger between two oftheold-est and most respected unions in North America: the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America andthe Retail Clerks International Union. This mergertook place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 and 633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 AND 633
Your local unions, with over40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majorityof unions in North America.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provideyou, the member, with the best negotiatingteam, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 and 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
MichaelJ. Fraser. Mississauga SECRETARY-TREASURER
V\feyne Hanley, Oakville RECORDER Betty Party, London VICE-PR ESI DENTS RickAlagierski, Mississauga Jim Andress, Cobourg Toni Armstrong. Orillia Barry Baity, Nepean Larry Bain, Utopia MichaelBrennan, Scarborough John 8rodhagert, Chailey Lillian Courtnage, Brantford DianaCrago, Thunder Bay Guy Dana, Thunder Bay Hyacinth East, Hamilton Jacques F^rr^ Orleans David Fux. Napanee Sheila Grant, Cannffton Sylvia Groom, Oundas \Afeyne Harbin, Guelph Ron Hughes. Stevensville MargaretHynes, Orleans Tim Kelly, Stratford Masood Khan, Scarborough Cliff Kcsfyniuk, St Catharines Marie Lamont, London Marilyn Lang. Brighton Angus Locke. Kitchener Robert Magee, London
Julie Marentene. Belle River Ron McBumey, Port Hope Ken McCarvil, Nepean Irene Menzie, Belleville Jim Montgomery, Welland Gerald Morris, Thunder Bay PatNewell, Port Hope PhilipPalahnuk, Waterford Frank Palmer, Hamilton Helen Parla. Kitchener Card Partridge. London Anna Pychel, Niagara Fails Tyler Reinson, fort Frances Ron Ry. Mississauga Scott Saunders, Barrie Chris Scott, Cambridge Sharon Scribilo, Keewatin Ron Springali, Kitchener CatherineTweedie, Hamilton Carol Van Helvoort, Toronto Maxine Wteeler, Huntsville Margaret White. Trenton Thomas Wiliams, Baltimore David Yates, Trenton Wendy Zych, Kanata
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT	VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Floyd Gutctier, Thorold	Dan Bondy. Amherstburg
SECRETARY*TREASURER	James Hobbs, Barrie
Kart Goennemann, St Catharines Patricia Bain, Wiilowdale
RECORDER
Bernice Dow, Downsview
What You Get For Your Union Dues
•	Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefitsthan non-union workers in the same industries. Thisfact alone makesyour union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
. Job Security, Your Unionwill not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protedyour rights. Ifyou aie unjustly discharged,your Unionwill spaie no expense in getting you backto work. Doesa non-union worker hawethat kind of security?
« Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deseive a promoiion and not get it? Are non-bargainhgunitpeopledoing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake?7he Grievance Procedurealiows the Union to go io bat for you. I n a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allowyou.
•	Problems with Workers' Compensation or UIC? The Union employs experts in cutting led tape and representing you to government agencies. These services aie free to you, should you ever needthem. Non-unionworkers aie usually inthe dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyersfor help.
. Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insarance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or "Trpite" gifts.
Michael J, Fraser
President
Betty Party Recorder.
OFFICERS
Wayne Hanley
Secretary-Treasurer
Ron Springall Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations, of your Local Union. V\fe represent some 40,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturingplants. This requires versatility, knowledgeand tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we must be supported by a staff equally knowledgeable in their field of expertise. These include your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, a staff lawyer and communications. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question. we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
WHAT ISA UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representativeof the United Food and CommercialWforkers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rightsand to representyouto management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their importantwork and havealot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Neveraskyour Union Stewardto lookinto aviolationofyour contract rightsunfess you arewillingto Filea grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can as& you in winning your rights under this collective agreement but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people. talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Unions believethat collegesand universities should be open to all qualified Students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarshipscan help.The Wied Food and Commercial Workers Union have three scholarship programsavailableto all members and their children. The International Union annually awards $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. These aie the James A Suffridge Fund and the Earl W. Jimerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a number of William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mathieu Scholarships evely year to Canadian members and their children. These grants aie worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals 175 and 633 award 25 Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarships worth up to amaximum of $750 each.
Local members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications for the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December 31 of the year beforeyou plan to enter a post secondary institution.
For the Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships,you must apply before September ofthe yearyou first enter college or university.
The deadline for the Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 of the year you plan to enter post secondary education.
Theie aie a limited number of scholarshipsavailable, so eveiy-onewho needsanddesen/esonecannotalways leceivecne. How-s/er, you will never get one unlessyou apply. Call orwritetheUFCW, Locals 175 and 633, Education Committeefor details.
Good Luck!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide io the Act For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted i n every workplace. Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
« Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable forthe protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
in stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must
•	Ensurethat the worker works inasafemannerand usesail the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required. Advise a worker of any potential or actual dangerto health and safely.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensuie that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot disciplineworkers who lefuse, for example, to wear safety equipment If a meat manager is unableto convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is requiredto do so. heshouldslm-ply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect ‘in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obeythe Health and Safely lawand all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulatbnsto your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Use any equipment cr work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
. Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a memberof the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and'you are still not satisfied thatthe job is safe, you may continueto refuse to work, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspectorfrom the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
The Workers' Compensation Board (WC6) insurance program protects workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to tbe mostcommonlyasked questions about WCB ben'&!
What do I do if I have an accident ai work? Pi accidents, even minorones, must be reported to management immediately. If the accident is serious enough to leave work, you must seek medical attention assoon as possible. Acddentswhich only requires short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have.
What forms must be fled out I o receive compensation? Two forms are essential in orderb receive WCB ben&. First, the yellow "Empfoyer's Report ot Accident or Industrial Diseases’’ mustbe filed out by management#, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time beyond the day of the accident.
Please notethatyou do not have to actually bse time from work in order to initiate a WCB claim. Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day, your employermustfile their report This is known asa "NolostTime" claim.
The second form is a form called “Doctor’s first Report". There should be a supply of these atyour workplace and most doctors and hospitalsvrl have them as well. This isfilled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends thisform directlyto the WCB,
What am WCB benefits worth? Cnee your daim is allowed, you wl receive90% of your net pre-accident earnings. WCB benefits are non-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are 175% of the average industrialv^je This is re-calculated every year based on stats publicized by Statistics Carafe. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident claim wi take from four to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submlttedrlght array.
How long do WCB benefits Iasi? Most peoplewtio have workplace accidentsare back to work within six weeks. Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from, For between one year and eighteen months if you are judged to be totally disabled and the disability i s considered temporary, theWCB will conlnueto pay benefits. After that, a wage loss system will begin. IfyouaEpermanently injured, theWCB can award you a very small peimanentpensionfor the pain and suf-
fering caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
If you a n injured after Januaiy2,1990, yon have a right lo re employment after the injury. This right lasts ter two years. Ben if
you have permanent limitationson your ability to wot; you still have the right to return to work There are four steps In this process.
1.	fyou can do your old job without any restrictions, your employer has to offer it to you.
2.	If you could do your old job if it were modified, then that hasto be done.
3.	If you carft do your old job even if it were changed, then your employer hasto offer you anotherjob.
4.	If you can do anotherjob if it were modified, then your employer is requiredto do this.
Wiat rt I have a health problem that is caused by my job but I
didn't have an accident at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, fibromyalgia, R i g 4 Bag syndrome, elc, are just a few of the work-related disabilities suffered by UFCW members. Ifyou feel you may be inthe non-acciderrtai work-related disability category, first consult your doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is or is likelyto ha/e been caused by your job. a Doctor'sFirst Report should be submitted right am/. Inform your employer of your doctor's opinion and ask that the Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill ou'i this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you ha/e a legitimate claim.
What happens if my claim is turned down by the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB. The Union will assist you and represent you, without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services aie not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldel I be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases, NO. However, ifyou ha/ea non-accidental disability which requires you to take time off from wak, consult the Union for advice.
Does the WCB cover part-timers? Yes The same rules and benefits apply, regardless of the number of hours you work per week What/fmybenefitsa n late or are cutoflforsome reason? Contact the Union office withoutdelay. All WCB enquiriesaietreated inthe strictest confidence.
Remember Never let management talk you out of filing a WCB claim. You may regret it later, when yeer disability won't go away.
It is illegal for managementto interfere with your right lo make a WCB daim. Ifyou have any problemsor concerns, contact the Union office.
At the time of printing, changes to the Workers' Compensaiion Act, Bill 165 is before the Legislature.
There ate some significantchanges In Bill 165 that will strengthen the rights of injured workers to return to their pre-accident work, increases to older injured workers’ pension of $200.00 per month. A Bi-partite b a r d of Directors and a Royal Commission will undertake an inquiry into the Workers’ CompensationSystem, and report hack to the Minister cf Labour by June 30,1996.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Unemployment Insurance is not welfare. It is a system of providing partial income replacement for people who have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer pay weekly pre-miumsto the UnempbymentlnsuranceCommissionandyou are entitledto benefits ifyou meet certain eligibility requirements. You should apply for U.l. benefits ifyou fall into one of the following categories.
Laid off — Ifyou are out of work due to lay-off and you have worked 20 weeks during the last 52 weeks, you are eligiblefor benefits. Ifyou worked belween14 and 19 weeks, you may be eligibleand should file a claim. There is a tww/veek waiting period, benefitswill start thethirdweek and continue ipto 50 weeks. Yourmaximum benefltsmay be lessthan 50 weeks, depending on a number a factors.
Discharged or Quit—No regularbenefitsare paid to those workers who quit a job withoutjust cause or who are fired for misconduct You may appeal a disqualification. Contactyour Union, ifyou wish assistance with your appeal.
Benefit Rate
Benefits are paid at fifty seven percent (57%) of the average weekly insurable earnings in the qualifying wed®, fifty percent (50%) for those who refusesuitableworkorjob.
Wfeekly benefit is calculated on the last twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment in the qualifying period or ten to nineteen (10-19) if less than twenty (20).
Benefitsare taxable, and the 1994 maximum benefit is four hundred and forty-five ($445.00) weekly.
Qualifying Conditions
The number of qualifying weeks are according to the rates of employment in the respediveeconomic region.
Regular Benefits
Table 1	
Entrance requirements	
Regional rate of unemployment	Weeks of insurable employment in the qualifying period
6% and under	20 weeks
over 6% to 7%	19 weeks
over 7% to 8%	18 weeks
over 8% to 9%	17 weeks
over 9% to 10%	16 weeks
over10%to11%	15 weeks
over11%io12%	14 weeks
over 12% to 13%	13 weeks
over 13% to 14%	12 weeks
over 14% to 15%	11 weeks
over 15%	10 weeks
Sickness
You must have worked at least Ween (15) weeks during the last fifty-two (52). toquallly, and benefits will be paid for a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks. Medical reports are necessaryto obtain Unemploymentlnsurance Sick Benefits.
Maternity Benefits
Upto V\feen (15) weeks of maternity benefits are payable, $ the natural mother has twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment A medical certificate is required, showingtheanticipated date of birth. Benefits are payable, eight (8) weeks before expected confinement and this period ends seventeen (17) weeks afterwards.
The maximumyou cm collect is fifteen (15) weeks.
Parental Benefits
Ten (10) weeks of parental benefits may be received by the adoptive or natural parents, either the mother or father, or shared between them as they deem appropriate.
Parental benefits may be extended to five (5) more weeks in cases where the child is six months of age or older when the child arrives home, and the child suffers from a physical, psychological or emotional condition. These benefits can also be shared by both parents.
What you need to apply foi U.l. benefits:
•	A Record of Employment from the company. You must fill out an application for benefits immediately, and you may hand in the Record of Employment later. if you have problems obtaining it, informyour local Canada Employmentand ImmigrationCentre (CEIC).
•	An application for benefits, obtainable at CEIC offices.
•	A doctor's report for sickness or maternity benefits, these f o r m are also obtainable at CEIC offices.
Ifyou have any questions or problemswith U.I.C. call your local CEIC office. If your problems continue, contact the Union Office.
TABLEOFCONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE	1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION	-	.................. 1
ARTICLE3 -	MANAGEMENT............................... 1
ARTICLE 4 -	UNION SECURITY........................... 2
ARTICLE 5 • SLOWDOWNS AND INfERRUPflON OF PRODUCTION	' 3
ARTICLE 6 •	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...................... 3
mm ■	piwmmholidaypay........................... §
ARTICLE 9 -	SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT	9
ARTICLE 10 -	VACATIONS	12
ARTICLE 11 -	SENIORITY ..............................14
ARTICLE 12 -	SAFETY AND HEALTH.......................20
ARTICLE13 • GENERAL	'	20
ARTICLE 14 • SEPARATION ALLOWANCES	‘. 23
ffiimil - Ksofabsence................................II
ARTICLE 17 « CREDITED SERVICE
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT.	pX
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE" ' '	'	"	' to
ARTICLE 20 • DISCIPLINARY WARNINGS	33
ARTICLE 21 - EDUCATION AND TRAINING FUND	 33
ARTICLE 22 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT	.	.	33
SCHEDULE "A"	35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING	#1..................... 38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING	#2..................... 39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING	#3......................40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING	#4......................41
HTTP of HHBIMBIHe	i....; :;: 4432
EXHIBIT "A".....................................44
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS
478 Fourteenth Street Hanover, Ontario
(Hereinafter called the "Company")
■ and •
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION, LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter called the "Union")
ARTICLE1 - PURPOSE
1,01	It is the intent of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling grievances which may possibly arise, as well as to set forth conditions of employment, rates of pay, and hours of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of its poultry processing plant, 478 Fourteenth Street, Hanover, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, sales staff, fieldmen, and hatchery staff
ARTICLE 3 • MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Management of the Plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, promote and demote employees, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees within the Plant, lo increase and decrease the working force, to determine product to be handled,producedor manufactured,the schedules of production and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employees or the Union or for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement.
2
3.02	The Company agrees that these rights will not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	No Discrimination: The Company agrees that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restriction or coercion exercised or practised with respect to any employee in the matter of hiring, wage rates, training, upgrading, promotion, transfer, layoff, recall, discipline, discharge or otherwise by reason of his membershipor activity inthe Union, or by reason of politicaior religiousaffiliation, sex or marital status or age.
ARTICLE 4 ■ UNION SECURITY
4.01	The Company agrees that, subject to compliance with the procedure hereinafter set out, it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof. An employee shall have satisfiedthe requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly Union dues.
4.02	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against this application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union, and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practisedto compel or influence any employee to join the Union, nor shall any discriminationof any kind whatever be practised or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members Cf the Union.
4.03	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedureestablished by this Agreement.
4.04	(a) Employees on the payroll of the Company as of September 8, 1990, may
become and thereafter remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
(b)	All employees cf the Company hired on or after Septembers, 1990, shall, upon completion of the probationary period, become and thereafterremain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
(c)	The Company shall remit to the Union within thirty (30) calendar days following the completion of the probationary period, the United Food & Commercial Workers Membership Application form signed by the new employee.
3
4.05	(a) All employeesshall, as a condition of employment, authorize the deduction
of Union dues and initiationfees. Such deductions will commence with the employee's first pay. This deduction shall not include any special assessment.
(b) The Company agrees to makethe deduction, set out in Article4.05 (a) from each employee in the bargaining unit. The Company will remit the total sum so deducted to the Union on or before the 15th calendar day of the foilowing month, accompanied by a list'of employees and their Social Insurance Numbers from whose pay such deductions have been made.
4.06	The Company agrees to list the amount of Union dues paid on employees' T4 forms for income tax purposes.
4.07	The Plant Chairman and the Union Office shall be furnished with the name and address of each new employee and each employee who is to be laid off or terminated. Such list shall be provided once each month.
4.08	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, the amount of the Union dues and the initiation fee which the Company is required to deduct from each eligible employee. The Company will be advised, in writing, of any further changes in the Union dues or initiation fees.
ARTICLE 5 - SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION OF PRODUCTION
5.01	It is agreed that the Union and its members individually and collectively will not, during the term of this Agreement. cause, permit or take part in any strike. The Company reservesthe right to discipline any employee taking part in any violation of this provision of this Agreement. There shall be no lockout by the Company during the term of this Agreement. Strike and lockout shall be defined in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	Should differences arise between the Union and its members and the Company as to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, every such difference shall be submitted by the aggrieved employee to adjustment in the manner and order provided in the grievance procedure set forth below.
6.02	It is mutually agreed that the parties shall adhere faithfully to the following procedures:
4
Step 1
The aggrieved employee will present his complaint to the foreman of his Department and may be accompanied by the Department Steward or the Plant Chairperson if he so chooses. Ifthe employee decides to handle his own gnevance, the Foreman will notify the Department Steward. The Foreman will advise the Department Steward within three (3) working days. in writing, as to whether the complaint has been resolved. Failing settlement of the complaint the complaint will proceed to the next step.
Step 2
In the event a settlement is not reached, the grievance will be reducedto writing. The Department Steward will present the grievance to the Plant Superintendent. Thegrievor and the Department Steward and the Plant Chairpersonand the Plant Superintendentwill meettodiscussthegrievance. Ifthegrievanceisnot resolved, then it will proceed to the next Step.
If the grievance is not resolved, then the grievor, ifrequested by the parties, the Department Steward, Plant Chairpersonand the Union Representativemay meet with the Plant Manager or his alternate in an attempt to resolve the grievance.
Arbitration
In the event a settlement is not reached in the third step, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall consist of three (3) members, one (1) nominated by the Union, one (1) nominated by the Company, and the Chairman appointed by such two (2) nominees. The costs and expenses of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union, except that each of the partieswill bearcostsand expenses of the nominee appointed by it. Neither party will be responsible for the expense of the witnesses called by the other.
In the event that such two (2) nominees are unable to agree on a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be the Minister of Labourfor the Province of Ontario, or such person as the Ministerof Labour shall appoint. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employees.
6.03	Any employee who is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he or she has been unjustly dealt with, shall havethe right, within seventy-two(72) hours from the receipt of such notice of dismissal, to notify the Union and the Company.
5
in writing, that he or she desires the dismissal in question to constitutea grievance subject to the Grievance Procedure. If, subsequently, subject to Clause 6.09. it is decidedthat the employee was unjustly dismissed. he or she shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for all money lost at his or her regular rate of pay less any money he or she earned in other employment.
6.04	A grievance affecting the rate of pay of an individual shall be handled in accordancewith the Grievance Procedure and if subsequent settlement results in rates of any pay being increased, the effective date of such increases shall be decided upon as part of the decision, but such date shall not be prior to the date on which the grievance was presented.
6.05	The PlantChairpersonand the Union Stewardwill be allowedthe necessarytime ofl£ with pay, in the first three (3) steps of the Grievance Procedure set forth in clause 6.03, for time lost during hours worked by his or her gang including any applicable overtime penalty, to attend grievance meetings with the Company-designated representatives for the purposeof settlinggrievances. If it is necessary for the Plant Chairperson and/or Union Steward to leave their jobs in order to handle the grievance with the Company representatives,they shall not leave their jobs without first securing permission to do so from their respective Foreman or Supervisor,providedthat the Supervisorwill grant such permission as promptly as it is possible without duly interferingwith production. Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
6.06	No employeeshall be suspended or dischargedwithout written notice being given for such action, with a copy being given to the Chief Steward.
6.07	The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomespart of his work record regardinghis work conduct,the Plant chairperson or Union Steward will be present providing they are on the Plant premises. The employee may request that the Plant Chairperson or Union Steward leave the meeting.
6.08	Proven theft shall be lust cause for immediate dismissal, and the Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall not have any power to modify or alter such penalty or to substitute any other penalty therefore.
6.09	If any employee is absent for more than three (3) consecutive working days, without good and proper reason, or without he or his agent having advised the Company of the reason for such absence prior to the expiration of such three (3) consecutive work day period, unless unable to do so for good and sufficient reason, he shall be subject to immediate dismissal. Agent, when applied to this Clause 6.09, shall mean spouse, family member, or Union official.
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK. OVERTIME. AND HOLIDAY PAY
6
7.01	It is recognized by both parties that employees may be required to work in excess
of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week, but no
employee will be required to work an unreasonable number of hours
7.02	(a) The normal work week for all employees except Engineers and one (1)
Mechanic shall be Monday through Friday inclusive.
(b) The normal work week for Engineersand one (1) Mechanic, who were hired prior to date of ratification 1990 and Maintenance employees hired after date of ratification 1990, shall be five (5) consecutive days per week.
7.03	(a) An employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 v2) times his regular hourly
rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week or on Saturday.
(b)	An employee shall be paid two (2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked on Sundays or Paid Holidays.
This provision does not apply to Engineerswho will continue to be paid one and one-half {V/2) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
(c)	An employee who is requiredto work in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate of pay for all time so worked.
(d)	Reference to hours worked in Article 7.02 (a) and (b) shall include hours paid by the Company.
(e)	There shall be no accumulating of overtime premiums for the same hours worked but the highest single premium shall apply under the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 7.03 (a) and (b) of this Article.
(f)	Notwithstanding 7.03 (a) above, a Sanitation or a Mechanical Department employee shall be paid one and one-half (l1/*) times his regular rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day, except when a period of twelve (12) hours exists between the completion of the first shift and the commencement of the second shift in the same day unless otherwise mutually agreed.
(g)	The following shall be observed as Paid Holidays:
New Year's Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Remembrance Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Heritage Day (3rd Monday in February)
All paid holidays shall be observed between Monday and Friday inclusive.
7.04	Employees ordered to report for work shall be furnished four (4) hours work, or pay at their appropriaterate in lieu of work, providingthey report within fifteen (15) minutes of the time designated.
The four (4) hour guarantee will be reduced by the amount of time late in excess of fifteen (15) minutesto a maximum of one (1) hour. The four (4) hour guarantee will be waived should the employee report late in excess of one (1) hour.
7.05	Adequate relief for personal needs will be provided. A ten (10) minute break will be scheduled as near the mid-point in each half of the shiftas possible.
Employees working in excess of nine (9) continuous hours in any one (1) day will be entitled to one (1) additional relief period of ten (10) minutes and such relief period will be scheduled within the first forty-five (45) minutes of the first hour of overtime, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties.
Consideration will be given in each Department to the distance from the Department to the cafeteria and washroom corridors that employees must travel to get to these areas. Fair consideration is to be given to employees who must remove gloves and aprons and wash hands upon leaving or re-entering their Department.
The intent of this language is to ensure employees receive a full ten (10) minute break from the time they enter the employee welfare areas, (i.e. washrooms and cafeteria corridor areas).
7.06	Employees shall not be required to work over five (5) hours without a meal period, except that employees may work six (6) hours in order to finish the day's work.
7.07	There will be a one (1) hour lunch period
8
ARTICLE 8 - PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED
8.01	All regular full-time employees (not including part-time employees) shall be paid their regular rate of pay for eight (8) hours on each statutory holiday set for in paragraph 7.03 (g) of Article 7.
Part-time employees (those employees who work regularly but only for a part of the regular work day or work week), shall be paid for each statutory holiday set forth in paragraph 7.03 (g) of Article 7, an amount equivalentto that percentage of eight (8) hours' pay at their regular rate which the total numberof hours worked by each part-time employee in the week in which the holiday occurs is of forty (40) hours.
8.02	An employee who is late "absent" in excess of one (1) hour on the last working day preceding or the next work day following the holiday shall have deducted from such holiday pay, the sum determined by multiplyingthe hours missed by one-half (1/2) his regular rate of pay, unless such absences were due to illness or causes beyond the control of the employee.
8.03	If one of the paid holidays outlined in Clause 7.03 (g) occurs within an employee's vacation period, the employee may elect either of the following:
(a)	To receive eight (E) hours' pay at his regular rate for such paid holiday in addition to his vacation pay, or;
(Ij) Elect to take an additional day off, with pay, at the employee's option, providingtwo (2) weeks' notice is given inwriting and provided that the date chosen bythe employee does not reduce critical staffingwhich affects yield to less than fifty percent (50%) of the standard crewing for the employee's position. The Company will respond within five (5) working days.
8.04	Regular employees drawing sickness and accident pay when a paid holiday occurs, shall receive, underthisArticle8. only the amount by which the pay for the paid holiday hereunder exceeds such sickness and accident pay.
8.05	If one or more of the above holidays occur while an employee is away on leave of absence, in accordance with Article 16.01, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday.
8.06	Regular Employee: Person who has attained Plant and Department seniority
Regular Floater Employee: Person who has completed the probationary period and hasachieved Plantseniority, but has not achieved DepartmentSeniorityas per Article 11 04
9
Temporary Employee: One who works from May 1st to August 31st - as per Article 13.09, renumbered as 8.07.
Part-time Employee: One who does not normally work morethan twenty-four(24) hours in the week, or part-time employees hired for a specificjob or short duration not to exceed lour (4) weeks.
0.07 (a) The Company agrees that temporary employees who are hired from May 1st to August 31st will not accumulate seniority. Temporary employees hired for the summer which will be from Maylst toAugust31st have no seniority rights for the purpose of hours of work, overtime hours or guarantee of hours. Should a summer temporary employee continue to remain in the employment of the Company after August 31st, he will then commence a probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period, the awarded position will becomethe Regular Floater employeeas per Article 11,04. A regular employee who bumps a temporary/part-time/floater employee will not be bumped by another regular employee. The regular employee who bumps a temporary employee will work the hoursthatthetemporary/part-time floater employee was scheduled to work. Should a permanentjob vacancy become available, an employee mayapply for the vacancy. The Plant Chair will receive a list of names and dates of hire of all new employees.
ARTICLE 9 - SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT
9.01	At the onset of any disability, an employee will be transferred from the active payroll to the applicable benefit payroll. Except as provided in Clause 9.05, benefits to which an employee may be entitled hereunder are determined by his service and status at the onset of the disability.
9.02	In case any sickness or non-compensatable accident benefit payments, lesser in amount or duration than those payable under this Article are provided for by Provincialor Federal laws, it is understoodthat the differenceonly, if any, between such Provincial or Federal required payments and the amount the employee is entitled to under this sickness <r non-compensatableaccident payment plan will be payable. If such Provincial or Federal required payments are greater than those payable under this Article, no payments shall be made under this Article.
9.03	(a) All employees who are absentfor a period of four (4) or more consecutive
work days shall be requiredto submit to the Company acceptable medical evidence Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are habitually absent shall be requiredto submit acceptable medical evidence (as per Exhibit ' 'A" attached)for each and every absence. For the purposes of the
10
foregoing and Clause 9.04, "acceptable medical evidence" shalt mean a letteror other documentsigned by the employee's physician which indicates the reason for his absence (nature of his illness), the date of treatment, the estimated treatment period, and his estimated date of recovery.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse the employee one hundred percent (100%) of the cost charged by the employee's doctor to complete the acceptable medical evidence as per Bill No. ,50.
For the purpose of this Sub-Article 9.04, credited service is as defined in Sub-Article 11.03 (c) of this Agreement.
9.04	When employees are absent from work because of disability or non-compensatable accident, and when such absences and their continuation as required by Clause 9.03 (a) are supported by acceptable medical evidence, part wage payments shall be made in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
(a)	Payments shall not be made when employees are absent from work because of disability due to sickness or injury caused by or as a result of the employee's own act or misconduct. All absences shall be considered as starting with the loss of the first day on which the employee was scheduled to work.
(b)	SCHEDULE Service Required
While baing creditedwith service within the meaning of Article 17 and after three (3) months or more of credited service at the time of the onset of the absence, all of which service must have been performed subsequent to the employee's most recent (if any):
1.	Dischargefor cause unless such discharge is reversed through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
2.	Quit
3.	Layoff in excess of one hundred and eighty (180) days.
4.	Failure to return to work for the Company within the times limited by Clause 11.11 (b) hereofwhen recalled.
n
(c)	Waiting Period
First day of hospitalization:
First day outpatient with surgery;
Third consecutive calendar day for sickness;
Third consecutive calendar day for accident.
(d)	Amount of Payment
The amount of paymentshall be as follows:
Consecutive Weeks of	Percentage
Compensatable Disability	of wages
First Four Weeks	65%
Fifth and Subsequent Weeks	70%
On the basis of the applicable percentage (%) of the employee(s) average straight time weekly earnings in the four (4)fu\\ calendar weeks immediately proceedingthe disability or the applicable percentage^7®) of thirty-five(35) hours, whichever is greater.
In cases involvingabsences of lessthan a full week, the daily payment shall be one-fifth (1/5) of the above weekly benefit.
(e)	Extent of Payment
For an employee having three (3) or more months of credited service as hereinbefore provided, but having less than eight (8) years of credited service up to fifteen (15) weeks at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other such absences during the one (1) month period immediately precedingthe onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributableto a disabilitywhich has resulted in any other absences during the immediate precedingthree (3) months, in which case the amount of reduction shall be all payments made on account of absences attributableto such disability during the three (3) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
Far an employee having eight (E)or more years of credited service, two (2) weeks for each year of credited service at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other absences during the one (1) month period immediately precedingthe onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributableto
12
a disability which has resulted in any other absences during the immediate precedingthree (3) month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
(f) In cases <£ disability due to pregnancy or pregnancy related illness, payments and the extent thereof will be on the same basis as aforesaid, except that paymentsshall not be made during or in respect of any period.
1- As per the Employment Standards Act with respect to Pregnancy and Parental Leave.
2. For which maternity benefits are paid to her under Section 30 of the Unemployment InsuranceAct.
9.05	If. during a period when an employee is absent due to sickness or accident and is receiving benefit payments under Article 9, this CollectiveAgreement provides for a wage rate increase, such sickness and accident benefit payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
9.06	The Company shall have the right at all times to unilaterally amend any of the provisions (f this Article 9 in order to remain qualified for the Unemployment Insurancepremium reduction, providedthe amended provision does not result in a reduction in benefits to an employee.
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS
10.01	For the purpose of calculating eligibility,the anniversary date shall be determined from the employee's date of hire.
10.02	Vacations. with pay, will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following:
1 year but less than 5 years employment — 2 weeks off at four percent (4%) of T4 earnings;
5 years but less than 12 years employment — 3 weeks off at 5fx percent (6%) & T4 earnings;
12 years but lessthan 18 years employment — 4 weeks off at eight percent (8%) of T4 earnings:
18 years but less than 25 years employment — 5 weeks off at ten percent (10%) of T4 earnings;
25 or more years of employment -earnings.
6 weeks off at twelve percent (12%) of T4
110.03 (a) Vacations during the period July 1st to August 30th will be scheduled by department and department seniority.
(b) All employees eligible for two or more weeks' vacation will be allowed up to two (2) weeks' vacation during this period. This provision is subject to the following formula:
Number of people in department divided by 4.5 = maximum employees away on vacation in any week during July and August.
(c)	Vacations during this periodare not mandatory, and eligible employees may
take one week's vacation during July and August if they choose.
(d)	As m uch as possible joint vacations for spouses who work at the plant and are eligible for vacation may be accommodated. Final determinationwill be made subject to (a) and (b) of 10.03.
(e)	Unusual or special occasions will be given consideration of a request for more than two (2) weeks vacation during this period if requested. Final allocation will be made by the superintendent.
(f)	By seniority employees who are entitled to three (3) or more weeks' vacation and would preferto take one (1) additional week during the months of July and August may select the additionalweek once all employees have selected their vacations during July and August, subject to the formula in
10.03	(b).
10.04	For the purpose of Article 10 - Vacations, T4 earnings do not include previous vacation paid during that year.
10.05	Employees who become sick or are injured prior to receiving their vacation shall be entitled to reschedule such vacation at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee, it is understoodand agreedthat employees are not requiredto take their vacation entitlementwhile on layoff.
10.06	Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of vacation periods is left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the Poultry Processing Plant. Every reasonable
14
effort will be made to permit each employee to take his vacation between May 1st and October 1st. In the choice of vacation dates, Department seniority shall prevail. Vacation lists will be posted in each Department.
10.07	Vacations will be grantedonly in the vacation year (January 1 to December 31) in which they are due and may not be carried over to the following vacation year. If, however, due to some emergency, an employee is not permitted to take his vacation during the vacation year in which it is due, he shall have the right to take it in the ensuing vacation year.
10.08	Employees entitled to vacations will not be allowed to take money in lieu thereof.
10.09	(a) An employee eligible for vacation who is laid offbecause of reduction in his
gang, shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified.
(b)	An employee eligible forvacation whose employment is terminatedfor any reason shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he had become eligible. Tn the case of death, such pay shall be paid to his Estate or the person legally entitled.
10.10	Employees shall be entitled to receive their vacation pay at the beginning of their vacation period, if so desired.
10.11	All of the vacation provisionsof the Agreement shall be read, subjectto applicable Provincial and/or Dominion Statutes and to the extent that the benefits required under such statutes are more favourable to the employees than the vacation benefits provided by this Agreement, such statutes shall prevail.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	Seniority of employees shall be defined as length of continuous employment with the Company in the bargaining unit.
11.02	Service is defined as length of continuous employment with the Company
11.03	Throughout the Agreement, the following shall apply:
(a)	seniority shall apply to all Articles except vacation, pension, wages. separation pay, and sickness and accident:
(b)	Service shall apply to vacations and wages;
15
(c) total credited service, as defined in Article 17 earned prior to Septembers, 1990, plus service earned following Septembers. 1990, shall apply to separation pay and sickness and accident benefits;
<d) credited service, as defined in Article 17, shall apply to the existing Company Pension Plan.
Credited Service
The Company shall advise each employee of their total amount of credited service as of Septembers, 1990, with a copy to the Union Office. This information will be provided on or before Novemberl, 1990.
In the event an employee disagrees with his credited service earned, such employee must advise the Company and the Union on or before November 30, 1990.
11.04	Seniority shall operate on a combination of Department and Plant basis. An employee shall acquire Plant seniority rights after he has attained forty-five (45) days worked or three (3) calendar months of service, whichever occurs first. Until that time, he shall be considered a part-time/temporary employee as per 8.06 and 8.07 and may be separated from the Company employ at any time without reference to seniority, and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire him However, i f an employee completesmore than forty-five (45) days worked or three (3) calendar months of service, whichever occurs first, his seniority shall commencefrom his original date <f employmentfor Plant seniority; for Department seniority purposes, upon being awarded a Department job posting.
11.05	(a) There will be seven (7) seniority Departments as follows:
1.	Receiving and Eviscerating
2.	Cry-O-Vac
3.	Shipping and Freezer Handling
4.	Further Processing
5.	Mechanical
6.	Sanitation
7.	Engineering
8.	Specialty Department
(b) Union Stewards and Plant Chairperson:
The Union will have the right to appoint or elect seven (7) Union Stewards and a Plant chairperson. The names of these Stewards and Plant Chairpersonwill be submitted to the Company, in writing. No employee will
16
be recognized as Union Steward or Plant chairperson until they have completed their probationary period.
Receiving and Eviscerating Cry-O-Vac Shipping & Freezer Handling
Further Processing Specialty Department Mechanical, Engineering Sanitation
One Steward One Steward
One Steward One Steward One Steward One Steward One Steward
In the event that there is no Steward in a Department. the Plant Chairperson will assume the duties of a Steward until a new Steward has been elected or appointed.
11.06	Overtime in a seniority Department will be performed:
Firstly, by those employees having seniority in that Department
Secondly, by those employees who have signed the Available to Work/Reduced Hours and Overtime List as per Letter of Understanding No. 3.
Thirdly, if there is not a sufficient number of employees to work in the Department where the overtime is to be worked, the Company has the right to assign the employees from other Departments to that Department to perform such overtime work, on a seniority basis, providing the employee is qualified to perform the work required.
11.07	(a) Employees who experience reduced hours of work within a seniority Department shall have no right to do any work except that which is performed within such seniority Department, unless otherwise directed by the Company.
Employees with Plant and Department seniority who experience reduced hours of work may bump temporary, floater or part-time employees during regular hours providing:
1)	They have signed an "Available to Work Reduced Hours and Overtime Posting" list, the day the work is to be performed by the end of the morning break.
2)	They are available to work the day for which they posted.
17
3)	i) Once a person with Department seniority bumps a floater,
temporary or part-time person, the seniority person will not be bumped again during regular hours.
ii)	Provided there is at least one-half (1/2) hour remaining in regularly scheduled hours including transfer time.
iii)	Transfertime as described below:
As per the current practice, employees within cool room process areas are expected to go directly to the position assigned after putting away their tools and washing their gloves.
Employees who transfer from Eviscerating to cool process areas will be allowed a maximum of eight (8) minutes to change and report to their assigned Department.
Employees who transfer from Freezer/Shipping area will be allowed a maximum of seven (7) minutes to change out of insulated clothing and report to their assigned Department.
An employee from Live Receivingwill be allowed a maximum of ten (10) minutes to clean up and report to the assigned position. If more than one (1) employee from Live Receiving is transferring, they will be assigned to other areas to clean up and then repart to assigned position.
Employees moving from warm areas to cool areas may be required to go to washroom shortly after entering assigned areas.
4)	This will include overtime as per Article 11.06
5)	This will not include Mechanical, Engineering or Sanitation for the purpose of this Article.
6)	(a) Starting times will be scheduled by seniority if greater than one and
one-half (1 1/2) hours or more differentialto be appliedto temporary, floaters or part-time employees.
(b)	Because of chilling equipment, the Union agrees to work with the Company to resolve any difficulties created by language.
18
111.08 (a) Layoffs from the Plant occasioned by gang rearrangements, pursuant to a reduction in volume of work to be handled, will be made according to Plant seniority, provided that an employee who would thus be retained can satisfactorily perform the job that is assigned.
(b> For the purpose of staffing the Further Processing and Specialty Departmentsduring layoffs from the plant as per Article 11.08 a), the plant seniority list shall not prevail, except tor the purpose of bumping part-time employees.
During these times, the Further Processing and Specialty Departmentswill be staffed by followingtheir separate department seniority lists.
(c)	Duringa layoffin the Further Processing or Specialty Departments, seniority in these departments seniority lists shall not prevail for the purpose of Further Processing or Specialty employees bumping into other Departments, except for the purpose of bumping part-time employees.
11.09	Seniority Departments and the Plant working force will be increased in the following Manner:
First:	An employee who has been assigned from his original Department
to another Department shall be recalled to his original Department.
Second:	An employee with Plant seniority will be recalled in order of Plant
seniority provided such employee is qualified to perform the job which is open.
Third:	By implementing employees approved requests for transfers,
pursuant to Clause 11.10.
11.10	An employeewith Plant seniority who desires a transferto another Department or job. may submit a written application to the Plant Superintendent. If a vacancy occurs in that Department, an application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority, providedthe employee possessesthe necessary qualifications to perform the job. An employee who is transferred to another Department will have his seniority transferred to that Department.
Where a permanent job vacancy occurs within a seniority Department. employees within that seniority Department shall be permitted, at their request, to fillthe said vacancy on the basis of ability, merit, and Department seniority, notwithstanding that the said vacancy may carry a higher, a lower, or the same authorized wage rate.
19
It is understoodthat where the ability and merit are sufficient, Departmentseniority shall prevail in the application of the preceding sentence. Permanent job vacancieswhich cannot be filled within the Department shall be posted on a Plant basis, for a minimum of three (3) days.
11.11	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there is no obligation to rehire when he:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or discharged for cause
(b)	Failsto returnto work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part cf the Company. Employees will be notified by the present method of contact (or by letter or by telegram, etc.) at their last known address, and they will be expected to report as directed. Failure to do so, or failure to accept a comparable job offered, shall forfeit their seniority rights provided, however, that in cases of inability to report as directed upon immediatenotificationto the Company, they will be given five (5) additional days within which to report. Employees who are unable to report within this five (5) day period because of sickness or accident. will be given additional time within which to report. such time not to exceed the period that such disability, as shown by acceptable medical evidence, prevents their return to work.
(c)	Has been out of employment by the Company for a period of twelve (12) months or longer due to lack of work.
11.12	An employee having acquired seniority who is later employed by the Company outside of the bargainingunit, shallwhen subsequently returnedto the bargaining unit, have ail of his service with the Company included in the seniority assigned to him on such return.
11.13	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, he shall, upon his return to work
(a)	be returned to his job previously held. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work, then;
(b)	he shall be placed on a job of equal pay provided he possessesthe ability to qualifyforthat position. If unable because of medical reasonsto perform the work, then:
(c)	all efforts shall be made to provide work the employee is physically able to perform.
20
It is understood that in no instance will a new job be created for the purpose of re-employing such employee.
11.14	Plant and Department seniority lists will be posted bimonthly. If no question concerning the seniority of any employee in the bargaining unit, as set forth on said list is presented by the Union to the Plant Manager within fourteen (14) calendar days after posting of such list, the Union and the employees shall be deemed to have agreed to the seniority of each employee in the bargaining unit as shown in the list posted by the Company. A copy shall be given to the Chief Steward and one copy mailed to the Union with the Union dues remiltance.
11.15	An employee proved to have been laid off out of turn or recalled out of turn, will be restored to his former position, provided a grievance is filed within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of layoff or failure to recall in turn. An employee so restored to his former position will be made whole for loss of earnings at his regular rate of pay during the period that he should have been at work for the Company, less any money he or she earned in other employment.
ARTICLE 12 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
12.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for safety and health of the employeesduringthe hours of their employment. Protectivedevices, procedures, and other safety equipment deemed necessary by the Company, properly to protect employees from injury, shall be providedby the Company and worn by the employees. First Aid shall be availablefor workers on both day and night shifts. Failure to comply with the provision of Article 12.01 referring to proceduresand equipment, shall result in disciplinaryaction being taken.
12.02	The Ontario Employer Health Tax:
The Company will continue its present practice of paying one hundred percent (100%) of the premium established by the Ontario Employer Health Tax.
12.03	The Company agrees to providethe Denial Insurance Plan outlined in sub-article
19.02	of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL
13.01	The Company will provide a locked bulletin board for Union notices only Union notices may be posted on such bulletin board, subject to the approval of the Manager as to context and contents. Such approval shall not unreasonably be withheld. The Union shall have sole possession of the keys
21
13.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company or the Union to take any action which shall be unlawful by reason of any applicable, present, or future statute, order or regulation of the Province of Ontario or of the Dominion of Canada.
13.03	(a) The Company will furnish freezer coats, hair nets, paper hats, rubber
aprons, rubber gloves, steel gloves, sleevettes. cotton gloves, and other protective equipment which, in the opinion of the Company, is deemed necessary and all such equipment shall be worn by the employees.
(b) The Company will furnish vests to employees required to perform work in temperature of 12 degrees C. or less. Worn out vests returned to the Company will be replaced ai no cost to the employee.
Note: The style and type of vest will be based upon the recommendation of the Health & Safety Committee.
The vests, so supplied, are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the Plant.
13.04	The Company will furnish white or coloured outer coats and/or coverails to employees working in areas that require the wearing of these coats and/or coveralls. The coats and/or coveralls, so supplied, are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the Plant. The employees are to deposit the soiled coats and/or coveralls in the proper containers.
The Company will supply laundry service for the abovementionedcoats and/or coveralls.
13.05	(a) Each employee who is required by the Company to wear rubber boots or
vests will befurnishedthesameat no cost, except a probationaryemployee who will be reimbursed the full cost thereof upon the completion of his probationaryperiod. An employee required to wear rubber boots or vests shall be supplied a voucher by the Company and said employee will then purchasethe requiredtype of rubber boots or vests from the recommended supplier. Such rubberbootsorvestswhich, inthe opinion cf the Company, are worn out, shall be returned to the Company before being replaced at no cost to the employee, up to a maximum of two (2) pairs during any twelve (12) month period and as necessaryfor vests.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company will replace rubber boots on the basis of demonstratedneed shown to the Company.
22
(b)	Where, in the opinion of the Company deemed necessary, the Company
agrees to provide to employeesa monetaryallowanceto a maximum of one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00) once each calendar year towards the purchase of C.S.A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job. Such employeeswill becomeeligibleforthisallowanceone (1) year from the date of the previous purchase. This provision shall apply to employees who work in the following Departments:	Freezer/Shipping, Engineering,
Maintenance.
In the event that the Union should disagree with the Company's opinion as to whether safety footwear on the job is or is not deemed necessary, the Company agrees to discuss the issue with the Plant
Safety Committee with a view to arriving at a satisfactory settlement agreeable to both parties.
(c)	In accordance with 13.05 (a), the Company agrees to offer a fleece type lined rubber boots in lieu of non-lined rubber boots in cool room areas.
(d)	Employeeswho are required by the Company to wear rubber gloves will be furnished these at no cost to the employee. Rubber gloves worn out or damaged shall be replaced immediately when old gloves are returned.
13.06	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same
nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
(a)	Forthe purposeof breaking in new employees or employees on a new job. or instructing employees:
/bx	Forthe purpose of taking an employee's place temporarily in such cases as
failure to show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reason, is temporarily absent from the job;
(c)	In locations which are isolated or gangs which are not sufficiently large to justify the full-time use of a supervisor or managerial employee, and only if it has been the practice in the past to use such employees:
(d)	In the absence of a shift Engineer due to absenteeism or vacations, the Chief Engineer will be permitted to work the day shift and re-schedule shift Engineers as required.
13.07	Employeesareexpectedtoattendwork as scheduled. When unable to attend, the
Plant Manageror designated assistant must be notified where practicable, within
one-half (1/2) hour before, and in any event within one (1) hour after the
23
commencement of the scheduled shift of the employee. The Company will determine, on an individual basis, acceptable reasons as to why the above time limits were not met.
13.08	The Companyagreestosupplysufficientscissors, knives, steels, meshgloves and any othertoolsto employees inorderthatthey can performtheirjobs properly and safely, upon return of the worn out or broken above items.
13.09	The Company agrees to pay the lost time wages of the Union Negotiating Committee and will be reimbursed by the Union
ARTICLE 14 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCES
14.01	Separation payments shall be made to employees having one (1) or more years of credited service who are permanently separated from the service cf the Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed.
14.02	Separation payments shall not be made:
1.	To employeeswho have less than one (1) year's credited service;
2.	To employees who are laid off in gang reduction;
3.	To employees who are discharged for cause;
4.	To employees who voluntarily resign:
5.	To employees who are retired on Pension;
6.	To employees who refuse an offer of employment by the company in another unit of its business, the location of which is reasonably accessible to the location of the place of employment from which the employees are being dropped from the service.
14.03	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule, which is to be used in computing ihe number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited sewice, subject to Article 11.30 (c). Payments are to be computed on the basis of average hours worked during the previousfour (4) full weeks at his regular rate of pay.
24
Years of Credited Service
Weeks c£ Pay
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11
and over, add to
V/2
2
2Vi
3
31/2
4Vz
51/a
61/2
7V2
7Vz
1 1/2 weeks' pay for each year of credited seivice above ten (10) years
Example:
Twelve (12) years of credited seivice:
First ten (10) years credited seivice— 7Va weeks' pay.
Seivice over ten (10) years (12 - 10 = 2 x 1 Vi) three (3) weeks' pay.
Total separation allowance--- 10Va weeks' pay.
To the separation allowance computed as per example, add vacation pay for the
current calendar year if the employeehas qualifiedfor but not taken such vacation.
14.04	The amount due under the policy shall be paid as follows:
1.	Amounts less than or the same as the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay — in one lump sum.
2.	Amounts more than the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay — weekly instalments of full wages until the total sum is exhausted. If, for good and sufficient reason, a lump sum seniement is requested, it may be made when it is assuredly to the benefit of the employee.
3.	In the event of death, any unpaid balance shall be paid to the widow or dependents.
25
ARTICLE 15 • WAGES
15.01	Job Classificationsand Wage Ratesfor each classificationshall be as outlined in Schedule "A attached.
15.02	(a) Pav Cheques
All employees who finish their shift prior to 2:00 p.m. on Thursday shall be entitled to receive their pay provided such pay cheque is in order and available to be handedout.
(b)	Vacation pay will be paid by separate cheque prior to commencement of vacation, effectiveJuly 3. 1995.
15.03	When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate.
When an employee is permanently transferred to a lower rated job. he shall receive his regular rate for a period of twelve (12) weeks from the date of such transfer and thereafter he shall receive the rate applicable to the lower rated job, unless such transfer was for the convenience <f the Company.
Employees requesting a transfer to a lower rated job will receive the rate applicable to the lower rated job effective the date of the transfer.
15.04	Regular employees working between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will receive additional compensation of forty-five cents (456) per hourfor each hour so worked. Employeeswho work on e second shift shall be paid the premiumfor all hours worked on the second shift
15.05	Employees cheque stubs shall show gross earnings, itemized deductions, regular hourly rate and net amount payable.
15.06	The Company agrees to direct deposit provided it is optional, and does not begin until after the probationary period and does not apply to part-lime or temporary employees.
ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
16.01	Leave of absence for the purpose of this Agreement, is defined to mean an absence from work with permission for a period of seven (7) days or more, without pay or compensation of any kind.
26
16.02	Leave of absence, without pay, beyond regular vacation to which an employees entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason on the basis of the length of credited service as follows:
Leave of Absence
Under 10 years Over 10 years and under 15 years	2 months
Over 15 years	3 months
16.03	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose <f allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
Length of Absence
1 month
ARTICLE 17 • CREDITED SERVICE
This Article is applicable only to those Articles or Clauses outlined in Article 11. Clause .03 (c) and .03 (d).
17.01	"Credited Service" shall mean the total of:
1.	For employees who were employed by Swift Canadian Co. Limited prior to January 14, 1981, and who were employees of the Company on January 14, 1981, their credited seivice up to January 14, 1981, as determined under Article 17 of the Collective Agreement executed on February 24, 1981, between Swift Canadian Co. Limited and the United Food & Commercial Workers international Union (Local Number 175); and,
2.	For employees on and after January 14, 1981, the period of seivice which they accumulated while on the Company's payroll, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The period of absence due to the following causes will be credited to the employee's service but only after the employee's return to work from such period of absence.
1.	Absences due to sickness, accident. or pregnancy where such absence is supported by acceptable medical evidence.
2.	Miscellaneous approved absences such as those due to vacation, jury service, bereavement.
3.	Absence while in the military, naval, or air force of Canada.
27
4.	Authorized leave of absence up to a maximum period of three (3) months.
(b)	Employees will not be credited with service during the period Of
absence where they are:
1.	Dischargedfor cause, laid off, voluntarily leave the service of the Company, or separated from the Company'semploy as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out G the closing of a Department or Unit of the company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
2.	Absent due to being on strike
3.	Absent due to disciplinary action.
4.	Absent on the part of an unauthorized leave of absence which is in excess of three (3) months.
(c)	Employees on the payroll during any part of a payroll week shall be
credited with one (1) week of credited service for that payroll week.
17.02	Employees will lose all credited service if they:
(a)	are dischargedfor cause.
(b)	voluntarily leave the service of the Company.
(c)	fail to return to work when recalled from layoff within the time provided in Article 11 - Clause 11.11 (b), or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company.
(d)	have been out of employment by the Company due to a layoff for a period of two (2) years.
(e)	are separated from the Company'semploy as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
If subsequently re-employed, no credit will be given for prior service
28
ARTICLE 18 • BEREAVEMENT
1* When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day to attend the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of such absence up to a maximum of five (5)consecutive regular work days.
For the purposeof this clause, an immediaterelativeshall be defined as follows — father, mother, spouse, son or daughter.
2. When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day to attend the funeral of an immediaterelative, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of such absence up to a maximum of three (3) consecutive regular work days.
For the purposeof this clause, an immediaterelative shall be defined as follows — father-in-law. mother-in-law. brother, sister. grandparents, and grandchild
When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend the funeral of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law. he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours.
Where an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend a memorial service for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost, up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours. The Company may require from the employee proof of hisattendanceat such memorial service before it reimburses him hereunder.
The term "spouse" as used in Article 18.01 (a) above, includes common-law.
18.02	(a)	Provisionsof this Article shall not apply to employees then receiving other
Company benefits such as vacation pay, sickness and accident payments. or on an authorized leave of absence, without pay, for any reason.
(b) An employee will not be entitled to receive under this Article 18, bereavementpay in respect of a day for which he is receiving holiday pay.
29
18.03 Jury Duty
When a regular employee is absent from work to perform jury service or to testify as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay him his regular rate of pay for each hour he would have worked had henol been on jury duty less any jury fees, or as a witness lessany witness fees received by him for performing such service or giving such evidence.
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
19.01	Medical Plan
I (a)	The payments of benefits io employees and dependents covered by the
Plan will begin when the deductible has been satisfied. Benefits will be eighty-five percent (85%) of the eligible spouse incurred by the individual during the calendar year.
Extended Health Care Lifetime Cap
$12,500.00, effective July 3, 1995;
$14,000.00, effective June 1, 1996:
$15,000.00, effective January 1, 1997.
(b) The twenty-five dollars ($25.00) deductible will apply only once each calendar year to each person even though there may be several accidents or illnesses. No more than two (2) twenty-five dollar ($25.00) deductibles per family will apply in one (l)alendar year.
(O An additional benefit will be included to cover expenses incurred for the purchaseof prescriptioneye glasses and frames. This benefit is limitedto a maximum of one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00), effective June 4, 1995, and effective June 1, 1996 , two hundred dollars ($200.00) each twenty-four (24) consecutive months for each person covered by the Plan. The normal deductible and co-insurance provisions of the Medical Plan do not apply to this benefit.
(d)	Supplementary Health, Vision and Dental Benefits are available to all permanentfull-timeemployees, spouses of employees, and their dependent children. New employees become eligible for plan benefits following six (6) months of continuous employment. Benefitsare available to an employee's legal or common-law spouse. Please see your PersonnelAdministrator for details.
30
"Dependent children" are defined as natural or adopted children under twenty-one (21) years of age who are dependent upon the employee for financial support (i.e. not working on a permanent basis).
"Dependents' also include children over twenty-one (21) years of age who are in full-time aitendance at a specializedschool, college or university; and physically disabled or mentally retarded children of any age who are totally dependent upon the parents for financial support.
Newly hired employees must enroll in the Plans as a condition of employment (enrollmentis not requiredof new employees who are already covered by another Dental Plan).
19.02 Dental Plan
Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, the Company agrees to provide a Dental Plan as follows:
1.	The following services will be covered:
--	Examinations
--	Consultations
-- Specific Diagnostic Procedures
-	X-Rays
-- Preventative service such as scaling and polishing and fluoride treatments
--	Routine Fillings
-	Extractions
-	Anaesthesia
--	Periodontal Treatments
-•	EndodonticsTreatments
--	Surgical Services
~	Dentures, denture relining and/or rebasing, repairs, and adjustments
2.	The Pianwitl reimbursethe employeefor eighty percent(80%) of allowable expenses (except for charges related to dentures, in which case seventy-five percent (75%) will be reimbursed), with allowable expenses as per the Fee Schedule as outlined in 19.02, #6, and with a maximum annual payment of one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars (51250.00) to each employee or dependent, {one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ($1350.00), effective June 4, 1995; effective June 1, 1996 - $1450.00; and effectiveJanuary 1, 1997 -$1500.00].
3a
3.	Where claim charges are estimated to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for any employee or dependent, a treatment plan will be submitted to the Insurance Company before treatment commences.
4.	Eligibility will be the same as for the Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan.
5.	Covered dental expenses do not includeand no paymentwill be made for:
--	Service not included in the above.
-• Services provided under any Government Plans or Workers' Compensation.
-	Services covered under any other Insurance.
--	Cosmetic Treatment
--	Chargesfor broken appointments.
-	Dentures replacing an existing appliance which is less than three (3) years or which can be made serviceable.
-- Dentures within three (3) years from the date that dentures were provided under this Plan.
-	Theft or loss of dentures.
Services commenced or dentures ordered prior to the effective date of the Plan.
6.	Effective June4, 1995, the 1994 O.D.A. (Ontario Dental Association) Fee Guide will apply. EffectiveJune 1, 1996, the 1995 O.D.A. Guide Fee will apply.
19.03	GROUP LIFE INSURANCE Eligibility
Ail hourly employees covered by the contract who have attained six (6) months of service, Life Insurance coverage becomeseffectivethe first of the month following the month in which he/she have attained six (6) months of service.
Benefits
Straight Life Insuranceinthe amount of $10,000.00 per employee with no(A.D.D.) premiums will be paid for eligible employees on the payroll and coverage will cease upon:
1. At the end of the month in which termination <f employment occurs.
32
2.	The last day of the third (3rd) full calendar month following the month in which the employee was laid off.
3.	When coverage has ceased under item (2), eligible employees will be reinstated for coverage immediately upon their return to work.
4.	In the event that an employee's absence due to sickness or accident exceeds the term for which he/she is entitled to under Article 9.04 "extent of payment", then the Insurance coverage shall remain in effect for the balance of time up to twelve (12) months in the case of sickness or accidentand eighteen (18) months if absent due to Workers' Compensation compensable accident, provided the seniority of the employee is not considered broken under the terms of Article 11.11 a), b) andc).
5.	At the end of the month in which the end of an approved leave of absence, granted in accordancewith the terms of Article 16, if the em ployee does not return to work.
6.	Conversion privilege and total disability provisionsare available as Per the terms cf the Policy as purchased by P & H Foods.
7.	All other conditionsand terms shall prevail as per the Group Life Insurance Policy.
19.04	Canadian Commercial Workers industry Pension Plan
EffectiveJune 4,1995, the Employeragreesto contributeforty-three cents (43c) per hour, and effective December 31, 1995, forty-six cents (46c) per hour, and effective June 1, 1996, forty-nine cents (49c) per hour and effective December 31,1996, fifty-two cents (52e) per hour to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") for all hours worked for ail full-time and part-time employees, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
(b) The Employeragreesto sign a "Participation Agreement" and supply any other information required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan. The Employer shall forward ail contributionstogether with a list of full-time and part-time employees and the number of hours worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of each of the Employer'sfour (4) or five (5)week accounting period.
33
19.05	Except as provided in Article 19.03, the Company will continue paying the premiums of employees who are on layoff not to exceed gxty (60) days for the following benefits:
•• Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan
ARTICLE 20 - DISCIPLINARY WARNINGS
20.01	Where an employeereceives a written disciplinarywarning and receives no further written discipline for a period of sixteen (16) clear months from the date of the warning, orthe warning is withdrawn by grievanceand arbitration procedure, such warning shall be removed from the employee's record and shall not be used in any subsequent disciplinary action or arbitration proceedings.
ARTICLE 21 - EDUCATION AND TRAINING FUND
21.01	Effective January 1, 1996, and January 1, 1997, the Company will contribute six thousand dollars ($6000.00) per calendar year to the U.F.C.W. Education and Training Fund, provideda minimum of two (2) other Poultry Plants contribute to the Fund, one of which is either Canada Packers or Cuddy Foods.
21.02	The Companywil! contribute four hundred dollars ($400.00) towards the printing of copies of the Union Agreement, effective June 4, 1995.
21.03	During the month of October of each year, the Company will deduct from the pay of each bargaining unit employee ten dollars (510.00). Such amount shall be remittedto the Union's Southwest RegionalOfficeon or before January 15th of the following year and will include the employees name and amount deducted. Receiptswill be provided by the chanty receiving the emptoyee(s) donation.

ARTICLE 22 ■ DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01 This Agreement shall take effect June 2. 1994. and shall remain in full force and effect up to and including the 1st dav of June. 1997. and from Year to year thereafter, unless written notice (f intention to terminate or amend is given by
34
registered post by either party to the other at Hanover, at least thirty (30) days prior io its expiration,
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE PARTIES HERETO BY THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES THIS 30th DAY OF October, 1995.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppler Leif Gade
Nora Banks
Richard Ratte C.F. Godfrey K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
35
A.01
JOB CLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE"A"
CLASSIFICATION AND WAGES
June 1 June 1 Dec. 31 June 1 Dec. 31 1694	1995	1995	1996	1996
Turkey Deboner Cutting Tails
Cut Vents & Bar Cuttings Knife & Scissor Sharpener Slit Neck Grader
Draw Eviscera
Operate Cry-O-Vac Machines Cut Off Feet Remove Necks Pull Crops
Vacuum Gun Operator
Trusser
Freezer Man
Fork Lift Truck Operator
Receiver
Sticker or Killer
Live Hangers
Sanitation (Night Clean-up) Cut Gizzards Engineer - 4th Class
-	3rd Class
-	2nd Class
Mechanic (Gov’t Certificate) Mechanic (Not Certified) Mechanic Trainee
13.32
13.32
13.32
13.32
13.32 13.42
13.32
13.37
13.37
13.37 13.47
13.37
13.37
13.37
13.37
13.37 13,52
13.57
13.32
13.32 14.12
14.32
14.57 14.31 14.11
13.37
13.52
13.52
13.52
13.52
13.52 13.62
13.52
13.57
13.57
13.57 13.67
13.57
13.57
13.57
13.57
13.57 13.72
13.77
13.52
13.52 14.32
14.52
14.77 14.51 14.31
13.57
13.77	13.97	14,22
13.77	13.97	14.22
13.77	13,97	14.22
13.77	13,97	14.22
13.77	13.97	14.22
13.87	14.07	14.32
13.77	13.97	14.22
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.92	14.12	14.37
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.82	14.02	14.27
13.82	14.02	14.27
13,97	14.17	14.42
14.02	14 22	14.47
13.77	13.97	14.22
13.77	13.97	14.22
14.57	14.77	15.02
14.77	1 4.97	1 5,22
15.02	15.22	15.47
14.76	14.96	15.21
14.56	14.76	15,01
13.82	14,02	14,27
Mechanic Trainee (With 60	13.72	13.92	14.17	14.37	14.62
Days Credited Service
Mechanic Trainee (With 120	14.11	14.31	14.56	14.76	15.01
Days Credited Service)
36
A.02 1) Employees Hired Temporary or Part-time During Period of September 1st to April 30th of a Year___________________________________________
To apply to employees hired after June 4, 1995:
	June 1 1994	June 1 1995	Dec. 31 1995	June 1 1996	Dec. 31 1996
Starting Rate	12.92	13.12	13.37	13.57	13.82
Upon completion of 60 days of service with the Company	13.12	13.32	13.57	13.77	14.02
Upon completion of 90 days of service with the Company	13.22	13.42	13,67	13.87	14.12
A.02 2) Employees Hired Temporary or Part-time During Period of May 1st to August 30th of a Year________________________________________________
To apply to employees hired after June 4, 1995:
Starting Rate	75% of Ease or Job Rate
Upon completion of 90	85% of Base or Job Rate
days of service with the Company
A.03	LEAD HAND
A Lead Hand designated bythe Superintendentshall be paid asdetermined by the Plant Superintendent, a minimum of thirty-five cents (35e) per hour over his/her regular wage rate for the hours worked performingthe duties designated bythe Plant Superintendent of a Lead Hand.
Lead Hands will be chosen from the bargaining unit employees
A.04
A.05
37
KNIFE PREMIUM
EffectiveSeptember8,1990, employees requiredto usea knife to perform their duties shall be paid a premium of ten cents (100) pet hour. Employees in the Further Processing Department will continue to receive a premium of ten cents (10c) per hour.
RETROACTIVE PAY
Employeesonthe payroll of the Company as of June 4,1995, shall receive twenty cents (20C) per hourforall hoursworked or paid from June 2,1994. The payment of retroactive wages shall be provided io each employee within thirty (30) calendar days June 4, 1995.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. LOCAL 175
Re: Article 7.01
The Company will continue its current practice of considering the needs of individual employees in conjunction with the needs of the Employer when staffing overtime in conjunction with the overtime clauses of the contract. The employee will make the effort to work the overtime.
DATED AT Hanover THIS 30th DAY OF October, 1995.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppler Leif Gade Nora Banks
Richard Ratte C.F. Godfrey K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
Re: Reduced Hours per Clause 11.07
The Union and the Company agree that during a period cf reduced hours, not to exceed two (2) days in a calendar week a seniority department experiencing reduced hours of work shall have no right to do any work outside such department until a maximum period of two (2) days has lapsed, at which time Clause 11.08 a) will prevail subject to 11.06,11.08 b) and c).
DATED AT Hanover THIS 30th DAY OF October, 1995
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppler Leif Gade Nora Banks
Richard Raite C.F. Godfrey K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3 BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
Re: Temporary Assignments and Overtime
Notwithstanding Articles 11.06 and 11.07, any hours less than eight (8) hours will be identified as reduced hours as per Article 11.07.
Regular employees temporarily assigned to another department for that day, in accordance with this Letter of Understanding #3, will remain in that Departmentfor eight (8) hours or conclusion of the shift, whichever occurs first.
Any overtime beyond eight (8) hours will be offered according to Plant seniority that is signed on the Daily Reduced Hours and Overtime list.
Employees who return to work extra hours will be paid time and one-haif (1 1/2) their regular hourly rate for all hours worked in that Departmentwherethe overtime premium commences upon completion of that shift.
The requirement to pay Overtime to an employee returning to work to fill an overtime position will not become effective until that employee has worked eight (8) hours, if the reason the employee had reduced hours was due to his leaving work for any reason other than the Company had no work for the employee at the time the hours in the Department the employee was working were reduced.
For the purpose o1 this provision, the requirement by the Company to recall workers to fill overtime positions will not extend beyond the Daily Reduced Hoursand Overtime list which will be posted daily
DATED AT Hanover THIS 30th DAY OF October, 1995,
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppler Leif Gade Nora Banks
Richard Ratte C.F. Godfrey K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
41
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
-and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
Re: Live Re-Hana
The Company agrees to schedule the start of Live Re-Hang after breaks in a manner consistent with Article 7.05, paragraphs3 and 4.
DATED AT HanoverTHIS 30th DAY OF October. 1995
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppler Leif Gade Nora Banks
Richard Ratte C.F. Godfrey K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and •
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. LOCAL 175
Re: Training
Employees training or participating in Company-sponsoredcourses shall not be bound to the terms of Articles 11.06, 11.07 (a) and (b), provided such training or course was prearranged in writing at least one (1) calendar week in advance. This will apply to the employees presently doing the work.
DATED AT Hanover THIS_____ DAY OF___________________1995
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppiei Leif Gade Nora Banks
Richard Ratte C.F. Godfrey
K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6
43
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION, LOCAL 175
Re: Recall From Reduced Hours and voluntary Overtime List
The Reduced Hoursand Overtime list will be followed on the basis of seniority and ability to fill overtime positions without reference to the Plant-wide seniority or Department seniority list and only after me provisions of Article 11.06 allowing overtime io be performed by those having seniority in the Department where overtime is to be worked.
DATED AT Hanover THIS 30th DAY OF October, 1995
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS. LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Larry Bain Bruce Dosman Sheila Weppler Leif Gade Nora Banks
Richard Ratte C.F. Godfrey K. E. Rowland Phil Swanson Douglas Wyatt
EXHIBIT "A"
P & HFOODS
ACCEPTABLE MEDICAL EVIDENCE FORM
NOTE TO PHYSICIAN
DATE:
44
The P & H Foods Sickness and Accident Program is Company insured
This form and the questions it contains were agreed upon between the Company and the Union which represents the employees.
(Employee's Signature)
NAME: ___________________________________________
(First)	(Last)
is under may care. Does the nature of his/her illness preventthe employee from carrying out the essential duties of his/her job as outlined?
Can the employee do any light duty work? _______________
Light Work7 _________________________________________________
If not, please complete the balance of the form
THE TREATMENT BEGAN ON.__________________________________________
(Day) (Month) (Year)
HOSPITALIZED_________________ OUTPATIENT_____________________
THIS PERSON IS EXPECTED TO BE UNDER TREATMENT FOR APPROXIMATELY (Days) (Weeks) (Months)
THE ESTIMATED DATE OF RETURN TO WORK IS:_________________________
(Day) (Month) (Year)
(Signature of Physician)
NORTHERN REGION
Dan Onichuk
Director
Sill Kalka	Luc Laceile
Union Representative	Umon Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
135 N. Syndicate, Suite 400. Thunder Bay, Ont. PTC 3V3 Phone: (807)623-4551 Fax: (807) 623-6938 (800)465-6932
EASTERN REGION
JohnFuller
DireC50r
Warren Kennedy
Union Representative
Wendy Zych
Union Representative
Dan Lacroix
Union Representative
lan Miller
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y1B6
Phone: (613) 725-2154 Fax: (613)725-2328 (800)287-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Bud Adam
Director
Wendy Ab$o!om Susan Bayne Tim Oribine
Union Representative Union Representative Onion Representative
A. G. Sherman Larry Bain Richard Woodruff
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519) 744-5231 Fax: (519) 744-8357 (800) 255-6345
CENTRAL AND SOUTH-CENTRAL REGIONS
Jim Hastings
Director
Reg Baughan
Union Representative
Sharon Gall
Union Representative
Jerry Clifford
Unbn Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
CENTRAL REGION
Harry Sutton	Teresa Suppa-Magee
Union Representative	Union Representative
Dor Morin
Union Representative
Jim Hobbs
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argensia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821 -8329 Fax (905) 821 -7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800)565-8329
Jim Andress
Director
Jay Nair
Health. Office, Professional and Education (H.0.P.E) Sector Co-ordinator
Dave Kitlham
Political Mon, Commuincations and Education Co-ordinator
ORGANIZING TEAM
(905) 821-8329	(800) 585 8329
BENEFIT DEPARTMENT
(955) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Herb MacDonald
Benefits Co-ordinator
Maureen McCarthy
Benefits Department
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
(905) 821-8329	(800) 585-8329
Rnherl iintnn
Communications Liaison
LEGAL COUNSEL
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Kelvin Kucey Legal Counsel
Notas
Notes