Union
Agreement
UPON
Local No. 832
MAPLE
LEAF
MAPLE LEAF MEATS
Effective Date: April 1, 1996 Expiry Date: December 31, 2005
Union Office Addresses and Telephone Numbers
If you require any interpretation of the benefits and rights contained in this Agreement, or have any questions about other ways in which the Union can assist you, contact your full-time Union Representative at the Union Office that serves your area. You can also reach Union Representatives at home. Their home phone numbers are listed periodically in Union magazine and Unionews newsletter.
Winnipeg
14 12 Portage Avenue Winnipeg, Man.
R3G OV5 786-5055
Toll-free 1-888-UFCW 832
President’s Message
This Union Collective Agreement specifies the wages, benefits and rights your employer has agreed through the bargaining process, to provide to you. Your Shop Stewards and full-time Union Representative will work to ensure that you receive all of the benefits it entitles you to, but it’s important that you are also familiar with the Agreement.
Please take time to read through the Agreement, then keep this booklet with you or in some convenient location. That will allow you to confirm at any time the benefits to which you’re entitled. If you require assistance with the interpretation of any portion of this Agreement, talk to your Shop Steward or Union Representative. By ensuring that the Agreement is adhered to, you’ll be helping to keep the Agreement-and the Union-strong.
Sincerely,
Bernard Christophe President and Chief Executive Officer
INDEX
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC.
Title	Article	Page
Adjustment of Grievances			 22			 6 I
Adoption Leave		... 19.04			 58
Allowance,Tools		... 16.09			 54
Alternate Work Arrangements			 I 3			 45
Appendices			 32 			 7 I
Aprons, Rubber Footwear		.... 16.08			 54
Arbitration 	 Awarding New Classifications		 23 			 64
and vacancies			 9.01 			 39
Bargaining Unit, Nature of			 I 			 20
Benefits to Terminated Employees..	... Letter 			 94
Bereavement Pay			 29 			 70
Boots, Safety		... 16. I I 			 54
Bulletin Boards			 24 			 67
Buyout, Severance Pay		.. App D 			 I4
Call-in Minimum			 5.0 I 			 22
CCWIPP			 A-3 			 78
Change in Schedule Notice		. 5.09(3) 			 27
Classifications and Rates of Pay 			 B-I 			 80
Committee, Health and Safety			 16.02			 52
Consecutive Days Off			 5.06 			 24
Consecutive Hours of Work			 5.02 			 23
Consecutive Vacation Weeks			 14.05 			 47
Cooler Coats		... 16.08			 54
Cooling Off Period	 Courses/Seminars -	... 16.04			 53
Safety Committee		... 16.03 			 52
Deduction of Union Dues			 3 			 2 I
Definition of Layoff.			 8.0 I 			 37
4
Title
Article
Page
Definition of Seniority			 7.01 			 34
Dental Plan - MFCW			 A-2			 77
Discipline, Suspension			 2 I 			 60
Duration 			 34			72
Education and Training Trust Fund ..		 30			 7 I
Education and Training Trust Fund ...	.. App C 			 84
Exhibit One 		... form 			 99
Exhibit One Referral 			 2.03 			 2 I
Expiration and Renewal 			 34 			 72
First Aid		.. 16.05 			 53
Freezer Jackets 		... 16.08			 54
Full-time to Part-time - Seniority..		 7.05 			 36
General Holiday During Vacation..	.... 14.09			 49
General Holiday in Work Week			 5.03 			 23
General Holidays 			 I I 			 42
Gloves, Hair Nets, Jackets		... 16.08			 54
Grievance Investigation 		... 25.04			 68
Grievances			 22 			 6 I
Harassment			 33 			 72
Head Gear, Hair Nets		... 16.08			 54
Health and Safety			 I6 			 52
Health and Safety Committee		.... 16.02			 52
Health and Safety Cooperation		.... 16. I2			 55
Health and Welfare Benefits 		... App A			 76
Health and Welfare Referral 			 20 			 60
Hourly Rates of Pay 			 B-I 			 80
Hours of Work			 5 			 22
Injury at Work 		.. 12.02 			 44
Injury or Illness while on Vacation..	.... 14.1 I 			 49
Interim Job Titles and		
Classifications 		App D 			 85
Jackets, Scabbards, Gloves		... 16.08			 54
5
Title	Article	Page
Job Rotation	 Job Titles and Classifications -		 IO			 4 l
Interim	 Job Titles and Classifications -	.... App D			 85
New Plant			 App E 			 92
Jury Duty		27			 69
Knife Sharpening 			 16. IO			 54
Knives, Steels, Scabbards	 Laid Off or Recalled		 16.08			 54
Employees List			 8.05 			 39
Layoff and Recall			 8 			 37
Lead Hand Premium 			 B-4			 83
Leave, Adoption			 19.04			 58
Leave, Bereavement			 29 			 70
Leave, Jury Duty			 27 			 69
Leave, Maternity			 19.04			 58
Leave, Parental			 19.04			 58
Leave, Personal			 19.02			 57
Leave, Union Business			 19.01 			 57
Leave, Union Position			 19.03 			 57
Leave, Witness			 28 			 69
Leaves of Absence			 I9			 57
Length of Agreement			 34 			 72
List of Employees' Seniority	 List of Laid Off or		 7.02 			 34
Recalled Employees			 8.05 			 39
Locker Search			 3 I 			 7 I
Management's Rights and Functions	 I5				 5 I
Maternity Leave			 19.04			 58
Meal Periods - Full-time			 5. IO			 28
Meal Periods - Part-time 			 5. I I 			 29
6
Title
Article Page
Mesh Gloves, Scabbards,	etc.... 16.08
MFCW Dental Plan..................... A-2
MFCW Education and Training
Trust Fund.......................... 30
MFCW Education and Training
Trust Fund ...................... App C
Minimum Call-in.................... 5.0 I
MinimumTime Off Between Shifts....... 5.05
Modified Duties ................... I 3
Nature of the Bargaining Unit.......... I
New Classifications Posted/Awarded.. .. 9.0 I New Plant Job Titles and
Classifications ................. App E
Night Shift........................ 5. I I(7)
No Discrimination Union	Activities.. 2.04.
No Pyramiding of Overtime........... 6.03
No Sexual	Harassment................ 33
Notice of Layoff................... 8.0 I
Notice of Schedule Change.......... 5.09(3)
Notice of Status Change.............. 7.06
Notice of Work Week.................. 5.07
Opportunities and Benefits to
Terminated Employees........... Letter.
Overtime .............................. 6
Overtime Worked - Rest Periods..... 5. IO
Parental Leave..................... 19.04
Part-time Becoming Full-time....... 9.04.
Part-time Employees' Hours........... 5.08
Part-time Seniority.................. 7.08
Pay Period	- Direct Deposit.......... 26
Pay Rates.......................... B-1
54
77
7 I
84
22
24
45
20
39
92 29 2 I 33 72 37
27 36
24
94
32
28 58
40
25 36 68 80
7
Title	Article	Page
Pension Plan - CCWIPP			 A-3 			 78
Pension Plan -		
Past Service Benefits		Letter			 IO0
Personal Breaks		... 5. I2			 3 I
Personal Leave		. 19.02			 57
Posting New Classifications		
and Vacancies		... 9.0 I 			 39
Posting Work Schedule		5.09(2) 			 27
Premium, Lead Hand			 B-4			 83
Probationary Period			 4 			 22
Protective Clothing/Equipment		... 16.08			 54
Protective Devices		.. 16.07			 53
Rates of Pay			 B-I 			 80
Recall from Layoff.			 8 			 37
Reprimands 			 21 			 60
Rest Periods - Full-time..			 5. IO 			 28
Rest Periods - Part-time		.... 5. I I 			 29
Right to Refuse Dangerous Work		.. 16.06			 53
Rubber Footwear, Aprons, Gloves.. ..	.. 16.08			 54
Safety and Health			 I6			 52
Safety Boots		. 16. II 			 54
Safety Committee Seminars		... 16.03 			 52
Safety Head Gear, Mesh Gloves, etc.	.. 16.08			 54
Schedule Change Notice		5.09(3) 			 27
Schedule of Work Posted		5.09(2) 			 27
Scheduling Vacations		.. 14.08			 48
Scheduling Work Schedule		5.09(l) 			 26
Selection of an Arbitrator			 23 			 64
Seniority			 7 			 34
Seniority Broken		... 7.03 			 35
Seniority - Full-time to Part-time...		 7.05 			 36
8
Title	Article	Page
Seniority List			 7.02			 34
Seniority - Part-time			 7.08			 36
Severance Pay, Buyout		.. App D 			 I4
Sexual Harassment			 33			 72
Shop Stewards			 25			 67
Status Change Notice			 7.06			 36
Status Change - Seniority			 7.05 			 36
Strikes and Lockouts			 I7 			 56
Term of Agreement			 34			 72
Terminated Employees' Benefits ...	... Letter			 94
Time Clocks 		5.09(4) 			 28
Time Off Between Shifts			 5.05 			 24
Tools Allowance		... I 6.09			 54
Union Business Leave		.... 19.01 			 57
Union Dues Deduction			 3 			 2 I
Union Position Leave 			 19.03 			 57
Union Representative's Visits			 I8 			 56
Union Shop			 2 			 20
Vacancies/ Classification Postings..		 9 			 39
Vacancies Posted/Awarded 			 9.0 I 			 39
Vacation Pay for Part-time		.... 14.14			 50
Vacation Period 		... 14.07 			 48
Vacation Scheduling		... 14.08 			 48
Vacations With Pay			 I4 			 45
Wage Referral 			 I2 			 44
Wages 			 B-I 			 80
Witness Fees 			 28 			 69
Work Schedule Posted		. 5.09(2) 			 27
Work Scheduling		5.09(l) 			 26
Work Week 			 5.0 I 			 22
Working Conditions		... 16.04 			 53
9
Name -----------------------------
Address __________________________
Telephone No. ____________________
Work Address______________________
Work Telephone No. ---------------
Social Insurance No. -------------
Shop Steward----------------------
Telephone No. ____________________
Assistant Shop Steward -----------
EMERGENCY PHONE NUMBERS
Police ___________________________
Fire Department-------------------
Doctor ___________________________
In case of emergency, please inform:
Name _____________________________
Address __________________________
Telephone No. ____________________
-------------------- 10 ---------
The existing collective bargaining agreement expiring March 31, 1999, shall be amended only for the following sections.
Expiry date: December 31, 2005
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba (hereinafter referred to as the
“Company”)
AND UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
The following three pages shall be the only appended pages to the existing collective bargaining agreement, The balance of the wording of the existing agreement shall remain until its expiry date as indicated in Section
32.01	(a).
11
32.01	i.a) This Agreement shall be effective from April 1. 1996 to December 31. 2005. anti shall be renewed thereafter lor another three
(3)	years at the request of either party, such request to be made not less than thirty (30) days or more than ninety (90) days before the expiry date or the anniversary of such expiry dale from year to year thereafter, when either parly may give notice in writing to the other parly of a desire to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
On the expiry dale of this Agreement, as indicated above, if negotiations have not been completed. the Company and the Union agree that this Agreement will be extended automatically until:
(1)	an Agreement is reached between the parties hereto:
(2)	a strike is declared by the Union by giving the Company seven (7) calendar days’ notice in writing of its intenlion to declare a strike, or
(3)	a lock-out is declared by the Company by giving the Union seven (7) calendar days' notice in writing of its intention to declare a lock-out.
12
32.01	(b) The Company and the Union agree that all terms and conditions, wording, benefits and any other matters, without limiting the foregoing contained in Part A of this Agreement shall change to Part B, attached to this agreement, in every respect, effective April 1, 1999.
13
Appendix I) - Severance Pay of Pail A shall he amended by deleting ihe existing wording in its entirety and replacing it as indicated below:
APPENDIX *‘D’-
BUYOUT, SEVERANCE PAY,
OR ADDITIONAL PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS (BSPC)
.01 The Company agrees that all employees of the Company who are in the employ of the Company on September 13. 1998 shall receive the Buyout. Severance Pay or Additional Pension Contributions (BSPC) calculated as of March 31, 1999, or at the lime an employee has terminated his employment or who is terminated by the Company except as indicated in ID-1.05 between September 13. 1998 and March 31.1999.
ID-1.02 All employees who are still in the employ of the company as of March 31. 1999, shall be terminated from employment and the Company shall pay to each employee on the payroll of the Company (which shall include employees on weekly indemnity, leave of absence, maternity or parental leave, workers compensation, long term disability, etc.). One Thousand
14
Dollars ($1,000.00) for each com- ^ y}-pleted year of service, and one-twelfth £ i (1/12) of $1,000.00 for each completed month of service. No employees in the employ of the Company as described above shall get less than \ ^ $5,000,00. For the purpose of calculation of this BSPC, service with the r Company shall be the employee’s '!' " original date of hire including a period or periods that an employee may have been on a leave of absence authorized by the company, or in a position excluded from the bargaining unit.
D-1.03 Such payment will be made; within thirty (30) calendar days of M arch 31,
1999, except for employees who terminated their employment or were terminated by the Company before March 31,1999, except as indicated in D-1.05. Said employees shall be paid within 30 calendar days of indicating their intention in writing of terminating their employment or if the Company terminates an employee, the Company shall make such payment within 30 calendar days of termination.
D-1.04 The BSPC, at the choice of the employee, shall be paid on a separate cheque by the Company either as a
------------------- 15 ----------------------
buyout or severance pay to the employee, with the required income lax and other deductions, or may be paid by the Company directly to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan to purchase an increase in the employee’s previous pension credit or be paid into a loeked-in or unlocked RRSP of the employee’s choice, subject to statutory deductions if applicable.
13-1.OS The Company and the Union agree that any employee who has been terminated from employment by the Company for an offense that might otherwise be subject to the Criminal Code of Canada related to his employment with the Company, shall not be entitled to BSPC as indicated above.
D-1.06 The Company and the Union agree that the above BSPC shall also be deemed to be in compliance with Section 40 of the Kmploymenl Standards Act of the Province of Manitoba as payment in lieu of notice of layoff for employees who were on the seniority list and in the employ of the Company as of September 13. 1998 for any laid off in 1999 as a result of the Company terminating the kill and cut operation. For now
16
employees who were not in the employ of the Company as of September 13, 1998 and who were hired as a new employee after that date, Section 40 of the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Manitoba will apply.
D-l.07 The list of employees entitled to the buyout and the amount of buyout said employees are entitled to shall be as indicated in list D-1.08 below. This list and the amount assumes that all employees on the seniority list as of September 13, 1998 will stay with the Company until March 3 1, 1999. In the event that an employee terminates his employment or is terminated by the Company prior to March 31, 1999, said amount indicated in the list will be reduced by the pro-rated number of months that the employee has not worked from September 13, 1998 to March 31, 1999. The Company and the Union agree to rectify any errors or omissions from said list.
17
Personal Notes
18
Part B
The effective date of this Agreement shall be April 1, 1999.
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Without limiting the following, the Company and the Union agree that all terms and conditions of employment, etc. shall change from Part A to Part B, effective April 1, 1999, as follows:
WHEREAS: The Company and the Union desire to co-operate in establishing and maintaining conditions which will promote a harmonious relationship between the Company and the employees covered by this Agreement, to provide methods for fair and amicable adjustment of disputes which may arise between them and promote efficiency and improved operations;
NOW THEREFORE, THE UNION AND THE COMPANY MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
19
SECTION 1 NATURE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
1.Ol	The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole agency for the purpose of collective bargaining for all employees working at its meat processing facility, whether full-time or part-time, at its plant located in the Province of Manitoba, save and except working supervisors and those above such rank, security personnel, office and quality control persons, and those excluded by the Act.
Employees excluded from the bargaining unit, as indicated in 1.01 above, will not perform 3 bargaining unit work to displace an employee who would otherwise be entitled to a scheduled shift for such work.
SECTION 2 UNION SHOP
2.01	The Company agrees to retain in its employ within the bargaining unit, as outlined in Section 1 of this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing. The Company shall be free to hire or rehire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members, whether parttime or full-time, shall be eligible for membership in the Union and shall make application on the official membership application form within ten (10)
20
calendar days from date of hire or rehire and become members within thirty (30) calendar days.
2.02	The Company agrees to provide each new employee and rehired employee, at the time of employment, with a form letter outlining to the employee his responsibility in regard to payment of union dues and initiation fee.
2.03	The Company agrees to forward Exhibit One (Postcard) duly completed, as attached to this Agreement, to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from date of hire or rehire of an employee. The Union shall bear the expense of printing and mailing the letter, the contents to be such that it is acceptable to the Company.
2.04	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for lawful Union activities, or performing services on a Union committee outside working hours or for reporting to the Union the violation of any provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 3
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of the employee such union dues and initiation fee as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees’ first paycheque( Monies deducted during any month
21
shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) weeks’ accounting period and accompanied by a four weeks’ or monthly computer magnetic tape of the names, Social Insurance Numbers and plant numbers of the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
SECTION 4
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
4.01	New employees shall be on probation for a period of twenty-two (22) weeks for full-time employees and eight hundred and eighty (880) hours for part-time employees. The Company, at their discretion, may discharge any probationary employee within the above time limit(s) and said employee shall have no recourse to the Grievance and Arbitration sections of this Agreement.
SECTION 5
HOURS OF WORK
5.01	The normal basic work week for full-time employees shall be forty (40) hours per week, to be 3 ” ‘worked in five (5) consecutive shifts of eight (8) hours each scheduled by management and/or four
(4)	consecutive shifts of ten (10) hours each sched-
22
uled by management. The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a shortage of raw material, breakdown of machinery, epidemics, circumstances beyond the control of the Company, reconfiguration of equipment, or market conditions, full-time employees may work less than forty (40) hours per week.
No full-time employee shall be called in to work for less than four (4) hours.
5.02	With the exception of the meal and rest periods referred to in section 5.10, a full-time employee’s shift for the day shall be comprised of consecutive hours of work.
5.03	For full-time employees who are scheduled five eight-hour shifts in a work week and a General Holiday falls during one of the scheduled work days, and the plant closes on said day, an employee shall work thirty-two (32) hours that week and receive forty (40) hours pay. If a General Holiday falls outside a full-time employee’s scheduled work week, such employees shall be paid for all the hours worked in the week of the General Holiday plus eight (8) hours pay for said General Holiday. If two General Holidays fall in the same calendar week, a similar entitlement procedure as above shall apply.
5.04	For employees who are scheduled to work four ten-hour days a week and a General Holiday falls during a scheduled work day, and the plant closes on said day, an employee shall work thirty (30) hours and be paid forty (40) hours for that
23
week. If a full-time employee works a lo-hour 4-day week and the General Holiday does not fall in his scheduled work week, he shall receive an additional eight (8) hours pay for the General Holiday in addition to all the hours worked and paid in the week of the General Holiday. The same procedure shall apply when two (2) General Holidays fall in a calendar week.
5.05	All employees shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduled shifts, except in case of emergency or unless mutually agreeable between the Company and the employees. Emergency shall be defined as any unexpected absence of employees due to illness, injury, mechanical breakdown, or in situations beyond the control of the Company.
5.06	The Company shall grant employees either two (2) consecutive days per week or three (3) consecutive days per week off, consistent with either an eight-hour five-day work week or a ten-hour four-day work week.
5.07	The Company agrees to notify full-time employees, at least one week in advance, or at the commencement of employment, whether they will work an eight-hour five-day work week or a ten-hour four-day work week. The Company’s operation shall be a seven-day work week operation, from Sunday to Saturday inclusive. There will be three (3) shifts in a twenty-four (24) hour work day, designated as the Day Shift, Afternoon Shift, or Night Shift.
24
5.08	Part-time Employees’ Hours of Work
The Company may hire up to forty-seven and one-half (47.5%) percent of the work force as part-time employees. Calculation of the percentage shall take place every four (4) calendar weeks and shall be based on the total number of employees in the bargaining unit, each and every week. If the percentage of part-time employees exceeds forty-seven and one-half (47.5%) percent in any one week, the number of part-time employees who are in excess of the forty-seven and one-half (47.5%) percent shall be the number used to pay the most senior part-time employees the hourly rate of pay for the next higher classification (using the part-time employees’ experience) for all hours worked by said employees. (i.e. If the Company has 400 employees in the bargaining unit and 200 employees in one week were part-time, the 10 most senior part-time employees will receive the hourly rate of pay for the next higher classification as indicated above for the number of hours that those 10 senior employees worked during that week.) For further clarification if the 10 most senior part-time employees were at the 12 month rate in the skilled classification, they would receive the 12 month rate in the Trades Without License classification for all hours worked that week.
Said part-time employees may be scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours a week, but will not be scheduled to work less than four (4) hours in any one shift when scheduled or called in to work.
25
5.09	Scheduling and Posting Work Schedule
(1)	Scheduling shall be done by the Company for full-time employees by classification within each department and by seniority, and for part-time employees shall be done by department and by seniority. Both fulltime and part-time shall be scheduled as indicated above, provided that the employee has the ability to perform the normal functions of the job. The plant shall be divided into the following departments:
i)	Operating Engineers
ii)	Sanitation
iii)	Maintenance
iv)	Shipping
v)	Packaging
vi)	Curing
vii)	Converting / Stuffing
viii)	Cookroom and such other departments to be identified before the new plant is in operation.
The Company has the ability to create additional departments during the life of this collective bargaining agreement for legitimate business reasons, providing it informs the Union of its intention within a reasonable period of time of not less than thirty (30) calendar days before establishing the new department(s).
26
(2)	The Company shall post a work schedule for all employees, either working full-time or part-time, no later than Thursday of each week for the following week. If the schedule is not posted by Thursday at 6:00 p.m., then the schedule already posted shall apply for the following week.
The Company has the right to call in parttime employees not previously scheduled to work if required by the business, provided that a senior part-time employee in the department is not available to work the hours and provided it does not result in overtime hours being scheduled.
(3)	A schedule of employees working full-time may be changed without notice in the event of unscheduled absence of employees or in the event of emergencies, such as snow storm, flood, breakdown of machinery, or other instances of force majeure. In all other cases, except by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, at least forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of change must be given, or four (4) hours’ additional pay, at the straight time rate, in lieu of notice.
The foregoing shall not apply to employees other than full-time. Notice to such other employees shall be given as far in advance as possible, by the Company. In the case of a shift cancellation for part-time employees,
27
a minimum of twelve (12) hours’ notice shall be given, or four (4) hours additional pay at straight time shall be paid by the Company in lieu of notice, except in the event of an emergency as defined in section 5.05.
(4)	Time Clocks
The Company shall provide time clocks to enable employees to record their own time for payroll purposes. Employees shall record their own time at the time they start and finish work and the time they commence and return from meal periods and such other recordings as may be required by the Company.
5.10	Meal and Rest Periods:
Full-time Employees
A meal period without pay for employees working a daily shift of eight (8) hours shall be thirty (30) minutes’ of uninterrupted duration and shall start not earlier than three (3) hours nor later than five
(5)	hours after commencement of the employee’s shift. Employees working a ten-hour shift shall have one (1) thirty-minute meal period without pay and two (2) fifteen-minute rest periods, and an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period. (Said 15-minute rest period shall be the last break of the day.) There shall be no exceptions to the meal period. The last rest period of an eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift shall be taken no longer than one (1) hour prior to the end of the eight or ten hour shift.
28
Times at which such meal periods are taken shall be scheduled by management.
A person working a daily shift of more than five (5) hours, but less than seven (7) hours, shall have one (1) rest period, with pay, and one (1) thirty (30) minute meal period, without pay.
The Company and the Union agree that a rest period scheduled by the Company shall be of fifteen (15) minutes, and fifteen minutes for the last rest period in the event of a ten-hour shift as indicated above, uninterrupted duration.
If an employee is required to work overtime on the completion of an eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift, and if the Company does not schedule a meal period without pay, then the employee will be scheduled a fifteen (15) minute rest period with pay within half an hour of the end of the first shift, providing the overtime is for two (2) hours or more. When the Company does not give an employee at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice that an employee is required to work four (4) additional hours or more of overtime, said employee shall be provided with a meal by the Company, or pay in lieu in the amount of $6.00.
5.11	Meal and Rest Periods:
Part-time Employees
(1)	A daily shift of four (4) hours and up to and including five (5) hours shall have one (1) rest period with pay.
(2)	A person working a daily shift of more than five (5) hours, but less than seven (7) hours,
29
shall have one (1) rest period, with pay, and one (1) thirty (30) minute meal period, without pay.
(3)	A person working a daily shift of more than seven (7) hours and up to eight (8) hours shall have one meal period of thirty (30) minutes without pay and two rest periods with pay scheduled approximately in the middle of each period before and after the meal period.
(4)	A part-time employee working a ten-hour shift shall have the same meal and rest periods as indicated in 5.10.
(5)	If an employee is required to work overtime on the completion of an eight (8) hour shift or ten (10) hour shift, and if the Company does not schedule a meal period without pay, then the employee will be scheduled a fifteen (15) minute rest period with pay within half an hour of the end of the first shift, providing the overtime is for two (2) hours or more.
(6)	The Company and the Union agree that a rest period scheduled by the Company shall be of fifteen (15) minutes’, and fifteen (15) minutes for the last rest period in the event of a ten-hour shift, uninterrupted duration.
(7)	Night shift
Night shift shall be defined as a shift where the majority of an employee’s scheduled hours fall between 11:OO p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
30
The Company agrees to pay any employee working the Night shift twenty-five cents (250) per hour in addition to the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay, for all regularly scheduled hours worked, not to include overtime.
5.12	Personal Breaks
(a)	The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods must not be abused.
(b)	Employees shall not be disciplined or discharged as a result of authorized usage of time for personal breaks granted by the Company. However as a deterrent to excess usage the following measures will apply:
i)	Employees will have the time used on
each break deducted from their weekly hours worked. The following subsections (ii), (iii) and (iv) will not apply to employees who for reasons supported by medical documentation show a specific condition to exist which necessitates greater use of the washroom.
ii)	Any employee who uses greater than twenty (20) minutes total time per week, in any four (4) weeks in a twelve (12) month period, shall have all subsequent time used on each break deducted from their weekly hours worked at double the rate of use.
31
iii)	Any employee who uses greater than twenty (20) minutes total time per week, in any twelve (12) weeks in a twelve (12) month period, shall have all subsequent time used on each break deducted from their weekly hours worked at triple the rate of use.
iv)	If an employee reaches a level as outlined in (ii) or (iii) above, as may be the case, they will be held at that level until they have had twelve (12) clear months without any week being greater than twenty (20) minutes use for personal necessity breaks. In such case the employee will revert to the next previous level of deduction and so on until they are returned to the level of deduction as outlined in subsection (i) above.
SECTION 6 OVERTIME
6.01	The Company agrees to pay an employee time and one half (1 + l/2) for any time worked after completing either an eight-hour shift, or ten-hour shift for employees who work four ten-hour shifts.
The Company agrees to pay an employee time and one half (1 + l/2) for any time worked after (s)he has worked forty (40) hours in a week which have been paid at straight time rates. The
32
forty (40) hours referred to above will be reduced as indicated in 5.03 and 5.04.
6.02	Overtime shall be by mutual consent and shall be offered to the most senior employee(s) on the shift, in the department, by classification, and thereafter in descending order of seniority, providing the employee has the ability and qualifications to perform the required work. It is further understood that the efficient operation of the business may require overtime and in this event the most junior employee(s) on the shift in the department, by classification, in increasing order of seniority, who have the ability and qualifications to perform the work, shall then do the required work.
In the event that an employee is inadvertently not offered the opportunity to work overtime by seniority as indicated above, and is bypassed, said employee shall be given the first opportunity to work the next overtime regardless of his seniority ranking.
6.03	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
6.04	When a full-time or part-time employee is working on a general holiday as indicated in Section 11 said employee shall receive time and one-half (1 l/2) at his regular rate of pay for all time worked and in addition shall receive the statutory holiday pay that the employee would have received had said employee not worked on the statutory holiday.
33
SECTION 7 SENIORITY
7.01	Seniority is defined as the length of an employee’s seniority with the Company from the employee’s original date of hire, which shall include a period or periods that an employee may have been on a leave of absence authorized by the Company, or in a position excluded from the bargaining unit, effective April 1, 1999.
The date for full-time employees shall be the date of appointment to a full-time position, The Company and the Union agree that if a part-time employee is appointed to a full-time position during his probationary period as indicated in Section 4.01, that employee must still complete his probationary period until he has worked 880 hours including his part-time and full-time hours.
If employees begin work or are hired on the same date, seniority ranking shall be determined from their date of application to the Company. If the date of application is the same, the ranking shall be established using their birth date, defined for these purposes as the month and day.
7.02	The Company agrees to provide a seniority list to the Union and have same posted on the premises four (4) times a year; namely, January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year. A copy of said seniority list shall be delivered to the Chief Shop Steward and Assistant Chief Steward, When an employee completes the probationary period and
34
attains seniority, as defined herein, the Union will be advised by the end of the payroll week next following.
7.03	The seniority shall be considered broken and employment terminated if an employee:
(1)	is duly discharged by the Company and not reinstated through the Grievance and/or Arbitration procedure of this Agreement;
(2)	voluntarily quits or resigns;
(3)	has been laid off continuously for a period of more than twelve (12) months or is called back to work after a lay off and does not return to employment within the time as set out in Section 8;
(4)	is absent from work without a written leave of absence for more than three (3) working days, unless a satisfactory reason is given by the employee. Sickness or inability to communicate with the Company shall be considered a satisfactory reason;
(5)	fails to return to work on the completion of an authorized leave of absence, unless a satisfactory reason is given by the employee. Sickness or inability to communicate with the Company shall be considered a satisfactory reason.
(6)	has not worked for a period of two years or longer due to illness or injury, unless by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union that the period should be
35
extended. Application for reinstatement following an absence due to illness or injury must be given to the Company at least seven
(7)	calendar days in advance of the day the employee intends to return to work.
7.04	Seniority shall be the governing factor in matters of promotion, lay-off, choice of shift, recall, reduction from full-time to part-time, and choice of vacation schedule, providing the employee has the ability to perform the normal functions of the job requirements.
7.05	In the event an employee’s status changes from full-time to part-time either at the direction of or with permission of the Company, his seniority date will be his most recent date of hire. When an employee’s full-time status is changed to part-time status due to circumstances of maintaining an efficient operation it is understood that such employees shall be considered for full-time positions before employees who have requested full-time employment before any posting is made by the Company.
7.06	The Company agrees to give one (1) week’s notice prior to changing an employee’s status from full-time to a part-time basis.
7. 07 It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his/her current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
7.08	Part-time
Part-time employees will have seniority only within the part-time seniority list, and full-
36
time employees will have seniority over part-time employees. For scheduling purposes, part-time employees will still be scheduled separately from full-time employees. Said scheduling shall be done by department, by seniority, providing the employee has the ability to perform the normal functions of the job. The Company agrees to schedule part-time employees as indicated above in order that a senior part-time employee, if hours are available when scheduling a week, may be scheduled up to forty (40) hours.
SECTION 8
LAY-OFF AND RECALL FROM LAY-OFF
8.01	Lay-off Notice / Definition
(a)	A lay-off, for the purpose of this section,
shall be defined as a lay-off of seven (7) consecutive calendar days or longer.
(b)	In the case of lay-off of employees, the Company agrees that two (2) working days notice shall be given.
8.02	Lay-offs and recall to employment shall be based on seniority, i.e., the last hired employee shall be the first laid-off, and the last laid-off shall be the first recalled, provided the senior employee is able to perform the normal functions of the job, or can qualify reasonably quickly. Those given such opportunity to qualify must within seven (7) work-
37
ing days demonstrate ability to perform the assigned classification satisfactorily.
Part-time employees shall be laid off prior to full-time employees on the criteria set out above. Full-time employees shall be recalled prior to parttime employees on the criteria as set out above.
8.03	In the event that a full-time employee is laid off due to reduction of business, said employee would be entitled to displace the most junior fulltime employee in another department within his classification, and ‘be given an opportunity to demonstrate his ability to perform the normal functions of the job within one week, except in the event of permanent closure of a department or a job becoming redundant, in which case this period of time shall be up to ten (10) working days. When a junior full-time employee is displaced by another senior employee as indicated above, he shall be offered the opportunity to remain part-time in his classification in another department, by displacing the most junior employee, or by displacing the most junior part-time employee, or displacing the most junior full-time employee in a lower rate of pay classification, or be laid off if the employee so chooses.
8.04	Any employee who has been notified at his or her last known address to return to work, and within five (5) calendar days has failed to do so without reasonable excuse, shall be considered to have quit his or her employment voluntarily and his or her existing seniority rights shall be therefore ter-
3 8
minated. When such notice is sent to any employee, a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union.
8.05	The Company agrees to supply a list of laid off or recalled employees at the time of the layoff or recall to the Chief Steward, and fax a copy to the Union.
SECTION 9 VACANCIES /
CLASSIFICATION POSTINGS
9.01	New classifications and permanent vacancies in existing classifications shall be posted on the bulletin board for three (3) working days within seven (7) working days from the new classifica-tion(s) or the vacancy(ies) being created. The clas-sification(s) / vacancy(ies) shall be awarded within fifteen (15) calendar days from the end of the three (3) day posting, provided the remaining employees can satisfactorily and efficiently perform the work required, but in any event, the job shall be awarded within forty-five (45) calendar days. Vacancies occurring as a result of filling a temporary position will be filled by Management, by giving an opportunity to senior qualified employees to fill the job vacancy. Interested employees shall make application to the working supervisors and sign the posting notice. The Union Steward shall receive a copy of the listed applications.
39
Successful applicants under this provision may not apply for a further job posting until they have worked nine (9) months in the position. Successful applicants for a temporary vacancy must remain in that position until the incumbent returns to work, or may be released earlier if the Company approves.
Employees who are on workers compensation or weekly indemnity for more than one month, or vacation shall be bypassed when granting the bid position.
9.02	In order to qualify as indicated in this section, an employee must have the ability to regularly perform the normal functions of the job after a reasonable training period. Management shall initially have the right to determine if the employee is qualified. If a dispute arises on the qualifications, the grievance and arbitration section(s) will apply.
If the employee selected has performed the said job in a classification within the last two (2) years, there will not be a need for a trial period for that particular employee in that particular position, providing the job or classification content has not substantially changed.
9.03	Employees hired for Sanitation will not be eligible to apply for classification postings until they have worked nine (9) months in the Sanitation Department.
9.04	A part-time employee may become a fulltime employee when either of the following circumstances arise:
40
(a)	a part-time employee successfully bids for a full-time position and is awarded the position as per 9.01 above; (the Company and the Union agree that full-time employees shall be given preference over part-time employees when full-time positions are available.) or
(b)	a part-time employee has worked the same number of hours as a fulltime employee over a three (3) calendar month period. They shall then be deemed to be a full-time employee and shall receive pay and benefits according to the full-time employee’s classification in the collective bargaining agreement. The exception to this rule shall be when a part-time employee is specifically informed that he is replacing an employee for vacation purposes, leave of absence, illness or injury, or workers compensation for a period not exceeding six (6) calendar months.
SECTION 10
JOB ROTATION WITHIN CATEGORIES
10.01	The Company will identify the positions within each classification and employees will be allowed to rotate jobs within their classifications in their department in order to promote greater productivity, safety on the job, and job satisfaction.
41
The Company agrees to consult with the affected employees to determine job rotation based on the principle that there is no job ownership. The length of time or duration shall be determined by the Company, consistent with the objectives of the rotation system.
SECTION 11 GENERAL HOLIDAYS
11.01	The following days shall be considered as General Holidays. An employee’s pay for a General Holiday shall be as set out in subsections 11.03 and
11.04	below:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day.
11.02	In order for a full-time or part-time employee to receive pay for a General Holiday, he must:
(1)	not have been voluntarily absent from work on the scheduled work day prior to or following such holiday;
(2)	have worked his full, regular designated weekly hours for the week in which holidays, a holiday, or portion of a holiday occur, except for bona-fide illness.
42
Any employee on leave of absence (except employees disentitled for General Holiday pay as set out in the following paragraph) granted by the Company, at the request of the employee, shall not qualify for a General Holiday with pay if he is absent on both his last scheduled work day prior to, and his first scheduled work day following the General Holiday.
Any employee receiving a payment for a General Holiday under Weekly Indemnity benefits or Workers Compensation, or sick days, or who has been laid off, or has requested time off without pay for vacation purposes, shall not be entitled to General Holiday pay.
11.03	Eligible full-time employees shall suffer no reduction in their pay for a General Holiday as set out in 11.Ol above, and shall be paid as indicated in
5.03	and 5.04 of this agreement.
11.04	Eligible part-time employees shall be compensated as follows:
(a)	All part-time employees who have been employed thirty (30) calendar days or more and have worked an average of at least thirty-two (32) hours or more per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the week in which a General Holiday occurs, shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular, hourly rate for each holiday.
(b)	All part-time employees who have been employed thirty (30) calendar days or more and have worked an average of at least
43
twenty (20) hours a week, but less than thirty-two (32) hours per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the week in which a General Holiday occurs, shall receive six (6) hours’ pay at his regular, hourly rate for each holiday.
(c)	All part-time employees who have been employed thirty (30) calendar days or more and have worked an average of at least ten (10) hours a week, but less than twenty (20) hours per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the week in which a General Holiday occurs, shall receive three (3) hours’ pay at his regular, hourly rate for each holiday.
SECTION 12
WAGES
12.01	The minimum hourly rates of wages for all employees coming under this Agreement shall be as set out in Appendix “B” of this Agreement. The rates of pay provided in Appendix “B” are minimum rates and apply to the job classifications. The Company reserves the right to pay employees within a job classification higher than the classification rate.
12.02	Injury at Work
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the hours he or she would have normally worked but were
44
lost on the day in which the accident occurred. Employees will be required to provide written confirmation from the attending physician of treatment and inability to return to the workplace for the balance of the shift if requested by management.
13.01	The Company and the Union, whenever needed, will meet to arrive at a mutually satisfactory agreement to find suitable duties and alternate work arrangements for employees who may have physical restrictions. Employees who are accommodated to these positions shall be considered to be temporarily assigned to the positions, which shall not exceed sixty (60) calendar days except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
14.01	Each year’s vacation requirements for any full-time employee to qualify for the respective periods of vacation with pay, as set forth below, are that they have worked for the Company not less than ninety-five per cent (95%) of the regular, full-
ARTICLE 13 MODIFIED DUTIES / ALTERNATE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
SECTION 14
VACATIONS WITH PAY
45
time hours during a continuous twelve (12) month period, but time for absence from work not to include:
(1)	the period of vacation;
(2)	The aggregate of periods not exceeding
thirty (30) working days in all, comprising:
(i)	time during which the employee has been authorized by the Company to be absent from work;
(ii)	time in respect of which the employee files with the Company a certificate, signed by a duly qualified medical practitioner, that he was unfit to work during that time, by reason of his illness or injury.
Where a full-time employee does not qualify for vacation with pay as outlined above he shall receive vacation pay calculated at two per cent (2%) of his total wages earned for each week of vacation entitlement, for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
14.02	Full-time employees with less than one (1) year’s full-time seniority by April 1st will receive an amount equal to four per cent (4%) of their total wages earned during the period of employment, for which no vacation allowance has been paid, up to April 1st. Such employee(s) shall be allowed time off for vacation purposes, without pay, up to two (2) consecutive weeks outside the period of April 1st to September 3Oth, inclusive, unless otherwise mutu-
46
ally agreed to between the employee and the Company.
14.03	Vacation entitlement for full-time employees based on years of full-time seniority, except as defined in 14.19 blow, will be as follows (with the exception of part-time employees going to full-time who shall be credited with one year of seniority for vacation purposes only, equalling 2000 hours worked or paid):
one (1) or more by April 1st - two (2) weeks’ vacation with pay;
five (5) or more years by April 1st - three
(3)	weeks’ vacation with pay; ten (10) or more years by April 1st - four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay.
14.04	Employees with five (5) years of employment in the past ten (10) years, upon completion of one (1) year of full-time seniority from their most recent full-time employment date, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay.
14.05	Full-time employees shall be granted a minimum of two (2) consecutive weeks’ vacation with pay during the months of April 1st to September 30th, except as indicated in 14.06 and 14.07, or unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company.
14.06	Full-time employees entitled to three (3), or four (4) weeks vacation with pay shall be granted said vacations consecutively, except during the months of June, July, August, September and
47
December, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company.
14.07	The vacation period shall be from April 1 to March 3 1, for all employees, unless otherwise mutually agreed between the employee and the Company.
14.08	Vacation Scheduling
Vacations may be granted at any time throughout the calendar year, subject to the demands of the business and up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) of the employees in any department will be allowed vacation at the same time. Beginning January 1st of each year, in each department, the Company through its working supervisor, shall ask each employee in each department their vacation preference for the first and second week of vacation entitlement, in order of seniority. Employees will also indicate their preference for any remaining weeks of vacation entitlement, one week at a time, in order of seniority. This process shall be completed no later than March 31st of that year. The working supervisor and the Company, consistent with the above and the seniority provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, shall then post the approved vacation schedule no later than April 1st. Said approved vacation schedule shall not be changed unless mutually agreed between the employee and the Company. The Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacation time as requested by the employee.
48
14.09	When a General Holiday occurs during a full-time employee’s vacation period, an extra day’s vacation shall be granted if the holiday is one which the employee would have received had he been working. Such employee shall have a choice to be granted an extra day’s vacation, or be paid for said holiday.
14.10	A full-time employee’s approved scheduled vacation dates will not be changed by the Company.
14.11	If a full-time employee is ordered by a physician to be confined to his home or in the hospital due to serious illness (not to include day surgery) or injury while on vacation, the employee may request that the balance of his vacation be rescheduled following the employee’s return to work but at a time outside the vacation period from April 1 to September 30.
14.12	Full-time vacation entitlement must be taken from April 1st to March 31st to coincide with the eligibility date of April 1st and shall not be carried over from year to year beyond March 31st, unless by mutual agreement, and if that is not possible, the Company shall pay out vacation owing within thirty (30) calendar days of March 31st.
14.13	Full-time employees who work less than one (1) year and whose employment is terminated, shall receive vacation pay calculated at four (4%) per cent of their total wages earned for the period of time for which they have not received any vacation pay.
49
Part-time
14.14	Part-time employees will receive vacation pay allowance based on their previous year’s total wages earned January 1st to December 3lst, and same shall be paid during the month of April of , each year. Entitlement will be based on years of seniority with the Company to December 31st of each year as outlined below:
less than five (5) years	4%
five (5) years but less than ten (10)	6%
ten (10) years and more	8%
14.15	Employees with five (5) or more years of employment in the last ten (10) years shall receive six (6%) per cent of their total wages earned for the vacation period for which they have not received any vacation pay.
14.16	Upon written request of the employee, the Company agrees to grant time off for vacation purposes without pay, based on the full-time employees’ schedule for the vacation entitlement for number of weeks entitlement only. Two (2) consecutive weeks shall be granted during the months of April, May, June, July, August, or September, the balance to be granted by the Company in any other month, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee.
General
14.17	The words “total wages earned”, wherever stated in this Section, shall be as defined in the Vacations With Pay Act of the Province of Manitoba.
50
14.18	The Company reserves the right to determine the vacation period for each employee, subject to the seniority provisions of this Agreement.
14.19	For the purpose of vacation entitlement in Section 14, years of seniority as indicated above shall not include periods of time when an employee has been laid off.
SECTION 15
MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS AND FUNCTIONS
15.01	The management of the Company and the direction of the working force, including the right to plan, direct and control plant operations, to maintain the discipline and efficiency of the employees and to require employees to observe Company rules and regulations; to hire; lay off or assign employees’ working hours; promote; demote, discipline, suspend or discharge employees for just cause, are to be the sole right and function of the management.
15.02	The Company shall be the sole judge as to the products to be handled in its plant.
15.03	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
15.04	In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
51
SECTION 16
HEALTH AND SAFETY
16.01	The Company and the Union shall make every reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment.
16.02	Health and Safety Committee
The Company and the Union agree to set up a Safety Committee of four (4) members with equal representation from both parties, and, in addition, add another one (1) committee member for each side for each additional five hundred (500) employees in the bargaining unit. The functions of this committee are to see that safe working conditions for all employees are maintained. Meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held monthly during regular working hours. Whenever possible, such meetings will be held in the third week of each month. Upon management approval all time spent investigating health and safety issues and attending health and safety meetings shall be paid time.
16.03	The Company agrees to pay for members of the Safety Committee to attend. seminars courses, or conferences up to sixteen (16) hours per committee person per year. The time and scheduling for this time off is to be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
52
16.04	No employee shall be sent from one extreme temperature working condition to another in the same day, such as from a smokehouse to a freezer or cooler without a minimum of ten (10) minutes as a cooling off period.
16.05	First aid shall be available for workers on all shifts.
16.06	Right to Refuse Dangerous Work
In situations where an employee has reasonable grounds to believe and does believe that the particular work is dangerous to his or her safety or health the employee shall first report his or her concerns to his or her immediate supervisor. If immediate action to correct the situation is not taken or if the employee is told that corrective action is not necessary but nevertheless continues to believe that the particular work is dangerous to his or her safety or health the employee shall be entitled to refuse to perform that particular work until such time that a person from the appropriate government agency has come to the Company’s operation to inspect the particular work firsthand. During this time period the employee may be assigned to alternative duties that may be available within the plant. Payment for the above noted time period will not be made if the employee refuses to perform alternative duties.
16.07	Protective devices and other equipment not indicated in 15.08 deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company.
53
16.08	Protective Clothing / Equipment
Laundered cooler coats, pants (shirts as required), aprons, rubber footwear, wetwear, “mousetraps”, knives, steels, scabbards, safety head gear, mesh gloves, rubber gloves, hair nets, cotton gloves, and freezer jackets required for work shall be supplied, and replacements shall be supplied as authorized by Supervision as needed. The supply of equipment or replacement of equipment as indicated above shall be at no cost to the employee(s).
16.09	Tools
Employees must supply their own tools. The Company agrees to give each employee required to use their own tools a tool allowance of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) every six (6) months, based on their date of hire.
16.10	Knife Sharpening
If the Company does not designate an employee to be a knife sharpener on a shift, the Company agrees to provide sufficient time off, with pay, during the shift for knife sharpening purposes.
16.11	Safety Boots
The Company will reimburse up to Fifty-five ($55.00) Dollars per year, on the employee’s anniversary date of hire (with the exception that Fifty-five ($55.00) Dollars shall be paid one time only after six (6) calendar months of employment) toward the cost of safety boots (and earlier due to normal wear and tear and for the Maintenance Department, with approval of the Supervisor).
54
16.12	Health and Safety cooperation / reduction of accidents & injuries / ergonomics
The Company and the Union agree to cooperate with the Joint Health & Safety Committee to identify and keep track of injuries occurring in the plant with a view to jointly working towards the elimination of all accidents in the workplace. In order to accomplish and work toward this goal, the company agrees to give copies of all green cards (and/or accident reports if green cards are not available), describing the nature of the injury and the name of the person, date, time, place, etc.
This information shall be given monthly to the Health & Safety Committee, who shall be provided a mutually agreeable time between the Company and the Health & Safety Committee during working hours for the purpose of further investigation or discussion with injured employees, or observe working conditions, and bring the result of their investigation, if warranted, back to Management, with recommendation for proposed changes.
The Company agrees to consider these proposed changes and bring in their experts as required to meet with the Plant Health & Safety Committee to assist in eliminating accidents, proposing ergonomic changes, which the Company may implement.
The Committee, at all times, will encourage employees to work in a safe and productive manner.
55
SECTION 17
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
17.01	It is mutually agreed that there shall be no strikes, lockouts, stoppages of work or slow-downs during the life of this Agreement.
SECTION 18
UNION REPRESENTATIVE’S VISITS TO PLANT
18.01	Duly authorized full-time Representatives of the Union shall be entitled to visit the plant for the purpose of observing working conditions, interviewing members and unsigned employees, and to ensure that the terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented.
18.02	The interview of an employee by a Union Representative shall be permitted after notifying the Supervisor, and shall be:
(1)	carried on in a place in the plant designated by management;
(2)	held whenever possible during the meal
period. However, if this is not practical,
(3)	during regular working hours. Time taken for such interview in excess of fifteen (15) minutes shall not be on Company time unless with the approval of management.
--------------------- 56 -----------------------
18.03	The Company agrees to co-operate with the Union Representatives in the discharge of their duties and provide them with the necessary information as it relates to the collective bargaining agreement.
SECTION 19 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
19.01	Shop Stewards, as set out in Section 24, shall be granted time off without to attend Union business, up to five (5) days per year, providing the Company is given two (2) weeks prior notice of such request.
19.02	Any employee with two (2) years’ or more seniority may request a leave of absence of up to four (4) weeks. The request shall be made in writing, giving full details, and same shall be considered by management on an individual basis. The granting of such requests shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
19.03	Upon two (2) weeks’ prior notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence of up to one (1) year to one (1) employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position in the Union. Such leave of absence shall be without pay or other benefits, except that seniority shall continue to accumulate to a maximum of one calendar year. The Union agrees to notify the Company at least two (2) weeks in advance of the employee’s return to work for the Company.
57
19.04	(A) Maternity Leave / Parental Leave /
Including Adoption Leave
A female employee shall be granted a maternity leave of absence by the Company; said employee shall be re-employed by the Company after the birth, providing she returns to work within seventeen (17) weeks unless she is entitled to and so chooses to take parental leave immediately following her maternity leave. The employee must make application, in writing, within eight (8) weeks after the birth, and give the Company a minimum of two (2) weeks’ notice in advance of the day she intends to return to work. She must provide the Company with a doctor’s certificate, certifying her to be medically fit to work. In cases of physical complications, the employee may request an extension of her leave of absence up to but not exceeding an additional twelve (12) weeks, provided such request is accompanied by a doctor’s certificate setting out the nature of the complications.
19.04	(B) Parental Leave /Adoption Leave 1) Entitlements
Every employee who has been in the employ of the Company for 12 months and
(a) who,
i)	in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child,
ii)	in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a
58
child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child, or
iii)	adopts a child under the law of a province; and
(b) who submits to the Company an application in writing for parental leave where possible at least four (4) weeks before the day specified in the application as the day on which the employee intends to commence the leave;
is entitled to and shall be granted parental leave, consisting of a continuous period of up to seventeen (17) weeks
(2)	Commencement of Leave
Except as indicated below, Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary date of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee. Parental leave for natural mothers must commence immediately on the expiry of maternity leave, unless the Company and the employee agree otherwise.
(3)	Late Application for Parental Leave
When an application for parental leave under subsection (1) above is not made in accordance with subsection (b), the employee is nonetheless entitled to, and
59
upon application to the Company shall be granted parental leave under this section for the portion of the leave period that remains at the time the application is made.
(4)	Reinstatement of Employee
An employee who wishes to resume employment on the expiration of leave granted in accordance with this section shall be reinstated in the position occupied by him at the time such leave commenced, or in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits.
SECTION 20
HEALTH AND WELFARE
20.01	Health and Welfare benefits shall be as contained in Appendix A to this agreement.
SECTION 21
REPRIMANDS
21.01	When an employee in the bargaining unit is subjected to a disciplinary interview (where the Company intends to discipline the employee, such as to be given a written reprimand, suspension, or discharge), said employee shall have a Shop
60
Steward present, or, in the absence of a Shop Steward, an employee from his plant, in the bargaining unit, of the employee’s own choice, from the commencement of the interview.
21.02	A copy of such disciplinary notice shall be given to a Shop Steward in the plant or be mailed or faxed to the Union office. If a Shop Steward or member is not present as required, or a copy of disciplinary notice is not given to the Shop Steward in the plant, or mailed or faxed to the Union office, the resulting discipline shall not be valid and may not be utilized by the Company. Representation shall not be required in the case of probationary employees or in the event of a suspension pending investigation where no disciplinary interview is held.
21.03	The employee will be given a copy of such reprimand which is to be entered on the employee’s personnel file. In unusual circumstances, where it is necessary for the Company to advise an employee by mail of discharge, the Union office will be mailed a copy of such notice by registered mail or transmitted to the Union office by facsimile.
SECTION 22 ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
22.01	Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion between the Company, the Union or the employees covered by this Agreement, which con-
61
terns the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, shall be considered as a grievance.
22.02	Information
Where the Union requires information regarding accumulated hours of work for the purpose of establishing the pay rate of an employee, the Company agrees to co-operate to supply such information back to a period of two (2) years or such longer times as may be required to establish his proper rate of pay.
22.03	In any grievance regarding hours worked by an employee and the amount paid to an employee, the Company shall promptly supply such information in respect to the two (2) pay periods immediately prior to the request. If information for a longer period is required, the normal process of the Grievance Procedure shall apply.
22.04	The Union shall not use the foregoing provision to request information that does not pertain to a specific grievance of an employee.
22.05	Any employee, the Union or the Company may present a grievance. Any grievance which is not presented within fifteen (15) working days following the event giving rise to such grievance, or within ten (10) working days of the last day worked when relating to a discharge grievance, shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party.
22.06	All grievances shall be submitted in writing.
62
22.07	The procedure for adjustment of grievances and disputes by an employee shall be as follows:
(1)	by a discussion between the employee and
the Chief Shop Steward, or Assistant Chief
Shop Steward, or Union Representative, or the employee’s immediate superior.
(a)	When an employee takes a grievance to the Chief Shop Steward, or Assistant Chief Shop Steward, or Union Representative, Step One of the Grievance Procedure shall be considered complied with, providing the Chief Shop Steward, or Assistant Chief Shop Steward, or Union Representative tiles the grievance in writing with the Plant Manager or his designate. The Plant Manager or his designate shall reply to the grievance in writing within five (5) calendar days to the Union Representative. After five (5) calendar days, the Union Representative may proceed to Step Two.
(b)	If an employee takes a grievance to his immediate superior and a satisfactory settlement has not been reached within five (5) calendar days, then:
(2)	The Union Representative or his designate may take the matter up with the Company Official designated by the Company to handle labour relations matters. If the matter is not taken up within ten (10) calendar days of the date the Union received the written reply
---------------------- 63 ------------------------
to the grievance in Step One, it will be deemed to have been abandoned and further recourse to the Grievance Procedure shall be forfeited.
22.08	If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, then upon request of either party, within fourteen (14) calendar days of receiving the final, written decision from either party, but not thereafter, the matter may then be referred to an Arbitrator, selected in accordance with Section 23.
SECTION 23 SELECTION OF AN ARBITRATOR
23.01	After one of the parties indicates they are taking the matter to arbitration, the matter shall be referred to a single Arbitrator as indicated in section
22.02,
In the interest of settling a grievance prior to an arbitration hearing, either party may request the assistance of a grievance mediator from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services. During the life to this collective bargaining agreement, the parties may mutually agree to a list of mediators other than the mediators provided from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services.
23.02	A grievance shall be referred to the single Arbitrator as indicated below according to the date of the grievance to the following panel of individuals:
----------------------- 64 ------------------------
(1)	Mr. Martin Freedman;
(2)	Mr. Paul Teskey;
(3)	William Hamilton;
commencing with the name following the name of the last Arbitrator, and commencing again at the beginning of the panel after coming to the end of the panel. For the purpose of such allocation a case which has been withdrawn from arbitration shall be deemed not to have been withdrawn from arbitration. If in any case the Arbitrator allotted is unwilling or unable to act, the individual whose name follows his in the panel shall be submitted as the Arbitrator.
23.03	Whenever one of the parties refers a matter to arbitration, the matter shall be heard within thirty (30) calendar days for suspension or termination and ninety (90) calendar days for any other matters. The matter shall be heard within that time limit unless both parties mutually agree to a date beyond the thirty calendar day or ninety calendar day requirement, or in the event that none of the six arbitrators listed above are available to meet within the 30 calendar day requirement or 90 calendar day requirement, whichever is applicable. If the parties cannot mutually agree to a date beyond the 30-calendar day requirement, or 90-calendar day requirement, whichever is applicable, the matter shall be referred to the selected Arbitrator who shall have the right to decide on the matter. In no event can a hearing be extended to a period longer than another thirty (30) calendar days. The Arbitrator shall have
65
thirty calendar days to render a decision in regard to any matters dealing with suspension or termination, and ninety (90) calendar days from the last date of the hearing on any arbitration cases referred to him or her other than suspensions or terminations.
23.04	The Arbitrator shall receive and consider such material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as he deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching his or her decision, the Arbitrator shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
23.05	In the event of termination, discharge or suspension of an employee, the Arbitrator shall have the right to sustain the Company’s action, or reinstate the employee with full, part or no back pay, with or without loss of seniority, or to settle the matter in any way it deems advisable.
23.06	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
23.07	The Arbitrator shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of this Agreement, except as indicated in Section 22.05 above. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this Agreement and shall not depend on or involve an issue or contention by either party which is contrary to any provision of this Agreement or which involves the determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this Agreement.
66
23.08	It is the intention of the parties that this section shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting all grievances, so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operation, as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in accordance with the provisions of Section 21 of this Agreement.
23.09	The expense and fee of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration proceedings.
SECTION 24 BULLETIN BOARDS
24.01	The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement, it will allow the Union to install its own Union bulletin board in locations throughout the plant as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. The purpose shall be to post notices directly related to the employees and any notice other than routine notices must first receive approval of management.
SECTION 25
COMPANY AND UNION CO-OPERATION -SHOP STEWARDS
25.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint one (1) Chief Shop Steward and one (1) Assistant Chief Shop Steward for the plant
67
and one (1) Shop Steward per department and one Shop Steward per shift.
25.02	The Union shall inform the Company, in writing, of the names of their Shop Stewards or any changes.
25.03	The Plant Manager or working supervisor shall introduce new employees to the Union Steward in the Department, who will then arrange time, either during meal or rest periods, to meet with the new employees for the purpose of informing the employees of the general conditions and responsibilities with respect to the collective bargaining agreement.
25.04	Grievance Investigation
The Union Chief Shop Steward, and/or in his absence the Assistant Chief Shop Steward, shall be allowed time off, with pay, during regular working hours, for the purpose of investigating any grievances. The Chief Shop Steward, or Assistant Chief Shop Steward, requesting time off the job to investigate grievances must make their request through their working supervisor. Within one (1) hour of such request the Steward will be released providing the efficiency of the operation will not be affected.
SECTION 26
PAY PERIOD - DIRECT DEPOSIT
26.01	The Company agrees to a weekly pay period for all employees covered in the bargaining unit.
68
The Company shall pay by direct deposit to the employee’s account in a financial institution of the employee’s own choice. The Company shall give a pay stub breakdown of said weekly payment to the employees at the plant or by mail in the event the employee is not at work.
SECTION 27 JURY DUTY
27.01	Full-time employees, and part-time employees averaging twenty (20) hours or more per week in the four (4) preceding weeks, summoned to jury duty, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury duty and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days to the maximum of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. This does not apply if the employee is excused from jury duty for the rest of the day or days and fails to report back to work, or if jury duty occurs on the employee’s scheduled day off.
SECTION 28
WITNESS FEES
28.01	Employees required to appear in Court as a witness on behalf of the Company or the Crown will be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for witness fees and
69
the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
28.02	Employees appearing as a witness on behalf of the Company on their day off will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours or the amount they would have earned had they worked on such day, as above. This compensation shall be paid at the employee’s straight time hourly rate and shall not be considered as payment for time worked.
SECTION 29 BEREAVEMENT PAY
29.01	Full-time and part-time employees averaging twenty-four (24) hours or more per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the bereavement, may be granted time off from work, with pay, of three (3) consecutive work days, in the event of death in the immediate family, if the employee attends the funeral. The term “immediate family” shall mean spouse or common-law spouse, parent or stepparent, child or step-child, brother or sister, moth-eror father-in-law, sisteror brother-in-law and grandparents.
29.02	Part-time employees averaging less than twenty-four (24) hours per week, may be granted the necessary time off, up to one (1) day, without loss of pay, to attend the funeral in the event of death in the immediate family.
70
SECTION 30 MANITOBA FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 832 EDUCATION AND TRAINING TRUST FUND
30.0 1 The Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers, Local 832, Education and Training Trust Fund shall be as indicated in Appendix “C” of this Agreement.
SECTION 3 1 LOCKER SEARCH
31.01	To the extent that lockers are currently provided to employees, it is understood between the parties that such lockers may only be entered in one of the two following circumstances:
(1)	(a) in the presence of the employee, or
(b) if requested by the employee, in the presence of a Shop Steward;
(2)	in the presence of a Police Officer.
SECTION 32
APPENDICES
32.01	All Appendices attached to this collective bargaining agreement shall be deemed to be part of the collective bargaining agreement between the parties.
71
SECTION 33
NO SEXUAL HARASSMENT

33
33.01	The Company and the Union agree that the plant should be free of sexual harassment and the Company and the Union agree to co-operate with each other in preventing and eliminating sexual harassment.
SECTION 34
EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL
34.01	This Agreement shall be effective from April 1, 1999, and shall remain in effect until December 31. 2005 and shall become on April, 1999, in its entirety, the new amended collective bargaining agreement. Part A shall no longer exist and be in effect as of that date. It shall be renewed thereafter for another three (3) years at the request of either party, such request to be made not less than thirty (30) days or more than ninety (90) days before the expiry date or the anniversary of such expiry date from year to year thereafter, when either party may give notice in writing to the other party of a desire to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
On the expiry date of this Agreement, as indicated above, if negotiations have not been completed, the Company and the Union agree that this Agreement will be extended automatically until:
72
(1)	an Agreement is reached between the parties hereto;
(2)	a strike is declared by the Union by giving the Company seven (7) calendar days’ notice in writing of its intention to declare a strike, or
(3)	a lock-out is declared by the Company by
giving the Union seven (7) calendar days’ notice in writing of its intention to declare a lock-out.
34.02	All revisions desired by either party to this Agreement shall be submitted in writing within ten (10) days of the giving of such notice.
34.03	When the required notice of termination or revision is given by either party, negotiations in connection with same will be started promptly and expeditiously conducted, so that if it is reasonably possible, same may mutually and satisfactorily be concluded within the notification period.
34.04	The parties agree that the negotiations for the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement for the three-year terms beginning January 1, 2006, and notice thereof is hereby given to either party.
a)	The parties shall, within ninety (90) calendar days before January 1, 2006, exchange in writing proposed changes to the collective bargaining agreement.
b)	The parties shall meet with a view to negotiate amendments to said collective bargaining agreement.
73
c)	If an agreement cannot be reached on all outstanding issues, at the request of either party, the matter shall be turned over to an arbitrator to resolve the outstanding issues between the parties.
d)	The parties agree to be bound by the decision of the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall not be vested with any authority to change any of the wording contained in sections 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 19, 34.
e)	The process and procedure of presenting the outstanding issues to the arbitrator shall be left to the discretion of the arbitrator.
f)	The arbitrator agrees to render his decision within sixty (60) calendar days of the termination of any procedure or hearings that the arbitrator may have chosen.
The parties agree that Vince Ready shall be the arbitrator in this instance, and if he is not available, shall choose another arbitrator by mutual agreement within thirty (30) calendar days of reaching an impasse or if no agreement can be reached on the selection of an arbitrator, an arbitrator shall be appointed at the request of either party by the Chairperson of the Manitoba Labour Board.
74
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT.
SIGNED THIS 28th day of August, FOR THE UNION:
75
APPENDIX “A”
HEALTH AND WELFARE DENTAL PLAN PENSION PLAN
A-l HEALTH AND WELFARE TRUST
FUND AND BENEFITS
The Company agrees to have a Health and Welfare Trust Fund for all employees covered in the bargaining unit. The Company shall finance such fund by paying sixty (600) cents per hour effective as indicated in Appendix A-4 for all hours worked and paid in the bargaining unit for the same hours that are paid for pension and dental contributions. The Company shall appoint two (2) trustees and the Union shall appoint two (2) trustees. The first task of the trustees shall be to draw up a Trust Agreement which shall be accomplished within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of ratification of the collective bargaining agreement, unless a longer period of time is mutually agreed by the parties. A Plan text shall also be established by the trustees within a further sixty (60) calendar days unless a longer period of time is mutually agreed by the trustees. The trustees may hire any consultants that may be deemed appropriate for the finalization of these documents, and / or administration of the Fund. The purpose of the Trust Fund shall be to establish life insurance, health and welfare supplementary benefits, weekly indemnity, long term disability, sick days with pay, etc. as decided by the trustees. Trustees shall have the authority to decide if and when one or more of those benefits
shall be implemented, consistent with the financial ability of the Trust Fund to provide for those benefits.
In the event the Trustees are unable to reach a decision on the content of the Trust Agreement or the Plan Text, the matter may be referred to arbitration by either party, as contained in the arbitration section of this agreement.
A-2 MANITOBA FOOD &
COMMERCIAL WORKERS DENTAL PLAN
A-2.01 The Company agrees to make a direct contribution to the “Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Dental Plan” of thirty-one cents (3l0) effective as indicated in A-4, and if required to maintain the current fee schedule as determined by the Actuary of the Plan, additional cents per hour as follows:
1 0 per hour effective January 1, 2001,
10 per hour effective January 1, 2002, l0 per hour effective January 1,2003,
10 per hour effective January 1,2004, l0 per hour effective January 1, 2005
for straight time hours paid, sick pay (not including Weekly Indemnity), full-time employees’ vacation as entitled under Section 13, and General Holidays, to the maximum of forty (40) hours per week and two thousand (2,000) hours per calendar year per employee in respect to all employees in the bargaining unit.
77
A-2.02 Such contributions will be forwarded to the Trust within twenty-one (21) days following the Company’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period.
A-2.03 It is agreed that in the event the Government of Canada or the Province of Manitoba provides a non-contributory Dental Care Plan with similar benefits, the Company’s obligations to continue contributions to the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Dental Plan shall cease. It is further understood, should a Government Plan create duplicate benefits, then these benefits shall be deleted from the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Dental Plan and the Company’s contribution in respect to the cost of these benefits shall cease.
A-3 PENSION PLAN
A-3.01 The Company agrees to contribute to the “Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan” the sum of forty (4O0) cents effective as indicated in A-4 for all straight time hours paid, sick pay (not including Weekly Indemnity), full-time employee’s vacation as entitled under section 14, and General Holidays, for all employees in the bargaining unit and for all probationary employees, to the maximum of forty (40) hours per week and two thousand (2,000) hours per calendar year per employee.
A-3.02 Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been made, the amount of the weekly contribution for each employee and the
78
number of hours worked or paid according to the above A-3.01, shall be forwarded by the Company within the twenty-one (21) days after the close of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Company agrees to pay interest at the rate established by the Trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above.
A-4 The effective date of the first contribution of the cents per hour as indicated in A-l, A-2.01, A-3.01, C-1.01 shall be effective April 1, 1999.
79
APPENDIX	“B”	
CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY		
B-l Effective April 1,1999		
Unskilled Unskilled	Semi Skilled	Skilled
Part-time Fulltime	F.T & P.T.	F.T. & P.T.
Start rate	6.50	8.25	9.25	11.00
6 months	7.00	8.75	9.75	11.50
12 months	7.50	9.25	10.25	12.00
Effective	December	31, 2001		
Start rate	6.70	8.45	9.45	11.20
6 months	7.20	8.95	9.95	11.70
12 months	7.70	9.45	10.45	12.20
Effective on December 31, 2002				
Start rate	6.90	8.65	9.65	11.40
6 months	7.40	9.15	10.15	11.90
12 months	7.90	9.65	10.65	12.40
F.T. = full-time P.T. = part-time
80
Effective December 31, 2003
	Unskilled Part-time	Unskilled Fulltime	Semi Skilled F.T & P.T.	Skilled F.T. & P.T.
Start rate	7.10	8.85	9.85	11.60
6 months	7.60	9.35	10.35	12.10
12 months	8.10	9.85	10.85	12.60
Effective December 31, 2004				
Start rate	7.30	9.05	10.05	11.80
6 months	7.80	9.55	10.55	12.30
12 months	8.30	10.05	11.05	12.80
Effective December 31, 2005				
Start rate	7.50	9.25	10.25	12.00
6 months	8.00	9.75	10.75	12.50
12 months	8.50	10.25	11.25	13.00
F.T. = full-time P.T. = part-time
81
Trades	April 1,1999	Dec. 31,2001	Dec. 31,2002	Dec. 31,2003	Dec. 31,2004	Dec. 31,2005
Lead hand / special machinist	20.29	20.49	20.69	20.89	21.09	21.29
Journeyman	19.49	19.69	19.89	20.09	20.29	20.49
Improvers	18.69	18.89	19.09	19.29	19.49	19.69
Greaser & oiler	17.49	17.69	17.89	18.09	18.29	18.49
Shift Eng. 2nd class papers req	20.21	20.41	20.61	20.81	21.01	21.21
Shift Eng. 3rd class papers req	19.49	19.69	19.89	20.09	20.29	20.49
Shift Eng.4th class papers req	17.89	18.09	18.29	18.49	18.69	18.89
Boilerman (with papers)	17.89	18.09	18.29	18.49	18.69	18.89
Boilerman (no papers)	17.57	17.77	17.97	18.17	18.37	18.57
Temperature man	17.49	17.69	17.89	18.09	18.29	18.49
F.T. = full-time P.T. = part-time
B-2 For the purpose of wage increases above, the six-month increase shall be implemented after the completion of one thousand and forty (1,040) hours actually worked, inclusive of statutory holidays and paid vacations. The twelve-month increase shall be implemented on the same basis, after completion of two thousand and eighty (2,080) hours actually worked, inclusive of statutory holidays and paid vacations. The calculation of hours actually worked shall exclude time off for sickness, accident, or any leave not paid by the Company.
B-3 The wage classification categories shall be as per Appendix D and Appendix E.
B-4 The Company and the Union agree that the Company may appoint Lead Hand(s) and shall pay said Lead Hand(s) fifty cents (5O0) an hour in addition to their classification hourly rate of pay. The duties of the Lead Hand(s) shall be as designated by the Company.
83
APPENDIX “C”
C-l MANITOBA FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 832, EDUCATION AND TRAINING TRUST FUND
C.l .Ol The Company agrees to make the following contributions per hour into the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Local 832, Education and Training Trust Fund:
8(£ per hour effective as indicated in A-4 9(£ per hour effective January 1, 2005 10(J per hour effective December 3 1, 2005
The hours for which the Company will contribute said amounts will be the same hours as contributed for the Dental Plan under Section -2.01, and shall be remitted to the \ Union in the same manner.
C-1.02 The purpose of the Manitoba Food and Commercial Workers, Local 832, Education and Training Trust Fund is to provide training for members of bargaining units as needed from time to time, either for personal improvement, or in co-operation with the Company, for training as decided by the Union and the Company that would be beneficial to both the Company and the Union members.
84
APPENDIX “D”
INTERIM JOB TITLES AND CLASSIFICATIONS effective April 1, 1999
UNSKILLED CLASSIFICATION
Mechanical / Powerhouse
Labourer
Powerhouse labour
Hog Dressing
Driving
Hanging Immobilized hogs Singeing (tunnel)
Cutting out Pizzle Heading (helpers)
Taking out Kidneys
Scraping leaf lard
Taking out head glands
Cutting off heads / Government stamp hogs
Remove hog skirts (hot)
Clean and hang Rollers Place hogs in cooler Save pancreas gland
Hog Cutting
Pushing hogs Feed circular knife Feed belly roller Trim jowls
Mechanical back and loin pullers
Porking trimming from pork cuts
Tanking
Wrap cuts
Pack and scale
85
S.P. Curing
Pickle makers (asst.)
S.P. Converting
Stuffing
Stockinetter
Part or fully skin hams
Caging
Hanger
Comber
Clean trees, trolleys and combs
S.P. Cooked Ham Mfg.
Ham presser Pack hams to moulds Stuff Mepaco hams
Shipping
Runner
Stocker
Loading
Sort and load mixed merchandise (including beef)
Janitors, Laundry, etc.
Janitors
Cleanup
Seamstress (2nd class)
Laundry (sort, fold, press)
Cleanup in chem. Lab General labour
Sausage
Mechanical deboner Chop frozen blocks Smokehouse helper Linking and hanging
86
Weigh spices Frank-o-matic attendant
Packaging
Press bacon Wrap and pack Vacuumizing product
Lard
General Labour
By-Products - Tankhouse
Loading tank cars
Load cooker
Save foetal bovine blood
By-Products - Lard
Filling lard containers
SEMI-SKILLED CLASSIFICATION Mechanical I Powerhouse
Greaser & Oiler Boilerman (no papers)
Temperature man
Hog Dressing
Scalder Immobilizing Open up gam cords Hanging off Shaving hams
Shaving shoulders, backs bellies
Open breast bones
Open aitch bones
Hog header
Pull leaf lard
Inspector’s helper
87
Hog Cutting
Bandsaw, make cuts Trim butts Trim picnics Trim shoulders Trim hams Split middles Remove buttons Remove tailbones Remove tenders Trim tenders Trim bellies
Whizzard knife operator Bone carcasses or cuts Bone picnics, shoulders, butts
SE Converting
Defat hams - external defatting Whizzard knife operator Defat hams - internal defatting Grind and tumble cure Scaler and cellar books Bone picnics
Skinning machine operator Landgen ham processing
S.P. Curing
Pumpers (incl. Artery)
Pickle makers
S.P. Cooked Ham Mfg
Ham cook tank operator Freezer
Bookkeeping and scaling Freezerman
88
Casings - Hogs
Work up hog heads All trimming of offals
Shipping
Deskman
Loading
Checking on loading dock
Stockyards
Sort and weigh Janitors, Laundry, etc.
Laundry (head)
Sausage
Cooker and jellied meats formulator
Grinding
Stuffing
Test clerk
Pre-blend operator
Packaging
Machine operator and scaler Operate Cashin Shadow Graph Scale Operate flex vat
By-Products - Tankhouse
Bookkeeper
TRADES WITH PAPERS CLASSIFICATION Mechanical / Powerhouse
Special Machinist
Electrician
Journeyman
Shift Eng. where 2nd class papers required Shift Eng. where 3rd class papers required
89
TRADES WITHOUT PAPERS CLASSIFICATION
SKILLED CLASSIFICATION
Mechanical / Powerhouse
Improvers
Shift Eng. where 4th class papers required Boilerman fireman (with papers)
Hog Dressing
Stickers Open bellies Drop Bungs Remove viscera Drop tongues Print-o-matic scaler Saw backbone Clean held hogs
Hog Cutting
Lift neckbones
Saw backbones (power)
Rib bellies Rib backs Bone backs
Fat and trim backs and loins Pull butts and shoulders
S.P. Converting
Ham boner - remove bones from ham Smokehouse operator
Loading
Receiver
90
Truck Driving
Driver deliveries Sausage Sausage maker Smokehouse operator By-Products - Tankhouse Rendering cooker operator Operate sharples equipment
By-Products - Lard
Votator operator Refinery operator
91
APPENDIX “E”
JOB TITLES AND CLASSIFICATIONS When the new Meat Processing Plant is Completed TRADE Maintenance
Mechanical Tech (licensed)
Electrical Tech (licensed)
SEMI-SKILLED
Receiving
Meats
Dry Goods / Stores Shipping
Material Handling Formulation / Curing
Formulator / Blender
Cooker & Jellied Meats Formulator
Grinding
Mincemaster
Curing
Staff
Frank-o-matic Operator T-Sizer / Handtman
Cook / Peel
Smokehuse Operator
Packaging
Machine Operator Scaler
Weigh Scales Slicer Operator Saw
Vacuumizing Product
92
SKILLED
Maintenance
Mechanical Tech (unlicensed)
Electrical Tech (unlicensed)
Quality Assurance
Weights / Leakers
UNSKILLED
Sanitation
Formulating / Curing
Open Box Meat Injector Bone In Injector
Smokehouse Helper Stuff
Link and Hang Stuff Cooked Meats
Cook / Peel
Peeler
Packaging
Piano scrap Packer I Rework Remove Nets Make Boxes Bagger Palletizer
The Company and the Union agree that there may be changes or additions to the list of job titles and classifications. In the event of any changes or additions to Appendix E, the parties agree to discuss the said changes or additions. If no agreement is reached either party may take the matter to arbitration for a decision as per Section 23.
93
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
In addition to the collective bargaining agreement between the above parties, expiring December 3 1, 2005, the parties agree that the Company will give the following additional opportunities or benefits to all employees of the Winnipeg plant (Part A) who were terminated, and who have indicated on or before March 31, 1999, and not thereafter (except as indicated in items #2 and #3), that they wish to be re-employed by the Company, as follows:
1.	Said former employees indicated above, on a seniority basis, will be given a job opportunity to be re-employed as of April 1, 1999, except as indicated below in items #2 and #3.
2.	Employees who on March 3 1, 1999, are on weekly indemnity, and Workers Compensation will be given the same opportunity as indicated in #l above providing:
a)	they are physically able to return to a job no later than December 3 1, 1999; and
94
b)	providing their seniority ranking would enable them to return to work on that day.
If these employees are not able to meet both of these conditions indicated in (a) and (b) their employment with Maple Leaf shall be terminated as of December 31, 1999.
3.	The Company also agrees that any employee presently on long term disability will continue to receive disability payment, consistent with the prior undertaking and commitment under Part A, providing they have been eligible to qualify before the termination of Part A. Any employee on weekly indemnity shall continue to receive payment according to Part A weekly indemnity rules, providing that they have been eligible to qualify before the above termination of Part A.
4.	Employees who on March 31, 1999, are on authorized leave of absence, maternity leave or parental leave shall be given the same job opportunity as indicated in #1 above providing:
a)	they are physically able to return to a job at the end of their leave of absence or at the end of their maternity leave and parental leave as defined in Part A; and
b)	providing their seniority ranking would
enable them to return to work on or before that day;
c)	if said employees are unable to meet both of these conditions in a) and b) their employment with Maple Leaf shall be terminated as at the end of their leave of absence or maternity leave or parental leave.
95
5.	If employees avail themselves of the opportunity to be re-employed, as indicated in items 1, 2 and 3 above, the Company will recognize their previous seniority accumulated under Part A to this agreement for the following purposes:
a)	said employees’ seniority will be recognized to determine their hourly rates of pay on the wage scale;
b)	vacation entitlements;
c)	job selection in each classification at the time of startup of the new or renovated plant;
d)	in regard to job posting;
e)	in regard to layoff and recall;
f)	on scheduling of hours; and
g)	vacation schedule.
For all other purposes other than as indicated in paragraph 5 (a) to (g), said employees who were terminated shall receive a new seniority date of April 1, 1999.
6.	The Company further agrees that on termination of Part A or if an employee terminates his employment or is terminated by the Company prior to April 1, 1999, that the Company shall pay any eligible employee the following:
a) any vacation pay earned and not paid.
The Company and the Union agree therefore that the new vacation entitlement period cutoff shall be from April 1, 1999 to March 31, 2000 and, thereafter from year to year from
96
April 1 to March 31 of the following year. Employees who are rehired as of April 1, 1999 shall be entitled as per item 4(b) above to vacation time without pay for the 1999 vacation period as indicated in Part B Section 14.
b) any wages, overtime premiums earned prior to the date of termination, including any other benefit cents per hour payments owed to any dental or pension plan, etc.
7.	The Company agrees that employees who take advantage of the opportunity to be reemployed will be deemed to have passed their probationary period. Those employees who were on their probationary period under Part A of the collective bargaining agreement shall continue on their probationary period, the length of which shall be as stated in Section 10.1 of Part A.
8.	The Company agrees to give certain employees an extension of the 12 month layoff period as indicated in Section 7.03(3) of part B if they are laid off for 12 months or longer under certain conditions:
a)	It will apply only to employees who were in the employ of the Company on April 1, 1999.
b)	It will apply only to employees defined in a) above who were laid off in 1999 as a result of the Company terminating the kill and cut operation at its Winnipeg plant.
c)	Employees must indicate in writing to the Company with a copy to the Union, prior to the expiry of their 12 month layoff, their
97
intention to be rehired if a job opportunity presents itself.
d)	If said employee or employees are rehired they will be hired as new employees.
e)	For absolute clarity said employees identified in a) if they are recalled to work within the 12 month period indicated in Section 7.03(3) shall be returned to work under all the terms and conditions of the Agreement Part B.
9.	The above parties agree that the content of this Letter of Agreement is subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure as contained in the collective bargaining agreement between the parties, Part B, expiring December 31,2005, and renewable for another three (3) calendar years as indicated in Article 34 of said Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS LETTER OF AGREEMENT.
EXHIBIT ONE POSTCARD
Employee’s Name ________________________________
(please print)
Address ________________________________________
City________________Postal Code ________________
Phone_____________Employment Started ___________
Birthdate ______________________________________
Social Insurance Number ________________________
Full-time Q Part-time I I
DEPARTMENT CLASSIFICATION: _____________________
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC.
Name of Company
DUES AND INITIATION AUTHORIZATION
I hereby request and authorize the Company to deduct from my wages, and pay to the Union, such Union dues and/or initiation fee requested by the United Food & Commercial Workers, Local 832.
Date_______________________
Signature of new Employee ______________________
(To be mailed to the Union office within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire or rehire).
99
Letter of Agreement
BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Re: Pension Plan
The above parties agree that paragraph A- 10 (b) of the collective bargaining agreement between the above parties expiring March 3 1, 1999 provides for company contributions to be made to the trust fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers industry Pension Plan (CCWIPP) to buy past service bene-tits for employees on the payroll as of January 1, 1989.
As agreed between the above parties and subject to obtaining the transfers and approvals contemplated herein, effective April 1, 1999, or effective as soon as practicable, and subject to the approval of the regulatory authorities, the Company shall have no obligation under paragraph A-10 (b) of the collective bargaining agreement.
Subject to applicable pension laws and such regulatory approvals as may be required, the
100
Company shall provide to the persons referred to in paragraph A-l0(b) of the collective bargaining agreement, pension benefits in respect to their employment at the Maple Leaf location in Winnipeg in the period prior to 1989. Benefits shall be provided under the Maple Leaf Foods Inc. Employees’ Retirement Plan 100 (Plan 100). The value of the benefits as of April 1, 1999, shall be determined at $2,930.13 as stated, as calculated effective May 26, 1996 by Turnbull and Turnbull in their letter to the United Food & Commercial Workers Local Nol. 832 dated August 13, 1997, which includes subsequent addendums, adjusted for interest and reduced by the amount of payment made in accordance with paragraph A- 10 (b) during the interim period.
Such value as of April 1, 1999, shall be referred to as the Transfer Amount.
As soon as practicable and subject to the Company’s obtaining such regulatory approval as may be required, the Transfer Amount, together with interest form April, 1, 1999, shall be transferred to CCWIPP and, in consideration of such transfer, the Company and Plan 100 shall be discharged of any liability for benefits or contributions in respect to the pre-1989 service of such persons.
The above parties agree, until the Transfer amount as described above is transferred to CCWIPP, that the benefits as described above shall be provided under Plan 100.
101
The above parties shall use their best efforts to co-operate and to obtain. and provide all such documents, agreements and releases as may reasonably be required to effect the foregoing, including without limitation such agreements or consents of the other party such as the Administrator and Trustees of CCWIPP or Plan 100.
This letter of Agreement shall only apply providing the collective bargaining agreement effective April 1, 1999 between the parties is ratified by the membership.
Signed at the City of Winnipeg, in Manitoba, this 28th day of August, 1998.
For UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERS UNION
For MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC.
102
IMPORTANT TELEPHONE NUMBERS
Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (CCWIPP)	982-6082
Canada Pension Plan	I-800-277-99 14
Consumer’s Bureau	945-3800
Community Unemployed Help Centre	942-6556
Dental Plan UFCW	982-9752
Employment Standards	945-3352
Environment Hotline	945-4888
Health & Safety & WCB Concerns Call: Bruno Zimmer	786-5055
Human Rights Commission	945-3007
Income Tax	983-6350
Legal Aid	985-8500
Pension Commission	945-2740
Pharmacare	786-7141
UFCW Registered Savings Plan (RSP)	982-7843
U.K.	(see Local Nos.)
Union Legal Assistance	956-0560
Welfare	945-6940
Workers’ Compensation	786-547 1
Workplace Safety & Health Division	945-3446
WHMIS - CLASSES AND SYMBOLS
Class A - Compressed Gas
This class includes compressed gases, dissolved gases and gases liquified by compression or refrigeration. Eg.: gas cylinders for oxyacetylene welding or water disinfection.
Class B - Flammable & Combustible Material
Solids, liquids and gases capable of catching fire or exploding in the presence of a source of ignition. Eg.: white phosphorus, acetone and butane. Flammable liquids such as acetone are more easily ignited than combustible liquids such as kerosene.
Class C - Oxidizing Material
Materials which provide oxygen or a similar substance and which increase the risk of fire if they come in contact with flammable or combustible materials.
Eg.: sodium hypochlorite, perchloric acid, inorganic peroxides.
. rri?nr a t n
Class D - Division 1
Materials causing immediate and serious toxic effects. This division covers materials which can cause the death of a person exposed to small amounts. Eg.: sodium cyanide, hydrogen sulphide.
WHMIS - CLASSES AND SYMBOLS
Class D - Division 2
Materials causing other toxic effects. This division covers materials which cause immediate skin or eye irritation as well as those which can cause long-term effects. Eg.: acetone (irritant), asbestos (cancer causing), toluene diisocyanate (a sensitizing agent).
Class D - Division 3
Bio-hazardous infectious material. This division applies to materials which contain harmful micro-organisms.
Eg.: cultures or diagnostic specimens containing salmonella bacteria or the Hepatitis B virus.
Class E - Corrosive Material
Acid or caustic materials which can destroy the skin or eat through metals. Eg.: muriatic acid, lye.
Class F - Dangerously Reactive Material
Products which can undergo dangerous reactions if subjected to heat, pressure, shock or allowed to be in contact with water. Eg.: plastic monomers, such as butadiene and some cyanides.