Collective Agreement
Between
Intercontinental Packers LTD Saskatoon
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 248-P
Begins:
04/01/1991
Terminates:
03/31/1994
00292 (03)
Preamble
Article Page
PURPOSE RECOGNITION BARGAINING UNIT MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP GENDER MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Grievance Committee Election of Stewards Grievances on Company Time Stewards secure permission to leave department Prompt settlement of grievances Grievance procedure first to third steps Grievance procedure fourth lo fifth steps Elimination of fourth step Presence of aggrieved employee(s)
Grievance submitted in writing
Working days as related to grievance procedure
Retroactive pay on grievances
Discipline and dismissal
Discipline and dismissal
Finality of decisions
No cessation of work
Slowdowns
Transfer of stewards
Performance of duty during grievance procedure Suspension or discharge Pay for dscipline meeting at night WAGES
Lump sum payment Wage increase April 1 1992 Wage increase December 1 1992 Wage increase April 1 1993 Wage increase December 1 1993 Starting rate
Starting rate — Maintenance Premiums lor Saturday and/or Sunday Rate and job classification Composite rates Temporary rates Gang leaders
Instruction or assistance in training Transfer to lower rated job Shift premium
Method of paying employees
Over rates
Injuries
HOURS OF WORK All Plants
Overtime procedure Overtime rates
Union cooperation on overtime Overtime to be voluntary Overtime lor day workers
1	1
2	1
3	2
4	2
5	3
6	3
7	3
7-1 -A	3
7-1-B	3
7-1-C	3
7-1-D	3
7-1-E	A
7-2-A	A
7-2-A-B	5
7-2-C	6
7-2-D	6
7-2-E	6
7-2-F	6
7-3	6
7-4-A	6
7-4-B	6
7-5	7
7-6-A	7
7-6-B	7
7-7	7
7-3	7
7-9	7
7-	10	8
8	8
8-	1 -A	8
8-1 -B	8
8-1 0	8
8-1-D	8
e-1-c	e
8-1 -F	8
8-1-G	8
8-2-A	9
8-2-B	9
8-3	9
8-4	9
8-5	10
8-6	10
8-7-A-B	10
8-8	11
8-	9	11
8-10	11
8-11	12
9	12
9-	1-A	12
9-1-B	12
9-1-C	13
9-1-D	13
9-1-E	13
92	13
I
Weekly hours cf work and definition of a day
Daily and weekly shortage of work
Saturday overtime
Sunday overtime
First and second day off
Statutory holidays
Personal days Floating Holiday
Regular shift engineers
Clarification for offshifts
Absence during recognized paid holiday
Leave of absence on recognized paid holiday
Statutory holidays during vacations
Daily guarantees
Emergency call in
Meal allowance
Exception on meal allowance
Breakfast meals
Notice of change of shift
Knife sharpening time
Equipment supplied
Rest periods
Time off
WEEKLY GUARANTEE 37 hour guarantee Exceptions day workers Exceptions absentees Exceptions excused absence Exceptions new hiring Exceptions lay off notice Avoiding guaranteed time penalty Guaranteed pay Guarantee in holiday weeks Reduction of hours voluntary Reduction of hours Hiring part time workers
SENIORITY
Seniority defined Probationary period Seniority lists
Promotions and vacancies Job postings
Job postings mechanical progression Loss of seniority
Voluntary leaves or dismissed for cause
Failure to report on recall
Allowable time off payroll
Absence due to sickness or accident
Lay cf procedure
Re call procedure
Layoff in emergency
Temporary re call
Reduction of staff by shifts
Procedure on transferring employees
Election on lay off
Leave for position with union
Provision for company trainees
Article	Page
9-3-A	13
9-3-B	13
9-4-A	13
9-4-B	14
9-4-C	14
9-5-A	14
9-5-A	15
9-5-A	16
9-5-B	17
9-5-C	18
9-5-D	18
9-6	18
9-7	18
9-8	19
9-9	19
9-10-A	19
9-10-B	19
9-	11-A-B-C	20
9 12-A	20
9:12-B	20
9 13	20
9	14	21
10	21
10 1	21
10-	1-A	21
10-1 B	21
10-1-C	21
10-1 D	21
10-1 E	21
10-1 F	22
10-1 -G	22
10-1 H	22
10-1 I	22
10-1 J	22
10-	1 K	22
II	23
III	23
112	23
113	23
11 4-A	24
11-	4-B	24
11 4-C	25
115	25
11 5-A	25
11 5-B	25
11 5-C	25
116	25
11 7-A	26
11 8-A	26
11 8-B	26
11 8-C	27
119	27
11 10-A-B-C	27
1111	28
11 12	28
11 13	28
II
Article	Page
Address change .................................... 11-14	29
Pregnancy leave ..	..... . 11-15	29
Parental Leave .......... ....	..... 11-16	30
VACATIONS ............................................. 12	30
Length of vacation................................. 12-1-A	30
Calculations holiday pay........................... 12-1-B	31
Eligibilityfor first vacation...................... 12-2	31
Vacation credit for sickness....................... 12-3-A-E	31
Vacation pay m advance ............................ 12-4	32
Vacation season.......... ......................... 12-5-A	32
Vacation season................ ..	12-5-B-C	32
Unused vacation credits	.................... 12-6	32
Banking of vacation................................ 12-7	32
SAFETYAND HEALTH....................................... 13	33
First aid and protective devicesand use of Safely equipment- 13-1	33
Safety committee .................................. 13-2	33
Health and safety concerns......................... 13-3	33
GENERAL................................................ 14	34
Clothes changing time ............................. 14-1	34
laundry services................................... 14-2	34
Union bulletin boards....... ...................... 14-3	34
Privileges and benefits............................ 14-4	34
Powerhouse stall to remain during work stoppage....	14-5	34
Jury duly and subpoenaed witness................... 14-6	34
license renewal ................................... 14-7	35
Bereavement leave ...................... .......... 14-8-A	35
Company supplied clothing ......................... 14-9-A	35
Purchase of quilted vest........................... 14-9-B	36
Purchaseof safety footwear......................... 14-9-C	36
Purchaseof freezer pants . .	........... 14-9-D	36
Mechanical tool replacement ....................... 14 10	37
Tardiness and absence.............................. 14-11	37
No discrimination....	.................... 14-12	37
leave of absence .................................. 14-13	37
Hearing fesfs	.................... 14-14-A-8	37
Staff Sales........................................ 14-15	37
HEALTH AND WELFARE .................................... 15	38
Health and accident insurance ..................... 15-1	38
Weekly indemnity sick pay plan..................... 15-2-A	38
Durationof payments............ ................... 15-2-B-C	38
Company pay sick premium .......................... 15-2-D	39
Cease deduction of sick premium	........... 15-2-E	39
Refused WCB claims.......... ...................... 15-2-F	39
Medicare and hospitalization	....	........... 15-3	39
Major medical............... ...................... 15-4	40
Life insurance and A. D & D..	................ 15-5	40
Vision care........................................ 15-6	40
Dental plan ....................................... 15-7	41
Hearing aids....................................... 15-8	41
Eligibility........................................ 15-9	41
Continuation of benefits coverage	15 10	41
LONG TERM DISABILITY	15-11	42
DURATION OF AGREEMENT	16	srfT}
APPENDIX ALL PLANTS	‘
Plant closing	I	45
Ilf
Article
Work methods	II
Contracting out	III
Recognition of long service -
Intercontinental Packers Ltd	Employees	pension plan IV
Early retirement	V
Contributory pension plan	VI
Statement of principle alcoholism and	drug	abuse	ViJ
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Saskatchewan medical rebates LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Information lo the union LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Punching in and out LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Reference absenteeism LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Permanent disability LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Weekly indemnity insurance plan LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Calculation of holiday pay LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING New starting rate LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Funding of long service award LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Unemployment insurance premium reduction LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Shill schedules for local union officers LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Transfers from office bargaining unit to plant bargaining unit
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Appl cation of transfer option from office bargaining unit to plant bargaining unit by L Laverdureand D Czank LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Workplace democracy LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Maintenance trades training LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Weeklly indemnity sick plan — right of subrogation LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Shill engineers and temperature men LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Early retirement bridge benefit CLOTHING SUPPLIED AT SASKATOON BRACKET VALUES JOB RATES
IV
Page
48
49
50
51
51
51
52
52
53
53
54
54
55
55
55
56
56
56
57
57
58
58
58
59
59
60
63
PREAMBLE
This Agreement entered into as of the 1st day of April, 1991. Between
Intercontinental Packers Ltd., hereinafter called "The Company" or their successor, and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; Local248-B or its successor affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of the Local Union herein named: hereinafter called "The Union".
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows.
Article 1 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to define clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employement. To provide an amicable means of setting any differences which may arise. To promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees and to provide for the operation of the plant under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety and welfare of the employees, combined with the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of the plant and the protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and its employeesto co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
Article 2 — RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for its plants as listed below for all employeesas set forth in Article 3 hereof with respectto wages,
hours of work, and terms and conditions of employment.
The Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting employees in any bargaining unit.
Plant	Bargaining Agency
Saskatoon, Sask........................ Local 248-R UFCW
Article 3 - BARGAINING UNIT
The term employee as used in this Agreement shall be consideredto include all employees of the Company with the following exceptions:
(a)	Executive officers, buyers and salesmen
(b)	Office staff
(c)	Foremen
(d)	Security staff.
Article 4 - MAINTENANCE AND MEMBERSHIP
1

Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall immediately appiV for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment. The Company agrees to deduct the union dues, assessmentsand initiation fee for each employee covered by this Agreement and turn over the amount deductedtothe Financial Secretary of the Local Union each pay period along with a list showing all those employees who have been deducted and amount so deducted along with a list of those employees for whom no deduction was made and the reasons therefor. The Company agrees to report the amount of union dues paid by individual employees on the appropriate form used by Revenue Canada for reporting annual income and deductions.
2
Article 5 - GENDER
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit. The use of the masculine gender shall be considered to include the feminine.
Article 6 - MANAGEMENT
The management and operation of the business shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company, provided that this right shall not be used to violate or avoid any terms of this Agreement.
Article 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7-1. (a) A Grievance Committee, the number not to exceed five, who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee. However, the Company will only be obligated under Paragraph (c) to bear the cost of three (3) of the Grievance Committee.
(b)	Union Stewards, the number to be decided by the Union, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the personnel of the Union Stewards.
(c)	All grievances shall betaken up on Company time during regular working hours.
(d)	If a Steward has to leave his job or department in connection with a grievance, he shall first secure permission from the foreman before leaving the job or department. Such permission shall be granted as promptly as possible but shall, in no case, exceed one (1) hour. He must report to the person in charge of department visited before contacting any employee in said department. If the elected Chief Steward's job is such that it seriously interferes with production he will be placed on anotherjob comparable to his posted job. This
3
will be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(e)	It is agreed that a desirable feature of the grievance procedure will be to settle all grievances promptly, and that consultation in any step of the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction or animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
7-2. (a) The following procedure shall be applicable progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
First Step: Between the Union Steward, the employee and the foreman of the department in which the employee works. The decisions must be rendered within two working days unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Second Step: Between the Union Steward, the Chief Steward or his designated representative(Not to exceed two) and the Plant Manager or Divisional Superintendent. The decision must be rendered within two working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Third Step: By the Grievance Committee of the Union, who shall take the matter up with the Local Plant Manager. In case ofemergency a meeting can be called by either party. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired. A decision to be rendered within three working days unless mutually agreed otherwise. All grievances at this stage are to be in writing. If a violation of the contract is alleged the grievance must set out clearly the article, clause and paragraph allegedly violated and in what respect violated.
Should either party intend to proceed to the 4th step, they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days from the date the decision was rendered under step 3 of the grievance procedure.
It is agreed between the Company and Local 248-P that the weekly meetings will be continued at the Saskatoon plant. There will be no formal minutes kept of these meetings. but grievance settlements and information to be passed on to the general membership of the Union will be given to the committee in writing.
4
Fourth Step: In the event that no conclusion is reached in the preceding steps, then between the negotiator who conducts negotiations for the Company (or his representative) and the Chairman of the Intercontinentalchain who conducts negotiations for the Union (or his designated representative) together with the committee of the local concerned who will meet in the city where the grievance originated in an attempt to settle the said matter. The decision must be rendered within five (5) working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise. Should either party intendto proceed to the fifth step they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days of receipt of the decision, unless mutually agreed otherwise. Both parties will then proceed as outlined in the fifth step.
(b)	Fifth Step: Any disagreement, grievance of dispute arising under the Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of this Article shall, upon written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board which shall be bound only by the terms of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of one member named by the Union, one member named by the Company, these members to be named within ten (10) working days of notice of intention to proceed to arbitration by either party. The third member of the Board, who shall be the Chairman, will be agreed upon by the two nominees. In the event of failure to agree on the chairman within ten (10) working days then he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the respective province. The person appointed by the Minister of Labour shall not be a civil servant and must be impartial.
Any expense incurred as a result of the appointment of a Chairman shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union.
Decisions of the Arbitration Board shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision is final and binding on the parties hereto.
5
(c)	The fourth step may be eliminated where deemed desirable by both parties in the interest of an expeditious settlement.
(d)	The aggrieved employee or employees may be present or not, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Grievance Committee.
(e)	Grievances may be submitted in writing in any step of the Grievance Procedure should either party consider it desirable.
(9 Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as "working days" wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
7-3. When a Grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and, as a result of such settlement, the wages of an employee are increased or adjusted, such increase or adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in earnings was made. If the date cannot be established then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid, or such other date as may be agreed upon.
7-4. (a) When the Company deems it necessary to discipline an employee they shall have the Union Steward present. If the employee or employees concerned feel they have been unjustly dealt with they shall grieve within three (3) working days. In the case of suspension or dismissal the Union Steward and Chief Steward shall be present. In the case of dismissal the procedure shall be as in 4 (b).
(b)	If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with he shall, within four (4) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee who shalt, within one (1) working day, notify the Company in writing. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure beginning with the Third Step. If subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly
6
dismissed, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be paid for this period during which he has not worked as if he had not been dismissed, or granted such lesser Dompensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
7-5. V\foen settlement is reached at any stage of these oroceedings such decision shall be final and binding. It is jnderstood that no decision will be made unless representatives of the Local Union be present.
7-6. (a) No Cessation of V\fork It is agreed there shall be no strike by or lockout of employees affected by this Agreement juring the life of this Agreement, nor shall a strike vote of the members be taken during the aforementioned period or during he course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or sxtension thereof until some form of conciliation procedure sas been gone through.
(b) Slowdowns: It is agreed that the Union and its members individually and collectively will not, during the term )f this Agreement, cause, permit, or take part in any slowdown 3r other curtailmentor restriction of production or interference /vith work in or about the Company's plants or premises.
7-7, In order to facilitate the grievance procedure, during a . emporary transfer, of less than one weeks duration, the Department Steward shall be the last person transferred out/ h sflhe department pfoviding~fhe SFeWard San adequately n Perform the work which remainsto be done in the Department, f the transfer is to be one week or more in duration then seniority shall prevail and the Steward shall be transferred out according to seniority and the Union shall appoint and notify he Company of the name of an acting Department Steward.
7-8, Pending setdementof any grievance, the employee shall aithfully perform such duties as are assigned him by his foreman or by a Superintendent.
7-9. The Company must give the local union notice of the suspension, written warning or discharge of any employee,
7
and the reasons, on the day such action is taken. The Company will provide the union with confirmation in writing of any disciplinary action taken. Failure to do so within forty-eight (48) hours (two working days) of such action shall render the discipline null and void.
7-	10. It is agreed that if the Chief Steward or President or their designated representative of the local attend a meeting with the Company concerning dismissal or suspension occurring on the night shift they will be paid a minimum cf one (1) hour, or for the time actually spent at the regular hourly rate.
S'Cha
Article 8 — WAGES ----------'"jf'
8-	1. (a) Effective the date of ratification, all full-time employees with seniority shall receive a lumpsum payment of $1,000.00, payable within fourteen days of ratification. All full-time probationary employees who are on payroll on the date ol ratification and who obtain seniority by December 15, 1991, shall be entitled to the lump sum payment referred to above within fourteen days cf acquiring seniority rights.
(b)	EffectiveApril 1,1992, increase the base rate by $.3C per hour to $14.67 per hour.
(c)	Effective December 1, 1992, increase the base rate by $.15 per hour to $14.82 per hour.
(d)	EffectiveApril 1,1993, increase the base rate by $.35 per hour to $15.17.
(e)	Effective December 1, 1993, increase the base rate by $.15 per hour to $15.32.
(9 Starting rate: Effective date cf ratificationall new plan employees shall be paid a starting rate of $8.00 per hour Automatic increasesof 1/3 the difference between $8.00 pe hour and the plant base rate shall be granted uponcompletior of 52, and 104 weeks worked. At the completion of 156 week worked the base rate shall apply.
(g) The starting rate for new employees hired as Maintenance Tradesmen or Engineers with Journeyman o equivalent status shall be the base rate. After completing £
8
six week qualifying period the appropriate rate will be paid
as set out in the Job Rates Section. , _ ,	/
'/Z'/yi /71	^ ^
8-2. (a) Full-time emplovees'whose schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays shall be paid one and me-half times their regular rate for all scheduled hoursworked 3n such days and these hours shall be considered as scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the , guarantee, Fterrttime workers shall receive a premium cf twenty tfv... ;20) cents^peFTionnSr hours worked at regular rates on^T calendar Saturdays and a premium of thirty (30) cents per n~~~ nour for hoursworked at regular rateson calendar Sundays.
Such premium shall not be considered a part of the employees oasic rate.
(b)	Classificationaf jobs and wage rates presently used n the plantshall continue in force, subjectto any amendments yyhich may be agreed upon. Additions or changes to present
.lies due to cha nges in work performed on i
e schedules due to chan
fjob'shal

u
ollective bargaining between the Company and the Union.
Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job began.
3-3: V\foere any employee regularly performs two or more jobs a composite rate shall be established. In the determining of a composite rate, the two highest base rates shall be used. The highest rate shall be used at the actual time and the second highest rate for the remainder of the time worked. When an employee spends 50% or more of his time on a ligher rated job then the highest base rate shall become the ob rate.
1-4. VUien an employee is requiredtemporarilyto fill a higher ated jobfor more than one (1) hour he shall receive the higher ate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower ated job he shall retain his regular job rate. The employee nentioned above will not be required to be qualified.
A probat'onaryemployee shall receive the job rate for the
9
work to which he is assigned when he becomes qualified, but such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6) weeks.
8-5. A gang leader in charge of a section of a department not exceeding five (5) in number shall have his regular rate increased to five (5) cents above the highest regular job rate of the gang of which he is in charge. If his section is in excess of five (5) men he shall be paid ten (10) cents per hour above the highest regularjob rate of the gang of which he is in charge. Gang leaders shall be appointed by the Plant Manager or his designated representativeand the Union shall be notified five (5) working days prior to the effective date of the appointment, except in the case of temporary appointment for such things as sickness, holidays, etc. The position of the gang leader may be terminated at any time by the Company or relinquished voluntarily by the incumbent. No gang leader shall hire, lay off, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline or, except upon direction of a member of management, transfer employeesto other departments or reduce hours. Posted gang leaders whose position is terminated by the Company or relinquishedvoluntarily by the employee shall have hisjob rate handled as under Article 8, section 7(a) or 7(b).
The Company shall provide an updated list of Gang Leaders to the Union.	/A~
8-6. Instruction or assistance in frairwrng an employee may be given by any supervisory officer of the Company or by an) employee designated by the Plant Manager or Department Foreman.
8-7. (a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is transferred foi a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the jot: rate is lower, he shall retain his regularjob rate while so doing At the expiration of twelve (12) consecutive weeks the lowei job rate shall prevail, and the employee shall cease to have an^ rights to return to his prior postedjob unlessona new posting
(b)	If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on £ job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rateo pay shall apply immediately.
10
8-8. Each employee shall receive a shift premium of forty-five (45)'cents per hour for all hoursworked between six (6) p.m. and six (6ja.m.	& £/S
An employee whose schedule callsfbr work to commence at any time other than between 6:30 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. inclusive shall recieve a shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hourfor all hours between4 p.m. and 8 a.m. and for hours in excess of his scheduled hours occurring immediately fffter 8 a.m. “7 ‘i / y<//L/J,— /0 0<7St/
Effective April 1, 1993, increase the shift premium to fifty (50) cents per hour.
8-9. The Company shall provide each employee with an itemized calculation weekly of all earnings and deductions including holiday pay and other adjustment cheques. The Company agrees to distribute the pay at the various establishmentsas follows, unless mutually agreed otherwise:
Saskatoon - Thursday in the Cafeteria during the lunch period.
Where a recognized paid holiday falls during the week, the Company will distribute the pay on Friday.
8-10. Over-rates: With job rates in effect, it is recognizedthat some employees will have been receiving rates of pay which are in excess of those established. The Company agrees to protect former rates by accepting "over-rates'' which shall be in effect so long as the incumbent remain on the particularjob.
Should an employee be transferred to a lower rated job at his own request, the lower rate will be effective immediately. If, however the transfer is involuntary, the difference between the former job rate and his over-rate will be added to the new job rate.
If a transfer to a higher rated job is involved, the over-rate will be reduced by the difference between the former and the new job rate.
It is understood that any future increases in the bracket value of a job or increase in job increment will be applied against the over-rates until such time as they have been eliminated.
11
8-11. An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department, but, if such is not possible, then by a Company Representative. Necessary transportation on day of injury will be provided by the Company.
Article 9 - HOURS OF WORK
9-1. (a) For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out an hours of work schedule and negotiate with the Union. When Management deems it necessary to put on an additionalshift they will notify the Union in writing to this effect giving all pertinent details such as department, proposed schedule and number of people involved. If a maintenance man (mechanic, millwright, electrician, etc.) is necessary this will be included in the notification, along with the proposed date of the commencement of this shift. It is then the Union's responsibility to acknowledge this notice, in writing, either approving or requesting a meeting with the Company for further discussions or negotiations. The acknowledgement must be made prior to the date given for establishment of the snift. If not, the Company shall considerthe shift approved.
The schedule of hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty (40) for any payroll week and must not exceed more than eight (8) hours per day Monday through Friday except where otherwise mutually agreed upon.
(b) Should the Company require overtime to be worked the department foreman shall canvass the employees as to their individual wishes. Overtime shall rotate on the basis of senior qualified person in the department being given first opportunity through to junior qualified person in the department. When this rotation is completed,another rotation
12
shall begin. If any person is inadvertently missed, he shall be given the first opportunity the next time overtime is required. When it is necessary to go out of the department for overtime, the above procedure shall be followed. The Foreman will discussthe status of the rotation with the DepartmentSteward
on request.	"3 "7 ^3 /
(c)	All time worked before oTafter the above schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) time the employee's regular rate of pay. If by necessity, an hourly rated employee is requiredto work in excess of 13 hours in the 24 hour period commencing wifh the normal start of the employees shift, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
(d)	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Management in getting necessary overtime work done.
^	(e) The Management agrees that overtime work shall be
kept to a minimum. It is further agreed that overtime work shall be voluntary and that no employee shall be compelled to work 'overtime or shall be discriminated againstfor refusal to work overtime.
9-2. Regardless of the schedule of hours, regular day workers shall be paid time and one-half their regular hourly rate for all work performed after 6 p.m. Monday through Friday. Regular day workers are defined as those whose shift commences between 6:30 a.m. and 9:30 a.m.
9-3. (a) Wbekly hours of work shall be as reasonable as practicable over the entire plant. A day shall mean any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
(b) \Afoen, due to a shortage of work in the plant, it is necessary to send part of the employees in a department home with lessthan eight (8) and/or forty (40) hours, then the senior employees, if they desire, may choose to go home with short hours, as long as the employees remaining are capable of adequately performing the work that remains to be done.
9-4. (a) Time and one-half the regular rate shall be paid to employees for all hours worked on saturday except where
13
work regularly falls on Saturday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid time and one-half the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Saturday.
—(b) Doublethe regular hourly rate shall be paid to all -^employees for work performed on Sunday except where the Lx work regularly falls orj_finada& in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday.
(c)	Forthe purpose of the two foregoing sections in this clause, an employee's first day off shall be considered his Saturday, and his second day off his Sunday.
9-5. (a) Eleven (11) paid holidays shall be recognizedas per the following list which is effective for the life of this contract;
RECOGNIZED PAID HOLIDAYS
1991	f 0
August Civic Holiday.......................August	05
Labour Day...........................September	02
Thanksgiving Day..........................October	14
Remembrance Day..........................November	11
Christmas Day............................December	25
Boxing Day...............................December	26
1992
New Years Day...............
Good Friday.................
Victoria Day................
Canada Day..................
August Civic Holiday........
Labour Day..................
Thanksgiving Day............
Remembrance Day.............
Christmas Day...............
Boxing Day..................
.... January 01
.....April 17
.....May 18
.....July 01
...August 03
September 07 .... October 12 November 11 December 24 December 25
14
1993
New Vears Day................:...........January 01
Good Friday..................................April 9
Victoria Day.................................... May	24
Canada Day......................................July	01
August Civic Holiday..........................August	02
Labour Day..............................September	06
Thanksgiving Day.............................October	11
Remembrance Day............................ November	11
Christmas Day........................... December	24
Boxing Day.............................. December	27
1994
New Years Day...................... December 31, 1993
Good Friday...........................As per Calendar
EffectiveJanuary 1, 1987, onefloatingor Personal Day shall be granted each calendar year.
A Personal Day (floating holiday) shall be granted at any time, subject to the requirements oi TfTe business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant the Personal Day on the date requested by the employee, senior employees in each department being given preference. The allotment for the Personal Day will be 1/8 or 12.5%.
Personal Day Schedule Sheets will be issued along with the Vacation Schedule Sheets. Each employee is to choose a number correspondingto the day of the calendar week they want off. (day 1 - Sunday, day 2 - Monday.. .day 7 - Saturday). The Personal Day must be taken prior to January of the following year.
The personal day chosen may be changed by mutual agreement between the Department Foreman and the individual employee provided due consideration is given to demands of the business.
15
To become eligible, all new employees hired after the date or ratification,must have completedtheir probationary period by June 30th of the year in which the personal day is to be taken.
Should the Company be required by law to observe any holiday other than those listed above, such holiday shall replace the Personal Day (floating holiday) provided under these provisions.
The Company shall pay to each employee who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Article
10-1(a) and who has earnings on the payroll in the calendar week in which the above recognized paid holidaysoccur, eight (8) hours pay at his regular hourly job rate. This clause will not apply to shift engineers and temperature men who are paid according to the following section entitled Regular Shift Engineers.
Regardless of the terms set out above, new employees shall not be entitled to payment for a recognized paid holiday unless they have worked prior to the recognized paid holiday.
Employees who work on the recognized paid holiday shall be paid at two (2) times his regular hourly rate for all hours worked on such recognized paid holidays.
In the case of a recognized paid holiday being moved to a day other than the calendar date, either through legislation or through agreement between the parties to this Collective Agreement, then the date to which the holiday is moved shall become the recognized paid holiday.
Employees with seniority who are not posted employees and who receive the same rate for all of the hours the department works in a week in which a recognized paic holiday fells shall receive that rate as his regular hourly jot rate for the recognized paid holiday.
Regular Shift Engineers
Regular shift engineers shall work a 12 hour continuous rotating shift in accordance with the Mutual Agreement datec 29 March 1985,
16
The following shall apply only to regular shift engineers and temperature men who are on a continuous shift covering a seven (7) day calendar week and are required to work five (5) shifts in a calendar week in which a recognized paid holiday occurs.
The shift engineers and temperature men referred to above shall be paid at two (2) times his regular hourly job rate for all hours worked on his scheduled shift that corresponds to the day on which the recognized paid holiday falls for a regular day shift employee, i.e. — One who works Monday through Friday.
These regular shift engineers and temperature men shall be entitled to a day off to be taken at a later date coinciding, wherever possible, with the wishes of the employee as long as the efficient operation of the department is not interfered with.
Payment of twelve (12) hours at his regular hourly job rate for the recognized paid holiday will be paid to him in the payroll week in which the day off is actually taken. All days off must be taken by the expiration date of this Collective Agreement. If any regular shift engineer or temperature man doesn't receive his full quota of days off by the expiration of this Collective Agreement, he shall be paid for any such recognized paid holidays he missed as though he worked them but the employee does not have the right to refuse days off that are offered to him by the Company. Cases of disagreement on this to be discussed by the committee and the Management.
9-5. (b) For the Purpose of Clarification:
Employees who work shifts other than Monday through Friday, the following shall apply:
His first shift shall be considered his Monday, his second shift shall be considered his Tuesday, his third shift shall be considered his Wednesday, his fourth shift shall be considered his Thursday and his fifth shift shall be considered his Friday. His first day off shall be considered his Saturday and his second day off shall be considered his Sunday.
17
(c)	An employee who is absent for reason of sickness or compensable accident during the period in which a recognized paid holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or sickness indemnity and his regular rate of pay for such recognized paid holidays as occur during such absence, with limitations as defined in the weekly indemnity plan. Any change in the limitationswill be the subject of negotiations. The adjustment will be made as soon as the necessary information is available to the payroll department.
When a recognized paid holiday falls during a three (3) day sick pay waiting period of an employee eligible for weekly indemnity he shall be paid eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate of pay for each such holiday.
(d)	Accredited Uniondelegateswho are absent on leave of absence to attend to official Union business, e.g. International, National and Provincial Conventions, contract negotiations and labour movement meetings at which they are official delegates, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for Statutory Holidays which occur during such leave of absence.
9-6. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls within the vacation period of the employee, the Company will allow the employee concerned an additional day off with pay. This additional day off to be taken in conjunction with the employee's vacation, on either the last work day preceding his vacation or the first work day immediately following his vacation. In case of two (2) holidays being consecutively involved,these shall be taken as the last two (2) days immediately preceding his vacation or the first two (2) days immediately following his vacation or may be split, one (1) day immediately preceding and one (1) day immediatelyfollowing his vacation. This is to be arranged in advance by mutual agreement between the foreman and the employee.
9-7. Employees when called for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this
18
provision,workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For days outside of employee's regular schedule and holidays he shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
9-8. Any hourly rated employee who, jftgr leaving the ut> Company's premises, is specially called irfat any time outsidey his normal working hours shall be through when the^V emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum u' of four (4)iiQui:s-at-the regular rate or for the hours he actually wo!T<eclat the applicable^ premium rate, whichever is the greater.	*•/ ^ l £)
9-9. Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period, and more than five (5) hours without the second meal period, and more than five (5) hours without the third meal period. The employee must give a recognizableamount of work beyond five (5) hours to qualify for the second meal period and the employee must give the same amount of work beyond five (5) hoursto qualify for the third meal period. The second and third meal period shall be 1/2 hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company. In case of truck drivers and other Employees worKing away from the plant a cash equivalent of six dollars ($6.00) will be^d^dto higaro^s eamjn^g for that fiscal week.
9-10. (a) Employeesreopirra/to woft afore than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensatedat one and one-half times the hourly rate for all times worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty.
(b) The Company agrees to provide a meal for employees brought in to work prior to their regular scheduled
19
starting time, provided that they are called in a minimum of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours before the regularstartingtime. Such meals to be eaten on Company time at regular rates.
9-11 (a) Continuous shift operations shall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shift. Continuous shift operators shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduledshifts. Should his schedule call for less than twelve (12) hours off then he shall be compensated at double his regular hourly rate until the twelve (12) hours has been reached.
(b)	Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift.
(c)	If a schedule is changed without sufficient notice, the employee will be paid one and one-half times his regular rate for all hours worked outside the previous schedule until the expiry of the required notice, and such hours shall be considered as scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee as set out in Article 10.
Provided the employee is given sufficient notice on change of shift, the employee will assume the new shift and will be paid the premiums applicable to that shift.
9-12. (a) The Company will allow the employees time for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This time to be handled by the Foreman of the department, the same as any other work assignment. A qualified operator shall be available as needed to sharpen knives of those desiring this service.
(b) The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers, meat trimmer hooks and overhauling hooks where necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect hereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools and equipment furnished shall remain Company property.
9-13. A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be granted twice in each shift, midway before lunch and midway after lunch,
20
provided that each work period is of more than two and one-half (2-1/2) hours. A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted in overtime provided the overtime shift exceeds two and one-half (2-1/2) hoursafterthe return from the second meal period. Employeesare entitled to the fifteen (15) minute rest breaks scheduled, provided the employees are working at commencement of each scheduled break.
9-14. It is agreed that, except in case of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for time off during their shift. Employees will not abuse this privilege of using the washroom.
10-1. The Company agreesto guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and shift premium, except as hereinafter provided.
(a)	An exception of the above rule occurs in the case of gangs hired on a day basis and normally providing employment for a period of less than six (6)consecutivedays; examples: cured hide takeup, supply unloaders, wreckers.
(b)	An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
(c)	An employee who is excused from work for any part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
(d)	An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining in the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
(e)	Employees on layoff notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given and should notice extend into the subsequent week then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of
21
the guaranteed hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40).
(f)	When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissible to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonableconsideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
(g)	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guaranteed pay can be utilized with reasonable consideration to ability, seniority and working conditionsthey shall be entitled to any guaranteed pay due to their gang plus the extra time they put in. Each employee shall perform the task assigned to him conscientiously. If he fails to do so his guarantee shall be reduced by the number of hours he lost by such a refusal.
(h)	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays or in case of off-shifts, day in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fell outside an employee's schedule.
(i)	An employee exercising his option under Article 9-3(b), whose Department reduces hours for the purpose of this Article on the same day he exercises his option, will be considered to have had that portion of his hours reduced for the purposes of this Article which are equal to the number of hours the Department's operation was reduced."
Should an employee exercising his option under 9-3(b) receive less hoursof pay for the week than a junior employee, as a result of an incident beyond the Company's control, no grievance will be filed.
(j)	No grievance will be filed if an employee is absent from work when a reduction in hours takes place in a Department and does not result in such employee receiving more hours of work than senior employees.
(k)	Inorderto meetthe demandsofthe businessthe Company will hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees
22
are hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in event of a layoff occurring in the plant.
Part-time Ruinlovees. that is employees employed for ?A hoursateekly-aiUess, and casual employees, that is those ■employed for less than one week, are eligible for membership in the Union.
Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full time employees and, except as otherwise agreed with the President or Chief Steward, parttime employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work.
The Union may submit, and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
3*
Ar
Article 11 — SENIORITY
11-1. Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service with the bargaining unit at the individual plants, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unlesshissenioritywas broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he teforned to work following the last break in his seniority, gj-y 2-^
11-2. Employees shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have accumulatedfifty-five (55) working days service at which time they are entitled to plant seniority from the original day of employment.
11-3. Seniority lists shall be revised and brought up to date every six (6) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union to cover their executives and Union Stewards.
23
11-4. (a) In the bargaining unit the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient, after a reasonabletrial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed six (6) weeks. However, if mutually agreed, this period may be extended a maximum of two (2) weeks. Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage rate schedulefor the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they become qualified.
The word qualified, as used in this Agreement, shall be interpretedto mean ability to regularly performthe job without instruction or assistance.
If it is obvious that a person cannot qualify, and is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment, he may be removed at any time. Employees failing to qualify will become a "Floater", (i.e.) a person without a regular job posting.
(b) Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted from Thursday of each week until the following Wednesday in order to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. A vacancy exists when the same job function is performed for twenty (20) hours or more in a payroll week for sixteen (16) consecutive weeks. In any case there shall not be more than two postings per employee percalendaryear. Inthecase that no application is receivedfor a posting, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment of a floater and the appointee shall obtain posted status upon qualifying in the normal fashion as specified in 4(a). An appointmentto a job shall not constitute one of the two job postings per calendar year. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded, with the proviso that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. When a posted employee is laid off, he will be deemed to have lost his posted job and shall return upon recall to any work available as a floater. Where an employee loses his posting due to a layoff or through his job being discontinued as set out in Article 8 section 7(a) he shall be allowed an additional postingto compensate him for the posting lost thru such layoff or job discontinuance.
24
(c)	Postings dealing with the training of skilled mechanical tradesmen shall be dealt with as per the terms of tne Mechanical Progression Plan in effect and this Plan shall form a part of the contract. The Chief Steward shall be informed of applicants to the Plan, and if requested, written reasons why successful applicants are chosen.
11-5. Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause.
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to reportto work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact by telephone, or telegram, to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company and, if within two (2) working days of receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
(c)	Has been off the payroll of the Company fora period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Seniority	Length of
At Date of Separation	Allowable Time Off Payroll
Less than one year.^^^TCTT/....................Six months
One year and over...................................2 years
11-6. Absence from work because of accident, sickness, or leave of absence shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating, provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (6) weeks. After an absence of five years, seniority shall cease unless the employee remains on temporary Saskatchewan Workers' Compensation Benefits or The Company Long Term Disability Plan. As well should the employee find other employment, seniority will cease immediately.
25
11-7. In case of a reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as follows:
(a)	Part-time and casual employees.
(b)	Probationary employees, i.e. those with lessthan fifty-five (55) working days service, in order of hire on a Departmental basis, except where essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the Plant.
(c) Those with plant seniority.	—^
In the latter case,j£Qj£nt^shaNbe the determining facfoF provided the senior operator, after a reasonable-time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority, except where immediateessential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the plant. In such cases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union. Any disagreementwill besubjecttotheGrjeVgpce Procedure beginning at the Third Step.	f D
11-8. (a) In cases of increases in the working force, rehiring shall be in reverse prdeLtQthaLQLlaygf^The Company shall advise the Union two (2) days in advance when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired. In cases where it is necessaryto secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given work for which the next senior employee was recalled. The two (2) day advance notice shall not apply to temporary recalled employees (Section 8-c) or casual employees.
(b) In case of layoff, otherthan in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1)
seniority, witn a minimum notic^.QC^J2I^rking~daysrTn the case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Com-pany'scontrolwhich results inthe closing of a part or the whole of the plant, employees shall be given one (1) calendar day's i	every completed six (6) months seniority with a
for even/ completed six (6) months
26
maximum notice of five (5) working days and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days, but such two (Todays shall be exclusive of Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days, is available at the time any layoff is to become effective, then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work.
(c)	Employeeswith seniority may betemporarily recalled for not less than three (3) working days and not more than ten (10) working days as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee and provided that the employee and the Union is informedthat such work is of a temporary nature. When the ten (10) days are worked consecutively or have accumulated, the layoff notice shall apply. These casual employees shall not be covered by the guarantee until the ten (10) days have been reached. Employees who refuse recall under the provisions of this clause will not be allowed to bump but shall have to await another recall.
11-9. When reducing staff in a department day, afternoon, night and shifts other than those scheduled Monday through Friday shall each be considered as separate shifts and that reduction of staff will be decided on the basis of these separate shifts.
11-10. When it is necessary to transfer employees the following procedures shall be followed:
(a)	In the case of permanent transfers, subject to the provisionsof Article 8, Section7, the order of transfer shall be,
(1)	Floaters in the department concerned.
(2)	Posted employees in the department concerned in order of seniority beginning with the junior posted.
(b)	Inthe case oftemporarytransfersthe order of transfer shall be,
(1)	Floaters in the department.
(2)	Posted employees in the department in order of seniority beginning with the most junior.
27
(c) I n the case of a temporary transfer which is required to fill a specific vacancy where due to the importance of the job special skills, training or ability is required,the order of transfer shall be,
(1)	Qualified floaters in the department.
(2)	Junior qualified posted employees in the department. An employee who, because of previous experience in a department, is temporarily transferred to that department on a repetitive basis, may register his objectionsto such repetitive transfers in which case the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can perform the work satisfactorily, or to train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify reasonably quickly for such temporary transfers.
11-11. In cases of gang reductions or increases, in employee may elect to take a layoff or continueto be laid cf if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee.
11-12. Employees, not to exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the bargaining unit at each plant, who are | appointed or elected to do businessforthe Union shall, upon^ written application, be granted leave of absence without orv to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one (1) week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay.
11-13. Employees whom the Company wishes to train for supervisory, technical or commercial positions may be retained in the employment without being subject to the layoff provision of this Agreement. The number of such employees on the protected list shall not exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the bargaining unit. The Chief Steward of the Union is to be advised of the names of any person on this protected list.
28
11-14. Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers; temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any financial responsibilities the Company may have under this Agreement. The Company is to be notified as to change of address and telephone number through the Personnel office. Employees are expected to provide the Personnel office and Health Centre with the name and phone number of a responsible person who will be notified in the event of an emergency.
11-15. A female employee with twelve (12)months of service with the Company, who applies in writing for a leave of absence priorto her sixth month of pregnancy shall be granted a maternity leave of upto twenty-six (26)weeks. The^pplication for leave will be accompanied by written confirmation of the pregnancy from the employee's attending physician which will outline the employee's expected due date and her physical ability to continue performing her assigned job. The application will indicate the expected date of birth, the commencement date of the leave, and the employee's expected return date. The application for maternity leave must be made at least two (2)weeks prior to the commencement of the leave.
Maternity leave may commence at anytime prior to confinement but in no case will the maternity leave be extended beyondthe eighteen (IS)weeks following the date and in ao-case .will .moiEJbafl4wentv:Six (26) weeks of leave be granted.
' Prior to the expiration of such leave of absence, the employee shall signify in writing, supported by a Doctor's certificate of fitness, that she wishes to return to work and in such case, she will be reinstated within one (1) week, provided she has the necessary seniority and is able to perform the required work satisfactorily. Seniority will accumulate durinn such leave of absence. An enpoyee who holds a posting ShSTbe"reinstated to her former job. If her former job has disappeared, then subject to seniority, the employee will be assigned to one of equal rating.
29
When a female employee who has been granted a pregnancy leave under the above clause, suffers a miscarriage, or for some other medical reason has a premature termination of pregnancy, said employee shall then be considered as having been off on sickness, and upon recovery, and tendering a doctor's certificatethat she is able and fit to return to regular duties, will be reinstated in her former job, or one of equal rate. Female employees shall notify the Company prior to the leave as to the disposition of their vacation credits.
11-	16, An employee with twelve (12) months of service with the Company, who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the date he intends to take leave supported by appropriate documentation shall be granted a Parental leave of six (6) weeks if:
(a)	(i) in the case of a female employee, becomes the
natural mother of a child
(ii)	in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child,
(iii)	headoptsa child under the law of the province, and
(b)	Parental leave must commence no laterthan than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into actual care and custody of the employee.
(c)	An employee who holds a posting will be reinstated at the expiry of the leaveto hispostedjob or one of equal rating.
(d)	Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave.
(e)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company.
Article 12 - VACATIONS
12-	1. (a) The Company agrees, subject to the provisionsset forth within the following sections, to grant the following vacations with pay to regular employees covered by this Agreement.
30
Length of Service	Length of Vacation
After 1 year...............................................3	weeks
After 10 years.............................................4	weeks
After 19 years.............................................5	weeks
After 25 years.............................................6	weeks
Effective April 1.1992 the Company agrees, subject to the provisions set forth within the following sections, to grant the following vacations with pay to regular employees covered by this Agreement,	__
Length of Service	-—* H *-/' ~ & fe?	Length of Vacation
After 1 year.............?..0..7..Q..D...................3 weeks
After 10 years.............................................4	weeks
After 19 years.............................................5	weeks
After 24 years.............................................6	weeks
After 30 years.............................................7	weeks
(b) Calculation of Holiday Pay: Holiday Pay will be calculated on the following basis: the number of weeks he is entitled to at his regular hourly rate, or two percent (2%) of his gross annual earnings, for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is the greater.
The regular hourly rate referred to above shall be the employee's regular hourly rate during the same period that the total earnings were calculated. In case more than one rate is involved, his average rate will be calculated.
12-2. Every plant employee becomes eligible for vacation upon completion of one year's service.
12-3. (a) Employees absentfbr reasonsof sicknessand/or accident, who return to work for 30 working days, followingthese phases within the year shall be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 12, Clause 1 and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in Clause 3 (b).
(b) Inthe case of sickness and non-compensable accident certified by a practising physician, an employee, upon his return to service with the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received, on the basis of
31
forty hours per week at his regular rate of pay. The'above shall be confined to one year's vacation rights for any one illness. An employee returning to work after a compensableaccident shall be granted up to one year's vacation credits on the basis of forty hours per week at his regular hourly rate.
12-4. Employeeswill be paid their holiday pay on the day prior to proceeding on holidays. In special circumstances, upon application by the employee, holiday pay will be paid up to 14 days in advance.
12-5. (a) Vacation may be granted at any time subject to the requirements of the business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees, senior employees in each department being given preference. Employees eligible for vacation shall be notified of their vacation period as far in advance as possible. The Company agrees to vacation allotment of 1/8th or 12-1/2%.
(b)	Where an employee is off on sickness or compensation, and is cleared with a doctor's certificate, he shall not be compelled to work any time before going on holidays if his holidays are scheduled for the following week.
(c)	Employees who have attained seniority who are laid off shall have the right to choose whether they receive their vacation pay up to date or leave the vacation pay with the Company in order to have a paid vacation at a later date.
12-6. Earned vacation privileges not exercised shall be paid if and when an employee quits or is dischargedfor cause from service, at a rate equal to the amount of vacation earned. 12-7. An employee eligible for a fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh week of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his Foreman, accumulate his fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth and/or seventh weekol vacation from year to year to be taken at a latertime convenient to the Company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof. Such vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of such vacations will be left
to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the plant, and provided that they do not interfere with the scheduling of regular vacations during the current year.
Article 13 — SAFETY AND HEALTH
13-1. Whereas the Company and the Union are committed to ensuring that reasonable effort is made to promote and protect the safety and health of employees, it is agreed that the Company and the Union shall co-operate in establishing, adopting and enforcing rules and practices which promote and protect the occupational health and safety of all employees of the Company.
Where deemed necessary, the Company shall provide protective devices and other equipment to properly protect employees from injury and all such devices agreed to by the Company and the Union shall be used by the employees.
First Aid shall be available for employees at all times when employees are working. The present practice as regards to the Registered Nurse shall be continued.	CC/u
13-2. The Company and the Union will co-operate in emablish-ing a joint plant safety committee in accordance with Provincial Legislation which shall be responsible for investigating con-cernsand resolving problems relating to Occi^patonal Health
anCV^l^cupational Health and Safety Commitre/shall hold regular meetings and shall inspect, monitor and make recommendations regarding Occupational Health conditions and safety practices within the plant. The Committee will also function in the education of all employees of the Company regarding Occupational Health and Safety. The Committee will monitor compliancewith and make recommendations on applicable health and safety legislation.
13-3. Health and Safety concerns shall be reported to the Foreman of the department where the concern arises. All concerns which cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the Foreman may be referredto the OccupationalHealth and Safety Committee for investigationand evaluation. The Committee will then
33
seek to resolve the issue to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union. If, however; after its deliberations the Committee is unable to resolve the concern to the satisfactionof either the Company or the Union, then the matter may be referred to the parties to this Agreement through the grievance procedure.
Article 14 — GENERAL
14-1. The Company will allow necessary time for changing clothes or equipment as necessitated by changing from one job to another where conditionsare different enough to warrant it.
14-2. Laundry services for employees shall be maintainedon the same basis as at present.
14-3. The Company shall provide bulletin boards for the use of the Union at suitable places on the plant premises. All bulletins shall be submitted to the Plant Manager for approval before posting.
14-4. All privileges and benefits which are not covered by this Agreement but which are now enjoyed by the employees or the Company shall remain in effect during the life of this agreement except that gifts, presents or other bonuses shall be at the discretion of the Company.
14-5. In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent power house staff, such as firemen, engineers and an electrician,from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore normal production.
14-6. The Company shall make up the difference between an employee's scheduled hours at his regular hourly rate and the amount he is paid by the government for hours he is
34
required to be away from work on jury duty or is subpoenaed
as a witness by the Crown. Upon being released as a witness"
"oTTromTury duty the employee must report for work.
14-7. The company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of necessary licenses or tickets required in the performance of their duties.
This is not to include any costs other than the basic cost of the license itself. Upon application by the employee, the Company shall reimburse the employee for wages lost due to writing any exam necessary to obtain a required license or ticket.	L1,AI\
14-8. (a) When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral and two other days to be taken not later than two days following the day of the funeral, provided that such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, stepmother, stepfather, stepsister, stepbrother, stepdaughter,stepson, stepmother-inlaw, stepfather-in-law,grandmother, grandfather,grandson and granddaughter.
(b) When an employee cannot attend the funeral of an immediate relative because of geographical distance, he shall receive8 hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to an absence from work on his regular scheduled work day.
The Company may require the employee to furnish verification of the date of the funeral.
14-9. (a) Launderableouter work doting, oil-skin aprons, and. oil-skin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the departments of each plant will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the
35
regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon transfer or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Rubber boots and belts specified by the Company as requiredfor work will be suppliedto employees.
(b)	Employees with more than six (6) months' seniority, who purchases quilted vest or liner for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of u pto $20.00 towards such purchase. Employee to purchase vest and bring in a receipt from which the Company shall reimbursehimuptoamaximum of $20.00. Employees with less than six months' seniority who so purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed up to $20.00 towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months' seniority. for a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance three (3) years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
Effective April 1,1992, increasethe vest or liner allowance to $25.00.
(c)	Employees with more than six (6) months' seniority who purchase safety footwear for use on the job shall receive an allowance of up to $45.00 towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months' seniority who so purchase such footwear shall be reimbursed up to $45.00 towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months' seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
EffectiveApril 1, 1992, increasethe boot allowance to $50.00.
Effective April 1, 1993, increasethe boot allowance to $55.00.
(d)	Posted Freezer Employees with more than six months seniority shall receivean allowance of u pto $30.00 every two years for the purchase of freezer pantsfor use on the job. Em-ployeesto purchase pants and bring in a receipt verifying the purchase. For a subsequent purchase, posted Freezer employees will again become eligible for this allowance two years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
36
14-10. Tools — Mechanical.
All Maintenance Tradesmen with seniority shall receive a $65.00 (sixty-five) tool replacement allowance midway each contract year.
14-11. The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in securing punctual and regular attendance at work and to do all in its power to eliminate lateness or absence from work on the part of employees for other than necessary reasons.
4/
14-12. No Discrimination.	A
The Company and the Union agree not to discriminate! against any employee or applicant for employment by reason of race, creed, religion, colour, sex, marital status, physical disability, nationality,ancestry, place of origin, or lawful trade
union activity.	L ^
14-13. Leave of absence may be grantedto an employee by the Corrtpanyl5rgooHantfsafficiehrrMsbn,'upon application by the employee, provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more written application shall be submitted by the employees to the Company and, if the leave is granted, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Chief Steward of the Union. Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence but in no case will leave of absence be granted as an extension of holidays. If, for any reason, the Union feels that a case merits reconsideration they may discuss the matter with the Company.
14-14. (a) The Company will give hearing tests to all new employees as part of the pre-employment medical.,
(b) No employee wittTSehiorify will be required to take hearing tests from the Company, but may do so voluntarily, subject to Provincial legislation.
14-15. There will be no charge for cutting and wrapping staff sales.
37
Article 15 — HEALTH AND WELFARE
15-1. The Health and Accident Insurance Plan presently in effect shall be continued as hereinafter amended:
The current plan shall, as soon as practicable, become an in-house administered plan to be administered by an official of the Company. The plan shall be administered in accordance with generally accepted principles and in accordance with the plan contracts currently in effect in order to provide the Health and Welfare Benefits contained in this Article.
However, the Company shall be free to contract with any insurance carrier for the provision of any benefit contained in this Article if in-house administration is not feasible.
The subject of plan administration may be re-opened for negotiations should'a more favorable plan be presented by either party. —7 y/6	J5
15-2. (a) Effective the first full pay week following the date of ratification the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan is a taxable benefit plan. The weekly indemnity benefits shall be based on 60% of the claimant's regular weekly earnings, exclusive of sporadic overtime, premiums, etc. immediately preceding his claim.
b) The service for duration of payment is as follows:
3 -18 months service......................15 weeks
18 months - 5 years service...............16 weeks
5 - 7 years service.......................26 weeks
7-10 years service........................34 weeks
10 years service and over.................52 weeks
In the case of normal illness a three (3) day waiting period is to be observed; payment of benefits commencing on the fourth day. However, where an employee is hospitalized due to illness or has day surgery within the waiting period or where an employee is unable to work due to a non-compensable accident the waiting period shall be waived.
(c) The Company agrees to pay the benefits set out in the benefit scale in 2(a) of this Article in accordance with the service scale set out in 2(b) of this Article and any benefits
38 ~~^T99
available to employees under government legislation, or from any other source, shall have no bearing or effect whatsoever on the benefits due to an employee from the Company plan. However, it is understoodthat in situations of third party liability the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan will exercise its right of subrogation to recover monies advanced to a claimant.
(d)	The Company will pay for the first $7.80 of the required sick pay premium per employee, with the balance of the required monthly premium shared equally between the Company and the employee.
(e)	Weekly Indemnity Premium will be deducted on a weekly basis from employees who have earnings in the Payroll week but will cease to be deducted from the eligible employee who is receiving benefits under this plan provided he is medically unable to work.
(f)	In the event an employee has a claim refused by the Workers Compensation Board, for reasons of "noncompensable claim", he shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan. This is provided the terms and conditions of the Plan are met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from the Workers Compensation Board, for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan must be repaid to the insurer.
Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event that a claim refused by the Workers Compensation Board would appear to be appealable, the employee should be encouraged to proceed with an appeal."
15-3. Medicare & Hospitalization: 5ft-
The Company will continue to pay tne full cost of Medicare and Hospitalization premiums in the provinces where such premiums are required, at the present rate schedule. If there is an increase in premiums charged for provincialcompulsory Medicare and Hospitalization Plansthe Company will also pay the additional premium in that province up to a maximum of $5.00 pet month for single coverage and $10.00 per month for dependent coverage.
39
In provinces having a compulsory governmental sponsored medical surgical plan, which includes a requirement for doctors' deterrents, the Company will subject to the following, provide coverage for such deterrents. The cost of providing this coverage will apply in each province against the $5.00 per month single coverage and the $10.00 per month dependent coverage maximum additional premium liability set out above	f3=^
15-4 Major Medical.	/	&
Present deductible — single $2500 family $50.00 per calendar year When the expenses exceed the above deductible, the plan will pay eighty-five (85) percent of such excess to a maximum of $5,000.00
In Saskatchewan the $25.00 and $50.00 deductible have been removed and reimbursement is now 100%, except in the case of prescription drugs, in which the deductible are still in effect. Hecoverable portion is 85%
Premiums of major medical fyjly paid i^the Company
15-5. Life Insurance."	^
All eligible employeeswill be covered for_$250QQOQi3roup Life Insurance The Company will joay thejylL£Qst_of the premiums Coverage will alsoThclude a paid up policy upon retirement in the amount of $1,000.00 Paid-up Policy
Effective April 1, 1989 the Company will introduce an Accidental Death & Dismemberment (A D & D.) plan which will provide a maximum benefit of $25,000.00
Cr-
15	6 Vision Care. f & a?
The Major Medical Plan is extended to provide the following up to a maximum of one hundred and ten ($11000) dollars for the expenses incurred lor eye glasses and/or frames in any twenty-four (24) consecutive months for each insured member
Reimbursement will not be provided for any expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eye glasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purpose
40
will be paid for by_the Company -The Company is free to coritract wrFtFie^arrier Droviding the lowest Dremium for eaual benefits. The dental plan allowable expenses will be based on the current Dental Association fee schedule in Provinces where such a schedule .................5 on the prevailing
15-8. The Company agreesto provide Hearing Aid Benefits to employees for the purchase ol hearing aids obtained on the written prescription of a physician certified as an otolaryngologist,not exceeding five hundred ($500.00) dollars per employee during the entire time the employee is insured, with the normal deductible and co-insurance provisions not applying.
15-9. Eligibility.
An employee becomes eligible for benefits under the health and welfare sections contained in this Article upon completion of six (6) months of accumulated service.
Effective October 1, 1986, employees will become eligible for the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan after completion of three (3) months of accumulated service.
15-10. Continuation of Benefits Coverage.
An insured employee, prior to his 65th birthday, who becomes totally disabled due to sickness, compensable or non-compensableaccident will be eligible for continued benefit coverage without payment of further premiums so long as such disability continues. The specific benefits referred to are / Group Life Insurance, DentalCare, Vision Care, Major Medical, and Accidental Death and Dismemberment. Satisfactory proof ^ certified by a physician must be submitted by the employee, and periodic evidence of continued disability must be furnished upon request.
schedule.
/ ^ c?
41
This section will come into effect July 1,1977. Any accrued premiums owing by employees who are off work prior to this date shall be paid by the employee to that date before they qualify for continuation of benefit coverage. The employee will relinquish hisjob posting after two years of continued disability from the last day worked.
7^7 T>
15-11. LONG TERM DISABILITY—
EffectiveJune 1,1983, the Company will arrangeto have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following Provisions:
Full-time employees actively at work on the effective date are eligible for the Plan on attainment of one year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full-time work to be eligible.
Long Term Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remunerationor profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurancecompany based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify, any case involving alcohol or drug-related conditions will require active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continuedtreatment under an approved specialist, and will only be paid in cases of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (Psychotic conditions). An employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will be subject to the provisions of Article 11-6 of the Collective Agreement.
The amount of benefit will be $1.000.00 per month less any benefit for which the employee is eligible under the Canada Pension Plan Disability Benefit, Workers' Compensation or other government or government sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit.
42
“7	?' 9 // <? ^
Effective April 1, 1986, the amount of benefit referredto above for an employee whose benefit commencement date is on or after April 1, 1986, will be $1,100.00 per month.
The employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied.
An employee in receipt of a benefit under the Company's Pension Plan cannot be in receipt of a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan.
The benefit will commence after the employee has been absent due to the disability for one year or after his sick pay entitlement has expired, whichever is earlier, and will be payable until recovery, actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first.
Should an employee return to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommencewithout a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee's return to work; otherwise,the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
Where an employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitation program of upto 24 months,the benefit will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources does not exceed 90% of the predisability normal gross wages.
No benefits will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participations a riot or insurrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a felony.
Effective June 1, 1983, the Disability Retirement Clause in the Company's Pension Plan will be removed. However, the benefit under the clause will still be available, for up to one year thereafter for those employees who were eligible for the Disability Retirement provision but who were not eligible for Long Term disability due to absence from work on the effective date.
43
Article 16 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The terms of this Agreement shall be in fi ill fnrrm and nffect from the 1st Hay nf April 1991 i intil the 31st Hay of March. 1994 unless otherwise specified and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives notice in writing of termination or amendment of not more than 90 days and not less than 30 days prior to the date of expiry.
Duringthe period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
Signed this 3rd day of October 1991 in the City of Saskatoon, in the Province of Saskatchewan, on behalf
Of:
INTERCONTINENTAL PACKERS LIMITED
H. SAWATSKY S. IRVINE M. CARR R. WHEELER
LOCAL 248-P OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION:
G. SEMENIUK
C.	WESTLY M. WEREZAK L. SCHREINER
D.	McKAY
A. CHRISTENSEN R. BANDA
44
7	-5^_
APPENDIX - ALL PLANTS	A 1
I	- Plant Closing
1.	When it becomes necessaryto close a plant or a substantial portion of a plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed a separation allowance or Service Award benefit will be paid to employees suDject io the following:
(a)	They have one or more years seniority
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within the thirty day period precedingthe date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Worker's Compensation or off sick will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 11, 5(c),
(c)	They have not been granted retirement or pension.
(d)	They have not been transferred to another plant.
(e)	The closing is not brought about by war; strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow-down or other cessation of work, fire, government action, or act of God.
(9 In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(g) Eligible employees who are not age 60 or over will receive a separation allowance as follows:
\bars
Completed Service	Amount
1
6
7
8 9
10
$ 420 510 920
1,170
1,400
1,620
1,860
2,080
2,330
45
Years
Completed Service	Amount
11	-20........... The ten year allowance plus $370.00' for
each year over ten.
21	and over...... The twenty year allowance plus $470.00
for each year over twenty.
In addition, employees will be entitled to a supplement based on completed full years of age and service as of the date of closing. Employeeswhose combined age and service, as above, total 65 will be entitled to a supplement of $2,700.00 plus an additional $135.00 for each year the combined total exceeds 65.
(h) Eligible employeeswho are age 60 or over shall receive a service award benefit. guaranteed five years as follows:
Years of Service
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
Additional Annual Long Service Award
$1,175
1,245
1.310 1,375 1,440 1,505 1,590 1,670 1,750 1,830 1.910 1,990 2,070 2,150 2,230
2.310 2,395 2,470 2,550 2,630
46
Years of Service
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
Additional Annual Long Award
$2,710
2,790
2,870
2,955
3,030
3,115
3,190
3,275
3,350
3,430
3.515
3,590
3,665
2.	Employeeswho accept separation pay under the provision of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement between the signing parties.
In the event of a plant remains open, employees eligible to receive a separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above paragraph. Those re-employedon this basis will receive seniority credit up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
Employees eligible to receive a separation allowance, who elect to remain on the seniority list as outlined above, will be entitled to recall in accordance with the provisions of Article 11-5(c), except that the allowable break will be the time equivalent to length of service up to three (3) years.
3.	In respect to those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article the Company will
47
continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical-Surgical, Dental, extended Health Care and Hospitalization Plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to six months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
4.	Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, an employee who is eligible for a separation allowance under the provisions of the Plant Closing Section of the Collective Agreement and who is at least 60 as of the date of the closure will be given early retirement status when he retiresand draws his pension,wih no actuarial reduction in the pension from age 65 to age 60.
II — Work Methods
Change in Working Methods: When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expecte3~to~ 'result in the closing of a departmentor a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company ®|UH$i5LiBe Union of such change at least ninety days in IotIFISI 8 ffie contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in their own plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 11, Section4(a). Employees with five or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in their own plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Clause 1, Plant Closing.
Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new < equipment, or where an employee remainson a job reduced i in value following a technological change, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3]_year§r~includincnayoff, providedTfWthrerrfplo^e accepts all opportunitiesto post to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee's ability to learn
48
the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort, is unable to qualify, his rate protection shall not be affected.
In the applicationof rates or adjustmentsof bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid him at the time of the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer:
At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets. At twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
Ill	— Contracting Out
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.
The Company shall inform a representative of the Union prior to bringing contractors into the plant, unless an emergency situation arises in which case the Union shall be immediately notified once the emergency is over. When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has an adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
Should an Arbitration Committee be called on to review the Company's action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard to all circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its
49
employees or ceasing such operation, and the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the decision
This provision does not apply to cafeteria operations, to "out C town" deliveries, and to installation and construction work The Company mav at times experiment to determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees When this is done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out after the trial period
IV	— Recognition of Long Service Intercontinental Packers Limited Employees Pension Plan
Memorandum of Agreement
The Company agrees to provide a payment to eligible employees in recognition of long service as follows:
—	all full time employees who reach their normal retirement date and who retire from service shall receive commencing at the later of the employee's normal or deferred retirement date a monthly payment in recognition of long service guaranteed five years calculated as follows:
—	For each employee for service with IntercontinentalPackers Limited the number of years of such service multiplied .by $14.00 per month. Service will be calculated to the last completed quarter year.
The benefit on termination before retirement otherwise by death will be, if the employee has 20 years of service or 10 years of service if he is age 45 or more, a deferred annuity payable from normal retirement date equal to the benefit accumulated to the time of termination.
Effective July 1, 1992 increase the benefit to $16.00 per year of service per month. Effective July 1,1993 increase the benefit to $18.00 per year of service per month.
50
V	— Early Retirement
Intercontinental Packers Ltd.
Employee's Pension Plan
An employee retiring from the Company prior to his Normal Retirement Date (the first of the month coincident with or next following his 65th birthdavt will_be_gntitled to the Contributory Company Pension and Recognition of Long Service Pension accrued to the date of his retirement calculated on the following basis:
(a)	The accrued Contributory Company Pension and Long Service Pension will not be actually reduced for employees whose age and years of service equal eight-five (85). Employees who fail to qualify under this "Rule of 85" will not havetheiraccured Contributory Company Pensionand Long Service Pension actuarilly reduced for the eighty-four (84) month period immediately precedingthe employee's Normal Retirement Date.
(b)	The accrued Contributory Company Pensionand Long Service Pension will be actuarilly reduced for any employee who does not qulaify for the "Rule of 85" and who retires prior to the eighty-four (84) months immediately preceding the employee's Normal Retirement Date.
(c)	The actuarial reduction of Contributory Company Pension and Long Service Pension will be based on a four percent (4°/o) reduction and no reduction of years of service will apply.
72 7 *2
VI — Contributory Pension Plan / -—y
It is agreed that the Company will maintain the existing Contributory Pension Plan for the term of this agreement.
VII	— Statement of Principle
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse
The Company and the Union recognize that excessive or improper use of alcohol or drug§ is a social problem which
adversely affects an individual and his family, wfth respect to his employment, financial integrity, and quality of family-life.
The Parties to this Collective Agreement will cooperate in the early identification, and treatment of employees with alcohol and drug dependency problems through the Employee Assistance Program. Employees referred to the Employee Assistance Program for treatment on a voluntary or mandatory referral basis shall be entitled to wage loss protection under the Weekly IndemnitySick Plan in accordance with terms and conditions of the Plan.
It is understood by the Parties that employees who are in the disciplinary procedure will only be entitled to referral to the Employee Assistance Program by mutual agreement between the parties. It is further understood that employees who have been discharged for just cause will not have recourse to the Employee Assistance Program.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - Saskatchewan Medical Rebate
The Company will continue to pay rebates on Saskatchewan Hospitalization and Medicareto all employees who are employed prior to July 23, 1976. Should the government reinstitute the charging of employees for these premiumsthen the practise shall be as covered in Article 15.3 of the Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Reference: Article 11.3 — Seniority
The following information is available to the Union, when desired on a weekly basis:
(1)	Employees hired.
(2)	Employees recalled
(3)	Employees laid-off and their posting.
(4)	Employees quitting (update seniority list).
52
(5)	Employees on vacation.
(6)	Employees on leave (over one week).
(7)	Longterm sickness and compensation— one week or more duration.
This information may be obtained at all plants in a manner agreed upon by the various localsand mar ent officials,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Warnings and records of suspensions issued concerning punching in and punching out will be destroyed immediately and no further warnings or suspensions will be issued dealing with these matters. The responsiblity for employees coming in late or leaving early shall be assignedto the foremen, and cases of persistent offenders will be a matter for discussions between the Union and the Company with a view to correction. Warnings for minor offences shall be void after one (1) year and warnings for major offences will be void after five (5) years.
The above is subject to the right of the Union to grieve.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Employees who will be unavoidablyabsent from work for reasons of sickness, accident, etc., should notify the Company of this fact as early as possible. This information should normally be given to the Company prior to the start of the employee'sshift so that alternate arrangements can be made. If this should prove impossible, then not laterthan 9:00 a.m. on the day shift
The phone numberto call is931-4238, this is a direct line to the Health Centre, nurse's office.
After 4:00 p.m. the phone numberto call is382-2210 and ask for your Foreman.
The required information is:
(a)	Employee's name.
(b)	Clock number.
(c)	Department.
(d)	Reason for absence.
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Effective January 1, 1981, the Company undertakes to amend the Retirement Plan to provide that where an employee with 10 or more years's service is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total and permanent disability, and that employee retires on pension, his accrued pension will not be actuarially reduced. The sole determination of cases qualifying for this provision will be made by the Company based upon medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan
In accordancewith Article 15-1 as amended April 1st, 1986, the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan shall become an inhouse administered plan, administered by the Plan Administrator in accordance with the terms and conditions of the current insured plan contracts. The Plan Administrator shall be responsible for receiving and adjudicating all claims against the plan and will accept or reject claims based on an objective and impartial review of the merits of each claim. All claims accepted will be paid through the payroll department.
Claims will be rejected if they fail to satisfy the terms and conditions of the plan or if the medical evidence presented doesn't fall within the statistical limits of the plan's experience.
The Plan Administrator will provide the Personnel Manager and President of Local 248-P with the financial status of the Plan on March 1st of each year and shall make recommendations regarding the V\feekly Indemnity Insurance premiums charged plan members and the funding of any liability the plan may have incurred during the year.
Once the financial statements have been received, the Company's negotiating team will meet with the Local Union Committee for the purpose of setting the premium rates to be effective April 1st dF each year.
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Calculation of Holiday Pay:
Effective January 1st, 1987, all employees will have a common anniversary date of April 1st for the purpose of calculating Holiday Pay earned.
Cases of individual hardship involving employees with over one year's seniority which may arise within the first year of implementing this change will be reviewed by the parties to the Collective Agreement with a view towards easing the hardship.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the application of the new starting rate.
—	The new starting rate will not apply to the employees hired prior to the date of ratification.
—	The new starling rate will not apply to employees hired prior to the date of ratification who are laid off and subsequently recalled within the allowable break as set out in Article 11-5(c).
—	Employees who terminate their full-time employment and subsequently work on a part-time basis will be paid at the new starting rate.
—	Each automatic increase for part-time employees will be paid when the accumulated number of hours worked is equivalentto the number of required months of service for such increases.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Funding of Long Service Award
Effective July 1, 1989 the Company agrees, giving due considerationto the recommendations of its actuary and the Government Regulations involved, to undertake the registration and funding of the Recognitionof Long Service program, by the most appropriate means available.
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Unemployment Insurance Premium Reduction
It is understoodthat the Company will apply on an annual basis for the premium reduction available from the Unemployment Insurance Commission for the sponsors of Accident and Sickness Insurance Plans which meet the Commission's guidelines. It is further understood that the Company will apply all premium reductions against the cost of maintaining the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Shift Schedules for Local Union Officers
This will confirm for the life of the Collective Agreement reached as a result of these negotiations, our agreement, in order to facilitate the administration of the Collective Agreement, to employ the PRESIDENT and CHIEFSTEWARD, by virtue of their elected positions with Local 248-P of the U.F.C.W., on a Monday to Friday day-shift configuration.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Transfers from Office Bargaining Unit to Plant Bargaining Unit
This will confirm our agreement for the life of the Collective Agreement reached as a result of these negotiations, to allow regular full-time Office Bargaining Unit employees, who have had their jobs eliminated, to accept a lay off in accordance with Article 7-8(b) of the Office Unit Collective Agreement or opt to exercise their seniority to post onto a vacancy in the Plant Bargaining Unit. Office Bargaining Unit Employees who exercise this option, and who are awarded a Plant Bargaining Unit job posting, shall then transfer to the Plant Bargaining Unit with full recognition for their seniority earned to the date of transfer, with the following conditions:
56
(1)	They will serve a fifty-five (55) day probationary period during which they may be released as being unsuitedto the work, in wnich case they will tie laid off in accordance with the Office Unit Collective Agreement.
(2)	They will forfeit all of the rights and benefits they enjoyed under the Office Unit Collective Agreement and will be entitled to the rights and benefits of the Plant Collective Agreement.
(3)	They must qualify on the job to which they have posted within the time period allowed in the Plant Collective Agreement.
(4)	They will receive the lesser of their current office unit wage rate or the base rate in the Plant for all hours worked during their probationary period. Once the probationary period is successfully completedthe employee will receive the job rate.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Application of Transfer Option from
Office Bargaining Unit to Plant Bargaining Unit
byLaureen Laverdureand Debra Czank
This will confirm our agreement for the life of the Collective Agreement reachedas a result of these negotiations,to provide Laureen Laverdureand Debra Czank, in recognition of their service to the Company as regular full-time employees, one opportunity to exercise the option of posting on a vacancy in the Plant Bargaining Unit, in accordance with the letter of understanding outlining the terms and conditions of such a transfer.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Workplace Democracy
This will confirm our understanding that Departmental Stewards or their designated representatives will be invited to participate in any meetings which we may establish at the Departmental level.
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Maintenance Trades Training
This will confirm our agreement that the following tradesmen will suffer no reduction in their hourly rate as a result of pursuing Journeyman status in accordance with the Saskatchewan Department of Labour; Apprenticeship and Trades Certification Program:
JIM BOYKO	DAVE HOYLE
DOUG McKAY	JOHN ZWARICH
BRENT PERASALO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan — Right of Subrogation
This will confirm our understanding that the language adopted in Article 15-2(c) regarding the right of subrogation will not be applied retroactivelyto support claimsof recovery by the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan arising prior to this date. The Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan will rely on the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan Documents and the Collective Agreements in force at the time a claim for disability payments arising out of a situation of third party liability was processed by the Plan.
This will also confirm our agreement that Local 248-P of the U.F.C.W. will not be held responsible for any legal action which arises out of the recovery of monies under a right of subrogation by the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan, but rather the Weekly IndemnitySick Plan will assume full responsibility for any legal action.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Shift Engineers & Temperature Men
This will confirm our agreement to amend the Mutual Agreement regarding rotating shifts for Shift Engineers and Temperature Men as follows:
58
WEEKLY INDEMNITY SICK PLAN:
Shift Engineers and Temperature Men will have their three day waiting period for benefits under the weekly Indemnity Sick Plan based on twenty-four hours of wage loss, with payment of benefits commencing following the three day waiting period or twenty-four hours of wage loss which ever is beneficial to the claimant.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Early Retirement Bridge Benefit
The Company hereby agrees to provide an early retirement bridge benefit of Three Hundred ($300) dollars per month to all eligible employees covered by the Memorandum of Settlement signed today, in accordance with the following terms and conditions.
All employeesagedfifty-eight(58)and over; who retire early from employment with Intercontinental Packers Limited between April 1, 1992 and March 31, 1994, shall receive an early retirement bridge benefit of $300 per month. The benefit will be payable monthly commencing with the first full month following retirement and shall continue until the employee's sixty-fifth birthday or death whichever occurs first. Eligible employees exercisingthis option must give the Company two months notice of their intention to retire.
The Early Retirement Bridge Benefit will expire and this letter will cease to have any effect on March 31, 1994.
CLOTHING LIST
Clothing Supplied at Saskatoon
White Coats White Coveralls Hickory Coveralls Helmets
Aprons, regular neoprene 59
Aprons for boners Belts
Mitts, for freezers Mitt Liners
Leather Gloves, for maintenance Cotton Gloves, for beef shipping, canning, kill & cut Rubber Boots White Pants, for drivers White Shirts, drivers only Rubber Gloves Freezer Coats
Gloves, sanitary throw away Parkas
Leather Gloves, Winter Mitts and Liners Hair Nets
BRACKET VALUES Effective 1 April 1992
Bracket	Vatue-v
01	T4t75
02	14.83
03	14.91
04	14.99
05	15.07
06	15.15
07	15.23
08	15.31
09	15.39
10	15.47
11	15.55
12	15.63
13	15.71
14	15.79
15	15.87
Bracket Value
21	16.35
22	16.43
23	16.51
24	16.59
25	16.67
26	16.75
27	16.83
28	16.91
29	16.99
30	17.07
31	17.15
32	17.23
33	17.31
34	17.39
35	17.47
36	17.55
60
BRACKET VALUES Effective 1 April 1992 (cont'd)
Bracket
16
17
18
19
20
Value
15.95
16.03
16.11
16.19
16.27
Bracket
37
38
39
40
Value
17.63
17.71
17.79
17,87.
BRACKET VALUES Effective 1 D icember 1992
Bracket
0
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Value
14.82
14.90
14.98
15.06
15.14
15.22
15.30
15.38
15.46
15.54
15.62
15.70
15.78
15.86
15.94
16.02
16.10
16.18
16.26
16.34
16.42

Bracket
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
Value
16.50
16.58
16.66
16.74
16.82
16.90
16.98
17.06
17.14
17.22
17.30
17.38
17.46
17.54
17.62
17.70
17.78
17.86
17.94
18.02
61
Bracket
0
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Bracket
01
02
03
04
05
06 07
BRACKET VALUES
Effective 1	ttfirW 1993
Fas)/	Bracket 21
15.25	22
15.33	23
15.41	24
15.49	25
15.57	26
15.65	27
15.73	28
15.81	29
15.89	30
15.97	31
16.05	32
16.13	33
16.21	34
16.29	35
16.37	36
16.45	37
16.53	38
16.61	39
16.69	40
16.77	
BRACKET VALUES Effective 1 December 1993
Value. J	£ Bracket
15.32^7 71x40	22
15.48	23
15.56	24
15.64	25
15.72	26
15.80	27
15.88	28
Value
16.85
16.93
17.01
17.09
17.17
17.25
17.33
17.41
17.49
17.57
17.65
17.73
17.81
17.89
17.97
18.05
18.13
18.21
18.29
18.37/
Value
17.00
17.08
17.16
17.24
17.32
17.40
17.48
17.56
BRACKET VALUES
Effective 1 December 1993 (cont’d)
Bracket
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Value	Bracket
15.96	29
16.04	30
16.12	31
16.20	32
16.28	33
16.36	34
16.44	35
16.52	36
16.60	37
16.68	38
16.76	39
16.84	40
16.92	
Value
17.64
17.72
17.80
17.88
17.96
18.04
18.12
18.20
18.28
18.36
18.44
18.52
JOB RATES
Note: (In all departments where applicable)
Truck and Scaler.....
Labourer.............
Trucker..............
Carton Former........
Powerworker Operator
Stockyards
Scaler...........
Tatooer..........
Tiaetor Operator..,
Truck Driver.....
Yarder...........
Beef Kill
Driver...........
Knocker..........
Bracket
2
0
0
2
4
5
4
4
5 4
1
7
63
Shackler.........................
Slicker..........................
Header...........................
Weasand Pusher...................
Front and Hind Leg Skinner.......
Remove Head Prepare for Workup. ..
Leg Remover......................
Rumper...........................
Bunger...........................
Open and Rim.....................
Sider............................
Clear Out Shanks-Neck-Shoulders....
Backer Without Puller............
Brisket Opener...................
Gutter...........................
Splitter Power Saw...............
Carcass Trimmer..................
Beef Head Dejointer..............
Hind Leg Skinner.................
Anderson Hide Puller.............
Scribe Saw.......................
Remove Kidney and Defat..........
Neck-Bruise and Skirt Trim.......
Scaler...........................
Washer...........................
Shrouder.........................
All Round Beef Kill Butcher......
Rollerman........................
Beef Head Workup.................
Catch Blood......................
Plasma Operation.................
Head Washer (Flusher)............
Held Rail........................
Cut Off Front Legs, Snout & Dehorn
Jowl Opener......................
Coolerman........................
64
5
12
'14
6
20
4
4
22
6
21
23
20
22
6
12
13
5
8
20
19
5
5
5
5
2
7
19
2
7
2
4
2
9
5
7
3
Hides
Inspector-Grader..............................
Trimmer.......................................
Tie. Scale and Truck..........................
Hide Man, Pull from Tank......................
Beef Coolers and Shipping
Coolerman.....................................
Scaler - Carlot...............................
Scaler and Deskman............................
Beef Lugger...................................
Beef Breaker, Primal Cuts (Any Saw)........... 1
Rib Beef......................................
Sack — Wrap — Stone”..........................
Coolerman — Recording Grades..................
Sort Selected Carcasses for Loading...........
Trimmer.......................................
Order Filler — Tagged or Not Tagged...........
Beef Boning
Beef Breaker — Any Saw........................ 1
Domestic Beef Boner........................... 1
Trimmer — Whizzard Knife......................
Pack — Scale — Record.........................
Retail Cut Fabricator............................ 1
Bone — Roll — Stitch — Fresh Hams.............
Check Trimmer.................................
Packer and Scaler.............................
Truck. Scale and Record.......................
Fresh Boning (Saskatoon)
Fresh Boner...................................... 1
Mechanical Deboner Operator...................
Fresh Boner/Sawman............................... 1
Fresh Boner, Prepare for Breakup................. 1
65
CO CO O) CD	CGCOCOOO—“--C^OOCO—^	OOCOJ^COrOCTlCO'vl'vJ'^JCO	CO-Ps.-fc.CT)
Bloc-Redi Beef
Bloc-Redi Boner.....................
Prepare for BresikTip...............
Beef Breaker — Primal Cuts (Any Saw).
Beef Breaker’s Helper...............
Bag Primal Cuts — Cry-O-Vac.........
Vacummizing Product.................
Pack — Scale — Record...............
Beef Casings
Tripe Timmer — Defat and Open
Tripe Washer and Trimmer......
Bung Trimmer..................
Middle Flusher................
Casing Packer.................
Separate and Tie-Off..........
Tripe Scraper.................
Hog Casings
Casing Puller...................
Casing Machine Operator.........
Casing Machine Operator's Helper
Salter and Measurer.......................
Bung Puller..............................
Bung Flusher.............................
Bung Trimmer and Grader..................
Open Stomachs............................
Casing Packer.............................
Separate Plucks from Viscera..............
Inspector and Grader......................
Prepare Viscera...........................
Fancy Meat Trimmer and Casing Processor..
Fancy Meats
Trim Chitterlings........
Fancy Meat Trimmer.......
Grade — Scale and Pack.
13
11
13
4
4
4
4
4
5 4
66
3s.rococncncoa>ro05corocno5 ro-^coro->joicn
Save Glands......
Liver Skinner....
Packer and Scaler
Slunk (collect slunk blood),,..
Trim Tongues...............
Trim Plucks................
Save Hog Stomachs..........
Wash and Pack Animal Tripe Save Animal Foods..........
4
4
3
5
4
4
5 4 4
Rendering
Sludge Truck Driver...........
Blow Tank Operator............
Expeller Operator.............
Tankman.......................
Sharpies — Operator...........
Sharpies — Assistant..........
Flotation and Tallow Clarification
Inedible Truck Loader.........
Spare Rendering Man...........
5
5
9
9
11
Hog Kill
Driver — Hogs.........................
Electrical Stunner....................
Shackler...............................
Sticker................................
Scalding Tank Tender...................
Feed and Operate Dehairing Machine.
Gam Cord Cutter.......................
Insert Gambrel and Hang...............
Toenail Puller........................
Carcass Shaver (Knife) Hams...........
Balance........
Brisket Opener........................
Open Aitch-Bone.......................
1
6
7
15
2
a
6
3 2 7 6 6
4
67
CD 4^ CO O
Belly Opener...........................
Bung Dropper...........................
Gutter.................................
Tongue Remover.........................
Splitter — Mechanical..................
Legend Stamper.........................
Trim .Necks............................
Head Dejointer (Mechanical)............
Head Breaker...........................
Kidney Puller..........................
Leaf Lard Puller.......................
Leaf Lard Scraper......................
Pririt-'O-Matic Scaler.................
Held Rail — Complete Job...............
Remove Bruises— Udders — Adhesions.
Place Hog in Cooler....................
Rollerman..............................
Skin Heads.............................
Cheek Chisler and Break................
Trim Head Bones........................
Trim Scalps............................
Cut Off Ear and Heads..................
Operate Hand Singer....................
Mechanical SWnner Operator.............
Hog Turner.............................
11
1
1
1
I
Pork Cutting
Coolerman................
Cooler Scaleman..........
Cut Gam Cord — Mark Ham
Remove Ham...............
Feed Dunseth Knife Lift-Neck Bones Band Saw Ham Trimmer Butt Trimmer Picnic Trimmer
68
c£5CO(£>cococn-''j-vj-pi-—^	ocoro-f^rocfioa^rorocncouirNocncocoGocni'o—*•—•■roro
iutt and Picnic Trimmer yiechanical Butt Puller...
Jelly Ribber..................
Jack Ribber...................
3elly Trimmer.................
5ull and Trim Loins and Backs Jack Boner.
’ork Trimmer, yiechanical Skinner Vhizzard Knife Operator.
’acker and Scaler...............
’ork Boner......................
enderloin Remover...............
yiechanical Loin Puller Operator.
Jemove Ham Trim.................
Jollerman.......................
Jet Up Pork Cut and Pack........
’repare Ham for Defatting.......
3ack Boner......................
Jtility Man.....................
’ork Grading and Packing
D.V.P. Operator..............
Dut Grader...................
Sealer and Packer............
vlechancial Skinner Operator.. A/rap Cuts (Freezer and Sales)
Checker......................
_ard Carton Packer...........
/otater Operator.............
Deboner Machine Operator.....
Darton Hauler................
Clear' Up....................
’ork Boning
Dork Boner................
Mechanical Skinner Operator ..
69
9 13 11 11 11 11 13
3
3
3
3
7
4 13
8
2
4
5 13
5
3
4 3 3 2
7 2
8 6
3
4
7
3
Packer and Scaler....
Truck Scale and Record
Curing
Challenge Cook Operator
Selo Injector Operator..
Pickle Maker.............
Anco Injector Pump Operator. Fork Lift Operator Load and Unload Vats Multi-Stix Machine Operator, Warick Tightener and Clipper
Whizzard Knife Operator.........
Tree Washer....................
Warrick Continuous Stutter.....
Truck, Scale and Product Control
Converting Cured Cuts
S.R Converting (Butts, Picnics, Loins, Etc.) Mechanical Skinner....................
Fresh Ham Break-Up — Individual Operations
Bone Hauler....................................
Boner
Prepare for Dept. Operations..
Trimmer...........................
Prepare Meat for Further Processing Membrane Skinner.................
Smoked Meats Preparation
Belly Puller..............
Tmter......,..
Spare Smokehouse Tender (Hours Worked)
Stuff Visking Product....................
Tightener and Clipper....................
Tipper-Tie Operator......................
70
1;
T
1
1
Stockinette end Hang.................
Smokehouse Helper/Cleaner............
3elly Comber.........................
Jelly Hanger.........................
looked and Sliced Ham Department
Jiffex Mold Washer...................
looked Ham Manufacture...............
Ham Canning
Code Pack and Record.............
<nock Out and Pack...............
Hut Ham Portions.................
Jcaler...........................
Ham Press Operator...............
Closing Machine Operator.........
3lace in Cans....................
Washer...........................
Pack Tins To Cartons.............
Retort Operator..................
Ham Stutter Operator.............
Code Lids, Wash Cans and Record
Sausage
Warrick Loader.............................
Warrick and Box Closing Machine Operator.
Box Former Operator........................
Pack to Cartons............................
Fresh Sausage Product Supplier.
Hydroflaker Operator., diener Hanger.
Scale Meat for Batches ..
Grinder Operator.
Silent Cutter Operator.
Vacuum Mixer Operator..
Stuffer Loader,
Loaf and Bolo Stuffer..
1
2
2
1
1
3
71
cnro4*.ooma>i>o-‘--P*.-‘--‘-roro	coc_nro-‘-oco-P^r\ccocorv>co
Del and Cook Manufacturer Frank-A-Matic Operator and Utility Bolo Hanger Sausage Stutter Casing Preparer Linker Tier
Hanger.
Tipper Tie Operator Fresh Sausage Packer
Wiener Packer........
Wiener Peeler Operator Frank-A-Matic Attendant Pack and Record.
Pre-Clip Visking Casings.
Pack to Cartons....................
Hy-Cut Operator....................
Packer and Scaler — Bulk Weners...
Blender Operator...................
Scaler Fresh Sausage...............
Blender Operator, Set Up Equipment
Stick and Tree Washer..........
Scaler and Snorkel Vac Operator
Sausage Maker Helper...........
Haul Supplies, Setup and Blend.. Wener Sorter...................
Frozen Prepack
Patty Machine Operator.........
Packer Hi Speed Patty Line.....
Other Help (Packers, Sealers, etc.).
Slicing and Packaging
Tiromat Machine Operator...................
Slice and Pack Coolerman...................
Set Up, Operate and Attend Bacon Slice Equip.. Bacon Press Operator.......................
72
!acon Slice Operator.,.........................
’ack to Sales..................................
Helper 6/18 Feed Packaging Machine.............
.oaf Hauler and Scaler.........................
>02 and 730 Machine Operator...................
iacon Grader...................................
Bacon Scaler...................................
’ack and Record................................
Select and Pack Sliced Bacon...................
>y-0-Vac Band Saw Operator.....................
>y-0-Vac Machine Operator......................
j.icer Operators...............................
:eed Packaging Machine (Post All Specific Machines)..
’ack, Scale and Record.........................
:eed Label Machine 902 and 802.................
Bag Product — Cry-O-Vac........................
3ack Cry-O-Vac Product.........................
:eed Wiener Chill Unit.........................
fend and Operate Warrick Loader (Wieners)......
Bnorkel Operator...............................
Botomatic Machine Operator (Cry-O-Vac).........
Vlake, Stack and Record 802, 902...............
Operate Wiener Peelers.........................
3and Saw Operate...............................
Table Person...................................
:eed Packaging Machine Dixie 2400..............
nsert Labels and Label Dixie 2400..............
°ack Deep Draw Product Dixie 2400..............
Scale and Record — Dixie 2400..................
Dixie Union 2400 Operator......................
’ack to Sales — Scale and Record — Wieners.....
Midnights
Midnight Processing............................
Shipping Dock — Trucks and Freezers
Utility Person........................
73
3
3
2
3
5
3
3
2
3
2
2
2
2
3
2
2
2
2
2
3
5
2
3
2
2
2
2
2
3
5
3
3
5
Truck Driver — Deliveries....................
Head Freezerman..............................
Freezerman’s Helper..........................
Truck Driver's Helper........................
Receiver.....................................
Checker and Scaler...........................
Warehouse Receiver...........................
Fork Lift Truck Operator.....................
Truck Jockey.................................
Truck Jockey (Saskatoon).....................
Load and Unload Dress Hogs...................
Elevator Operator............................
High Lift Operator (Freezers Only)...........
Freezer Checker..............................
Sort and Load Mixed Merchandise..............
Freezer Controller...........................
High Lift Operator (Hours Worked - Not Posted).
Plant Market
Retail Cut Fabricator Packer and Scaler
Plant Administration
Janitor.....................
Fill Plant Orders — Storeroom.
r....................................
Head Laundryman.................................
Night Clean-Up — One Year Contract..............
NOTE: A person posting to a job with a one year contract is: (a) exempted from any layoff during the one year period
(b) excluded from bidding onto another job during the one year period.
The one year contract is effective from the date of awarding of the posting. Subject to six (6) week qualifying period.
Night-Clean-up — No Contract....................
Laundry Attendant, Presser and Mender...........
Spare Laundryperson (Hours Worked)..
74
*5
y
1