AGREEMEN
SOURCE
rio. nr
(
t *
i
4"
between
FLETCHER’S FINE FOOD(8\LtD
IMiV.uY;';- M
n b m ■* ■■’
PI htrx
7550 - 40th AVENUE RED DEER, ALBERTA
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F.U C.I.O., C.LC.
Local 1118P-2
#4, 49f7 - 48th STREET RED DEER, ALBERTA T4N 1S8
EFFECTIVE
JUNE 1, 1986 to May 31, 1988
00299 (02)
INDEX
Article	Page
I	General............................ 1
II	Bargaining Agency ................ 2
III	Management......................... 3
IV	Gender............................. 3
V	Wages.............................. 4
VI	Thirty-seven Hour Guarantee....... 6
VII	Hours of Work and Overtime ........ 0
VIII	Statutory Holidays.................12
IX	Seniority .........................14
X	Vacations .........................19
XI	Grievance Procedure................21
XII	Safety and Health..................24
XIII	Separation Allowance...............28
XIV	Work Methods.......................30
XV	Contracting Out...................31
XVI	Part-time Employees................32
XVII	General .-.........................33
XVIII	Duration of Agreement..............40
Bracket Values and Labour Rates ... 42
Letters of Understanding.....43 & 46
Job Rates..........................47
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Vancouver, 0.C, Oils 14th day of Juno, A.D. 1986.
Between:
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD.
7550 - 40lh Avenue Bag 5641
Rod Deer, Alberta
(hereinafterreferrod lo as tho "Company").
OF HIE FIRST PART
and:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.,
LOCAL 1118P-2 #4. 4917- 40th Slreel Red Deer, Alberta
(hereinafter referred to as tho "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
AT1TICLE I — G0M33AL
One oftho main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain in full force arid nlfoct a harmonious relationship between the Management and the Employees. No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Management and the Organization.
1
ARTICLE II — BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1.
The Company or anyone authorized to act for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agoncy as certified by the Labour Relations Board for tho Province of Alberta, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee Ihorcof in any and all mailers affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in tills Agreement, who are members of the Union and who become members of the Union, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, A.F.I.. C.I.O. C.L.C. Local 1118P-2, looking towards a peaceful anti amicable settlement of any differences that may arise betweenthe Company and the Union.
Section 2.
(a)	The Company agrees to retain in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Section 1, Article H. of this Agreement, only members of the Union in good slnnding.
The Company shall be free I o hire new employees who are riot members of the Union, provided said nonmembers, whether pail-time or full time employees shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application within ten (to) days after employment and become members within thirty (30) working days.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide cad i newernployoontthe time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with Ihe name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee's dale of hire, the contents of Ihe letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company furthor agrees to provide the Chief Steward of the Union, once a monlli, with a list containing names of ail employees who have terminated Iheir employment during the previous month.
2
Section 3.
(a)	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from tho employee affected, such fines, assessments and foil la tign fees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of tho membership of (he Union. The regular monthly dues will be deducted from each hi-wnnkly paycheque, and the amount of each deduction will bo arrived at by annualizing tho deductions and dividing by twenty-six (26).
(b)	T he Company will procure from such new and probationary employees the necessary membershipiapplications and membership in Hie Union shall be granted within the above mentioned thirty day period.
(c)	Monies deducted during any month shall bo forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Troasumr of the Union not later than tire fifteenth (15th) day of tho month for which dues are deducted and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made.
ARTICLE III — MANAGEMENT
The management of tho plant and direction of the working forces Including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling are vested exclusively In the Company, provided that this will not he used for fho purpose ol discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — GENDER
Except whoro specifically stated lothe contrary, provisions of this Agreement apply to all employees In the bargaining unit.
3
ARTICLE V —WAGES
Section 1.
(a)	(i) Effective June 1,1986, wage rates shall he increased by $.45 per hour.
(h) Effective Juno 1,1987 wage rates shall ho Increased by $.46 per hour.
Section 2.
(a)	Employees whose schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays and Sundays or Statutory Holidays mentioned in this agreement shall be paid one and one-hall (1'4) times their regular rate for all scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee. Such premiums shall not be considered as part af the employee's basic rate.
(b)	The increments between brackets will remain at eight (0) cents for the duration of this contract.
Section 3.
When a qualified employeels required temporarily to fill a higher rated job he shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated Job he shall receive his higher rate. A qualified employee working fifty percent or more of his time on the highest rated job shall be paid at that rate.
For fhe purposes of this section, the 50% calculation Is done on a daily basis. If a statutory holiday falls at the end (for In tho middio of a period when an employee is temporarily performing a higher rated job, tho employee will be paid for the statutory holiday at the higher rated job.
Section 4.
(a) Employees shall receive tho applicable job rates provided for it> the wage schedule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
(b)	Thn word "qualified" as used in this Agreement shall be Interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without Instruction or assistance. Except by agreement with tho Union, tho period of qualifying shall not exceed six (6) weeks, after which the rate shall be paid.
(c)	Instruction or assistance Intralnlng anynmployoo may ho glvnn by a supervisory officer of the Company or by nn employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or Department Supervisor,
Section 5.
(a) If due to lack of work, an employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks lo work whom the job rate is lower, lie shall retain his regular job rate while so doing. At tho expiration of twelve (1%) weeks Ihe lower job rate shall prevail. The twelve week period shall bo ex* tended one (1) day for each day tho employer* is required to return temporarily to his previous higher rated work. However, should tho employee he returned temporarily to hisformerjobfora period cf three (3) consecutive weeks or more, the twelve (12) week period will recommence from the day he/slie again returns to a lower rated job.
;b) If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at tho employee's request, then Ihe lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
Section 6,
(a)	An off shift premium of thirly-five (35) conls per hour will be paidfor all hours worked betweenG:00 p.m. and 6.00 a m.
(b)	An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any lime other than between 6,00 a.m. and 10.00 a.m. inclusive shall receive an off shift premium of thirty-live (35) conls per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
5
Section 7.
The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee (he hours worked regularly, those at tlrno and one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company.
Section 8.
An employee injured while working In the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours In the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury tie is sent homo or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department: but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. Tho Company agrees lo provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would menu a ride to and from the hospital.
Section 8.
Attached io this Agreement shall he a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
Section 10.
Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for more Hum otic (I) continuous hour in temperatures below 2 degreesCelsius shall receive a premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour for all hours so worked.
ARTICLE VI — THIRTY-SEVEN HOUF1 GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirly-seven (37) hours per week or pay In lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night Shift premium, except as herein provided. Section 1.
An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee Inr the week concerned reduced by tire number of hours missed by such absence.
6
Section 2.
An employee who Isexcusedfromwork for part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced tor the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
Section 3.
An employee who struts aftertho first of Hie payroll week shall bo guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of tlm guarantee which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week Is of forty hours.
Section 4.
Ernployens with seniority on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for (ho week in which notice is given. Should notice extend into subsequent week, then the employee shall be entitled Io their guaranteed hours cf pay lor each day of their notice period.
Section 5.
When it is apparent that a gang is going lo work loss than the guaranteed hours in any one week, itispermlssablo to use all of (tin gang on oilier work fri order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
Section 6.
The guarantee shall be If in same in the holidayweeks as all others. Pay received towny public holidays, or in the case of off shift days in lieu of, shall ho considered as earnings lor the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is tor hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
Section 7.
In order to meet the demands of the business the Company may h I re part-tlm o workers excl uded from tiio provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-time workers will he the first employees subject to layoff in the event of a layoff occurlng in the plant.
7
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Section 1.
The normal work week shall he eight (ft) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. The schedule of hours is to he posted on the bulletin hoard and agreed to by both patties.
Section 2.
The schedule of hours referred to In Section t shall be regular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement with the Union Committee and the Management.
Section 3.
Incompliance with Section? It is understood arid agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the cron lion cf sloady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
Section 4.
(a)	All time worked before or after (lie above schedule tf hours shall he paid for at one arid one-half (1%) times the employee's regular rate of pay. if by necessity an hourly rated employee Is required to work in excessof 11 continuous hours, he shall be paid double tlmo for such additional hours.
(b)	The Company and the Union recognize that it may bo necessary for employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours dire to fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume, but tho Company will limit hours of work beyond such regular number of hours lo what Is reasonable.
The methodto beusedto select employees to work any necessary overtime will he by department on a voluntary basis by seniority, hut In the event the number required is not obtained by this method, it will bo mandatory tor employees In the reverse cf seniority order.
8
Mandatory overtime wilt bo limited to two hours per (fay and six hours per week for each employee. Employees who have notified the Company of medical or dental appointments prior to the start of their shift shall ho excused from the above.
(c)	Whnn overtime is necossary, the Onion Steward of the department concerned shnlf bo notified. 7 he employee posted on tho Job for which overtime Is required shalt hnvo the first option cf working tho overtime. In the event this employee does not wish to work the overtime the supervisor wilt then canvass iho oilier employees within tho department as to their Individual wishes. This canvass isto bo conducted in the order cf senior qualified person, lo junior qualified person.
If any qualified person is fnadvorlnntly missed in this rotation, he shall bo given Urn first opportunity the next time overtime Is required in the department.
In tho event tho necessary number ot employees arc riot obtained within the department, Iho Company may draw employees from other departments in the plant on tho basis of senior qualified employer! available at the time overtime is requested.
Whero overtime on off shirts Is required, tho Company shall discuss tho matter with tho available Shop Steward and make the call-ins.
Section 5.
(a)	Overtime rates of one and one-half (I V>) times the regular hourfy rates shall bo paid for any time worked in excess of fhe scheduled hours as agreed to In this Article, up Io three (3) hours in any ono day and double time Ihnrcnftnr.
(b)	Double the regular hourly rates shall he paid to ail employees for work performed on Sunday, except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which tatter case the employee shall ho paiddoublo tho regular hourly rate If he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday,
9
(c)	One and one-half (1 V>) times the employees regular rate shall be paid for the first four (4) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double time thereafter.
Section 6.
Employees when called for work shall be guaranteed four (I) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this provision workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For work performed on Snlurdays, Sundays or statutory holidays, the employee shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overlime rate. Section 7.
Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, Is specially called in at any time outsldo his normal working hours shall he through when Ihe emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of tour (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rates.
Section 8.
Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period and five (5) hours without ihe second meal period. The second meal period shall be one-hall ('/?) hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of chargo by (he Company. If dun lo circumstances the Company does not provide a meal a cash equivafent will be added to his gross earnings for that fiscal week. The truck drivers shall produce a voucher for reimbursement purposes. The meal allowance referred lo will be five (5) dollars.
Section 9.
Employees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (VA) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall he exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company lime. In the event of an onrlter than normal start Ihe Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penally.
10
Section 10.
(a)	Continuous shill operalions shall bo given fatty-eight (48) hours notice of chnngn of shifts except In an emergency. Employeos who because ol an emergency are required to change shills shall be paid the applicable overtime rale until the expiration of (ho 48 hour notice.
(c) Single shill employees shall be given twenty-four {?A) hours nolico of change of shift except In an omergancy. Employees who because ol an emergency are required to change shifts shall bo paid tiro applicable overtime rales until tfio expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours.
Section 11.
(a)	Tho Company shall provide a qualified operator for the
sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This operator will bo responsible for all sharpening of ihis equipment In the plant.	*
(b)	The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers arid hooks which it considers necessary for the porformnne of tho work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to maintain Its present pracllce of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
Section 12.
A fifteen (15) minute rest period will tie given twice each shift, midway before lunch and midway alter lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2%) hours. It is agreed that except In cases ol persona! necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the day. It Is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not he abused.
Section 13.
The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will bo discussed in an nltompt to shorten the working hoursof the week, inproforonce lo laying off of employees.
.otlon 14.
f any female employee Is engaged or is presently working in the plant they shall receiveoxnr.tly the same rate of wages as male employees, if they are performing tiro task usually or previously performed by a maloemployoo, providing, however, that the employee Is as qualified to do the same work and Is physically capable of doing same.
Section 15.
When olher than emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effortwill be made to rehirenmplnyens who may be on layoff status in tire department whom overtime is to be worked.
Section 16.
A holiday shall be an employee's regular shift on a holiday Section 17.
Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule he need not be required to lake limo oil to bring his hours down to the standard working week.
ARTICLE VIII — STATUTORY HOLIDAYS Section i.
Ten (10) statutory holidays shall he recognized and a regular hourly paid employee, who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as sot out in Section 1 of Aitlr.le VI hereof, and who has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing Iho holiday, shall receive eight (0) hours pay at his job rate. Ifnn employee works on any such holiday or In the case of off-shift the day in lieu of, he shall receive In addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted in the event of the holiday falling on Sunday), at two (2) times his Jab rate.
12
The statutory holidays referred to herein are:
New Year's Day	Labour Ody
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
First Monday In August	Ooxing Day
Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days next preceding or next following any public holiday shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission from (tin Company to bo absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good cause arising from circumstances beyond his control. Tho Company will odvlso the Union In writing of such deductions.
Section 2.
In the event of a holiday falling on Sunday it shall he observed on tho riny substituted try tho Dominion Government. If the Dominion or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed, hourly rated employees required to work on it shall for the hours so worked receive three (3) times tholr regular hourly rates. If such day is In substitution for a holiday hereinafter specified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. Ifa paidStatutorylfolidayfallsona Saturday, the Friday prior loth© Saturdayshnil be observed as tho holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, (tin Monday immediately following tho Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
Section 3.
Any employee having fifteen (15) days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recogni7od ’holiday in the same payroll week in which such holiday occurs shall bo entitled to receive pay for such holiday.
Section 4.
An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, compensable or non-compensable Accident, during tho period in which a recognized paid slntulory
13
holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay and his rogutnr rnto of pay with limitation as deflnori In llio Weekly Indemnity Plan.
When A recognised stnlulory holiday (ails during the 3-day waiting period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible lor these benefits shall be paid eight {8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay lor each such statutory holiday.
Any employoe who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity honnflls and Is still disabled shall rncnlvo night (Of hours pay at his regular rate for any statutory holiday following wtihln three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability. Section 5.
An employee on leave (f absence shall he paid statutory holiday pay when either of the following conditions exist:
(a)	if an employee works his regularly scheduled work day preceding a paid statutory holiday and is on leave of absence on the regularly scheduled work day next following that stat he shall he eligible for paymentof stat pay for that statutory holiday.
(b)	If an employee works his last regularly scheduled work day prior to going on leave cf absence and. as expected, returns to work on tho regularly scheduled work day next following a paid statutory holiday, he shall he eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday.
Section 6.
If any of the paid holidays referred to In tills Article occur while an employee is on leave of absence lo attend Union functions he shall be paid eight{0) hourspny at his regular rate.
ARTICLE IX — SENIORITY
Section 1.
Seniority shall he defined as the length tf an employee’s service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day lie was first employed, unloss his seniority was broken, In which event such calculation shall he from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
14
Section 2.
Employees shall not ncqulro any nnnlnrlly righto until thoy havo nccumulalod sixty (60) days worked at which time they are entitled lo plant seniority from the original day of employment.
Section 3.
Seniority lists shall ho revised and brought up-lrvrin la every two (7) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to llm Union.
Section A.
(a)	Inlho bargaining unit the filling of vacancies shall bo based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed six (6) weeks,
(b)	Vacancies within Iho bargaining unit shall be posted for five (5) working days lo give employees with seniority ample ilmo to apply. I n the case that no application is received for any posting, the vacancy shall ho filled by the junior qualified employee available until the junior employee in the plant is trained for the job posting. Transfers to jobs will bo made within ton (f 0) working days from the date iho posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves Impossible, suitable arrangements will he arrived at after consultation with the Union. An employee who was absent when a vacancy Is fillerJ shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply (pr thn vacancy. There shall be no more than two (2) job postings per employee per year.
Section 5.
Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shafl he no obligation to rehire whori an employee:
(a) Voluntarily leaves llm service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or Is discharged for Just cause.
15
<C)
After botng laidoff by Iho Company, fails to report for work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort
on the part of the Company. The presont method of contact, by telephone, and regisleredteller to the employees! the? last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of tho Company, and if within two fJAworking days after receipt of such notice, the employee falls to report for duty, or advise tho Company that he will report within five (5) working days, tlio Company shall ho ontlllnd to assume that the said employee left the Companyservice voluntarily.
Has been laid off for a period longer than Iho lime allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Seniority 'el Date of Separation
Less Than One Year One Year and Over
Length of Allow*We time
Oft Payroll
Six Months Two Years Maximum
Section 6,
Absence from work becauseof sickness, accident, or leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to II to absence or to one of equal rating provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (6) weeks.
Section 7.
in Hie case of reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as follows:
(a) Probationary employees, i.e., those willi less than sixty
(60) days worked.
(ti) Those with plant seniority.
In tho latter case, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior operator, alter a reasonable time lo qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority except where immediate essential quaiilteatlons are necessary for the officlent operatnn of the plant. In such cases the Company will discuss tho matter will) tho Onion.
f6
Section 8.
(a)	In cases of Increases in tho working forces, rehiring shall be In the reverse order to that of layoffs. The .Company shall advise tho Union when a layoff is about lotakeplaco nnd shall give the Union a list ol employees to bo laid off or rehired. In cases wltnro it isnocessary lo secure workers in loss tiino than Ilia required notice, the Company, if tinnhlo lo make contact with Urn senior eligible employee may recalllhe next senior employee and so on down the list until Iho vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given tho work for which tho next senior employee was recalled.
(b)	In the case of layoff, other than In tho event of emergencies herein referred lo, employees shall be given one (|) working day's notice for every, completed six (6Jmnnlhs seniority, with a minimum noticed two (2)working days. In case of an emergency duo to causes beyond the Company's control which results in the closing of a part or whole of the plant employees shall be given one (1) calendar day's notice for every completed six (6) months seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days notice and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days but such two days shall he exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. Ift/io Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days is available at the time any layoff is lo become effective then tho notice shall be deemed to ho extended for the period represented by such additional daysol work.
(c)	Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (f 0) working days or less, as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that tills shall no! be used as discrimination to any employees, and provided that the employees and the Union is Informed that such work is of a lompornry nature.
17
cllon 9.
When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees lo lower rated jobs because of a shortage of work, the employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer. In the case of temporary transfers the basis shall he that of the junior qualified employee.
Section 10.
In cases of gang reduction or Increases, an employeemny elect to take a layoff or continue lo be laid off if it is mutually agreed that tho work which Is available could prove detrimental to the health of tho employee.
Section 1t.
Employees, not to exceed two f2;.who are appointed to or elected to do business for the Union shall he granted leave of absence without pay to attend lo such huslness. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for (he period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated In the job held prior to the Inavo of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay provided they are capable ol doing the job wilhin the usual qualifying period.
Section 12.
Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve tho Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agrcemnnl.
Section 13
Upon an employee accepting promotion outside Iho bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date cf acceptance. Said employee shall be allowed six (6) months in which lo prove himself capable of filling the position concerned. If such employee does not qualify wilhin such lime, he shall report to his former position without loss of seniority. Provided that if before the expiry of six (6) months, he may bo required to revert to his former position before such time without prejudice and without loss of seniority.
18
Section 14.
Leave of absence for the purposlo of abending Union schools, conventions, conferences, or negotiations of this Agreement shall be granted by the Company ofi a written request from the Local Union subject to the following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall begrantedloavn of absence not to exceed thirty {.10) days, providing thnt tiro absence of such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations of Iho Company. Whenever possible the Union shall give Iho Company written notice of not less than fourteen (14) days before the requested leave Is to commence.
A request for an extension of a leave of absence must be made prior to (lie expiration of the leave already granted and will be considered in rotation to existing conditions.
The Company agrees to allow 1% of iho bargaining unit to be away at any given time. However, under no circumstances is it permissible Fo have more than two people absent from one department per shift.
Section 15.
Employees, may in case of lll-heallh, bo transferred from one department lo another, as may be mutually agreed upon.
Section 16.
Disabled or handicapped employees will he assigned to jobs wherever possible without regard to soniorily at a rate or rates agreed upon.
ARTICLE X — VACATIONS
Vacation with pay should be granted as follows:
Section 1.
An employee becomes eligible for vacation after one year when the employment records show the following:.
(a)	They have attained seniority within six (6) months from date of hire; and
(b)	Have not been off the payroll for more than sixty (60) consecutivo days.
19
Payment for lliis first vacnlion onl Moment will he cnlcufalnrf lour (4) porcenl of IIKt gross earnings In thn period.
As of January 1, 19(33 any omployeo attaining seniority rights and meeting Iho above requirements will have the same vacation date as seniority date.
In the event the employee is off the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date becomes iho date of rehire.
Section 2.
1 hroo (3) weeks vacation annually alter lour (4) years service with the Company.
Section 3,
Four (4) weeks vacation annually alter ton (10) years service with the Company.
Section 4.
Five (5) weeks vacation annually after twenty (20) years service with the Company.
Section 5.
Six (6) weeks vacation annually alter twenty-five (25) years service with the Company.
Section 6.
Pay for each week of holidays granted shall he on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rateof pay cr two (2) percent of gross earnings for each week of holiday, whichever Is iho grenlor. The Company agrees that employees are entitled to receive their vacation pay on the last day worked before commencing their vacation. This is provided the employee provides throe (3) days notice to their supervisor.
Section 7.
(a) Employees absent fr reasons of sickness, and/or accident, who return to work following these phases wittiin the year, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article X, and pay for such vacnlion shall be provided for In Article X.
20
(h) In cnso of sickness, componsnblo and non-compensable accident cnrllflnd by a practicing physician, an employee, upon hisreturn to the service of the Company.shall receive service credit for each week of such absence not to exceed twenty-6ix (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received. The above credits shall be confined to ono year's vacation riqhls on thn basis ol forty (40)hoirrs per week for the twenty-six week (26) period at tils regular rated pay.
Section 6.
Employees whoso service with the Company terminates before the end of any vacation year, shall receive compensation therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the 11 Annual Holidays Act," of the Province ot Alborin.
Section 9.
Vacation periods shall be arranged subject to tho demands of the business, but a sincere effort will be made lo arrange vacations ot a time convenient to all In accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively. Each year upon completion of vacation lists, they wilt be posted on the bulletin board.
Section 10,
If a paid statutory holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory (lay's holiday with pay.
Section 11.
Employees with flvo (5) years or moro seniority with the Company will bo entitled jo their full vacation during the ru worrier months evoiy four (4) years. On tho basis of twenty-five (25) percent of those eligible in each year in order of seniority.
ARTICLE XI —GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE
Should differences arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the manner and application of tho provisions of this Agreement, tho Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any
21
;o. stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other lustrlctlon of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plant or premises, nor will employees take part in any such action.
The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. An earnest effort will be made lo settle all matters promptly In the following manner:
When an employee & suspended, dismissed, a* given written discipline tho Company shall tiavo a Union Representative present at the time of such action.
Section 1.
Shop Stewards may Initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action dons not solve the matter, n representative of tho Union will he allowed to further investigate. In tiro event that either a Union Steward or a Union Representative must leave his job or department in connection with the matter, he shall first notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. They must report to the supervisor In charge of tho department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in said department.
Section 2.
STEP 1: The employee shall first take the question up with his shop steward and supervisor at the same time.
Section 3.
STEP 2: If the case Is not settled, then it shall be handled between Ihe Chief Steward and the department steward where the grievance was Initialed, with or without the aggrieved employee, and the Plant Superintendent, or his designee.
Section 4.
STEP 3: In the event that no conclusion is reached in the two (2) preceding steps, a meeting shall be scheduled between tho Grievance Committee and the Company. An outside Union representative may attend this meeting. Also, the aggrieved employee rnay attend to present his evidence.
22
Section 5.
When a settlement is reached at any singe of the procedure, such decision shall be final arid binding.
Section 6.
//an employ oo is dismissed for any reason and feels dial he has been unjustly dismissed, he shall within tlirco (3) working days Irom Uie receipt of notice of dismissal, notify Hie Grievance Committee. Tim Grievance Committee will in turn notify the Company on the same dny they rocolve such notice from the employee,
Tho dismissal in question then shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such, beginning at the third step.
Section 7.
I {subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjusify dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his former position and shall be compensated for any benefits or lost time. The rate to be used for lost time is his applicable rate of pay.
Section 6.
Them shall ho time limits of two (2) working days between each step ol the grievance procedure, unless changed by mutual agreement.
Section 9.
All grievances shall be taken up on Company lime during regular working hours.
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE Section 1.
A Grievance Commilteo of three (1) who shall bo regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined t?y them, and the Company shall he kept informed of the personnel of this Committee Grievances shall be taken up at such times agreeable to both parties.
otlon 2.
Where the foregoing procedure for Iho setllomnnl of disputes has been employed, and the dispute remains unsettled, the dispute shall be referred to an Aibltrntlon Commitloo consisting cf three (3) members, one lo bo appointed by the Union, one by the Company and the third who shall act as Chairman lo he mutually agreed upon hy the other two. If agreement cannot be reached within one (I) week as to tiro appointment of a third member, ho shall ho appointed hy Hie Minister af Labour for llto Province cf Alberta. Adedslon ol the majority of the Arbitration Committee shall bo deemed to bo a decision of the Committee. In reaching its decision the Committee shall be governed by Iho provisions nl llils Agreement. Decisions rendered shalllm final end binding upon all patties concerned. The Company and the Union agreo to hoar an cguol share of expense incurred, If any, by reason of employment of n third member ef an Arbitration Cnmmillon.
Section 3.
A single arbitrator may be substituted for tho arbitration eommillne referred lo in Section 2 if mutually agreed to by Ibe Company arid Ilia Union. This single arbitrator is lo He appofnled jointly by Hie Company and the Union, and the nominee's expenses are lo be shared on a 50-50 basis.
ARTICLE XII — SAFETY AND HEALTH Section 1. Co-operation on Safety
The Union and the Employer shall co-operate inestnhlish-ing rules and practices which promolo an occupational environment which will enhance the physiological and psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protecUon from (adore adverse to employee licalih and safety.
Section 2. Union—Employer Health and Safely Committee
A Health and Safety Committee shall he established which is composed af two Union and two Employerrepresenlatlves.
24
1 ho llnalth nn<l Snfoly CommUloa shall hold meetings as requested by Ifro Union or bytlie Employer for iolnlly conskinr-log, monitoring, Inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices and to Improve exisling health and safety conditions and practices.
Minutes shall ho taken of all meetings and copies shall ho sent to Iho Employer andtho Union. A Union I leallh and Safety Representative shall have tho right to participate in Iho mnnl-toring of the work place and to accompany government safety Inspeclors on Inspecllon tours.
Section 3. Health and Safety Committee Pay Provisions
Time spent by members of the Cornmltten in the course of their duties shall tie considered as limo worked and shall tie paid for in accordance with tiro terms cf this Agreement.
Section 4, Health and Safety Clothing,
Tools and Equipment
The Employer shall provide all employees working in any unsanitary or potentially hazardous jobs with atl the necessary tools, protective equipment and protective clothing required. These shall bo maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the Employer's oxpense. II Is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures. The condillons necessitating their use shall be subjected lo further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimination of the hazard.
Section 5. Monitoring Equipment
The Employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detecting and recordingpolential and actual health and safety hazards.
25
Section 6. Compliance with Health and Safety Legislation
The Employer shall comply with all applicable federal, provincial and municipal health and safety legislation and regulations. All standards established under the legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be Improved upon by agreement nl Iho Union-Employer Uonllh arid Safety Committee or tiagotiations with Ilia Union.
Section 7. Disclosure of Information
The Employer shall provide the Union written information which Identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and physical hazards associated with Iho work environment. Where applicable, this Informal km shall Include, hut not restricted lo, the chnmicnt breakdown of trade name descriptions, Information on known arid suspeciod potential hazards, the maximum concentration exposure levels, precautions to be taken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes.
Section 8. Safely and Health Records,
Reports and Data
The Employer shall provide the I lealth and Safely Committee upon request all accident reports and other health and safely records in the possession of the employer, Including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workers' Compensation Board and other government departments atid agencies.
Section 9. Time Off for Health and Safety Training
Union members of the Health arid Safety Committee shall be entitlod lo timo oil from work with no loss of seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by Ihe Alberta Workers' Compensation Board lor Instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
20
Section 10. Right to Defuse nnrt No Disciplinary Action
No employee shall he discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or in any workplace or to operate any equipment where he/sho in conjunction with tho Health and Safety Committer*, ascertains that it would he unsafe or unhealthy to hiinsolf/hersnlf, an tinhorn child, a woikmnte or Ihe public, or whore II would he contrary to the applicable federal, provincial or municipal health and safety legislation or regulations. There shallbo no lossnf pay or seniority during the period of refusal. No employee shall bo ordered or permitted to work on a job which anotherworker has refuseduntil tho matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settlod.
Section 11. Proper Training
No employee shall be required lo work on any job or operate any piece of equipment unlit ho/she has rocoivod proper training and instructions.
Section 12. Injury Pay Provisions
An employee who Is injured during working hours, and Is required lo leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such Injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rale of pay, without deduction from sick leave, t inless a doctor or nurse states that the employee! s fit for further work on that shift.
Section 13. Transportation of Accident Victims
Transportation to the nearest physician or hospital for employees requiring medical care as a result of an accident shall be at the expense of the Employer.
Section 14. Health and Safety Grievance
Where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, It shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
2 7
ARTICLE XIII - SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
Section 1.
Should it become necessary to dose the plant or a sub-slnnlial departmonl of the plant and It is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, n separation allowance will bo paid to employees sub|ncl lotho following:
(a)	They linvo ono (1) or more years seniority
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within ninety (90) days preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Workers' Compensation or off because of sickness or non-compensnlrln accident will tie eligible, provided they have not been off work i n excess ol the lime limits corresponding lo seniority as set out in Artide IX, Section 5(c).
(c)	They have not been granted retirement pension
(d)	The dosing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or oilier cessation of work, firo, government action or Act of God.
(e)	In order lo qualify forseparation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as requited.
(I) Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of thefbllowing schedule which Is lobe used incomputlng tho number of weeks' pay according to tho years of credited service. Payments are lo hocompuled on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or Ihe employee's basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
28
Yearn or Credited! Service 1 2 3 A
Weeks of
T>ny
t
1
V/2
2

G
7
V
9	..........................
10	....................................
11	and over, add lo f W weeks' pay for each yoar of credited service above ten (10) years.
3
3 Vi A'h 5 % 6'/? 7Vi
Example:
12 years of credited service:
First 10 years of credited servlco........7V> weeks’ pay
Service over 10 years
(12/10 or 2 x I Vi) .................... 3 weeks’pay
Total Separation allowance...............10Vi weeks' pay
, ,To the Separation Allowance computed as per example add vacation pay forlhe current calendar year if the employee
has qualified lor but not taken such vacnlion.
(g) The Company shall givo notice of itslnfenilon lo close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred lo in this Agreement, at least go calendar days prior lo such closing. Effective on the date of such nollcn being Issued all employees wllh seniority will be eligible to receive separation payments whether they are working or laid off.
Section 2.
Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationshipwith the Comnany and shall have no f triher rights under this Agreement or under any oilier Agreement between the signing parties.
29
Section 3.
In the event that pnrl of the plant remains open, omptoyons
iblo to receive separation allowance may elect to remain on me seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligible for recall, dutingwhich time the employee may request payment subject to the provision of the above section. Those re-employed on this basis will receive seniority credits up to Iho timo ofthrjlr layoffbdl nlvill notnccurmilnlo additional seniority during Ihe period of layoff.
Section A.
In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance underthis Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the plant is closed and will bemarieon the basis existirig at the time of closing.
ARTICLE XIV —WORK METHODS Change In Working Methods
Section 1.
(a) When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction In tho number of employees in a department, the Company will Inform the Chief Steward of tire Union of such change at (east ninely (90) days in advance of Ihe contemplated change and the parties will discuss what Is expected to fake place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible lor placement in Ihe plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article V, Section 5(a). Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority who are effected by such change and who are not eligible for placemen! in the
90
plant will bo entitled to tho provisions sot owl In Article XIII, Seclion 1. Where nn employee is transferred fo work where tho job rale is lower, as a direct result of Ihe Introduction of new
equipment, or whom an employed remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his rate shgfl not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts nil opportunities to post to work whore the job rate Is higher, unless it is unronr>nimb!n to expect such employees to apply duo lo such things as age, hoallh, working conditions, and Iho employee's ability to learn the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort is unablo to qualify his rate protection shall not be affected. In the application of or adjustment of bracket values, such an employee will
K)t be paid n rate greaterthan Ihe rate paid him at the time of o above meriNorted posting, except Sr reasons of a general
wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of (he three (3) year period set out above, ihe amount of rate ro-
duclfon shall he limited lotwo (2) brackets, at twelve (12) month Inlorvnls thereafter, fuillier reductions of a maximum of two (7) brackets shaft take place until tho lower rate prevails.
(b) Establishing rates far new Job^: For the purpose of this clause a new job is defined as one which is not presently being performed In the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the presentwage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining botwcon ihe Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall ho lelronctive lo the dale on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE XV— CONTRACTING OUT
bectfon 1.
Tho Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse affect on employees, availably of requited skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in rotation to its use and rolalivo cost comparison.
3f
St jn 2.
When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
Section 3.
Should an Arbitration Committee bo called on to review the Company's action, it may1consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard loall circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable time to elfect the decision.
Section 4.
This provision does not apply to installation and construction work Section 5.
The Company may at times experiment to determine g worfc can be performed effectively arid economically by its own employees. When this is done for a trial period ft shall not be considered a change of practice,should the Company elect to contract out after the trial period.
ARTICLE XVI — PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 1.
Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it Is practical to employ full time employees, and, except as otherwise agreed with the Chief Steward, part-time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. VWiene the work performed by pnrt-flmo or casual employees can he satisfactorily combined lo permit the employmenl of a full time employee, this will he done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work. Part-time emplooes shall work less than twenty-four (24) hours par week.
32
Section 2.
The Union may submit and (he Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.'
ARTICLE XVII — GENERAL
Section 1,
The Company shall supply bulletin boards for tho use of lha l Inion, for the posting of notices of officialUnion business.such notices lo be approved by the Management.
Section 2.
At tho option of Iho Company, when an employee's personal affairs make it desirable lor him in bo relieved ol C ompnny duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the m jgular vacation period to which an employee is entitled may b e granted for good and sufficient reason. This is providing that s1 rcli leave of absence does not interfere with the requirements «f Hie business. It is agreed that leave of absence shall not Bttorfere with other employees’ vacation choices.
Sectrori 3.
Leave of absence will not be granted for Iho purpose of a lowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try nut new work or venture into business for himself.
Eectfon 4.
Leave of absence, before being granted, musl bo requested in writing and approved by the Company in writing.
Section 5.
Laundry work service for outer work clothing shal I bo rn ain-nlnod at no cost to the omployoo.
Section 6.
The Company will allow the employees adequate relief ns well as necessary lime for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
33
Seciion 7.
The Company and the Union agree to supply a copy of (his Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
Section 8.
The Company nrjroon lo provide n ft til dny’fi pny lo rtny employee suffering Injury or emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital alien* tion. To be eligible for this pay, the employee must roped to his supervisor at to Ihe first aid attendant before leaving the plant. Section 9.
The Company agrees that any regular employee of Ihe Company summoned to appear lor Jury Duty, or who serves on Jury Duty, or Is a Subpoenaed Witness, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days with their regular gang. F the subpoena forwitneas isthe result of the employee working on anotherjob, this clause will not apply.
Section 10.
Any working conditions now In effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
Section 11.
When an employee abends the funeral of Immediate relative. tie shall receive eight (B) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral and two other days either immediately before or after the funeral, provided such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his regularwork days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall he one of the following: Spouse, Daughter. Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-In-Law, Father-in-Law, Sister-in-Law, Brother-In-Law, Grandparents and Grandchildren.
In the case of Grandparent In-Law, Stepson and Stop-Daughter, the employao is entitled lo the day of the funeral only.
34
Section 12.
(a)	Launderable ou!er work clothing, oilskin aprons, and oilskin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will bo supplied to employees. Such clothing romnlrw Ihepfopody eflhn Company and shell not bo removed from Itie Company's premises except in tho regular performance cf duty, arid must he relumed for new issue nr upon separation cf fho employee. Clothing nol relumed when worn out or upon soparation will be paid for by the employee.
(b)	The Company agrees to supply rubber boots to employees who have completed sixty (60) days worked. Worn out boots must be returned to the Company before a new pair will be Issued. These rubber boots remain the property cf the Company and must not be removed from the premises. Upon separation any employee not returning the hoots will be responsible lo reimburse the Company for the cost of the? hoofs.
Any employee with seniority who chooses not to wear the Company-provided rubberboofs will be granted a loot-wear allowance of $35.00 per year.
(c)	The Company agrees to grant all full lime hog loading employees with seniority, a heavy quilled vest or liner allowance cf $16.00 per year.
Section 13.
Tools—Mechanical Tradesmen of theMechanir.nl Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement took. Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in addition bo limited to a maximum of $70.00 per year, per affected employee.
Section 14.
The Chief Shop Steward shalt be notified by Management egarding the rate of pay and place of employment cf each new rniployeo.
35
section 15.
An employee who finds it necessary to apply for leave of absence as a result of her pregnancy, will upon presentation of a medical certificate denoting fitness for her work, and within three (3) months following delivery he reinstated to her former job or lo one of equal rating. It is agreed that employees referred to In this clause shall coniine lo nccumulnlo seniority while on such leave of absence.
Section 16.
The Company agrees to allow employees where required, five {5) minutes clean up lime prior to their regular quitting lime.
Section 17.
(a) Weekly indemnity benefits will he paid in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of the plan as detailed In the employee booklet tn the following amounts:
Slli Mid Suh«MV(inl
JOB nriACKEr	tut 4 Wo«k«	Wei**
0' 4 Bracket........ $285.00/Woek	$290.00/Wenk
6-12 Bracket.......... $300.00/Wnok	$305.00/Wook
13- Bracket & Over...	$315.00/Woek	$320.00/Wcek
Service scale for duration of payments is:
3 Months to 18 Months Service.............. 4 Weeks
18 Months to 5 Years Service................ 16 Weeks
5 Years to 7 Years Service.................26 Weeks
7 Years In to Years Service................Weeks
10 Years and Over .......................... S2 Weeks
The Company will pay the first $4.00 of the monthly premium for each employee. The Company and the employee will each pay 50% of the additional amount necessary lo maintain the plan. The Company will provide the Union with complete details of the plan.
Benefits will commence on the fourth (4th) day of absence for sickness ornon-compensahlo injury provided the employee oblnins medical certificate prior lo this day. In the event that a medical cndificale Is riot provided by the fourth (4lh) day of absence, benefits will not commenco until the certificate is provided.
30
The waiting period is waived after an employee is admitted to hospital for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
New employees have a 90 working day wailing (wind.
In the event an employee has a dnlm refused by the Workers' Compensation Board for reasons of “non-compensnblo claim" he shall become eligible for bonefils under Iho Weekly Indemnity plan. This Is provided tho terms nnd conditions of the plan are mol. In addition, the employee must sign a statement lo the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from the Workers' CompensationBoard for Iho claim, bonefils received under tho Weekly Indemnify plan must bo repaid to the insurer.
Both the Company and the Union agree Hint in the event a claim refused by the Workers' Compensation Board would appear lo bo appealable, the employee should be encouraged Jo proceed with an appeal.	‘
f b) Effective duly 1,1 gfl6 all eligible employees will be covered with group life insurance for $20,000.00 Effective June 1t 1907, the amount of group life insurance is increased to $25,000.00.
New employees have a 90 working day ported before becoming eligible to join the plan.
The full cost of this coverage is to be paid for by the Company.
(c)	ALBERTA HEALTH CARE coverage is provided for alt eligible employees.
Now employees have a 90 working day waiting period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
(d)	An extended health plan, providing coverage to all eligible employees, is to he provided by tlm Company. This plan Includes vision care coverage of $75.00 every 24 months.
Reimbursement will not he provided for any expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eyeglasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes.
No deductible or co-insurance applies to the vision care items.
37
New employees have a 90 working day period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
(e)	The Company shall continue to pay all costs of ALBERTA HEALTH CARE, DENTAL, EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN and life Insurance premiums for employees on extended disability or sick leave. Each employee shall bo required to provide adequate evidenced such disability or sickness.
(f)	Hearing aid coverage to ft maximum of $500.00 per lifetime is to be provided. Ibis coverage is to he detailed the same as in the industry settlement of June 1,1982.
Section 18.
It is understood that where the word "he" is used in this Agreement it shall also cover female employcos.
Section 19.
The Company recognizes the Importance and desirability of stabilizing employment on an annual basis and to that end will nltempt lo give employees fifty-two weeks work per year including the vacation period It is understood arid agreed by the Company and the Union that the foregoing sentence constitutes a statement of policy only and Is not intended to and does not impose any contractuaiobligationswhatsoeveronthe Company.
Section 20.
The Company undertakes to put into place by July 1,19H6 a non-conlributory plan that pays a monthly pension similar to the amount paid by Fletchers’ (Vancouver).
Section 21 — DENTAL PLAN.
The Company shall provide a prepaid Dental Plan providing for eighty (80) percent coverage under Plan "A" and fifty (50) percent coverage under Plan"B" for all Bargaining Unit employees. The cost of the plan shall he paid by the Company. For all employees hired after the signing of tills Agreement, participation in this plan will be a condition of employment after an employee hascompleted six (6jmonths of service, provided said employees are not receiving coverage under a different Dental Plan.
38
Section 22.
The Company shall retnburso employees for ihc renewal of necessary licences required in the perfqrmanco of their duties.
Section 23.
Mnnngnmnnl personnel shall riot nssumo duties that nro normally performed by hourly paid employees except wlioro such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such management personnel shall In no way be restricted from work which:
(a)	is of a confidential clerical nature.
(b)	is for the purpose of Instruction, exporlmonlnllon, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from his job during the day. or coping with on emergency. An emergency herein shall no! be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
(c)	Is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absence of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (V*) day.
Section 24.
Upon the expiration of six ('Sjmonlhs for minor offences, and one (!) year for major offences, from tho date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal file, the Compaq will be precluded from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action.
Section 25.
The Company agrees to advance to employees awaiting wage loss benefits under the Workers' Compensation Board Act, iho amount of honofits due up to the maximum amount of accrued vacation payduetolhe employee. This Is provided the following:
(A) there is at least two (2) week lapse of timo since foe benefits became payable.
39
(b)	the employee has completed all necessary forms as required by the? Workers' Compensation Board.
(c)	the Doctor's Report as required by the Workers' Compensation Board has been completed and torwardod to the Board.
Tho amount of funds advanced under this secllon Is strictly an advance to the employee, and iho employee must sign n letter to this effect which would also authorize Iho Company lo withhold the Workers' Compensation Board benefit duo and apply the funds to repay the advance.
Section 26.
In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall nol do or permll to be done, anything by any of its members to prevent engineering and maintenance staff from continuing all or any part of their regular duties. Furthermore, the Union shall co-operate and assist tho Company In taking reasonable precautions to prolncl pnrishablo products, bill such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not altempt to restore normal production.
ARTICLE XVII — DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section 1.
This Agreement shall lake effect as of the 1st day of June, 1986, and shall remain in effect until the 31st day of May, 1988, and from year to year thereafter, provided, however that this Agreement may be terminated on the 3 f si day of May, 1908, or on the 31 si day of May nny year thereafter by either parly on written notice mailed by registered post to Iho Company or to the Union not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the 31 st day of May of any year thereafter.
Section 2.
During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
do
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD.
7550 • 40lh Avenue Red Deer, Alberta
Bll L DUCKENFIELD DON SIM DALE ONIONS
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION -
WAYNE COVEY AI-BERT JOHNSON KIP CONNOLLY
41
WAGE SCHEDULE
Starting rate					Juiv* 15 19ft 6	Jtin« 1, I9A7 $ 9.77
After 6 months 			... 10.00	10.41
After IP months				11.07
After t6 months 				11.72
After 20 months 				12.37
After 24 months 				13.00
Bracket 0			... 12.54	13.00
Bracket 1 					13.08
Bracket 2			... 12.70	13.16
Bracket 3			... 12.78	13.24
Bracket 4			... 12.06	13.32
Bracket5			... 12.94	13.40
Bracket 6				13.48
Bracket 7			... 13.10	13.56
Brackets			... 13.10	13.64
Bracket 9					... 13.26	13.72
Bracket 10			... 13,34	13.80
Bracket 11 			... 13.42	13.88
Bracket 12			... 13.50	13.96
Bracket 14			... 13.66	14.12
Bracket 15					14.20
Bracket 31					15.48
Bracket 34			... 15.26	15.72
Bracket 36			... 15.42	15.00
Bracket 40			... 15.74	16.20
42
JOB GRADES:
Gang Leader—twenty cents ($ 30) above tho highest job bracket in his department. Incases of vacancy, iho gang leader will he an appointed position mutually agreeable to management and the Union. Said employee shall be allowed three (3) months to decide if lie wishes to perform said job. If not, the rmployoo shall roporl lo his former position.
Tho First Aid Attendant holding a Class B Corlificalo shall receive a premium of thirty (30) cents per hour over his applicable rale, and tho First Aid Attendant holding a Class C Certificate? shall receive a premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour over his applicable rate.
Letter of Understanding
LONG TERM DISABILITY
Effective June 1,198311m Company will arrange lo have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following provisions:
• Full time employees actively at work on Iho effective dale aro eligible for the Plan on attainment of oneyanr’s seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return lo work and satisfactorily complete two months' Tull lime work to bo eligible. Long Term Disability benefits will he payable where an employee is unable lo perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurance company based upon continuing medical evidence of suet? disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify any case involving alcohol or drug related conditions will require active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment under an approved specialist and will only bo
43
paid in cases of severe conditions Involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). Any employee In receipt of Long Term Disability henelits will not receive any credited service during the period of times that he receives such benefits.
—	Tho amount of henetit will be $1,100.00 per month for now claims arising alter July 1,1906, loss any benefit for which the employee is eligible under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan Primary Disability Benefit, Workers' Compensation or other government or government-sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit. The Employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied. Prior to July 1,1966 fhe amount of this benefit was $1,000.00 per month.
—- The benefitwill commence alter iho employee has beon absent due to the disability for one year or alter his sickness and accident pay entitlement has expired, whichever is earlier, and will be payable, unlil recovery,actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first.
—	Should an employee return lo work alter collecting Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, Uio benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee returning to work, otherwise the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
—	No benefit will be paid to an employee under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan where the employee is entitled to receive bandits under the Long Term Disability Plan and no employee shall receive a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan while he is receiving benefits undor the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan.
44
—	Where an employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitation program of up lo 24 months, Iho benefit will be] reduced by 50% of any earnings, provlrled.the tola! gross income from all sources does not exceed go% of (ho prodisability normal gross wages.
“ No hnnofils will bo paid for Intentionally self-inflicted Injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot of Insurrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a fotony.
—	Where an employee Is nbsnnt from work and receiving Long Term Disability benefits fora periodof three consecutive years or longer then as of the end of the third year his seniority and employment with the Company shall he deemed broken and thereafter there shall be no obligation on the part of the Company to rehire him. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision as to a period of three or more consecutive years, II an employee returns lo work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and II within one year thereafter he again ceases work ns the result of the same or a related disability and receives Long Term Disability benefits, then such further period of absence from work while receiving Long Teen Disability benefits shall bo deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence and such further period of absence shall be taken into account and $dded onto the previous absence In determining whether ihe employee has been absent from work and received Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer.
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PART-TIME WORKERS
The Company may employ part-time workers, if agreed to by the Union, for work performed on calendar Saturday, or Sundays under the following conditions:
1.	Frill time employees with seniority who am on lay-off stnlus shall be called In order of seniority and given tho option of working or not at the part-time rate as detailed in (4) below, provided they are qualified to perform Ihc work lo be done.
2.	If the Company fails to socuro workers as Indicated in (1) above, they may hire now employees.
3.	The Company shall notify the Union prior to any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by parttime workers, and notify the Union in writing for ihe reasons therefore.
4.	The rate of pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar Saturday or Sunday shall bo $9.38 por hour. Effective Juno 1, 1987 tho rate will be $9.77.
In respect to this memorandum, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company, provided lliecondlllons heteo! are met, and that the request for the Saturday or Sunday work can be reasonably justified.
It is also furthor understood that full lime employees, not on lay-off, and provided the weekly guaranies for them has been met, have no seniority rights in respect to working any Saturday or Sunday hours. In the event they wish to work, they have the option to do so at the part-time mlo as detailed heroin. If the Company specifically requests full time employees to work on weekends, they will be paid the applicable overtime rate.
46
JOB RATES
JOB	t _ ......j' Bracket
Driver..............................*	”	* ' t
Electrical Stunner ................................ 5
Shnckler .......................................... J
Sticker........................................... 15
Tank and Delinking Machine Operator................ 8
Gam Cord Cutter.................................... 6
Insert Gambrel and Hang ............................3
Feed Line and Shave................................ 6
Carcass Shaver I lams.............................. 7
Carcass Shaver Balance............................. 6
Open Briskel ...................................... 6
Tongue Remover.................................... 11
Tonguo Remover and Break Heads.................... 11
Break Heads ....................................... 9
Bung Droppor.....................................  12
Bunger and Aitch Bone Opener...................... 10
Open Aitch Bone and Bellies........................ 7
Face Hams.........................................  3
Gutter............................................ 11
Pop Kidney, Pull Pleura, Mark Brisket
and Check Shave.................................. 3
Sawyer ..........................................  11
reed Held Line .................................... 0
Take Off Held Line................................. 0
leld Hail (Complete) ............................ 9
Trim Stick I loles ................................ 2
Scaler ............................................ 5
Stamper............................................ 2
Leaf Lard Puller................................... 6
leaf Lard Scraper.................................. 2
47
JOB RATES (conllm led)
JOB	Bracket
Skin Meads........................................   6
Place Hogs In Cooler............................... 2
Head Boning ......................................   S
Save Offal and Glands.............................. 4
Save Chlllerlings.................................. 2
Roller Man .......................................   2
Sharpies........................................... 8
Basemen!........................................... 4
Floor and Clean-up................................. 0
Fancy Meats;
Trimmer............................................ 4
Pack and Scale..................................... 4
Freezer Man........................................ 4
Casing Room
Casing Puller...................................... 4
Mac! line Operator................................. 5
Packer and Salter.................................   1
(Help Qualified)
Pork Cut
These are jobs to he considered as labour jobs, but wilt not be posted individually.
Push Hogs	•• Mnn rirnn		 c
Roller Man		 Guide Hogs 	 Turn Loins Around .. ■		 C
Feed Jowl Skinner 	 Feed Rpllie Skinner		r 	 0
Feed Loin Fat Skinner		 0
Bax Makers 			 0
Make Combos			 0
Clean Floor.................................... 0
48
JOB RATES (continued)
JOB	Bucket
Check for Bones in Picnics.......... .............! o
/Flatten Bellies in Combos.......................... 0
Stamp Loin.......................................... 0
Push Fat Tubs....................................... 0
Feed Doboner........................................ 0
nomove Chime Bone..................................   0
Any Other Unskilled Work Not Shown ................. o
Help Qualified
(Jot)S below not posted separately)
Save & Pack Back Skins.............................. 1
Save & Pack Bollie Skins ........................... I
Pack Bollie Trim ..................................  1
Pack Loins.......................................... 1
4	«♦*	•	«	•
...... 1
..................... 1
..................................... 1
jrl/ CWn nihn	1
nu«t	I IfUj a r I I • I I « « M t I « • I ■ • « • • « • » * « • ' 1 ' 1 * * *	*
»0rr0pe:ators.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::	1
All Other Packing Jobs.............................. 1
Check Shavo......................................... 3
Cut Olf Ham or Shoulder— Dunsolli Knife............. 6
Cut Oil Hind Foot .................................  2
Band Saw Operator.................................. 11
Nockhone Ullor..................................... 11
Cut Olf Jowls.....................................   3
Picnic or Ham Skinning Machine...................... 3
Trim Picnic.......................................   S
Bull Puller........................................  8
Cut Off Tails....................................... 4
Wizzard Knives....................................   3
Vunsalh Knife (middles)..........................    9
49
JOB
JOB RATES (continued)
Brnckftl
Loin Puller.............................
Trims LQins (includes Special Trim Loins)
Trim Jowls ......................:;	—
Pork Boners (Loin Butt	Picnic)___::	—
Rib Bellies,......................::	—
Picnic Doboner Operator.................
Trim Butts...............................
CVP Machines............................
Computer — Scalers*'.[][................
Ham Boner...............................
Late Pack Off...............
Special Orders...........................
Combo Trucker/Scnier....................
Remove Tenderloin.......................
«
8
11
11
4
1
2 4
11
2
0
2
3
&rSfJingfffiSg A Formulating.................... ,	5
Staffer ........................................... 2
Help Qualified ’" ’ ’ ............................. 1
Wrap & Pack, Pack a Scale (not posted individually)
wllde?1“"Journeyman. Certified Ticket....... ..
Electrician —Journeyman, Certified Ticket... ,.
3rd (^a^S^m^d Refrigeration 4th	Refrigeration
Maintenance Helper.............................
38
40
34
31
5
50
JOB RATES (continue
J(JB	DMck«t
Miscellaneous
Knife sharpener.....................................^5
Laundry............................................. 5
Janitor............................................. 1
Receive**	11	I! 1 I :i ‘!!!!!	5
J	ck Driver........................................M
p	ipers .......................................... (
£	ezer Man, Deep Reach, Forklift Operator ........ 5
;	ht Clean Up .................................... 4
u d Trucks........................................ * 3
5}
51