BUSINESS REPflESENTATIVES
VIC CARR LOUISE CRAIG RICK BAILEY
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
RATIFIED THIS
DAY OF
.JUNE.
1992
BETWEei:	LUCfftNE FOODS LTD. (MEAT PROCESSING
PLANT) a body cqporate, carrying on business in the CJty of Calgary, hereinafter referred to as the
'EMPLOYER'
AND:	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKmS
LOCAL 373A, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC, liereinafter referred to as the
“UNION”
United Food & Commercial Workers International Union
LOCAL AFFILIATED 373A AFL - CIO SUITE 115
276 MIDPARK WAY S.E. CALGARY, ALBERTA T2X 1J6
w-Tp.l.,,
INDEX
Adoption Leave. Arbitration. . Basic Work Week Bracket (15).	.
ARTICLE
....................... 8
.........................18
Overtime. ................. 5
................... Appendix
Deduction of Union Dues. ......................4
Dental Plan. ................................ 10
Discipline & Discharge........................12
Duration & Renewal............................23
Emergency Call-In............................. 5
Grievance Procedure. ........................ 12
Health & Welfare & Sick Leave. ...............10
Hearing Aid Plan..............................10
Job Training...............................L of
Jury Service. .................................9
Leaves of Absence. ........................... 8
Long Term Disability..........................10
Maternity Leave. ........................... O.t
Meal Periods. .................................5
New Job Classification. .......................7
Overtime Pay. .................................5
Paternity Leave................................6
Pay for Work on Holiday........................6
Physical Examinations.
Probationary Period . .
Protective Services. .
Purpose of Agreement. .
Rates of Relief Work. .
.................10.9
..................12
.................22
.................1
....................7
Recognition	and Jurisdiction. ................... 2
Rest Periods......................................5
Plan.
10
11
13
7
10
Retirement Seniority. ....
Severance Pay. .
Shift Premiums. .
Sick Leave Credits
Staff Meetings.................................5
Statutory Holidays. .......................... 8
Successors &	Assigns.......................10
Sunday Work....................................7
Union Security.................................3
Union's Recognition of Management Rights. .16 ,
Vacations.	...............................14	.
Vision Care.................................10.3
Wages. ................................Appendix
Weekly Guarantee. ........................... 5.6
Working Conditions-General...................15	.
"A
PAGE
13
29,30 4,5,6, 7,8 37 3,4 17
. 8 , 10 . 6 . 14 9
. 21 . 27 35,36
. 2 . 10
. 2
. 23-16
. 27-29 10,11 . 15 , 8 . 30,9
. 11 2,3 . 32 . 29,30 . 37-19
5,6
30,31
This index is only for easy reference. Members are encouraged to read this Agreement and be conversant with all its provisions. When in doubt as to the interpretation of any section of this Agreement, phone your Union Office at 254-1900.
1
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote, improve and maintain industrial, economic and harmonious relations between the Union, the employees and the Enployer and to set forth herein the agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, to be observed by the Enployer, its employees and the Union during the term hereof.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
2.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agent for all employees employed in the Calgary Meat Plant, but excluding office, clerical staff, quality control, security staff, supervisory personnel, and Maintenance/Dry Storage Clerk.
2.2	The Employer agrees not to employ persons having full-time employment with other Employers except in emergency when qualified help is not available.
ARTICLE 3 UNION SECURITY
3.1	The Employer agrees to retain in his employ within the bargaining unit, as outlined in Article 2 of this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing.
The Employer shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first (1st) day of employment, and become members within thirty (30) days.
3.2	The Employer agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union membership, and to provide the Union, in writing, with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, the Company will inform all new employees that they must join the Union as outlined in Section 1 above.
2
ARTICLE 3.2 cont.
The Union shall bear the expense of printing the letter, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Employer. The Employer further agrees to provide the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month,
3.3	The Employer agrees there should be no discrimination in accordance with the provisions of the Individual's Rights Protection Act, Government of Alberta and amendments thereto as contained in the Employment Standards Act.
3.4	The Employer retains the sole right to hire employees. The Union ' agrees to supply a list on a weekly basis of suitable candidates for the position of experienced Meat Plant employees. The acceptance or rejection of candidates proposed by the Union shall not be subject to Article 17 (Grievance Procedure) and Article 18 (Arbitration).
3.5	The Company agrees that outside salesmen shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees.
The Company agrees that:
1. Foremen and those above the rank of Foremen shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in aimuntf but such a Foreman shall in no way be restricted from work which,
aj is of confidential clerical nature
b]	is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee from their job during the day, sharpening knives, coping with an emergency. An emergency as here is contained shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
c]	is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (1/2) day unless a qualified replacement is not available.
d]	is in the powerhouse or cafeteria.
e]	is 1 ocated in a remote department of the Plant requiring a separate supervisor {maintenance department and dry storage only).
ARTICLE 4
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
4.1	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fees and union dues, as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union.
4.2	The Employer further agrees to automatically deduct union dues from the wages of all new employees, The employees shall, within thirty (30) days after: commencement of employment, provide the Employer with a signed authorization for such deductions.
4.3	Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than twenty-one (21) calendar days following the end of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period, and accompanied by a written statement of the names of the employees from whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLE 5
BASIC WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
5.1	The Employer reserves the right to schedule hours of operation, employee hours of work, rest periods, lunch periods, and overtime work, subject to the following provisions:
5.2	The basic work week for regular full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5), eight (8) hour days, as scheduled by the Employer.
5.3	Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception of rest and meal periods. No split shifts shall be worked.
5.4	The Employer shall post a weekly work schedule for all full-time employees not later than Thursday 3:00 P.M. of each week for the following week. If a new work schedule is not posted by Thursday, 3:00 P.M., then the schedule already posted shall apply for the following week.
The schedule of an employee regularly working full-time may be changed without notice in the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees, or in the event of emergencies such as fire, flood, breakdown in machinery or other instances of "forcemajeure". In all other cases at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of any change must be given or four (4) hours additional pay given in lieu of notice.
4
ARTICLE 5 cont
5.5	The Employer agrees that he shall provide time clocks for all employees to record their hours worked for payroll purposes, except time punched in before the regular starting time. Early starts shall be initialed by the Supervisor. Employees shall punch their own time at the time they commence and finish work, and the time they commence and return from meal periods and rest periods if so required.
5.6	weekly Guarantee
1. The Company agrees to guarantee to each regular full-time employee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week of pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as hereinafter provided.
An employee who is excused from work for any part of a day or days, for any personal reason, shall have their guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which they missed by such absence.
b]	An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining in the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
c]	Employees on layoff notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given and should notice extend into the subsequent week, then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of the guaranteed hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40). Extension of notice of layoff shall not prolong for more than two (2) weeks, otherwise the Company will withdraw such notice and reissue to the employees so affected.
In the event a layoff is deemed necessary in the Plant, the employee with the least seniority in the Company shall be laid off limited however to the said classification as described in the APPENDIX "A". If there is a senior employee with the ability and qualifications to fill the vacancy created in the classification, they shall be given the opportunity to transfer. If the said employee(s) refuses said transfer, the Employer's obligation ceases.
An employee absent due to layoff in excess of thirty (30) days shall retain, but not accumulate, seniority and vacation entitlement during the period of employee's absence up to a maximum of six (6) months. Absence of thirty (30) calendar days or less, due to layoff, shall not interrupt seniority or vacation entitlement.
5
ARTICLE 5.6 cont.
dj The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays, or in case of offshifts, day in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee. Unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
ej In order to meet the demands of the business, the Company will hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-tune workers will be the first employee subject to layoff in the event of a layoff occurring in the Plant.
Part-timeemployees, that is employees employed for twenty-four (24) hours weekly or less, and casual employees, that is, those employed for less than one (1) week, are eligible for membership in the Union.
Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full-time employees and except as otherwise agreed with the Company and the Union, part-time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full-time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work.
The Union may submit, and the Company will consider alternative means of doing required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
5.7	Overtime Pay
A11 time worked in excess of the daily hours, or the basic work week as defined in Article 5.2, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the regular rate. Compensating time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime pay. When it is necessary to work overtime, the Company will advise employees of such overtime as soon as possible and will endeavour to advise employees of such overtime by the middle of their normal daily hours. Notice of overtime or cancellation of overtime will also be posted. The rate of double time (X 2) shall apply to the employees regular rate of pay for all employees after thirteen (13) hours of work in one (1) day.
6
riRTICXE 5.7 cont.
In the event that overtime is required in a particular department or on a particular line, then the overtime shall be offered to the most senior employees on shift in the department or line concerned provided they have the ability and qualifications to perform the required overtime work. If the senior employees do not wish to accept the overtime, then the Employer shall have the riqht to assign such work to junior employees who have the necessary qualifications and ability, and who are at work at the time,
As an exception to the foregoing, in the event that overtime is required in the Ground Beef Department then the overtime shall be offered by the Employer to the most senior employees who routinely perform this job function and are on shift.
If the senior employees who routinely perform this job function do not wish to accept the overtimework, then the Employer shall have the right to assign such work to the least senior qualified employee who has the necessary ability and who is on shift at the time, (This is not to include Maintenance personnel.)
5.8	Emergency Call-In
An employee who has left the Company's premises, specially called outside their scheduled hours for emergency work, shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, they shall be paid four (4) hours at their job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is the greater. An employee who is called in pursuant to the first paragraph shall stay for a minimum of two (2) hours, if requested and necessary, to ensure that the emergency has been remedied.
5.9	Rest Periods
Employees working a shift of seven (7) or more hours shall receive two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, with pay. Employees working a shift of four (4) hours, but less than seven (V hours will receive one (1) rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay. Rest periods shall be scheduled on the basis of one before and one after the meal, but shall not be combined with the meal period. Rest periods shall not begin until one (1) hour after commencement of work or following return from meal period or less than one (1) hour before either the meal period or the end of the shift as the case may be.
7
ARTICLE 5 cont.
5.10	Meal Periods
Meal periods of uninterrupted duration, without pay, not to exceed sixty (60) minutes, shall start not earlier than three (3) hours, nor later than five (5) hours after conmencement of employee's shift.
Work performed over five (5) hours without a meal period shall be paid for at double time (X 2) of the employee's regular rate of pay.
5.11	Rest Periods, Meal Periods and Supper Money During Overtime When an employee is required to work more than one (1) hour, but not more than two (2) hours overtime in a day, they shall receive one fifteen (15) minute rest break with pay to be scheduled by Management as near to the conmencement of the overtime period as practical. It is understood overtime is paid to the nearest fifteen (15) minutes.
When an employee is required to work in excess of two (2) hours overtime, they shall be given an additional twenty (20) minutes meal break on Company time immediately following the required paid rest break. If twenty-four (24) hours prior notice has not been given, they shall be paid seven dollars ($7.00) supper money or be supplied a hot meal of equal value.
5.12	Staff Meetings
Staff Meetings, whether in the Plant or off the premises shall be considered as time worked, and paid for accordingly, except meetings at which attendance is voluntary.
ARTICLE 6 STMUTORY HOLIDAYS
6.1	The following days shall be recognized as Statutory Holidays:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
First Monday in August
and all other public holidays proclaimed by the Dominion, Provincial, or Municipal Governments.
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
Boxing Day
8
ARTICLE 6 cont.
6.2	Provided that he or she works his or her scheduled hours as scheduled by the Employer for the days before and after the holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness or accident or approved leave of absence, employees regularly working full-time shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their job rate for each such holiday. Such leave of absence as applicable herein shall be deemed to be for a period of five (5) working days or less.
6.3	Pay For Work on Holiday . .
An employee entitled to Statutory Holidays with pay, if required to work on such a day, shall receive double (X 2) their regular hourly rate in addition to their regular pay for each hour worked on said holiday.
6.4	Paid Holidays - Part-Time Employees
Provided that they work their scheduled working day prior to and following the holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness or accident or approved 1 eave of absence, employees other than those working full-time shall, following thirty (30) calendar days from the date of employment, be paid for the number of hours they would normally have worked on such a day or days if it were not a holiday. The method for determining the normal hours worked shall be computed by averaging the hours worked on such days for the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
6.5	Observation of Holiday - Saturday and Sunday
Where permitted under applicable labour legislation if any of the paid holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will be observed as the holiday in lieu of Monday. Further, if the holiday should fall on Saturday, it is understood that such holiday will be observed on the Friday inmediately prior to said holiday.
ARTICLE 7
WAGES
7.1	Basic hourly rates of pay and job classifications in Appendix
"A" attached hereto and made part of the Agreement, shall remain in effect for the term of this Agreement.
9
ARTICLE 7 cont.
7.2	New Job Classification
When new job classifications are established by the Company, they shall be posted in accordance with Article 11, Section 12 and a rate shall be set by the Company with a written notification to the Union. If after a trial period of thirty (30) working days, the Union deems the rate established to be unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the Grievance Procedure and Article 18, Arbitration as herein provided.
7.3	Rates of Relief Work
In the event an employee is required to perform duties for a period of more than one (1) hour in a day, in respect of which the rate of pay is higher than that paid to such employee, they shall receive as a minimum rate of pay, a rate that their total accrued hours to date entitles them to in the classification in which they are relieving. It is understood that they shall receive this rate for all time so worked. If an employee is required to temporarily relieve an employee receiving a lower rate of pay, their rate shall not be changed. Employees temporarily relieving the lead hand shall receive the rate contained in the regular wage schedule as set out.
It is the shared responsibility of the Foreman and the Lead Hand to record hours worked in a relief capacity.
7.4	Shift Premiums
NIGHT
a; An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M., inclusive, shall receive a night shift premium of thirty-five cents (350) per hour for all hours worked between 3:30 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., such premium to be continued for hours worked after 7:00 A.M. where the employee was entitled to the premium for hours immediately be fore7:00 A.M. Such premium shall not be a part of their regular hourly job rate.
b] For scheduled hours worked between 12:01 A.M. on Saturday and midnight on Sunday, an employee shall receive one and one-half times (X 1-1/2) their regular hourly rate. The foregoing shall not apply for any hours on Saturday or Sunday for which overtime or paid holiday rates are paid.
10
ARTICLE 7.4 b] cont.
Part-time workers and employees hired on a casual basis shall receive a premium of twenty cents (200) per hour for hours worked between 12:01 A.M. and midnight on Saturday and thirty cents (300) per hour for hours worked between 12:01 A.M. and midnight on Sunday. Such premium shall not be a part of an employee's regular hourly job rate. The premium shall not apply for any hours for which overtime rates are paid.
SUNDAY
W3RK
c] Double (X 2) the regular hourly rate shall be paid to hourly paid employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if they work on their day off in lieu of Sunday.
In the case of employees starting a night shift prior to Midnight Sunday, the hours worked before midnight shall not be considered as Sunday work as these hours are part of their Monday shift. As an exception to the foregoing, should more than three (3) hours of the scheduled working hours in the shift be worked prior to Sunday midnight, then the hours prior to midnight shall be paid at double (X 2) the regular hourly rate.
Where an employee's scheduled day's off do not include an actual Sunday, then the second day off shall be deemed to be their Sunday.
7.5	Shift differential pay or premium rate for evening work which
is overtime, shall be paid but not added to the employee's hourly rate of pay for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
7.6	There shall be a regular weekly pay day by cheque, and further the employee shall be given a statement showing pay period covered, gross earnings, and all deductions, and such pay cheques shall be distributed in a sealed envelope. Employees working night shift shall receive their pay cheques on Thursday P.M..
7.7	There shall be an interval of not less than ten (10) hours between shifts for all employees. An employee who is not allowed a ten (10) hour interval between shifts shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for time worked prior to the expiry of the ten (10) hour interval.
ARTICLE 8 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
8.1	An employee will be granted time off with pay (a minimum of one (1) day) in the event of a death in the inmediate family; length of such leave shall be determined by the Employer with consideration given with respect to travel time. The term ”immediate family” shall mean; spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, or any relatives living in the household of the employee. It is understood that in case of a part-time employee, the compensation shall be at the average hours worked during the preceding four (4) weeks based on the normal scheduled day's of approved leave.
8.2	The Employer agrees that employees chosen to attend Union conventions and conferences or participate in negotiations involving the Employer, or other Union business, shall be given time off without pay. The number of employees, in excess of one (1) to be granted leave of absence for these purposes shall be by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union. It is understood that such leaves of absence must not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company.
8.3	Leave of absence will be granted to an employee member of the Union, not to exceed one (1) who has given one week's notice to the Company that he or she requires leave of absence on account of their election or appointment to a full-time employee of the Union. Such leave of absence shall not exceed the term of this Agreement, but upon application of such employee the leave my be renewed. Such employee shall accumulate seniority to a maximum of six (6) months and upon his/her return to his/her Company's employ/ his/her seniority date may be adjusted if necessary. It is further understood that such employee has no claim to any vacancies effected during such leave of absence and upon his or her notice to return, they may be returned to their former position or to such other position to which they have as a right, by reason of seniority.
8.4	The employee shall notify the Employer at least one (1) week in advance of the date of the commencement of such leave of absence as provided for in Article 8.2 and 8.3 above and further the employees shall notify the Employer one (1) week in advance of their intentions to return to work.
12
article 8 cont.
8.5	Leave of absence way be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. The employee will be advised of the Company's answer within fifteen (15) days. If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, written application shall be made by the employee to the Company and if the leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Secretary of the Union.
Compassionate leave to employees will be dealt with on an individual basis. It is understood that where an employee is granted a leave of absence for a period of more than one (1) calendar month (30 days) they shall not accumulate seniority during such period. Furthermore, an employee must schedule their vacation before requesting a leave of absence under this Section.
8.6	MATERNITY LEAVE
Employees with twelve (12) months service may request a leave of absence, without loss of seniority, because of pregnancy. Such request will be granted, provided the employee submits to her Employer a request, in writing, for such leave at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner, certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave will be for a period of twelve (12) weeks or more (depending on medical requirements) prior to confinement and the period, if any, between the date of confinement mention&d in the certificate and the actual date and six (6) months following the actual date of confinement without loss of seniority. Seniority shall accumulate on all Pregnancy Leave of Absence as defined above.
The Employer reserves the right to determine the time upon which a pregnant employee shall be required to commence a leave of absence, if the duties of her position cannot reasonably be performed or if the employee's work is materially affected by the pregnancy.
The employee when returning to work shall give the Employer two (2) weeks notice of date of return. The employee shall be returned to her former position at the completion of her ■leave of absence. An employee who is granted the foregoing Leave of Absence will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company's Group Insurance Package.
13
ARTICLE 8.6 cont.
PATERNITY LEAVE
An employee about to become a father will be granted an unpaid leave of absence up to two (2) days at the time of the birth of his child.
ADOPTION LEAVE
An employes with twelve (12) months service may request a Leave of Absence to a maximum of six (6) months without loss of seniority.
An employee who is granted the foregoing Leave of Absence will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company's Group Insurance Package.
8.7	Upon return to work following an approved leave of absence,
an enployee will be credited with:
1]	Seniority accumulated up to the time of leave and in addition up to a maximum of one month's seniority (30 days).
2]	Length of service for determining vacation eligibility accumulated up to the time of such leave. Length of service will be accumulated from the date such leave commences to a maximum of one month's (30 days) additional service. Leaves of absence that exceed one month (30 days), will necessitate that the employee's vacation anniversary date be adjusted to reflect the date of their return to work.
8.8	Employees shall not work during leaves of absence, except as provided in 8.3 above. Any employee failing to return at the end of any leave of absence may be terminated.
8.9	An employee who, for medical reasons, is unable to return to work upon expiration of Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation Board benefits shall retain all rights provided for in Article 10.10.
14
ARTICLE 9 JURY SERVICE
9.1	An employee sunmoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness
shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there is not less than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (8) hours combined with such service and time worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime and paid at applicable overtime rates.
In order to be eligible for the foregoing benefit, an employee must notify their supervisor, as soon as possible after receipt of notice, of selection for jury duty or after receipt of subpoena to appear as a witness.
ARTICLE 10
HEALTH AND WELFARE AND SICK LEAVE
10.1	Accumulated Sick Leave Benefits
a]	Full-time employees shall accumulate sick leave credits at the rate of four (4) hours for each month of employment up to a maximum of two hundred and eight (208) hours. Effective January 1, 1990 notwithstanding the foregoing an employee shall not accumulate sick leave credits during any month that they are absent due to nonoccupational sickness or accident. Credits shall commence to accumulate from date of full-time employment, but can only be applied after completion of a three (3) month full-time employment eligibility period.
Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second or third working day of any illness to which sick leave credits apply. Consistent with the foregoing and to serve as clarification, sick leave credits will not be paid for the first eight (8) hours of any absence to which sick leave credits apply.
b]	The Employer may require the employee to provide a Doctor's certificate verifying any absence due to disability and/or illness.
c]	The Employer shall apply any accumulated sick leave of absences due to sickness not covered by INSURED WEEKIY INDEMNITY BENEFITS (or similar benefits) and may supplement Weekly Indemnity Benefits (or similar benefits) with unused SICK LEAVE CREDITS in an amount equal to but not to exceed the employee's normal earnings.
15
ARTICUE 10.1 cont.
d]	Employees, if found abusing this privilege, shall be disciplined by the Employer. In such cases, the Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit of the employee or terminate the employee. However, such termination shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
e]	Full-time employees shall, on request, be given an accurate record of their accumulated sick leave credits.
10.2	Retirement Plan
The Employer agrees to participate in and contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan:
a]	Effective December 30, 1984, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I. Pension Plan, 26$ per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days,[not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
b]	Effective January 5, 1986, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I. Pension Plan, 30$ per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity], jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
c]	Effective January 3, 1988, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I. Pension Plan, 35$ per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days,[not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
d]	Effective December 31, 1989, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I. Pension Plan, 41$ per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days,[not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
16
ARTICLE 10.2 cont.
e]	Effective December 29, 1991, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I.	Pension Plan, 47$	per hour for all hours	paid
by the Employer	to members	of the	bargaining unit (hours	paid
shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days,[not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
fJ	The above rates of contribution shall be in addition to any
obligation which the Employer may have to the C.C.W.I. Pension Plan in respect to his/her "initial past service ability" to provide past service benefits.
g] Contributions, along with	a list	of employees for whom	they
have been made,	the amount	of the	weekly contribution for	each
employee, and the number of hours worked or paid according to the above (a) or (b), shall be forwarded by the Employer within the twenty-one (21) days after the close of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Employer agrees to pay interest at the rate established by the Trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above.
Dental Plan
Coverage under the Union Plan shall be determined by the Trustees of the Plan.	Effective the beginning of the
Employer's first full 4 or 5 week accounting period following ratification the Employer agrees to contribute to the Dental Plan twenty-seven cents (27$) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following ratification (June 14, 1992) increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to twenty-nine cents (29$) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity) jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31, 1992 increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-one cents (31$) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity) jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
17
ARTICLE 10.2 cont.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31, 1993 increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-three cents (33$) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity) jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31, 1994 increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-five cents (35$) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity) jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
The Employer and the Union agree to the original method of selection of Employer and Union Trustees to administer the Plan. It is agreed that the terms of the Plan and its administration will be entirely the responsibility of these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is administered consistently with this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable Government Law or Regulation and with the intention of meeting all of the requirements for continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing, the Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the actions taken by the Employer and the Union Trustees under the Plan.
10.3	Medical, Group Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Benefits
The Employer agrees during the term of this Collective Agreement to make available the following benefits or similar benefits as mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Employer to eligible employees regularly working full-time:
1. A.H.C.I. or such other Medical Plan that will provide similar benefits.
18
ARTICLE 10.3 COTlt.
2.	Group Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Benefits.
Effective June 1, 1987 the Weekly Indemnity schedule of benefits shall be as follows:
Eligible employees whose rate is $11.02 per hour or less
$255.00/week
Effective first pay	week following	Aug. 29,	1993	$265.00/week
Effective first pay	week following	Sept. 4,	1994	$275.00/week
Eligible employees whose rate is more than $11.02 hour, but less than $12.57 per hour
$270.00/week
Effective first pay week following	Aug. 29,	1993	$280.00/week
Effective first pay week following	Sept. 4,	1994	$290.00/week
Eligible employees whose rate is $12.57 per hour, but less than $12.90 per hour
$290.00/week
Effective first pay week following	Aug. 29,	1993	$300.00/week
Effective first pay week following	Sept. 4,	1994	$310.00/week
Eligible employees whose rate is more than $12.89 per hour, but less than $13.61 per hour
$305.00/week
Effective first pay	week following	Aug. 29,	1993	$315.00/week
Effective first pay	week following Sept. 4,	1994	$325.00/week
Eligible employees whose rate is $13.61 per hour or more
$320.00/week
Effective first pay week following	Aug. 29,	1993	$330.00/week
Effective first pay week following	Sept. 4,	1994	$340.00/week
3.	Supplementary Health Services Plan
Effective May 1, 1985, the Company will provide a supplementary health services plan, which includes prescription coverage of seventy percent (70%) through a drug reimbursement plan.
4.	Vision Care
The Employer shall institute a Vision Care Program which will provide up to $75.00 for expenses incurred for eyeglasses and frames limited to one (1) expense in a twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for each person insured.
Reimbursement will not be provided for any expenses incurred for sunglasses, safety glasses or any form of eyeglasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes. Those eligible shall be the employee, spouses, all unmarried children under the age of 22. All eligible employees must enroll eligible dependents when the Plan is established.
19
ARTICLE 10.3 cont.
5. Long Term Disability
The Company shall implement a Long Term Disability Plan for those employees regularly working full-time. The cost of the Plan shall be borne by the Company.
The Benefit Period commences on the first day immediately following the exhaustion of Weekly Indemnity and Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
Benefits are payable monthly in arrears from the date the Benefit Period commences to age 65, the employee's retirement date, at which he/she can retire on Pension without actuarial reduction under the applicable Pension Plan, recovery or death, whichever first occurs, for both accident and sickness.
The total disability income is equal to 50% of base weekly earnings at the date of disability up to a maximum of $1,000 per month.
The total disability income is inclusive of any disability payments, including lump sum payments, from Government sponsored Plans. Government sponsored Plans include Workers' Compensation, Canada Pension Plan, Quebec Pension Plan, or any other group disability Plan or income replacement program, the cost of which the Employer is or may be required to contribute by Law or Collective Agreement. The amount of any payment received from the Canada Pension Plan or the Quebec Pension Plan are to be frozen at the commencement of disability so that subsequent increase in CPP/QPP will not further reduce benefit payments under the Long Term Disability Income Plan.
It is understood and agreed that all miatters of eligibility, coverage and benefits shall be as set out in the Plan and as determined by the carrier. The Employer to pay one hundred per cent (100%) of cost, as above.
10.4	A full-time employee reduced to part-time shall be eligible for benefits to which they may be entitled as set out in the Plan referred to in Section 3.
10.5	The Employer agrees to advise the Union, in writing, of the Company's Weekly Indemnity and Group Insurance Plan fur all eligible employees covered by this Agreement, and of such changes as may be made from time to time.
The parties agree that the full amount of the reduction in the U.I.C. premiums, resulting from the registration of the Company Group Insurance Plan, will be applied towards the cost of Welfare Plan Benefits.
20
ARTICIE
10.6
10.7
10.8
10.9
10 cont.
Should the Federal or Provincial Government Introduce legislation, the effect of which is to supplement or overlap existing Welfare Plans, the parties signatory to this Agreement agree to immediately discuss modification so that the total cost of the combined Plans shall be limited to the level outlined in this Collective Agreement, and the Company's contribution will accordingly be reduced by the amount of the supplement. Such change shall be effective as of the date that the Plan involved is altered because of legislation referred to above.
Hearing Aid Plan
The Company will implement a Hearing Aid Plan. The Plan will provide for the purchase of Hearing Aids obtained on the written prescription of a physician certified as a audiologist, not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) per person during the entire time the person is insured. There shall be no deductible payable by the Employee.
Workers' Compensation Board
For claims commencing prior to January 1, 1990:
Where a regular full-time worker is qualified for Workers' Compensation, the Employer shall make up the difference between the employee's regular straight-time earnings at their regular hourly rate of pay and what they receive from the Workers' Compensation Board for the first three (3) scheduled working days of absence from the job. Thereafter the Employer shall make up the difference between 75% of the employee's straight-time earnings based on their regular hourly rate of pay and what they receive from the Workers ’ Compensation Board for a period up to thirteen (13) weeks from the first day of absence due to injury on the job.
Effective for claims commencing January 1, 1990 or later:
Where a regular full-time employee is qualified for Workers' Compensation, the Employer shall make up the difference between the employee's regular straight time earnings at their regular hourly rate of pay and what they receive from the Workers' Compensation Board for the first three (3) scheduled working days of absence from the job.
The Employer will advise the Union when an employee's Workers' Compensation claim is challenged.
PhysicalExaminations
Where the Employer requires an employee, or applicant for employment to take a physical examination, or related examinations, Doctor's fees for such examinations shall be paid by the Employer. The first such examination shall be taken on the employee's own time. Any examination which is a direct follow-up to the first examination shall be taken on the Employer's time.
21
article: 10 cont.
10.10	Providing that not more than a total of twenty-four (24) months have elapsed, between the return to work and the last day worked, an employee who has been absent due to illness or in jury must be returned to their job without loss of seniority when capable of performing their duties. The original date of lay-off shall prevail in an instance where an employee returns to work from sickness or accident and lays off again within two (2) consecutive weeks of their return to work as a result of the same claim.
10.11	. ALCOHOLISM, DRUG ABUSE AND MENTAL ILLNESS
The Parties agree that given the potentially dangerous work environment in the Plant the possession of and/or use of alcohol, drugs (other than those drugs that have been specifically prescribed by an accredited Medical Doctor in the Province of Alberta) or other mind and/or behavior altering substance (s) by any employee during the work day, or prior to that work day where it leaves the enployee with residual impairment is not consistent with the safe operation of the Plant and is a disciplinary offence.
Notwithstanding the foregoing the Employer recognizes that alcoholism, drug addiction and mental illness are illnesses which can respond to therapy and treatment. An employee so affected shall:
a]	Recognize his/her obligation to seek recognized medical treatment when his/her illness has an adverse effect on his/her ability to satisfactorily perform the regular duties assigned to him/her, and
b]	Agree to faithfully maintain any course of recognized medical treatment or therapy prescribed for him/her.
If the employee does not respond to treatment within a reasonable time or the employee is unable to satisfactorily perform the regular duties assigned to him/her following treatment, the Employer shall have the right to terminate the employee subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
22
11.1	For the purpose of seniority, an employee regularly working forty (40) hours per week for a three (3) consecutive month period shall be considered a regular full-time employee. An employee regularly working 32 hours per week for a three (3) consecutive month period shall be considered a regular part-time employee.
11.2	a] In job postings, layoffs, reduction to part-time and recall of
full-timeemployees, length of continuous service with the Employer shall govern unless there is a less senior full-time employee whose fitness, qualifications and ability to perform the job are greater.
b]	Department Seniority shall be applied in determining promotions, demotions, and transfers within a department.
c]	Plant Seniority shall be applied in determining layoffs and rehiring, promotions and transfers between departments. An employee transferred by the Company to another department shall retain their seniority in the department from which transferred for a period of six (6) months. Plant seniority shall govern all employees except Maintenance personnel. As an exception to the foregoing the Company and the Union recognize the difficulty in replacing trained order selectors and agree that during the three week Christmas period department seniority shall govern layoffs in the order selecting department.
11.3	Employees regularly working full-time who are laid off or reduced
to part-time in accordance with the above provision shall be called to work in order of length of service provided:
1.	they are capable of performing the work,
2.	subject to Section (5), not more than twelve (12) months has elapsed since the last day worked by employee.
23
JZTICXJE 11.3 cont.
3.	the Employer shall notify the Union if they cannot contact an employee with seniority, and shall provide the Union with the last known address and telephone number of such employee in order to ensure that every endeavour has been made to call the employee to work. If the Union is unable to contact the employee within five (5) working days immediately following receipt of advice from the Employer, or if the employee is contacted and refuses the employment without proper and sufficient reason by the end of the five (5) day period, the employee will be dropped from the Seniority List. The twelve (12) months or the five (5) day deadline, respectively, shall be extended if upon recall an employee is unable to report due to illness or accident. Any extension granted shall only be for the duration of the illness or incapacity from accident and the Employer may require the employee to provide written confirmation from a Doctor of such illness or accident.
4.	such employees rehired within twelve (12) months of their lay-off shall retain their previous length of service for the purpose of this Article.
5.	employees who have suffered a nonwork-related injury following their lay-off and are unable to report for work when recalled will retain their right to recall for an additional six (6) months. An employee must be prepared to substantiate his case through a medical report.
11.4	The Employer, when reducing hours of work, agrees he will not reduce the regular scheduled hours of full-time employees for the purpose of replacing such hours with part-time or casual help.
11.5	The Employer will endeavour to give two (2) week's written notice, but not less than one (1) week's notice, prior to changing an employee's status from full-time to a part-time basis.
11.6	Regular part-time employees who desire to become full-time employees, or increase their hours of work, shall inform the Employer in writing with a copy to the Union. The Employer agrees to give full consideration to the employee's request, before hiring new employees, provided however, that such written request has been received prior to the date of the last hire.
24
tiRTICLE 11 cont.
11.7	Any full-time or regular part-time employee, who is laid off or fails to receive hours of work to which they are entitled according to the foregoing understanding, shall be compensated for the hours involved in any such violation at their regular rate of pay.
11.8	An employee's seniority shall terminate upon the occurrence of the following events:
1.	employee voluntarily resigns or is terminated.
2.	Employee fails to return to work in accordance with recall procedure (ARTICLE 11.3, 3.), the Employer reserves the right to temporarily fill the position until the recall employee reports.
3.	Employee has not been on the active payroll of the Employer for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months.
4.	It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
11.9	Employer agrees to notify the Union, within five (5) working days, of all lay-offs, discharges and recalls of full-time employees.
11.10	Where two (2) or more employees have the same service date, the employee with the lowest permanent payroll number assigned by the Company shall be considered to have the longest length of service.
11.11
The Employer agrees to provide the Union with separate Seniority Lists with payroll numbers for each department on June 1st, and December 1st of each year. The Seniority Lists to contain information as per Appendix "B" of this Collective Agreement.
The payroll number shall govern seniority of those employees who commence their employment on the same day.
25
ARTICLE 11 cont.
11.12	When job vacancies occur, including that of Lead Hand, in Bracket
(4) jobs and above in the Plant and the Employer requires replacements, and when the Employer creates new job classifications, they shall be posted on the Bulletin Board within seven (7) days for a period of three (3) working days during which time applications may be made by the employees. Such applications made shall receive first consideration within the department concerned. If no suitable applications are received, then the Company may hire a person to fill the job. It is understood to apply for a posting in the Maintenance Department, an employee must be fully qualified and with the exception of the Improver and Oiler-Greaser classifications must either hold a valid Alberta certificate or a valid certificate from another Province. In the case of Lead Hand vacancies, the Company retains the sole right to determine who is qualified for such vacancy.
Temporary appointments may be made by the Employer pending receipt of applications. Employees absent on vacation or on Union business shall be granted the right to bid for a job posting during their absence for a period of thirty (30) days following the appointment to the job vacancy, or within three (3) working days after their return to work, whichever is the shorter period.
Subject to the foregoing paragraphs and the Letter of Understanding regarding "Afternoon Shift - Order Selector", a period of no longer than one (1) month shall elapse between the close of competition for the posting and the filling of the job by the successful applicant.
An employee who received a promotion through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until six (6) consecutive months have elapsed. Only the original vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall be posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will not be posted, but will be filled in accordance with the terms of Article 11.2.
An employee receiving a new job posting will be on a trial basis for up to sixty (60) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall be returned to their previous job, or at their own request. Unsuccessful applicants who wish to know why they were not selected to fill a particular job may ask for and will receive an explanation.
26
12.1
12.2
12.3
12.4
13.1
ARTICLE 12
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
No employee shall be disciplined or terminated without just cause. Disciplinary warnings shall be in writing and a copy shall be given to the employee. An employee will be informed of the reasons for their termination, suspension or disciplinary warning. The Union will be notified in writing of all terminations, suspensions or disciplinary warnings.
In the event the employee or the Union feels that the suspension or the termination is not. just, the matter may be presented as a grievance cormencing with ARTICLE 17, provided that such grievance is presented within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the suspension or termination.
In the event that any employee has been terminated without just cause, they shall be reinstated and shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, in an amount sufficient to make up the difference between any monies received by that employee concerning employment, and their full pay.
Termination of any employee during the first sixty (60) working days of their employment, or any extended period mutually agreed upon shall not be subject to challenge by the Union or the employee under the terms of this Collective Agreement and the grievance procedure will not be applicable in such termination.
ARTICLE 13 SEVERANCE PAY
Severance Pay On Closing Of Plant
In the event there is a permanent closure of the Plant, or part thereof, causing a regular full-time employee to lose their employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such an employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay according to the following schedule:
Full-Time Consecutive
Service	Severance Pay
Up to one (1) year	One (1) week.
Over one (1) year	One week's pay for every year of
full-time service to a maximum of twelve (12) weeks.
This clause does not apply to a temporary lay-off; full-time employees who accept other full-time or part-time employment with the Company, or to regular full-time employees who lose employment and are reinstated within thirty (30) days to a full-time status.
27
ARTICLE 13.1 cont.
Employees who qualify shall not be entitled to the following benefits contained in the following Sections pertaining to normal termination.
The Employer will not reduce an employee from full-time to part-time for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the foregoing severance pay due a full-time employee.
13.2	Employees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the
Employer, except employees terminated for just cause, which shall include, but not be limited to dishonesty, drunkenness, or drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordination, shall be given individual notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof, as follows:
1.	One (1) week's notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (60) days' service but less than two (2) years 1 service,
2.	Two (2) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed two (2) or more years' service,
3.	Four (4) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed four (4) or more consecutive years of service,
4.	Five (5) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed six (6) or more consecutive years of service,
5.	Six (6) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed eight (8) or more consecutive years of service,
6.	Eight (8) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed ten (10) or more consecutive years of service.
In the case of a part-time employee the average of the employee's
earnings for the last thirteen (13) weeks of employment, excluding periods of approved leave of absence (eg. maternity leave, W.I., Vi.C.B., vacation) immediately preceding the date of termination, shall be used in determining the sum paid to the employee in lieu of insufficient notice.
13.3	Termination notice to be given in writing to become effective from the date the employee receives such notice.
13.4	Employees regularly working full-time reduced to part-time who terminate or are terminated within three (3) months of the date of their reduction to part-time, shall be given whatever pay in lieu of notice they were entitled to, immediately prior to the date of their reduction to part-time.
28
ARTICLE 13 cont.
13.5	This Section shall not be deemed to invalidate an employee's right
under ARTICLE 17, Grievance Procedure.
14.1 a]
ARTICLE 14 VACATIONS
Effective June 1, 1983, vacation schedule shall be set up as follows:
two (2) weeks three (3) weeks four (4) weeks five (5) weeks six (6) weeks
after one after five after ten after twenty after twenty-five
(1) year of service (5) years of service (10) years of service (20) years of service (25) years of service
It is agreed that three (3) weeks after five (5) years will be changed to three (3) weeks after one (1) year if proclaimed by the Government of Alberta and to be effective the day of proclamation.
14.2
14.3
14.4
For the purpose of vacation allowance, employees regularly working full-time means an employee who has completed one (1) calendar year's continuous service with the Employer comprising not less than two hundred and twenty-five (225) days of actual work.
Authorized time off for sickness or non-occupational accidents, of not more than twenty-six (26) weeks shall not be interpreted as a break in or interruption of service. Time lost on paid vacation, Statutory Holidays, or due to occupational accidents shall be considered as time worked for purposes of determining vacation eligibility to which full-time employees are eligible.
Vacations shall be scheduled from April 1st to September 30th, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Employer and the employee. So far as practical and consistent with the Employer maintaining an efficient operation, vacations shall be granted during the period of time requested by the employees. The applications for vacation shall be granted on the basis of, and in order of, respective employee's seniority in selection of vacation dates, except that final determination of vacation dates shall be made by the Employer in line with existing conditions. Further, effective January 1, 1979, employees entitled to three (3), four (4) or more weeks vacation may take three (3) consecutive weeks between the dates as outlined above.
Subject to the foregoing, employees who are entitled to four (4) weeks vacation will have the right to schedule four (4) weeks consecutively during the period October 1 to March 31.
29
ARTICLE
14.5
14.6
14.7
15.1
15.2
15.3
15.4
15.5
14 cont.
Vacations will be taken in periods of not less than one (1) week's duration. Vacation allowance to be two per cent (2%) of total salary and wages for each week of vacation entitlement or forty (40) hours at employee's regular rate of pay, if greater.
When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will be entitled to an extra day of vacation, or pay in lieu thereof, however, the employee at the time they request their vacation must inform the Employer of their request and the granting of such request must be by mutual agreement.
Employees shall, upon termination of employment, receive a vacation allowance in the amount of two per cent (2%j for each week of entitlement for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
ARTICLE 15
WORKING CONDITIONS - GENERAL
A Joint Labour-Management Safety Committee, consisting of representatives of the Employer and the employees, shall be established and have at least five (5) employees selected from employees within the bargaining unit, and such Safety Committee shall operate consistent with regulations of and with the assistance of the Health and Safety Inspection Branch. Regular meetings shall be held at least once a month.
The Employer agrees to provide suitable space for posting Union notices which notices shall first receive approval of Management. The Employer agrees to promptly post such notice.
The Employer agrees that he will fully comply with any Law requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of all employees to cooperate and assist in maintaining in good condition such equipment, utilities and conveniences used by such employees. Employees shall refrain from misusing or defacing them and any conduct which would render unsanitary any such equipment, utensil or convenience.
Union Plant Visits
Duly authorized full-time representatives of the Union shall be entitled to visit the Plant for the purpose of observing working conditions, interviewing members and unsigned employees, and to ensure that the terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented.
30
ARTICLE 15.5 cont.
15.6
15.7
15.8
15.9
Any interview of any employee by the Union Representative shall be permissible after first contacting the Plant Manager or in his absence the person in charge and shall:
not interfere with the employee's work.	However, if it is not
practical to discuss the matter while the employee is working, then such interview shall;
b]	be	carried on in a place in the Plant designated by	the Manager,
c]	be	held whenever possible during the lunch period.	However, if
this is not practical,
d]	be	during the regular working hours. Time taken for such an
interview in excess of five (5) minutes shall not	be on Company
time unless with the approval of Management.
Union Representatives shall be permitted to review the Hours of Work Schedules and Time Cards and in the event of any discrepancies, they shall be presented under ARTICLE 17 of this Agreement.
The Company shall furnish only those tools and safety equipment which it considers necessary for the performance of the work by the employees, and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
The Company shall supply major and special tools for the Maintenance Department as the Company may decide. Maintenance Department employees will have their tools inventoried and required tools that become broken or worn on the job, shall be replaced with an article of equal value upon presentation to the Company.
Wearing Apparel
The Company shall furnish and launder gowns and aprons for each employee as specified by the Company as required for work in the Plant. Such apparel remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular performance of duty and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee.
Proper footv/ear as specified by the Company, such as rubber boots, shall be provided to those employees that the Company feels have need of such footwear. The employee must turn in their v/ork boots when requesting a replacement. Such replacement shall be made as deemed necessary by the Company.
31
ARTICLE 15.9 cont.
The Company shall provide to employees, not supplied with rubber boots, a safety boot allowance of $25.00 once per year, upon presentation of a proof of purchase receipt. Effective June 1, 1987, provide for safety boot allowance of thirty dollars ($30.00) once per year. The employee shall be responsible for the first pair of safety boats purchased.
15.10	The Union agrees that the Company may utilize non-union personnel
as management trainees for the purpose of becoming familiar with overall Plant operations, providing members of the bargaining unit are not displaced from their jobs or have their regular hours reduced when such personnel are employed in the above capacity. Such management trainees will be limited in number to a maximum of two <2) at any one time.
ARTICLE 16
UNION'S RECOGNITION OF MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
The Union agrees that the Management of the Company including the right to plan and direct and control Plant operations, the direction of the working force, and the discharge of employees for just cause are the sole rights and functions of the Employer. Those matters requiring judgement as to competency of employees are also agreed to be the sole right and function of Management, subject however, to discharge of employees on grounds of alleged incompetency being processed under ARTICLES 17 and 18 of this Agreement.
The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of Management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of Management not specifically covered by this Agreement. The Employer, therefore, retains all rights not otherwise specifically covered in this Agreement.
The exercise of the foregoing shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
32
17.1
17.2
17.3
17.4
17.5
17.6
ARTICLE 17 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
It is agreed that the employees covered hereby and/or their accredited representatives and Employer, all have the right to present grievances one to the other.
Grievances under this Article refer to and mean any differences, disputes, or complaints arising over the interpretation, application or reading of the provisions of this Agreement. In such instances, an earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the manner hereinafter outlined.
step 1
The aggrieved employee, or the Union, shall take the matter up with the Foreman or Superintendent in charge, at which time the employee may be accompanied by a member of the grievance committee, it being clearly understood that all employees must carry out the orders of the Foreman or Superintendent in charge, pending settlement of any dispute.
Step 2
If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) working hours, a signed copy of the written grievance shall be delivered to the Manager or his representative, who shall within three (3) days following receipt thereof meet with the grievance committee and attempt to settle the grievance. At this meeting, the Union Representative or Secretary of the Union may be present at the request of either party.
step 3
If agreement is not reached, the matter shall be referred to the Industrial Relations Department of the Company. If no settlement is reached within fourteen (14) working days, or such other period to be mutually agreed to, then the grievance shall be referred to Arbitration as outlined in ARTICLE 18.
Grievances must be reduced to writing by the employee, or the Union in order to be considered under Steps 1, 2, and 3.
Grievances shall be presented promptly after the occurrence of the event which gave rise to the grievance but not later than thirty (30) days.
In the event a grievance arises on behalf of the Employer, the matter shall be presented to the Union Business Representative who shall have fourteen (14) working days from the date of submission to reconcile and end all grievances.
The time limits specified herein may be extended by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
33
ARTICLE 17 cont.
17.7
18.1
18.2
18.3
18.4
18.5
18.6 18.7
All settlements shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
ARTICLE 18
1	ARBITRATION
If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, or if the party to whom the grievance has been served, fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance, either party may, by written notice, served upon the other, require submission of a grievance of a Board of Arbitration, or to a single Arbitrator acceptable to both parties.
The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of three (3) members and shall be established in the following manner:
a]	within ten (10) days (excluding Sundays and Holidays) following receipt of notice to arbitrate, the Employer and the Union each shall select a representative to serve on the Board of Arbitration. The Representatives so selected shall within five (5) days, (excluding Sundays and Holidays) meet and choose an additional
person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration.
b]	in the event of the Representatives of the Union and the Employer failing to agree upon a Chairman within the five (5) day period above specified, the Minister of Labour shall imnedlately be requested to name a third member who shall act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration.
Within five (5) days of the selection or appointment of the Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter in dispute and shall render its decision within fourteen (14) days following its first session.
No person shall serve on the Board of Arbitration who is involved or directly interested in the dispute under consideration. Grievances submitted to the Board of Arbitration shall be in writing and shall clearly specify the nature of the issue.
In reaching a decision, the Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to vary, change, supplement, modify, alter, or amend this Agreement in any of its parts, but shall interpret this Agreement with respect to the issue.
All expenses of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration shall be shared equally between the Company and the Union.
It is understood and agreed that the time limits as set forth herein may be altered by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
34
ARTICLE
18.8
19.1
20.1
21.1
a]
b]
18 cont.
The decision and findings of the Board of Arbitration shall be final, binding and enforceable on all parties.
ARTICLE 19
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
This Agreement shall be binding upon the purchaser, or transferee as provided in Section 44 of the Labour Relations Code.
ARTICLE 20 NON-DISCRIMINATION
Sections 26 and 32 of the Labour Relations Act of Alberta and Section 10 of the individual's Rights Protection Act are hereby recognized.
ARTICLE 21 SEVERABILITY
If any part of this Agreement is rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted Legislation, valid Government Regulation or Order, or by decree of a Court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidation of such part of the Agreement shall not affect or invalidate any of the remaining parts thereof, and the same shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 22
WORK STOPPAGES
During the life of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, slow down or lockout of employees.
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
In the event of any strike, walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent powerhouse staff such as firemen, engineers, and an electrician from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of this Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such periods as the Company does not attempt to restore regular production.
35
ARTICLE 22 cont.
The Company and the Union agree that in respect to the renewal of this and future Collective Agreements as follows:
1.	The Union agrees to give the employer seventy-two (72) hours' notice of the date and time the strike will commence as required by the Labour Relations Act, 1980, Section 90.
2.	The Employer agrees to give the Union seventy-two '72) hours' notice of the date and time the lockout will commence as required by the Labour Relations Act, 1980, Section 90.
ARTICLE 23 DURATION AND RENEWAL
23.1	The Agreement shall be effective from September 1, 1991 until
August 31, 1995 , and shall remain in force thereafter from year to year, but either party may, not less than sixty (60) days before the expiry date, or renewal date of such Agreement give notice, in writing, to the other party to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
If notice to negotiate, following any notice to terminate, has been given by either party, (prior to date of such termination) or if notice to amend had been given by either party, this Agreement shall not be altered until a new Collective Agreement is reached or a party lawfully strikes or locks out pursuant to the provisions of the Alberta Labour Act and the provisions of ARTICLE 22.
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have cause those present to be executed.

SIGNED THIS IN THE CITY OF CALGARY, AT.BERTA
DAY OF f Jr {70 02.
1992
36
APPENDIX A
WAGES
FIRST YEAR
SECOND YEAR
THIRD YEAR
FOURTH YEAR
All full time employees with one year's service with the Employer, as at date of ratification, will receive a lump sum payment of $1,000.00.
Those full-time employees with less than one year's service will receive a prorated lump sum payment based on their months of service as a percentage of 12.
(Eg. six months service = 50% of $1,000.00.)
Part-time employees will be eligible for a prorated lump sum payment based on the following formula:
Hours Worked by the Part-Time Employee
x $1,000.00
Hours Worked by the Full-Time Employee During the Same Period.
To be eligible for a lump sum payment all employees must be employed as at date of ratification and must have worked hours in the Plant in the twelve months previous to the date of ratification. Employees absent due to maternity leave will not have any entitlement reduced as a result of that leave.
Employees on payroll on August 30, 1992 will receive a lump sum payment of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) based on the foregoing formula. (ie. Those full-time employees with less than one years' service and parttime employees will receive a prorated amount.)
Effective August 29, 1993 all employees will receive
a wage increase of twenty-five cents (25<£) per hour. Start rates are to remain unchanged; scales to be prorated - 100% of the increase on the top rate, 0% on the start rate.
Effective September 4, 1994 all employees will receive a wage increase of twenty-five cents (25tf) per hour. Start rates are to remain unchanged; scales to be prorated - 100% of the increase on the top rate, 0% on the start rate.
37
APPENDIX A
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
EMPLOYEES HIRED SUNDAY AFTER RATIFICATION (DECEMBER 24, 1989)
GENERAL LABOUR	(0)
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
89/12/24	93/08/29
EFFECTIVE
94/09/04
Start
After
1040 hrs. After 2080 hrs. After 2773 hrs. After 3467 hrs. After 4160 hrs.
8.05
8.95
9.85
10.75
11.65
12.57
8.05
9.00
9.95
10.90
11.85
12.82
8.05
9.05
10.05
11.05
12.05 13.07
BEEF TRIMMER	(2)
Start
After 1040 hrs After 2080 hrs After 2773 hrs After 3467 hrs After 4160 hrs
8.21 9.11 10.01 10.91 11.81 12. 73
8.21 9.16 10.11 11.06 12.01 12.98
8.21
9.21
10.21
11.21
12.21
13.23
BEEF TRIMMER
Drop skirts, trim all skirts, fat trim table, trim cuts or quarters for receiving, trim cuts for stew or ground beef, trim sorter.
MISCELLANEOUS	(4)
Start
After
After
After
After
After
1040 hrs. 2080 hrs. 2773 hrs. 3467 hrs. 4160 hrs.
8.37 9.27 10.17 11.07 11.97 12.89
8.37
9.32
10.27
11.22
12.17
13.14
8.37
9.37
10.37
11.37
12.37 13.39
LIVER TRIMMER, CORNED BEEF AND PICKLE MAKER
(5)
Sta rt
After 1040 hrs. After 2080 hrs. After 2773 hrs. After 3467 hrs. After 4160-hrs.
8.45 9.35 10.25 11. 15 12.05 12.97
8.45 9.40 10.35 11.30 12.25 13.22
8.45
9.45
10.45
11.45
12.45 13.47
38
APPENDIX A cont.
EFFECTIVE
SHIPPING AND RECEIVING 89/12/24
EFFECTIVE
93/08/29
EFFECTIVE
94/09/04
Start
After 1040 hrs.
After 2080 hrs.
After 2113 hrs.
After 3461 hrs.
After 4160 hrs. (1) Forklift Operator (1) Raymond Operator (8)
8.61 9.51 10.41 11.31 12.21
13.13
13.13 13.21
8.61
9.56
10.51
11.46 12.41
13.38
13.38
13.46
8.61 9.61 10.61 11.61 12.61
13.63
13.63 13. 71
ORDER SELECTING
(4)
Start
After 1040 hrs. After 2080 hrs. After 2773 hrs. After 3467 hrs. After 4160 hrs.
8.37
9.27
10.17
11.07
11.97
12.89
8.37
9.32
10.27
11.22
12.17
13.14
8.37
9.37
10.37
11.37
12.37 13.39
APPRENTICES AND JOURNEYMEN
Start
After 1040 hrs.
After 2080 hrs.
After 2773 hrs.
After 3467 hrs.
After 4160 hrs. (H) Sawman	(13)
8.93 9.83 10. 73 11.63 12.53 13.45 13.61
8.93
9.88
10.83
11.	78
12.	73
13.	70 13.86
8.93
9.93
10.93
11.93
12.93 13.95 14.11
MAINTENANCE
Electrician (Lead Hand) 15.85 Millwright with certificate 15.29 Electrician 15.29 Journeyman Maintenance 15.05 3rd Class Engineer 15.05 4th Class Engineer 14.37 Improvers 14.25 Oiler-Greaser 13.05
16.10
15.54
15.54
15.30
15.30 14.62 14.50
13.30
16.35
15.79
15.79
15.55
15.55 14.87 14.75
13.55
NOTE: Progression hours will include those hours on which the Employer makes pension contributions and any WCB absence to a maximum of the employee's next wage increase.
39
APPENDIX A cxrnt.
GENERAL LABOUR (0) to include:
-	Cleaning of all areas in prefab processing and receiving - Laundry - Trolley Wash - Unloading (beef quarters) - Boxing (ground beef) - Palletizing (ground beef) - Throwing (beef quarters at saw) - Stamper - Frozen grinder operator
-	Mechanical Meat Separator - Box maker.
Present employees on payroll at date of ratification will not be subject to a reduction in rate if they are placed in the two foregoing job classifications.
Present employees on payroll at date of ratification who wish to apply for either of the two classifications, through job posting or by their request, will receive the corresponding rate in the new classification based on their service in their current classification.
CREDIT FOR PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
New employees may be classified according to previous comparable experience.
When an employee is transferred to a higher rated job classification, they will be paid the corresponding progression rate (start, 6 month, 12 month, 16 month, 20 month, top rate) for that job classification.
Similarly when an employee is transferred to a lower job classification, they will be paid the corresponding progression rate for that job classification.
LEAD MAN
To be paid 15# per hour over the highest regular classified rate in the Department he is leading.
NIGHT PREMIUM is
250 per hour
40
$	13.77
APPENDIX A cant.
BRACKET (15) BONERS
DEFINITION OF BRACKET (15) WORK
An employee who completely debones rib eyes, strip loins, top butts, chef style ribs, and splits hips shall receive the Bracket (15) rate of pay. Subject to the foregoing definition, only those employees who perform Bracket (15) work shall receive the Bracket (15) rate of pay. Further the Bracket (15) rate of pay shall only be paid to an employee when they perform Bracket (15) work. Notwithstanding Article 7.3 any employee assigned Bracket (15) work will be paid Bracket (15) rate of pay for all time so worked (Effective January 1, 1990.) Employees shall be entitled to perform Bracket (15) work and receive the Bracket (15) rate of pay in accordance with the following:
Firstly, those employees who are presently doing Bracket (15) work at the Bracket (15) rate of pay shall be given first right of refusal for such work.
Secondly, those employees who, in the previous Agreement received the Bracket (15) rate of pay but are not currently performing Bracket (15) work, will have the opportunity to perform Bracket (15) work. An employee in this group will be given a maximum trial period of two (2) weeks to demonstrate their proficiency and entitlement to the Bracket (15) rate of pay when requested to do that work.
Thirdly, those employees who constitute the Bracket (15) replacement pool shall be afforded an opportunity to demonstrate their proficiency and entitlement to the Bracket (15) rate of pay when requested to do that work.
41
APPENDIX B
DEPARTMENTS
PREFAB LINE 1, 2	& 3		SHIPPING AND RECEIVING
Saw Men		9	Order Selectors
Boners		48	Loading or Unloading
Bagging		4	Fork Lift Operator
Bone Guard		8	Receiving
Machine Operator	8200	8	Palletizing
Scaler		2	Scaling
Strapper		2	Box Makers
Boxing,		7	Department Helpers
Department Helpers		6	Raymond Operator
PROCESSING			SANITATION
12
1
1
1
4
1
2
4
1
Ground Beef	10
Beef Sausage	3
Corned Beef, Curing Liver slicing	3
Deveining, Packaging Cow Boning	20
Department Helpers	6
All clean off Areas in Prefab
Processing, & Receiving 8 Laundry 1 Trolley Wash 1 Knife Sharpener 1 General Labour 1
also includes receiving carcasses
MAINTENANCE
Maintenance	7
(Regular Full-time)
(Regular Part-time)
Numbers denote approximate number of employees in the department. actual number may vary from time to time.
42
The
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:	JOB TRAINING
between:	LUCERNE FOODS LID.
CALGARY MEAT PLANT
and:	UNITED POOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
The Employer will undertake to provide the opportunity for senior employees to train in a classification other than their own, so that in the event of a lay-off, they shall have the qualifications to exercise their seniority and work outside their normal job classification.
It is understood that hours worked, either while receiving instruction or working outside their normal job classification will be paid at the top rate for that job.
THE
SIGNEDtbis Zl ^~dav of
ALBERTA.
1992 in the CITY OF CALGARY,
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:
LUCERNE FOODS LID.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE: JOINT LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COmiTTEE
The Employer and the Union agree to form a Joint Labour/Management Committee consisting of four (4) members (including a full-time representative of the Union) representing the Union and four (4) members representing Lucerne Foods Ltd..
The Joint Labour/Managemen t Committee shall meet not less than (4) times per year or at such other times as are mutually agreed.
The member-s of the Committee shall discuss items of concern arising from the Operation of the Facilities covered by the Collective Agreement.
Either party shall inform the other of items on the Agenda, at least three (3) days in advance, of any scheduled meeting.
SIGNED THIS . ^ ' day CALGARY, ALBERTA.
1992 in the CITY OF
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between :
LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE: AFTERNOON SHIFT ORDER SELECTORS
The Employer and the Union agree that there will be no more than one (1) Inexperienced employee In the Order Selecting area on the afternoon shift. "Inexperienced", shall refer to an employee who has not completed the probationary period, or has not worked sixty (60) days in this Department. Notwithstanding the foregoing, The Parties agree that an employee's promotion/transfer from the position of afternoon shift Order Selector will not be delayed for more than three (3) months.
a Designed THIS i day of CALGARY, ALBERTA.
1992 in the CITY OF
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:
LUCERNE FOODS LTV.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE: TRANSFER /PROMOTION TO MEAT CIPTER/SAMMAN
When an employee who has no experience as a Meat Cutter or Sawman posts for one of those positions and is accepted his/her wage rate will be the "2080 hour" rate on the new respective wage rate scale for a period of sixty (60) working days. Upon successful completion of the initial training period they will be paid the rate of pay that they received in their prior classification. He/she shall not receive an increase in wage rate in the new wage rate scale until their experience as a Meat Cutter or Sawman qualifies them for the next higher rate.
•4
-n.
SIGNED THIS ______
CALGARY, ALBERTA.
Jay of
1992 in the CITY of
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:
LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE: JOB POSTINGS - VACATION RELIEF
Employees, hired for vacation relief, will be advised of their status at the time of hire. The Union will be supplied with the names and hire dates of those hired for vacation relief. If an employee, hired for vacation relief, is kept beyond the probationary period, aposting must occur at that time unless it can be shown that a permanent job does not exist.
SIGNED THI7^day of CALGARY, ALBERTA.
1992 in the CITY OF
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLAN!
and:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL, WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE: SATURDAY SHIFTS
The Employer shall have the right to hire new employees whose only scheduled hours shall be Saturday. Such work will be performed at straight time rates.
A full-time employee whose regular hours of work are scheduled Monday through Friday will not suffer a reduction of hours or lay-off so long as the Employer utilizes the Saturday shift.
For the purpose of this Letter of Understanding there shall be two (2) Divisions:
1.	Prefab (including sanitation)
2.	Warehousing
Where a Saturday shift is worked pursuant to the foregoing the guaranteed work week for full-time employees working Monday through Friday shall be increased by one (1) hour in the DIVISION concerned. Notwithstanding the foregoing should there be a Saturday warehousing shift the Employer will schedule forty (40) hours of work for those full-time who normally work Monday through Friday in the warehousing department.
For greater clarification those employees working in the warehousing department will include the following:
i] order selectors ii] loading and unloading Hi] fork lift operator
iv]	receiving
v]	scaling
vi]	palletizing vii] shipping
SIGNED THIS r'day' o f ('■ /PVV//: l" 1992 in the CITY of CALGARY, ALBERTA.	'
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:
LUCERNE POODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
Notwithstanding the terms of the current Collective Agreement, the Parties agree that should the Employer reach the conclusion that competitive or operational problems indicate that the current Collective Agreement is inappropriate then the Parties will meet with a view to discussing those problems. Further, should the Employer wish the employees, covered by this Collective Agreement, to vote on a proposal made by the Employer, related to the discussion of those problems, this Collective Agreement will be opened only to the extent necessary to allow for that vote to be conducted, and any amendments required as a consequence of the acceptance of that proposal.
Consistent with the foregoing terms and conditions, the Union shall have the right to present the Employer with a proposal.
The Parties to this Agreement enter into this Letter of Understanding in good faith and in recognition of the fact that the wage and benefit rates of the Employer exceed those in effect in similar beef processing plants in Alberta.
TERMS OF IMPLEMENTATION
The Employer and the Union agree that this Letter of Understanding will not become operative before July 1, 1990.
The Employer agrees that a proposal proceeding to the Union membership for vote, without the recommendation of the Union, will address rates of pay only.
VOTES ON PROPOSALS
If the Employer wishes the employees to vote on a proposal, pursuant to the foregoing, then:
1.	the Employer will provide the proposal to the Union and the membership in written form,
2.	the Employer will provide the Union with one week's written notice of request for a vote on the proposal, and
3.	the Employer will seek the assistance of the Labour Relations Board in conducting the vote by secret ballot.
49
- 2 -
Should the Union wish the Employer to vote on a proposal the acceptance or rejection of that proposal shall be commnicated to the Union by the Industrial Relations Manager.
FOR
THE COMPANY,:
M	,	/VO"\	V
SIGNED THIS 4	day of (IJC'j'/lfC 1 t-__________________________, 1992
in the CITY OF CALGARY, ALBERTA.
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	LUCERNE FOODS LTV.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:	UNITED POOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE:	RETIREMENT PLAN
If Canada Safeway Limited is party to an agreement to increase the contributions to the Canadian Commercial Workers' Industry Pension Plan beyond the rates set out in the 1989-1991 Lucerne Agreement, this Collective Agreement will be amended to provide for the inclusions of those amendments.
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:
LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
RE:	ARTICLE 2.1
RECORNITION AND JURISDICTION
1.	Elaine Manseau to receive the (7) rate of pay. The position will be named Receiver/Forklift (7).
2.	Work involved in the receipt of more than six (6) items in the Maintenance/Dry Storage area will fall within the bargaining unit.
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
Laundry work will be paid the bracket (0) rate consistent with the general labour definition.
The Laundry Head classification will be deleted.
53
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS DIVI.SI
Canada Salci vav Li mik’d
May 28, 1992
Mr. Vic Carr
President & Business Representative
U.F.C.W., Local 373A
Suite #115
276 Midpark Way S.E.
Calgary, Alberta T2X 1J 6
Dear Mr. Carr:
RE:	FREEZER APPAREL
Further to our conversations regarding freezer apparel we confirm that we will provide a freezer coat for those who work in the freezer.	We
have made arrangements to store the coat in the Shipping Office,
Yours Sincerely,
CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED
D. Scott Boyd Branch Manager
DSB/js
P.O.Box MO. Sin. ‘M’. Calgary, Alberta T2P 2J4 Telephone (403) 294-66 17
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
CALGARY MEAT PROCESSING PLANT
and:	UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 373A
Ada Jones will not suffer a reduction in pay and will retain her bracket (4) rate of pay so long as she continues in that position.
54