AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FLETCHER’S FINE FOODS LTD.
7550 - 40TH AVENUE RED DEER,ALBERTA
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.
LOCAL 1118
5116-47TH STREET RED DEER, ALBERTA T4N 1R9
MARCH 11, 1992 - MARCH 10, 1995
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18 19
19.06
General ..............................1
Bargaining Agency.....................2
Management............................4
Gender................................4
Wages.................................4
Thirty-Seven Hour Guarantee...........8
Hours of Work and Overtime ..........10
Statutory Holidays...................15
Seniority............................18
Vacations ...........................25
Grievance Procedure..................27
Safety and Health ...................31
Separation Allowance ................35
Work Methods.........................38
Contracting Out......................40
Part-Time Employees..................41
General .............................41
Benefits.............................48
Duration of Agreement................54
Letters of Understanding
Appendix A - New Hires...............55
Appendix B- Wage Schedule............57
Appendix C - Job Grades..............58
Appendix D- Long Term Disability.....59
Appendix E - Part Time Workers.......62
Appendix F- Letterscf Understanding...64
Appendix G - Vacation Scheduling.....64
Appendix H- Continental Work Week....65 Appendix I - Job Rates...............66
ii
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Red Deer, Alberta this March 31, A.D. 1992.
BETWEEN:
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD., 7550 -40th Avenue, Bag 5641, Red Deer, Alberta (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION, A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C., LOCAL 1118, 5116 -47th Street
Red Deer, Alberta (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain in full force and effect a harmonious relationship between the Management and the Employees No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Management and the Organization
1
ARTICLE 2- BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company or anyone authorized to act for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency as certified by the Labour Relations Board for the Province of Alberta, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who are members of the Union and who become members of the Union, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C., Local 1118, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union.
2.02	(a) The Company agrees to retain in its em-
ploy, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Section 2.01, of this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing.
The Company shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members, whether part time or full time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application within ten (10) days after employment and become members within thirty (30) working days.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment
2
with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee’s date of hire, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide the Chief Steward of the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2.03	(a) The Company agrees to deduct from the
wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such fines, assessments and initiation fees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The regular monthly dues will be deducted from each bi-weekly pay cheque, and the amount of each deduction will be arrived at by annualizing the deductions and dividing by twenty-six (26).
(b)	The Company will procure from each new and probationary employees the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union will be granted within the above mentioned thirty day period.
(c)	Money deducted from any pay period shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not
o
later than two weeks from the date the dues are deducted, and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions are made.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
The management of the plant and direction of the working forces including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4-GENDER
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this Agreement apply to all employees in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 5 -WAGES
5.01	(a) Effective March 11, 1992 the base rate
shall be increased by thirty-one cents (0.31) per hour, to $13.61 per hour.
(b)	Effective October 1, 1992 the base rate shall be increased by fifty-two cents (0.52) per hour, to $14.13 per hour.
(c)	Effective October 1, 1993 the base rate shall be increased by thirty-five cents (0.35) per hour, to $14.48 per hour.
(d)	Effective October 1, 1994 the base rate shall be increased by thirty seven cents (0.37) per hour, to $14.85 per hour.
4
5.02	(a) Employees whose schedule calls for
work on calendar Saturdays and Sundays or Statutory Holidays mentioned in this agreement shall be paid one and one-half (1 112) times their regular rate for all scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee. Such premiums shall not be considered as part of the employee's basic rate.
(b) The increments between brackets will remain at eight (8) cents for the duration of this contract.
5.03	When a qualified employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job he shall receive his higher rate. A qualified employee working fifty percent or more of his time on the highest rated job shall be paid that rate.
For the purposes of this section, the 50% calculation is done on a daily basis. If a statutory holiday falls at the end of or in the middle of a period when an employee is temporarily performing a higher rated job, the employee will be paid for the statutory holiday at the higher rated job.
5.04	(a) Employees shall receive the applicable
job rates provided for in the wage schedule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
(b) The word "qualified" as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without
5
instruction or assistance. Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall not exceed six (6)weeks, after which the rate shall be paid.
(c) Instruction or assistance in training any employee may be given by a supervisory officer of the Company or by an employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or Department Supervisor or gang leader. Where an employee is designated to give training he shall receive twenty cents (.20) per * hour above his rate, or the rate of the job he is training, whichever is greater, for the period of time that he is giving training to an employee.
5.05	(a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is
transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate while so doing. At the expiration of twelve (12) weeks the lower job rate shall prevail. The twelve week period shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employee is required to return temporarily to his previous higher rated work. However, should the employee be returned temporarily to his former job for a period of three (3) consecutive weeks or more, the twelve (12) week period will recommence from the day he/she again returns to a lower rated job.
(b) If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rate of
6
pay shall apply immediately.
5.06	(a) An off shift premium of forty-five (.45)
cents per hour will be paid for all hours worked between 6:00pm and 6:00am. Effective June 1, 1993 this premium shall be increased to fifty cents (.50) per hour.
(b) An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. inclusive, shall receive an off shift premium of forty-five cents (.45) per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Effective June 1, 1993 this premium shall be increased to fifty cents (.50) per hour.
5.07	The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time and one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company.
5.08	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. The Company agrees to provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to and from the hospital. In the
7
event the employee chooses to go directly home from the hospital, the Company agrees to reimburse, upon presentation of a valid receipt, an amount up to the cost of transporting the employee.
5.09	Attached to this Agreement shall be a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
5.10	Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for more than one (1) continuous hour in temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius shall receive a premium of twenty-five (.25) cents per hour for all hours so worked.
ARTICLE 6 - THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of, except in the case of power failures or major equipment breakdowns over two hours. In which case the minimum guarantee shall be thirty-four (34) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as herein provided.
6.01	An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours missed by such absence.
6.02	An employee who is excused from work for part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
6.03	An employee who starts after the first of the
a
payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week is of forty hours.
6.04	Employees with seniority on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given. Should notice extend into subsequent week, then the employee shall be entitled to their guaranteed hours of pay for each day of their notice period.
6.05	When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissable to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
6.06	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays, or in the case of off shift days in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employees schedule.
6.07	In order to meet the demands of the business the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in the event of a layoff occurring in the plant.
9
6.08	In circumstances where hours of work are being reduced to the minimum guarantee. The Company shall endeavour to ensure that employees with the greatest seniority are the last to have their hours reduced to the minimum and first to have their hours increased.
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
7.01	The normal work week shall be eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. The schedule of hours is to be posted on the bulletin hoard and agreed to by both parties.
7.02	The schedule of hours referred to in Section 7.01 shall be regular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement with the Union Committee and the Management.
7.03	In compliance with Section 7.02 it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
7.04	(a) All time worked before or after the above
schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (1 112) times the employee's regular rate of pay. If by necessity an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of 11 continuous hours, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
(b) The Company and the Union recognize
10
that it may be necessary for employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock re ceipts and variable volume, but the Company will limit hours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable
The method to be used to select employ ees to work any necessary overtime will be by department on a voluntary basis by seniority, but in the event the number required is not obtained by this method, it will be mandatory for employees in the reverse of seniority order
Mandatory overtime will be limited to two hours per day and eight hours per week for each employee Employees who have notified the Company of medical or dental appointments prior to the start of their shift shall be excused from the above
(c) When overtime is necessary, the Union Steward of the department concerned shall be notified The employee posted on the job for which overtime is required shall have the first option of working the overtime In the event this employee does not wish to work the overtime the supervisor will then canvass the other employees within the department as to their individual wishes This canvass is to be conducted in the order of senior qualified person, to junior qualified person
If any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation he shall be of
11
fered the opportunity to work an amount of overtime equal to the amount that was missed.
In the event the necessary number of employees are not obtained within the department, the Company may draw employees from other departments in the plant on the basis of senior qualified employee available at the time overtime is requested.
Where overtime on off shifts is required, the Company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Steward and make the call-ins.
7.05	(a) Overtime rates of one and one-half (1
112) times the regular hourly rates shall be paid for any time worked in excess of the scheduled hours as agreed to in this Article, up to three (3) hours in any one day and double time thereafter.
(b)	Double the regular hourly rates shall be paid to all employees for work performed on Sunday, except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday.
(c)	One and one-half (1 1/2) times the employees regular rate shall be paid for the first four (4) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double time thereafter.
7.06	Employees when called for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this provision
12
workers shall not leave* of their own accord when work is available For work performed on Saturdays, Sundays or statutory holidays, the employee shall repeive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate
7	07 Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company's premises, is specially called in at any time outside his normal work ing hours shall be through when the emer gency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the appli cable overtime rates
7	08 Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without tine first meal period and five (5) hours without the second meal period The second meal period shall be one half (112) hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company If due to circumstances the Company does not provide a meal a cash equivalent will be added to his gross earn ings for that fiscal week The truck drivers shall produce a voucher for reimbursement purposes The meal allowance referred to will be six (6) dollars
7 09 Employees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be ex empt from this clause, but shall be entitled to
13
a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty.
7.10	(a) Continuous shift operations shall be giv-
en forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shifts except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rate until the expiration of the 48 hour notice.
(b) Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours.
7.11	(a) The Company shall provide a qualified
operator for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This operator will be responsible for all sharpening of this equipment in the plant.
(b) The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers and hooks necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
14
7.12	A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be given twice each shift, midway before lunch and midway after lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2 1/2) hours. It is agreed that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the day. It is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not be abused.
7.13	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, in preference to laying off of employees.
7.14	When other emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effort will be made to rehire employees who may be on layoff status in the department where overtime is to be worked.
7.15	A holiday shall be an employee's regular shift on a holiday.
7.16	Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule he need not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to the standard working week.
ARTICLE 8 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8	01 Eleven (11) statutory holidays shall be rec ognized and a regular hourly paid employee, who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in section 1 of Article 6 hereof, and who has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing the holiday, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his job
15
8.02
8.03
rate. If an employee works on any such holi day or in the case of off-shift the day in lieu of, he shall receive in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted in the event of the holiday falling on Sunday), at two (2) times his job rate.
The statutory holidays referred to herein are:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
In the event of a holiday falling on Sunday it shall be observed on the day substituted by the Dominion Government. If the Dominion or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed, hourly rated employees required to work on it shall for the hours so worked receive three (3) times their regular hourly rates. If such day is in substitution for a holiday hereinafter specified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. If a paid Statutory holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
Any employee having fifteen (15) days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recognized holiday in the same payroll week in which such holiday occurs shall be entitled to receive pay for such holiday.
16
8	04 An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, • compensable or non-pompensable accident, during the period in Which a recognized paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay' and his regular rate of pay with limitation as defined in the Weekly Indemnity Plan
When a recognized statutory holiday falls during the 3-day wailing period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular ratd of pay for each such statutory holiday
Any employee who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits and is still disabled shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for any statutory holiday following within three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability
8 05 An employee on leave of absence shall be paid statutory holiday pay when either of the following conditions exist
(a)	if an employee works his regularly sched uled work day preceding a paid statutory holiday and is on leave of absence on the regularly scheduled work day next following that stat, he shall be eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory hoi iday
(b)	If an employee works his last regularly scheduled work day prior to going on leave of absence and, as expected, re-
17
turns to work on the regularly scheduled work day next following a paid statutory holiday, he shall be eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday.
8.06 If any of the paid holidays referred to in this Article occur while an employee is on leave of absence to attend Union functions he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
ARTICLE 9-SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of time of an employee's service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
9.02	(a) New employees shall be on probation
and shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have accumulated sixty (60) days worked, provided these days have been accumulated within six (6) calendar months. In the event that an employee is absent due to a work related injury, this six (6) month period will be extended by the number of days missed due to the work related injury.
(b) During the probationary period, an employee may be dismissed if found to be unsuitable, and such employee may be discharged at any time during the probation period without notice. The suitability of a probationary employee shall be de-
18
termined by the Company; however, the Company shall not act in a manner which is arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith
(c)	Upon satisfactory pompletion of the pro bationary period, t|ne employee's semori ty shall be calculated from the original day of employment
9	03 Seniority lists shall bp revised and brought up to-date every two (2) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union
9	04	(a) A vacancy exists when a job is performed
for an average of twenty (20) hours per week for twelve (1fc) consecutive weeks Or when a posted position becomes va cant due to such things as a resignation, dismissal, retirement or a posting into an other classification
(b)	In the bargaining unit the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and semori ty Ability being sufficient after a reason able trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail A reasonable trial shall not exceed six (6) weeks
(c)	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply In the case that no application is received for any posting, the vacancy shall be filled by the junior qualified em ployee available until the junior employee in the plant is trained for the job posting Transfers to jobs will be made within ten
19
(10) working days from the date the posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. An employee who was absent when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply for the vacancy. There shall be no more than two (2) job postings per employee per calendar year.
9.05 Seniority service records shall be considered
broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be
no obligations to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntary leaves the service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or is discharged for just cause.
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report for work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact, by telephone, and registered letter to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within two (2) working days after receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
20
(c) Has been laid off for a period longer than the time allowed ln| the following schedule
l ength of Seniority at Date of Separation
LESS THAN ONE YEAR ONE YEAR AND OVER
T\
9.06	Absence from work bi cident, or leave of at continuity of seniority ee shalt return to thr the absence or to onr ed he is able to pet available within the ci not more than six (6) \
9.07	In the case of reducti the order of layoff sha
Length of Allowable rime
Off Payroll SIX MONTHS
0	YEARS MAXIMUM
rause of sickness, ac-ence, shall not break ights and an employ position held prior to of equal rating provid-orm the work that is stomary trial period of oeks.
1	in the working force be as follows:
(a) Probationary emp iyees, i.e., those with less than sixty (60 days worked.
(b) Those with plant case, seniority sf factor provided th a reasonable firm of doing the work ployee with less immediate esser necessary for the the plant. In sucl will discuss the m;
9.08	(a) In cases of incre
forces, rehiring sh; der to that of layof advise the Union to take place and
eniority. In the latter II be the determining senior operator, after to qualify, is capable oerformed by an em-sniority except where al qualifications are efficient operation of cases the Company ter with the Union.
ises in the working be in the reverse or.. The Company shall hen a layoff is about hall give the Union a
21
list of employees to be laid off or rehired In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled
(b)	In the case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1) working day's notice for every, completed six (6) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working days In case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Company's control which results in the closing of a part or whole of the plant employees shall be given one (1) calendar day's notice for every completed six (6) months seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days notice and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days but such two days shall be exclusive of Saturday and Sunday If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days is available at the time any layoff is to become effective then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work
(c)	Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no lay-
22
9.09
9.10
9.11
off notice given, provided that this shall not be used as disftimination to any employees and provided that the employees and the Union is informed that such work is of a temporary nature.
When it is necessary tc? permanently transfer employees to lower rated jobs because of a shortage of work, the| employees with the lowest seniority will bp required to take the transfer. In the case pf temporary transfers the basis shall be that|of the junior qualified
employee.
In case of gang redudt employee may elect to tinue to be laid off if it ir the work which is availgl mental to the health of
ion or increases, an take a layoff or con-mutually agreed that ble could prove detri-he employee.
Employees, not to exceed four (4), who are appointed to or electqd to do business for the Union shall be grafted leave of absence without pay to attend tp such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, she" be reinstated in the job held prior to the lrave of absence or its equivalent, at the sarr10 rate of pay provided they are capable of dMlhg the job within the usual qualifying period.
In the event an employee is granted a leave of absence under thisj section his benefits will be paid by the Cojnpany and the Union will reimburse the Company for all benefits save and except pensipn costs.
23
9.12	Employees shall notify the Company at once of all permanent changes of address and telephone numbers. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agreement, unless the employee gives the Company a reasonable explanation.
9.13	Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance. Said employee shall be allowed six (6) months in which to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned. If such employee does not qualify within such time, he shall report to his former position without loss of seniority. Provided that if before the expiry of six (6) months, he may be required to revert to his former position before such time without prejudice and without loss of seniority.
9.14	Leave of absence for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, conferences, or negotiations of this Agreement shall be granted by the Company on a written request from the Local Union subject to the following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall be granted leave of absence not to exceed thirty (30) days, providing that the absence of such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company. Whenever possible the Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than fourteen (14) days before the requested leave is to commence.
24
9.15
9.16
A request for an extension of a leave of absence must be made Prior to the expiration of the leave already granted and will be considered in relation to existing conditions.
The Company agrees to allow 2% of the bargaining unit to be aw?|iy at any given time. However, under no circumstances is it permissible to have more than two people absent from one department per shift.
Employees, may in dase of ill-health, be transferred from one department to another, as may be mutually agr|eed upon.
Subject to mutual agreement with the Union disabled or handicappjd employees will be assigned to jobs wherbver possible without regard to seniority at d rate or rates agreed upon.
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS
Vacations with pay should be granted as follows
10 01 An employee becomes, eligible for vacation after one year when the employment records show the following
(a)	They have attained seniority within six (6) months from date of hire, and
(b)	Have riot been off the payroll for more than sixty (60) consecutive days
Payment for this first vacation entitlement will be calculated at four (4j percent of the gross earnings in the period
As of January 1, 1983 any employee attain ing seniority rights and meeting the above
25
requirements will have the same vacation date as seniority date.
In the event the employee is off the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date becomes the date of rehire.
10.02	Three (3) weeks vacation annually after four (4) years service with the Company.
10.03	Four (4) weeks vacation annually after (10) years service with the Company.
10.04	Five (5) weeks vacation annually after nineteen (19) years service with the Company.
10.05	Six (6) weeks vacation annually after twenty-four (24) years service with the Company.
10.06	Seven (7) weeks vacation annually after thirty (30) years service with the Company.
10.07	Pay for each week of holidays granted shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate of pay or two (2) percent of gross earnings for each week of holiday, whichever is the greater. The Company agrees that employees are entitled to receive their vacation pay on the last day worked before commencing their vacation.
10.08	(a) Employees absent for reasons of sick-
ness, and/or accident, who returns to work following these phases within the year, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 10, and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in Article 10.
26
(b) In case of sickness, compensable and non compensable riccident certified by a practicing physiciar), an employee, upon his return to the seiivice of the Company, shall receive crecjit for each week of such absence not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received The above credits shall be confined to one year's pacation rights on the basis of forty (40) hours per week for the twenty six (26) week period at his regular rate of pay
10 09 Employees whose service with the Company terminates before the;end of any vacation year, shall receive colnpensation in accor dance with the percentage calculations out lined in Section 10 7 oflthis Article
10 10 Vacation periods shall t)e arranged subject to the demands of the bijsiness, but a sincere effort will be made to arrange vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively Each year upon complrtion of vacation lists, they will be posted on tPe bulletin board
10 11 If a paid statutory holiday falls within the em ployees vacation period, the Company will allow the employee cpncerned a compen satory day s holiday with pay
10 12 Vacation pay shall be paid by separate cheque with a covering statemiht of deductions
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should differences arise between the Union or its
employee members and the Company as to the
27
manner and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage any strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plant or premises, nor will employees take part in any such action.
The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. An earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner:
When an employee is suspended, dismissed, or given written discipline the Company shall have a Union Representative present at the time of such action.
11.01	Shop Stewards may initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action does not solve the matter, a representative of the Union will be allowed to further investigate. In the event that either a Union Steward or a Union Representative must leave his job or department in connection with the matter, he shall first notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. Permission to leave his job or department will be granted as promptly as possible but shall in no case exceed one hour. They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in said department.
11.02	STEP 1 : The employee shall first take the question up with his shop steward and supervisor at the same time.
28
11.03	STEP 2: If the case is pot settled, then it shall
be handled between the chief steward and the department steward where the grievance was initiated, with or without the aggrieved employee, and two persons from the management committee.
11.04	STEP 3: In the event Ithat no conclusion is
reached in the two (£f) preceding steps, a meeting shall be scheduled between the Grievance Committee and the Company. An outside Union representative may attend this meeting. Also, the aggrieved employee may attend to present his evidence.
11.05	When a settlement is re
ached at any stage of
the procedure, such qecision shall be final and binding.
11.06	If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dismissed, he shall within three (3) working days from the receipt gf notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee. The Grievance Committee will in turn notify the Company on the same day they receive such notice trom the employee.
The dismissal in queslion tute a grievance and such, beginning at the
then shall consti-hall be dealt with as third step.
11.07 If subsequently it is dec ee was unjustly dismis
stated to his former position and shall be
compensated for any The rate to be used for cable rate of pay
ided that the employed, he shall be rein-
oenetits or lost time, lost time is his appli-
29
11.08	There shall be time limits of two (2) working days between each step of the grievance procedure, unless changed by mutual agreement.
11.09	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours.
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Section 1 A Grievance Committee of three (3) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this committee. Grievances shall be taken up at such times agreeable to both parties.
Section 2 Where the foregoing procedure for the settlement of disputes has been employed, and the dispute remains unsettled, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Committee consisting of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company and the third shall act as Chairman to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Director of Mediation for the Province of Alberta. A decision of the majority of the Arbitration Committee shall be deemed to be a decision of the Committee. In reaching its decision the Committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. Decisions rendered shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned. The Company and the Union agree to bear an equal share of expense incurred, if any, by reason of employment of a third member of an Arbitration Committee.
Section 3 A single arbitrator may be substituted for the arbitration committee referred to in Section 2 if
30
mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
This single arbitrator is to be appointed jointly by the
Company and the Union, and the nominee's expenses are to be shared on a 50-50 basis.
ARTICLE 12 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
12.01	Co-operation on Safety The Union and the Employer shall co-operate in establishing rules and practices which promote an occupational environment which will enhance the physiological and psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protection from factors adverse to employee health and safety.
12.02	Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee A Health and Safety Committee shall be established which is composed of up to five (5) Union and five (5) Employer representatives. The Health and Safety Committee shall hold meetings as requested by the Union or by the Employer for jointly considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices and to improve existing health and safety conditions and practices.
Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the Employer and the Union. A Union Health and Safety Representative shall have the right to participate in the monitoring of the work place and to accompany government safety inspectors on inspection tours.
12.03	Health and Safety Committee Pay Provisions. Time spent by members of the Committee in the course of their duties shall
31
be considered as time worked and shall be paid for in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
12.04	Health and Safety Clothing, Tools and Equipment. The Employer shall provide all employees working in any unsanitary or potentially hazardous jobs with all the necessary tools, protective equipment and clothing required. These shall be maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the Employer's expense. It is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures. The conditions necessitating their use shall be subjected to further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimina-lion of the hazard.
12.05	The Employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detecting and recording potential and actual health and safety hazards.
12.06	Compliance with Health and Safety
Legislation The Employer shall comply with all applicable federal, provincial and municipal health and safety legislation and regulations. All standards established under the legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be improved upon by Agreement of the Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee or negotiations with the Union.
12.07	Disclosure of Information The Employer shall provide the Union written information which identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and
32
physical hazards associated with the work environment Where Applicable, this information shall include, bijit not restricted to, the chemical breakdown of trade name descriptions information on known and suspected potential hazards, thp maximum concentra tion exposure levels,i precautions to be taken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes
12.08	Safety and Health tltecords, Reports and Data The Employer ^;hall provide the Health and Safety Committee upon request all acci dent reports and other health and safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workerls Compensation Board and other government departments and agencies
12.09	Time Off for Healthy and Safety Training
Union members of the Health and Safety Committee shall be entitled to time off from work with no loss of (seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by the Alberta Workers' Compensatibn Board for instruction and upgrading on heEjlth and safety matters
12.10	Rights to Refuse pod No Disciplinary Action No Employed shall be discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or in any workplace or to operate any equipment wherrb he/she in conjunction with the Health and Safety Committee, ascertains that it would be unsafe or unhealthy to himself/herself, an, unborn child, a workmate or the public, onwhere it would be contrary to the applicable federal, provincial or
33
municipal health and safety legislation or regulations. There shall be no loss of pay or seniority during the period of refusal. No employee shall be ordered or permitted to work on a job which another worker has refused until the matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settled.
12.11	Proper Training No employee shall be required to work on any job or operate any piece of equipment until he/she has received proper training and instructions.
12.12	Injury Pay Provisions An employee who is injured during working hours, and is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rate of pay, without deduction from sick leave, unless a doctor or nurse states that the employee is fit for further work on that shift.
12.13	Transportation of Accident Victims
Transportation to the nearest physician or hospital for employees requiring medical care as a result of an accident shall he at the expense of the Employer.
12.14	Health and Safety Grievance Where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, it shall he subjected to the grievance procedure.
12.15	Light Duty/Modified Work The Company shall endeavour to provide light duty/modi-fied work to employees recovering from in-
34
jury or illness and employees shall endeavour to return to work ps soon as they are able where light duty/modified work is avail able
The assignment of an employee to light duty/modified work shall be the subject of mutual agreement between the Company and the Union In the assignment of available light duty/modified work, preference will be given to individuals with work related in juries
ARTICLE 13 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
13 01 Should it become necessary to close the plant or a substantial departm|ent of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be reemployed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following
(a)	They have one (1) or more years semori
ty
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within ninety (90) days preceding the date of notice of closing Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Workers Compensption or off because of sickness or non compensable accident will be eligible, provided they have not been off work m excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 9 05(c)
|(c) They have not been granted retirement pension
35
(d)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
(e)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(f)	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule which is to be used in computing the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service. Payments are to be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or the employee's basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
YEARS OF CREDITED SERVICE
1....
2.....
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8. 9. 10
WEEKS\ OF PAY
.1
.1 1/2 2
.2 1/2 3
.3 1/2 ,4 1/2 .5 1/2
.6 1/2 .7 1/2
11 and over, add to 1 1/2 weeks' pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
36
Example:
12 years of credited service:
First 10 years of credited service ...7 1/2 weeks' pay
Service Over 10 years
(12/10 or 2 x 1 112)...............3 weeks'pay
Total Separation allowance......10 1/2 weeks' pay
To the Separation Allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the enjiployee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
(g)	The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the|plant or a substantial department of the pliant referred to in this Agreement, at leapt 90 calendar days prior to such closing. Effective on the date of such notice! being issued all employees with seniority will be eligible to receive separation payments whether they are working or laid off.
13.02	Employees who accept beparation pay under the provisions of this dlause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights Under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
13.03	In the event that part Of the plant remains open, employees eligib fc to receive separation allowance may ekkbt to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the Reparation allowance for such employees as l|ong as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the pro-
37
vision of the above section. Those re-employed on this basis will receive seniority credits up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
13.04	In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE 14 - WORK METHODS
Change in Working Methods
14.01	(a) When the introduction cf new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union of such change at least ninety (90) days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 5.05(a). Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for such placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 13.
38
Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduc:ion of new equipment, or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value fqllowing a technological change, his rate shbll not be reduced for a period of two (2) years, including layoff, provided that the jemployee accepts all opportunities to post to work where the
job rate is higher able to expect sue due to such things conditions, and th< learn the job. Whei
unless it is unreason-h employees to apply as age, health, working employees ability to e an employee after a
sincere effort is unable to qualify his rate
protection shall not 1 plication of or adjus
: be affected. In the ap-jstment of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than tlje rate paid him at the time of above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of the two (2) year pe'iod set out above, the duction shall be limited at twelve (12) month , further reductions of a brackets shall take rate prevails.
amount of rate red to two (2) brackets ntervals thereafter maximum to two (; place until the lower
14.01 (b) Establishing rates purpose of this els fined as one which performed in th Additions or change
for new jobs: For the use a new job is deis not presently being e bargaining unit, s to the present wage
schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to
39
shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE 15 - CONTRACTING OUT
15.01	The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.
15.02	When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
15.03	Should an Arbitration Committee be called on to review the Company's action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard to all circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable lime to effect the decision.
40
15	04 This provision does not apply to installation and construction work
15	05 Tlie Company may at times experiment to
determine if work can be performed effec lively and economically by its own employ ees When this is dorie for a trial period it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out, at ter the trial period
ARTICLE 16 - PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
16	01 Part time and casual employees will not bo
used where it is practical to employ full time employees, and, except as otherwise agreed with the Chief Steward) part time employees will not be employed fpr the purpose of re ducing overtime unless that part time work is required on a regular basis Where the work performed by part timw or casual employees
can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full time employee, this will be done provided the efnployee can satisfac torily perform the work Part time employees shall work less than twenty four (24) hours per week
16	02 The Union may submit pnd the Company will
consider alternative mpans of doing the re quired work rather than employ part time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration pro cedure
ARTICLE 17- GENERAL
17	01 1 he Company shall supply bulletin boards for
the use of the Union lor the posting of no
41
tices of official Union business, such notices to be approved by the Management.
17.02	At the option of the Company, when an employee's personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved of Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the regular vacation period to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason. This is providing that such leave of absence does not interfere with the requirements of the business. It is agreed that leave of absence shall not interfere with other employees' vacation choices.
17.03	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work or venture into business for himself.
17.04	Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and approved by the Company in writing.
17.05	Laundry work service for outer work clothing shall be maintained at no cost to the employee.
17.06	The Company will allow the employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
17.07	The Company and the Union agree to supply a copy of this Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
17.08	The Company agrees to provide a full day's pay to any employee suffering injury or emergency sickness which requires absence
42
during such day for medical or hospital atten tion To be eligible for tpis pay, the employee must report to his supervisor, the plant nurse or to the first aid attendant before leaving the plant
17 09
The Company agrees that any employee of tho Company summoned to appear for Jury Duty, or who serves dn Jury Duty, or is a
Subpoenaed witness, amounting to the diff amount paid them for amount they would h; worked on such days w
shall be paid wages srence between the jury service and the ive earned had they ith their regular gang
If the subpoena for witness is the result of the employee working! on another job, this clause will not apply
17	10 Any working conditions, now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining
17	11 When an employee attends the funeral or memorial service of an immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral or memorial service and two (2) other days ei ther immediately before the funeral or memorial service or after the funeral or memorial service, provided such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his regular work days For the pur pose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following Spouse, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother in Law, Father in-Law, Sister-in-Law, Brother-in-Law, Step-parents,
43
Step-Children, Grandparents and Grandchildren.
In the case of Grandparents-in-Law, Son-inLaw and Daughter-in-Law, the employee is entitled to the day of the funoral or memorial service only.
17.12 (a) Launderable outer work clothing, oilskin aprons, and oilskin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee.
(b)	The Company agrees to supply rubber boots to employees who have completed sixty (60) days worked. Worn out boots must be returned to the Company before a new pair will be issued. These rubber boots remain the property of the Company and must not be removed from the premises. Upon separation any employee not returning the boots will be responsible to reimburse the Company for
the cost of the boots.
Any employee with seniority who chooses not to wear the Company-provided rubber boots will be granted a foot-wear allowance of fifty-five (55) dollars per
year.
44
(c)	The Company agrees to grant all full time hog loading employees with semori ty a heavy quilted vest or liner allowance of $16 00 per year
(d)	The Company agrees to grant all full time employees with seniority who hold a freezer posting, an allowance for freezer apparel of $55 00 per year
17 13 Tools Mechanical Tradesmen of the Mechanical Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, re ceive replacement tools Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in ad dition be limited to a maximum of $140 00 per year, per affected employee
17 14 The Chief Shop Steward shall be notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment of each new employee
17 15 The Company agrees to allow employees where required, five (5) minutes clean up time prior to their regular quitting time
17 16 It is understood that where the word he' is used in this Agreement it shall also cover female employees
17 17 The Company recognizes the importance and desirability of stabilizing employment on an annual basis and to that end will attempt to give employees fifty fwo weeks work per year including the vacation period It is un derstood and agreed by the Company and the Union that the foregoing sentence consti lutes a statement of policy only and is not in
45
tended to and does not impose any contractual obligations whatsoever on the Company.
17.18	The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licenses required in the performance of their duties.
17.19	Management personnel shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such management personnel shall in no way be restricted from work which:
(a)	is of a confidential clerical nature.
(b)	is for purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from his job during the day, or coping with an emergency. An emergency herein shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
(c)	is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absences of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (1/2) day.
17.20	Upon the expiration of six (6) months for minor offenses and one (1) year for major offenses, from the date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal file, the Company will be precluded from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action.
46
17 21 The Company agrees to advance to employees awaiting wage loss benefits under the Worker's Compensation Board Act or Weekly Indemnity contract, the amount of benefits due up to the maximum amount of accrued vacation pay due to the employee This is provided the following
(a)	there is at least two (2) week lapse of time since the benefits became payable
(b)	the employee has completed all neces sary forms
(c)	the Doctor's Report as required by the Worker s Compensation Board has been completed and forwarded to the Board, or in the case of the Weekly Indemnity contract all required forms have been completed and forwarded to the Company
The amount of funds advanced under this section is strictly an advance to the employ ee, and the employee must sign a letter to this effect which would also authorize the Company to deduct money from the first full pay cheque and apply the funds to repay the advance
17.22 In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done, anything by any of its members to pre vent engineering and maintenance staff from continuing all or any part of their regular du ties Furthermore, the Union shall co-operate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend
47
through such period as the Company does
not attempt to restore normal production.
ARTICLE 18- BENEFITS
18.01(a) Weekly Indemnity benefits will be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan as detailed in the "Group Benefits" booklets prepared by the Insurance Company, a copy of which shall be provided to the Union and employees.
(b)	Benefit payments shall be based on sixty (60) percent of the claimant's regular weekly earnings (forty (40) hours at regular rate), exclusive of overtime, premiums, etc., immediately preceding the claim.
(c)	Service scale for duration of payments is:
3 months to 18 months service. 15 weeks
18 months to 5 years service..16 weeks
5 years to 7 years service...26 weeks
7 years to 10 years service..34 weeks
10 years and over.............52 weeks
New employees shall have a 90 working day waiting period.
(d)	The Company will pay the first $4.00 of the required premium per employee, with the balance of the cost shared equally between the Company and the employees.
(e)	The waiting period shall be three (3) calendar days, except when the employee is admitted to the hospital during the waiting period due to an illness or accident.
48
(f)	Claims must be submitted no later than fifteen (15) working days from the first day of absence, unless there is a reasonable explanation given
(g)	In the event an employee has a claim re fused by the Workers Compensation Board for reasons of 'non-compensable claim he shall become eligible for bene fits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan This is provided the terms arid conditions of the plan are met In addition, the ern ployee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from Worker's Compensation Board for the claim, benefits received un der the Weekly Indemnity Plan must be repaid to the insurer Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event a claim refused by the Workers Compensation Board would appear to be appealable, the employee should be encouraged to proceed with an appeal
(h)	It is not intended that an employee re ceive wage loss payment from more than one source for the same period which ex ceeds one hundred (100) percent cf normal wages It is understood that in those situations, the insurance carriei may re cover amounts in excess of one hundred (100) percent in accordance with the sub rogation provisions of the plan
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
18.02	The Group Life Insurance Benefit is $25,000 00 New employees have a ninety
49
(90) working day period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
ALBERTA HEALTH CARE
18.03	Alberta Health Care coverage is provided for all eligible employees.
New employees have a ninety (90) working day period before becoming eligible for this benefit,
EXTENDED HEALTH
18.04	An extended health plan, providing coverage to all eligible employees, is to be provided by the Company. This pian includes vision care coverage of $110.00 every twenty-four (24) months. Reimbursement will not be provided for any expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or any form of eyeglasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes.
New employees have a ninety (90) day working period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
18.05	Hearing aid coverage to a maximum of $500.00 per lifetime is to be provided.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
18.06	A Long Term Disability Plan is provided for all eligible employees, details of this plan are contained in Appendix “D” of this Agreement.
18.07	Maternity Leave: A female employee with twelve (12) months seniority, who applies in writing for a leave of absence at least four (4) weeks prior to the day she intends to take
50
such leave, as a result of her pregnancy, and provides support in the form of a medical certificate from her doctor which certifies that she is pregnant and the estimated date of delivery, shall be granted a maternity leave of seventeen (17) weeks
(a)	An employee may apply for an additional leave of nine (9) weeks which will be granted However, the total request cannot exceed twenty-six (26) weeks
(b)	Employees on such leave will upon expiry of the leave be reinstated to their former job or one of equal value
(c)	It is agreed that employees referred to in this clause shall continue to accumulate seniority
Parental Leave Ev(rry employee who has completed twelve (12) months se niority and who applies in writing for a leave at least four (4) weeks prior to the date she/he intends to take a leave and providing such request is supported by the appropriate documentation shall be granted a parental leave of ten (10) weeks if
(A)	1 In the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child
2 In the case of a iinale employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes the actual care and cus tody of his newborn child, or
51
3. She/he adopts a child under the law of the province; and
(B)	Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into actual care and custody of the employee.
(C)	Employees on such leave upon the expiry of the leave shall be reinstated in the position he/she occupied at the time his/her leave commenced in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits.
(D)	Seniority shall accumulate throughout such periods of leave.
(E)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leave continuously, without a break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and management.
(F)	Where employees are entitled to benefits paid for by the Company, these benefits will continue for the first four (4) weeks of this leave.
(G)	Holiday pay will not be accrued during this leave.
BENEFIT COVERAGE
18.08	The Company shall continue to pay all costs
of ALBERTA HEALTH CARE, DENTAL, EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN and life insurance
premiums for eligible employees on extend-
52
ed disability or sick leave Each employee shall be required to provide adequate evi dence of such disability or sickness
ABUSE OF BENEFIT
18 09 Misrepresentation in conhection with Weekly Indemnity claims shall be grounds for disci pline up to and including dismissal
PENSION
18 10 The Company agrees to Continue the present pension plan The monthly benefit shall be in creased to $23 00 on date of ratification
The pension plan will be amended to provide for retirement at age 60 with no reduction in pension benefit Employees eligible for a pension can retire at any time after age 55, however they will receive a reduced pension equal to their earned pepsion less three (3) percent for each year that the commence ment date of their pension precedes their 60th birthday Effective October 1 1994, the pension shall be increased to $24 00 per month, per year of service
DENTAL PLAN
18 11 The Company shall provide a prepaid Dental Plan providing for eighty (80) percent Lover age under Plan 'A anc) fifty (50) percent coverage under Plan ‘B! for all Bargaining Unit employees The cost of the plan shall be paid by the Company New employees have a six month waiting periqd before becoming eligible for this benefit provided the employ ee is not receiving coverage tinder a differ ent Dental Plan
53
ARTICLE 19- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
19.01 This Agreement shall take effect the 11th day of March, 1992, and shall remain in effect until the 10th day of March, 1995, and from year to year thereafter, provided, however that this Agreement may be terminated on the 10th day of March, 1995, or on the 10th day of March any year thereafter by either party on written notice mailed by registered post to the Company or to the Union not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less that sixty (60) days prior to the 10th of March of any year thereafter
19 02 During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SIGNEDON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY FLETCHER’S FINE FOODS LTD.
7550 - 40th Avenue Red Deer, Alberta
DON SIM GREG WHALLEY CLINT MELLORS
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
WAYNE COVEY ALBERT JOHNSON LINDA KAISER-PUTZENBERGER JIM VANBUSKIRK
54
APPENDIX A
NEW HIRES
Notwithstanding other provisions in this Agreement, the following terms and condi ions of employment shall apply to employees hired lifter March 11, 1992
1. Salary Progression
All employees hired after M,
complete a probationary period days and shall during that per pay of eight (8) dollars per hour premiums
ireh 1 1,1 992 shall of sixty (60) working od receive a rate of plus any applicable
An employee will progress from the start to the base rate according to the following Schedule
-	After 6 months
-	After 12 months
-	After 18 months
-	After 24 months
-	After 30 months
-	After 36 months
-	After 42 months
12 5% o!f the differential between the start and the base rate.
25% of thp differential between the start aiiid the base rate 37.5% olf the differential between the start and the base rate.
50.0% of the differential between the start and the base rate.
62.5% ojf the differential between the start and the base rate
75 0% of the differential between the start and the base rate
87 5% of the differential between the start and the base rate
55
- After 48 months The base rate applies. The bracket system for new employees will apply in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
2.	Fringe Benefits for New Hires
"Fringe Benefits" is defined as those benefits for which employees are eligible which includes Alberta Health Care, the weekly indemnity plan, group life insurance, extended health plan. hearing aid coverage, dental plan, and long term disability; as referred in this Collective Agreement.
i)	Alberta Health Care and extended health care shall be fully paid by the Company after ninety (90) working days.
ii)	Life Insurance - eligible after ninety (90) working days, (eligibility date to 1 year -100% employee paid).
iii)	Dental Plan - employees are eligible after 6 months service (from eligibility date to 1 year - 100% employee paid).
iv)	Long Term Disability - employees are eligible after one year of service.
Thereafter Fringe Benefits for II, III, IV as per schedule below:
a)	After 1 year service, 25% Company paid
b)	After 2 years service, 50% Company paid
c)	After 3 years service, 75% Company paid
56
V)
start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months 36 months 42 months 48 months
APPENDIX
BRACKET
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
d)	After 4 years service 100% Company paid
After completing 90 working days new hires must join thy Weekly Indemnity Plan on the same dost sharing basis as all other employees
NEW HIRE RATES
MARCH 11/92 QCT.01/92 QCT.01/93 0CT.01/94
$8.00 $8.70 $9 40 $10.10 $10 81 $11 51 $12 21 $12.91 $13.61
$8.00 $8.77 $9 53 $10.30 $11 07 $11 83 $12 60 $13.36 $14.13
$8.00 $8.81 $9 62 $10.43 $11 24 $12 05 $12 86 $13.67 $14.48
$8.00 $8.86 $9 71 $10.57 $11 42 $12 28 $13 14 $13.99 $14.85
B
WAGE SCHEDULE
MARCH 11/92 OCT.01/a2 QCT.01/93 13.61	14	13	14.48
13.69	4	21	14.56
13.77	4	29	14.64
13.85	4	37	14.72
13.93	4	45	14.80
14.01	4	53	14.88
14.09	4	61	14.96
14.17	4	69	15.04
14.25	4	77	15.12
14.33	14	85	15.20
14.41	14	93	15.28
14.49	15	01	15.36
14.57	15.09	15.44
QCT.01/94
14.85
4.93
5.01
5.09
5.17
5.25
5.33
5.41
5.49
5.57
5.65
5.73
5.81
57
13
14
15 18 31
33
34 36 38 40
14.65 14.73
14.81 15.05 16.09 16.25 16.33 16.49
16.65
16.81
15.17 15.25
15.33 15.57 16.61 16.77 16.85 17.01
17.17
17.33
15.52 15.60
15.68 15.92 16.96 17.12 17.20 17.36
17.52
17.68
15.89 15.97
16.05 16.29 17.33 17.49 17.57 17.73
17.89
18.05
Provide overrate of 50d per hour to all ticketed maintenance employees.
APPENDIX C
JOB GRADES:
Gang Leaders -
1.	In cases of vacancy, the Plant Manager may appoint one or more employees in a department to act as a gang leader.
2.	To promote a harmonious relationship within the department, the Union Plant Committee shall be consulted on such appointments and given the opportunity to put forward other candidates.
3.	Following consultation, the Company will give the Union Plant Committee five (5) days notice of all appointments.
4.	The gang leader shall coordinate the work and assist in training, familiarization and safety.
5.	In no circumstances shall a gang leader hire, lay off, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline, transfer employees to other departments, or reduce hours.
58
6	When an employee is appointed to the position of gang leader, the Company and the employee have three (|3) months to decide whether the employee shall perform the gang leader function
(a)	If during this three (3) month period, ei ther the Company pr the employee de cide against the appointment, the em ployee shall return to his former position
(b)	If after this three (3) month period the employee voluntarily relinquishes the gang leader position or has his gang leader position terminated by the Company for just cbuse, the employee must bid for a new position
7	Gang leaders shall bd paid twenty cents ( 20) above the highest job bracket in his department
First Aid Attendant
The First Aid Attendant holding (a Class B Certificate shall receive a premium of thirty ( 30) cents per hour over his applicable rate, and the First Aid Attendant holding a Class C Certificate shall receive a premium of twenty-five ( 25) cents per hour over his applicable rate
APPENDIX D
LONG TERM DISABILITY
Effective June 1, 1983 the Company will arrange to have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following provisions
- Full time employees actlively at work on the effective date are eligible for the Plan on at
59
tainment of one year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full time work to be eligible.
Long Term Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurance company based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify any case involving alcohol or drug related conditions will require active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment under an approved specialist and will only be paid in cases of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). Any employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will not receive any credited service during the period of times that he receives such benefits.
The amount of benefit will be $1,100.00 per month for new claims arising after July 1, 1986. less any benefit for which the employee is eligible under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan Primary Disability Benefit, Workers' Compensation or other government or government-sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit. The Employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evi-
60
dence is presented that his application for them has been denied Prior to July 1 1986 the amount of this benefit was $1,000 00 per
month
The benefit will commence after the employ ee has been absent due to the disability for one year after his sickness and accident pay entitlenient has expired, whichever is earlier and will be payable until recovery, actual re tiremerit date, normal retirement date, or death whichever comes first
Should ari employee return to work after col lecting Long Term Disability benefits and sub sequently again cease work as d result of the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee returning to work otherwise the employee will be subject to the normal wait ing period before the benefit commences
No benefit will be paid to an employee under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan where the employee is entitled to receive benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan and no employee shall receive a benefit uti der the Long Term Disability Plan while he is receiving benefits under the Company’s Sickness and Accident Plan
Where an employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitatidn program of up to 24 months the benefit Will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources does not ex ceed 90% of the pre disability normal gross wages
61
No benefits will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot of insurrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a felony.
Where an employee is absent from work and receiving Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer then as of the end of the third year his seniority and employment with the Company shall be deemed broken and thereafter there shall be no obligation on the part of the Company to rehire him. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision as to a period of three or more consecutive years, if an employee returns to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and if within one year thereafter he again ceases work as the result of the same or a related disability and receives Long Term Disability benefits shall be deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence and such further period of absence shall be taken into account and added onto the previous absence in determining whether the employee has been absent from work and received Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer.
APPENDIX E
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
PART-TIME WORKERS
The Company may employ part-time workers, if
agreed to by the Union, for work performed on
62
calendar Saturday, or Sundays lender the following conditions:
1
2
3
Full time employees with) seniority who are on lay-off status shall be called in order of seniority and given the option of working or not at the part-time rate as. detailed in (4) below, provided they are qualified to perform the work to be done.
If the Company fails to secure workers as indicated in (1) above, theyjmay hire new employees.
The Company shall notify:the Union prior to any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by part-time workers, and notify the Union in writing for the reasons therefore.
4 The rate of pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar Saturday or Sunday shall be $9.77 per hour.
In respect to this memorandum, the Union agrees to co-operate with the Company, provided the conditions hereof are met, and that the request for the Saturday or Sunday work can be reasonably justified.
It is also further understood that full time employees, not on lay-off, and provided the weekly guarantee for them has been met, have no seniority rights in respect to working any Saturday or Sunday hours. In the event they wish to work, they have the option to do so at the part-time rate as detailed herein. If the Company specifically requests full time employees to work on weekends, they will be paid the applicable overtime rate.
63
APPENDIX F
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
If an employee works less than one-half their regular shift the day before or the day after a statutory holiday and goes home sick, the following procedure will take place:
1.	The employee must inform the supervisor of the sickness and report to the plant nurse.
2.	If, in the nurse's opinion, the employee is sick, the employee will be allowed to go home.
3.	If, in the nurse's opinion, the employee may not be sick, the plant manager or his designate and the shop steward will be contacted. If collectively there is still a doubt about the employee's sickness, the said employee will be asked to go to a doctor to obtain a certificate to verify his illness.
APPENDIX G
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING VACATION SCHEDULING
The Company and the Union agree to jointly develop an improved vacation scheduling procedure with the following objectives:
1.	To the greatest extent possible, vacation scheduling must be based on seniority.
2.	In determining the number of employees to be granted vacation at any one time, consideration must be given to the staffing requirements of the Company.
3.	Vacation scheduling will be accomplished no later than February 1 of each year.
64
4 In developing an improved vacation scheduling procedure, the Comrpittee will consider posting a master vacation planner for each department
APPENDIX H
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING CONTINENTAL WORK WEEK
The Company and the Union agree that the continental work week referred to in the memorandum of agreement is for all new employees hired after Date of Ratification in the shipping and maintenance department
Continental work week means pn employee may work any 5 consecutive days With 2 consecutive days off
65
APPENDIX I
JOB RATES
JOB	Bracket
(Kill Floor)
Leaf Lard Scrapper................................2
Leaf Lard Puller..................................6
Driver............................................1
Electrical Stunner................................5
Shackler..........................................7
Sticker..........................................10
Tank and Dehairing Machine Operator.
Gam Table..........................
Feed Line and Shave...............
Carcass Shaver Hams................
Carcass Shaver Balance.............
Open Brisket.......................
Tongue Remover.....................
Tongue Remover and Break Heads.
...5
...6
...6
...7
...6
...6
.11
.11
Mark Jowls....................................4
Break Heads...................................9
Head Breaker (mechanical).....................3
Bunger and Aitch Bone Opener.................10
Mechanical Bung Gun Operator..................5
Open Aitch Bone and Bellies..................10
Face Hams.....................................3
Gutter.......................................11
Pop Kidney, Pull Pleura, Mark Brisket
and Check Shave.............................3
Sawyer.......................................11
Feed Held Line............................... 0
Take Off Held Line.....:......................0
Held Rail (Complete)..........................9
Trim Stick Holes..............................2
Skin Heads....................................6
Place Hogs in Cooler..........................2
66
Laundry.......
(Fancy Meats)
Trimmer.......
Pack and Scale.
(Casing Room)
Casing Puller....
Machine Operator. Packer and Salter Open Stomachs...
.2
.2
.8
4
.0
.5
.2
.5
.4
.4
.4
.4
.5
.1
.2
.2
.2
(Pork Cut)
Clean Floors.........
Push Hogs............
Hog Drop.............
Roller Man...........
Guide Hogs...........
Turn Loins Around....
Feed Bellie Skinner..
Feed Loin Fat Skinner. Box Makers...........
67
Flatten Bellies in Combos.......................0
Stamp Loin......................................0
Push Fat Tubs...................................0
Feed Deboner....................................0
Remove Chime Bone...............................0
Any Other Unskilled Work Not Shown..............0
Save & Pack Back	Skins.......................1
Save & PackBellie	Skins.......................1
Pack Bellie Trim................................1
Pack Loins......................................1
Pack Tenderloins................................1
Pack Side Ribs.
Pack Backribs.
Pack Jowls..
Pack Back Fat.
Pack Trim.......................................1
Strapper Operators..............................'
Palletizer..............!.......................1
All Other Packing Jobs..........................1
String Tie Specialty Backs......................1
Check Shave.....................................3
Band Saw Operator..............................11
Neckbone Lifter................................11
Cut OIF Jowls...................................3
Picnic or Flam Skinning Machine.................3
Trim Picnic.....................................5
Butt Puller.....................................8
Cut Off Tails...................................4
Whizard Knives..................................3
Dunseth Knife (middles)........................11
Ham Boner......................................11
Loin Puller.....................................£
Wrap Butts......................................1
Wrap Loins..............:.......................1
Parik& Scale Trim...............................1
Feed Jowl Skinner...............................1
Remove Knuckles.................................3
68
Transfer Hams...................|........
Trims Loins (include Special Trirrj Loins)..
Trim Jowls...............................
Pork Boners (Loin Butt Picnic)
Rib Bellies..................
Picnic Deboner Operator......
Trim Butts...................
CVP Machines Late Pack Off Special Orders Combo Trucker/Scaler Remove Tenderloin Cut and Grade Specialty Backs..
Cut Off Shoulder-Dunseth Knife Cut Off Ham-Dunseth Knife Trim Picnics (deboner)
Forklift Operator (Fresh Sausage)
Grinding, Mixing & Formulating
Stutter......................
Wrap & Pack, Pack & Scale
(Maintenance)
Welder-Journeyman, Certified Tiitket.............36
Electrician-Journeyman, Certifiec Ticket.........40
3rd Class Steam and Refrigeration
Certified Ticket.................................34
4th Class Steam and Refrigeration
Certified Ticket.................................31
Millwright-First Class..........1...............38
Millwright-Second Class.........:...............33
Tin Smith........................................34
Parts Person......................................4
Maintenance Helper (advance)..]..................18
69
(Shipping)
Receiver.................
Truck Driver.............
Shippers.................
Freezer Man, Deep Reach
(Clean Up)
Night Clean Up...........
..5
12
11
..5
.4
70