AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD
8385 Fraser Street, Vancouver, B.C.
V5X 3X8
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION, A.FJ/ C i a-C .LA -
LOCAL 1^18
4740 IMPERIAL STREET BURNABY, BC V5J IC2
00303 (06)
JUNE I, 1997 -MAY 31, 2000
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Vancouver, British Columbia this ______19th day of______________October______2 1997.
BETWEEN
AND
I	I ETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD 8385 Fraser Street, Vancouver, B.C. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF Till MUST l’ARI
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, A.F.L.-C I O ( I ( LOCAL 1518
4740 Imperial Street, Burnaby, BC V5. IC2 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF I I II SI ( O' I) PAR I
ARTICLE 1 - GENERA1
One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain, in full force and effect, a harmonious relationship between the Management and the Employees No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Management and the Union
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company or anyone authorized to act for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency as certified by the Labour Relations Board for the Province of British Columbia, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers Local IS 18, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, A.F.L-CT.O.-C.L.C., Local 1518, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union.
2.02	(a) The Company agrees to retain in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Article 2 01, of this Agreement, only members in good standing. The Company shall be free to hire new employees who ate not members of the union, provided said non-members,
C825097. DOC (01 /23/98)	Page 1
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
CONTENTS
ar i u ! i i - CjI-:ni-;rai..................
ARTICLK 2 - BARGAINING AGKNCY ...............
ARTICLK 3 - MANAGKMKNT......
ARTICLK. 4-WAGKS.................................
ARTICLK 5 - THIRTY-SI IVAN HOUR GUARANTKK....
ARTICI.i: 0 - HONRS ()1; WORK AND OVKRHMK....
ARTICLK 7 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS ...............
ARTICLT. 8 - SKNIORTTY.......................
ARTICLK 9 - VACA TIONS........................
ARTICI.I'. in - grikvanck prockdurk...........
ARTICI,M II - SALKTY AN]) I IRAI.Tf I.........
ARTICI,K 12 - SKPARA HON Al .l.OWANCR.........
ARTICI,K 13 - WORK MKTIIODS ..................
ARTICl .K 14 - CONTRACTING OUT................
ARTICl.K 15 - PART T1MK KMPl.OYKKS...........
ARTICl.K 16 - I.KAVKS OL AHSKNCK.............
ARTICl.K 17 -GKNKRAI........................
ARTICl.K 18 - KKNITITS.......................
ARTICl.K 19- DURATION Ol- AGRKKMKNT...........
A1TKNDIX A. - JOB RATKS.......................
APPKNDIX B. - START RATK.....................
WAGK RATKS...............................
OCTOBKR 1, 1988 - I.KTTKR ()!■' UNDKRSTANDING #1.
RKDDKKR PLANT....................................
NOVKMBKR 26, 199] - I.KTTKR OK UNDKRS TANDING M2..
RKST PKRIODS - WIKNKR LINK...................
KKBKUARY 16. 1992 - KKTTKR OL UNDKRS I ANI TNG #3...
I.KAD HANDS..................................
LKBRUARY 16, 1992 - I.KTTKR OL' UNDKRSTANDING #4..
BANKING OF OVK.RTIMK.........................
LKBRUARY 16, 1992 - KKTTKR OL UNDKRSTANDING 1/5.
PART-TIMK WORK - WKKKKNDS.....................
LKBRUARY 16, 1992 - KKTTKR OL UNDKRSTANDING #(•>...
APPRKNT1CKSIIIP PROGRAM.......................
KKTTKR OL UNDKRSTANDING #7....................
I.KTTKR OL UNDKRSTANDING #8...................
RK: TRANSLKR OL BKNKLTT PLANS.................
1
2
2
3
,8
12
14
16
17
18 19
19
20 21 23
26
28
30
31
32 32 32 .32 32
32
33
33
34 34 34
34
35 35 35
whether part time or full time employees, shall tic eligible for membership in the Union after attaining seniority
(11) Within one (I) week of the date that a new employee attains seniority, the Company will allow fifteen (15) minutes at the end of the shift, at straight time, so the employee can meet with a designated Union steward. For the afternoon shift the Company will allow fifteen (IS) minutes at straight time at the beginning of the shift.
(c)	The Company agrees to provide the Union in writing with the name, address, and date of hire, of each employee The Company will provide the Chief Steward once pet month a list of all employees who terminated employment during the previous month
2.03	(a) The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such fines, assessments and initiation fees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The monthly dues shall be deducted bi-weekly for the first twenty-four (24) pay periods of each year.
(b)	The Company will procure from each new and probationary employee the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union will be granted alter attaining seniority.
(c)	Monies deducted during any month shall be foi warded by the Company to the Sectetary-Treasuiei of the Union not latei than the fifteenth (15th) day of the month foi which dues aie deducted and accompanied by a printed statement cf the names of the employees for whom the (eductions were made
ARTICLE 3- MANAGEMENT
The management of the plant and direction of the working forces including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement
ARTICLE 4 WAGES
4.01	The wage rates to be paid employees are detailed in Appendix "B" of this agreement
4.02	The increments between brackets will remain at eight cents (80) for-the duration of this agreement.
4.03	When a qualified employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, the employee shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job the employee shall receive their higher rate A qualified employee working fifty percent (50%) or more of their time on the highest rated job shall be paid that rate.
4.04	(a) Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage schedule for thejob orjobs they perform when they become qualified
C825C97.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 2
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
(b) The word 'qualified' as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall not exceed eight (8) weeks, after which the rate shall be paid.
4.05	(a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (12)wecks to work where thejob rate is lower, the employee shall retain their regular job rate while so doing At the expiration of twelve (12) weeks the lower job rate shall prevail.
(b) If1 an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
4.06	(a) An off shift piemium of fifty cents (500) pci lioui will be paid for all hours worked between 6 00 p m and 6 00 a m
(b) An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a m inclusive, shall receive an oft’shift: premium of fifty cents (500) per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 800 a.m. and for hours in excess of their scheduled hours occurring immediately after 8:00 a.m
4.07	The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time arid one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company The Company agrees to distribute the pay on Company time during regular working hours
4.08	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury the employee is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. The Company agrees to provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to arid from the hospital In the event the employee chooses to go directly home from the hospital, the Company agrees to reimburse, upon presentation of a valid receipt, an amount up to the cost of transporting the employee.
4.09	Attached to this Agreement shall be a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit
4.10	Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for more than one (1) continuous hour in temperatures below two (2) degrees Celsius shall receive a premium of twenty-five cents (250) per hour for all hours so worked
ARTICLE 5- THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR GUARANTEE
5.01	The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as herein provided.
5.02	An employee who is absent for personal reasons shall have their guarantee for the week reduced by the number of hours missed due to that absence.
Page 3
06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
5.03	An employee who starts after the first of the payioll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
5.04 Employees with seniority on lay-off notice shall tie entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is giver,. Should notice extend into the subsequent week, then the employees shall be entitled to their guaranteed hours of pay for each day of their notice
5.05	When it is apparent that the employee is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissible to use the employee on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
5.06	I'he guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others Pay received for any public holidays or, in the case of off shift, days in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pa'' is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule
5.07	In order to meet the demands of the business the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees arc hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in the event of a layoff'occurring in the plant.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OK WORK AND OVERTIME
6.01	The normal work week shall be eight (8) hours per- day, forty (40) hours pet week, Monday through Friday. The schedule of hours is to be posted on‘ the bulletin board and agreed to by both parties.
6.02	The schedule offhours referred to in Article 6.01 shall be tegular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement wit’, the Union Committee and the Management
6.03	In compliance with Article 6 02 it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations
6.04	(a) The Union agrees to co-operate with Management to get the necessary overtime work done. The working of overtime shall be a voluntary decision of the individual employee Employees who decline the overtime offer shall continue to receive equal consideration on the basis of Article 6.04 (b).
(b) When overtime is necessary, the Union Steward of the department concerned shall be notified The employee posted or working on the job for which overtime is required shall have the first option of working the overtime In the event this employee does not wish to work the overtime, the supervisor will then canvass the other employees within the
C825097 DOC (01 '23/98)	Page 4
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
department as to their individual wishes. This canvass is to be conducted in the order of senior qualified per-son, to junior qualified person
ll'any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation, the employee shall be offered an opportunity to work an amount of overtime equal to the overtime that was missed. Such overtime assignment shall be arranged by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union within thirty (30) calendar days.
In the event that the necessary number of employees is not obtained within the department, the Company may draw employees front other departments in the plant on the basis of senior qualified employee available at the time overtime is requested
Where overtime on off shifts is required, the Company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Steward and make the calkins.
6.05	(a) Overtime rates of one and one-half (1 -1/2X) times the regular hourly rates shall be paid for any time worked before or after the scheduled hours as agreed to in this Article, up to three (3)hours in any one day and double time (2X) thereafter.
(b)	Double the regular hourly rates shall be paid to mi employees for work pel-formed on Sunday, except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if the employee works on their day oft’ in lieu of Sunday.
(c)	For work performed on Saturday, Sunday oi a statutory holiday, the full time employee shall receive the guaranteed four hours pay at the applicable overtime rate. One and one half times (1 V?X) the regular rate shall be paid for the first four (4) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double time (2X) thereafter.
(d)	Notwithstanding the above, employees whose regular schedule calls for work on calendai Saturdays, Sundays, or statutory holidays mentioned in this Agreement, shall be paid at straight-time for such scheduled houis
6.06	Alternate Work Week - Notwithstanding the other provisions of this agreement, the Company may post work weeks consisting of live (5) consecutive eight (8) hour shifts, commencing on a day other than a Monday, which shall be paid at straight time This provision shall only apply to employees hired after October 19, 1997 and to existing employees who apply for such postings.
The parties agree that the other provisions of1 this agreement dealing with overtime and statutory holidays shall apply to the sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) days of these work weeks in the same manner as those provisions would apply in respect of Saturdays and Sundays for employees working a Monday to Friday work week
6.07	(a) Employees when called for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate, Under this provision, workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available.
(b) Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company's premises, is specially called in at any time outside their normal working hours, shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rates.
C825097.DOC (01123198)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 5
06/01/97-05/31/2000
6.08	(a) Meal Period. Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period (which shall be without pay) and five (5) hours without a second break as outlined in (b) below
(b)	Overtime Breaks: If1 an employee is expected to work more than one-half (1/2) hour beyond the end of the shift a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period shall be provided. In addition, if the employee works overtime such that the employee is working more than five (5) hours since the meal period referred to in (a) above, then a further fifteen (15) minute paid rest break shall be provided; and the Company will either- provide a meal, or pay the employee a six-dollar ($6.00) meal allowance, which shall be added to their gross earnings for that week.
6.09	Hmployees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations (engineers and first aid attendants) shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (20) minutes on Company time In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the lime of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty
6.10	(a) Continuous shift operations shall be given lorty-eight (48) hours notice of change of' shifts except in an emergency Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rate until the expiration of the forty-eight (48) hour notice
(b) Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-foul- (24) hours.
6.11	(a) The Company will allow the employees reasonable time for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This time is to be scheduled and handled by the Supervisor of the department, the same as any other work assignment. A qualified operator shall be available as needed to sharpen knives of those desiring this service. It is understood and agreed that there shall be a full-time employee available to sharpen knives for those who do not sharpen their own and that this will be a "modified duty" job for an employee with a disability.
(b) The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers and hooks necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
6.12	A fifteen (I 5) minute rest period will be given twice each shift, midway before lunch and midway after lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2-1/2) hours, It is agreed that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the day It is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not be abused.
6.13	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, in preference to laying off of employees.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 6
06/01/97-05/31/2000
6.14	When other than emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effort will be made to rehire employees who may be on layoff' status in the department where overtime is to be worked.
ARTICLE 7 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
7.01	The following statutory holidays shall be recognized;
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day B.C. Day
and any other holiday declared by either the Federal
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
or Provincial Government
7.02	If a statutory holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday; if a statutory holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday immediately preceding the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday.
7.03	If the day on which a statutory holiday falls under 7 02 is the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day for employees who work an alternate workweek, then those employees shall be given a day off in lieu of the statutory holiday The lieu day shall be taken immediately before or after the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day in the same fashion as holidays falling on Saturdays or Sundays are declared for employees working a Monday to Friday schedule.
7.04	After thirty (30) calendar- days of employment, a full-time employee who has worked or earned wages for at least fifteen (15) of the thirty (30) calendar days before the statutory holiday shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their job rate for the holiday. Otherwise, the employee shall be paid for statutory holidays in accordance with the Employment Standards Act
7.05	Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days next preceding or following any statutory holiday shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good cause arising from circumstances beyond their control. The Company will advise the Union in writing of such deductions.
7.06	The rate of pay for employees who work on a statutory holiday, or on the day in lieu thereof, shall be double their regular rate, except for employees covered by Article 6 05 (d), who shall be paid at straight time The parties will discuss the designation of statutory holidays and lieu days for employees on the alternate work week and shall agree on an appropriate arrangement for each calendar year prior to January 1 of that year
In designating holidays, it is understood the plant will be closed on Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and New Year’s Day.
7.07	If any of the paid holidays referred to in this Article occur while an employee is on leave of absence to attend Union functions the employee shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 7
06/01/97-05/31/2000
7.08	An additional floating statutoiy holiday shall be granted to all employees with seniority. This statutory holiday is to be granted at the discretion oiTnanagement, however a sincere effort will be made to grant the time requested by the employee. It is understood that the months June through September are the most likely months in which no employees would be accommodated should they request their entitlement
It is also further understood that the preferable days of Monday or Friday will be granted upon request, but again at the Company's discretion.
'There is to be no carry-over from one calendar year i o the next and thus all entitlements must be taken prior to December 31st of each year However, if an employee is prevented from taking the floating statutory holiday prior- to December 3 I because of a compensable accident, sickness or an approved leave of absence, then the holiday will be carried forward past December 3 1 st and must be taken in the next calendai year
New employees will not be entitled to a floating statutory holiday in their first calendar year of employment if they are hired on ot alter July 1st in that year
7.09	An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, compensable or non-conmensable accident, during ttic period in which a recognized paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the dilferencc between their- compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay and their regular rate of pay.
When a recognized paid statutoiy holiday falls during the three (3) day waiting period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate of pay
When a recognized paid statutoiy holiday falls during the three (3) dry waiting period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for each such statutory holiday
Any employee who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits and is still disabled shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for any statutory holiday following within three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability
7.10	New employees are not eligible for- statutoiy holiday pay during their first thirty (30) calendar days of employment.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day the employee was first employed, unless their seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date the employee returned to work following the last break in their seniority.
Page 8
06/01/97- 05/31/2000
C825097 DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
8.02	New employees shall be on probation and shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have accumulated sixty (60) days worked, provided these days have been accumulated within six (6) consecutive calendar months
8.03	During the probationary period, an employee may be dismissed on grounds of unsuitability. The suitability of a probationary employee shall be determined by the Company; however, the Company shall not act in a manner which is arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith
8.04	Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be calculated from the oiiginal day of employment
8.05	Seniority lists shall be revised and Drought up-to-date every two (2) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to (tie Union.
8.06	(a) In the bargaining unit the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial io do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed eight (8) weeks
(b)	Vacancies within the bargaining unil shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. In the case that no application is received for any posting, the vacancy shall be filled by ;the junior qualified employee available until the junior employee on the shift is trained for the |ob. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten
(10)	working days from the date the posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at alter consultation with the Union An employee who is absent when a vacancy is fdled shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in their department wishes to apply for the vacancy, employees working in their trial period shall not he required to work outside their position if there is work available in their posted position.
There shall be no more than three (3) job postings pet- employee per year unless special exemption is granted by Management In the event an employee fails to qualify for a job posting they shall be transferred to the help qualified pool.
(c)	Vacancies: A vacancy exists when ajob is performed for-an average of twenty (20) hours per week for twelve (12) consecutive weeks, or when a posted position becomes vacant due to such things as a resignation, dismissal, retirement or a posting into another classification.
(d)	Temporary 'Transfers in the case of temporary transfers of five (5) consecutive work days or less, the Company may fill the position by transferring the junior qualified employee in the department or, if unavailable, in the plant.
(e)	Temporary vacancies of more than five (5) consecutive work days will be filled by the senior qualified employees who have requested consideration for such transfers according to the following procedure:
(i) the Company will post a list of anticipated vacancies for the following week no later than Wednesday noon; 11
(11)	employees shall indicate interest by signing the list prior to Thursday midnight;
C825097.DOC (01 123198)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 9
06/01/97-05/31/2000
(iii)	scheduling will be done by the Company on I iiday lot the following payroll week;
(iv)	if thete are no qualified applicants, the Company may schedule the work according to Article 8 06 (d) above;
(v)	if as a result of this procedure a further vacancy or vacancies arise, the Company will endeavour to fill them by offering the vacancy to the senior qualified employee, provided this does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant
(1) Employees who apply for temporary transfei to a lowei iated job shall be paid the lower rate
8.07	Seniority service records shall be considered biokcn, all rights forfeited, and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or is discharged foi just cause
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to repot t foi work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company The present method of contact, by telephone and registered letter or courier to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within two (2)working days after receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that they will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily,
(c)	Has been laid off foi a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule
Length of
Allowable . Time Off Payroll One Year
Two years maximum
(cj) Is absent without leave for mot-e than live (5) working days, unless a reasonable explanation for the absence is provided •
8.08	Absence from work because of sickness, compensable oi non-compensable accident, leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence This is provided the employee is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than eight (8) weeks
If the employee is absent for more than one (1) year, then the employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence, or to one of equal rating.
8.09	In the case of reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as follows:
(a)	Probationary employees, i.e.,those with less than sixty (60) days worked.
(b)	’Thosewith plant seniority
Length of Seniority at Date of Separation Less than one year One year and over
C825097. DOC (01 /23/98)	Page 10
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
In the latter ease, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior operator-, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the plant. In such cases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union.
(c) It is agreed that if no employees with seniority have the immediate essential qualifications necessary for the efficient operation of the plant, then the Company may retain a probationary certified trades, first-aid, or smokehouse operator who has those skills, out of ordei of layoff
8.10	(a) In cases of increases in the working, forces, rehiring shall be in the reverse order to that of layoffs. The Company shall advise the Union when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired. In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are tilled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, the employee shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled.
(b)	In case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein leferred to, employees shall be given one (I) working day's notice for evei y completed six (6) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. In the case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Company's control which results in the closing of a part or whole of the plant, employees shall be given one (I) calendar day's notice for every completed six (6) months' seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days' notice and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days, but such two (2) days shall be exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work, riot to exceed three (3) days is available at the time any layoff is to become effective, then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work.
(c)	Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee, and provided that the employees and the Union are informed that such work is of a temporary nature
8.11	When it is necessary to permanently transfci employees to lower latedjobs because of a shortage of work, the employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer
8.12	In cases of reduction or increases in available work, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee.
8.13	Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agreement to notify the employee.
8.14	Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance Said employee shall be allowed six (6) months in which to prove their capability of filling the position concerned If said employee does not qualify within such time, the employee shall report to the help qualified pool without prejudice and loss of seniority
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 11
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01197 - 05/31/2000
8.15	Duty to Accommodate Whetc the duty of the Company and the Union to accommodate an employee undei human lights legislation conflicts with the Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union may modify the Collective Agieetnent to reasonably accommodate the employee, piovided this does not lesult m undue hardship to the parties to the Agieement
ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS
9.01	Vacation eligibility requirements are based upon credited service. The period January 1 st through December 3 1 st shall be considered the vacation year
9.02	Fiist vacation - An employee becomes eligible i'oi vacation foi the fust time aftei one (I) year when the employment iecoids show the following
(a)	They have attained seniority within six mont hs from date of hire; and
(b)	Have not been off the payroll for more than sixty (60) consecutive days.
Payment for this first vacation entitlement will be calculated at foui percent (4%) of the gioss earnings in the calendar vear
In the event the employee is oil' the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date for the pur poses of this section becomes the date of ie-lllfc
9.03	Subsequent vacations - An employee who has received their fit-st vacation, is thereafter eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations, any time on or after January I in the succeeding vacation year This is providing the employee is currently on the active payroll, and since receiving their last vacation, the employee has at all times been on the active or benefit payroll
9.04	Length of Vacations - Hffective date of ratification, vacations with pay to employees shall be granted as follows:
Length of Service
Length of Vacation
After I year After 4 years After 10 years After 19 years After 24 years After 30 years
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
7	weeks
Amend vacation schedule to provide for five (5) weeks vacation after eighteen (1 8) years, effective January 1, 2000.
9.05	Method of Calculating Vacation Pay. 1st Year - Calculated at four percent (4%) of earnings between date of hiring and December 3 I of the same year, but not payable until reaching first anniversary date
C325097.DOC (01123198)	06/01/97 -0§p10DOO
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Subsequent Entitlements - Pay i'or each week ol' holiday entitlement shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate or two percent (2%) of gross earnings for each week of holidays, whichever is the greater. The calculation of the percentage amount is based on the gross earnings in the previous calendar year.
9.06	Completion of required service after January 1 Employees who, after January I and prior to the end of the calendar year-, reach the service required to entitle them to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation scale set out in Article 9 04 above, will become eligible for such additional week of vacation on completion of the required years of set-vice.
9.07	(a) employees absent for masons of sickness, compensable oi lion-compensable accident, who return to work following these phases within one year, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 9 04. and pav for such vacation shall be provided for in Article 0 07 (b)
(b) In case of sickness, compensable and non-compensable accident certified by a practicing physician, an employee, upon their return to the seivice of the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence, not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received. The above credits shall be confined to otic year's vacation rights on the basis of forty (40) hours per week for the twenty-six (26) week period at the employee's regular rate of pay.
9.08	1 ■mployecs whose service with the Company terminates before the end of any vacation
year, shall receive vacation pay in accordance with the applicable percentages set out in Article 0.05.	'
9.09	Vacation Scheduling, (a) Vacation periods shall be arranged subject to the demands of the business, but a sincere effort will lie made to arrange vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of 1 he employees respectively.
(b) Vacation taken subsequent to March 1 in each vcai shall be allocated as follows
The Company shall post a notice in the first week of December, advising employees of the vacation selection process, so that employees will be ready to exercise their- choices in January
Commencing January 1st, employees shall select their vacation periods in order of seniority, however, only one vacation period shall be selected by seniority until all employees in each vacation group have selected one period. Employees who choose to split their vacation within this time frame shall then select the balance of their vacation in order of seniority. Senior employees must exercise their choice within two (2) working days in order not to hold up the decisions of the next most senior employees.
The selection of vacation periods taken in the months of January and February shall be as per Article 9.09 (a) above
Vacation selection is to be completed not later than March 1st for that vacation yeai After the employee has selected their full vacation entitlement the employee shall be given a receipt signed by their supervisor confirming the employee's selection
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 13
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
Vacation selection schedules shall be posted, and shall remain posted so that all employees in the vacation group may see them,
F.mployees who have not booked vacation dates by March 1st in accordance with this selection process shall lose seniority preference in selection of vacation periods.
If the employee has not scheduled vacation by October 1, then the Company will schedule the vacation to occur before the end of the calendar year,
(c)	The Company and the Union agree to a formula of twenty percent (20%) of the employees per vacation group off on vacation at any one time. A greater number may be permitted by the Company if it will not adversely affect production,
(d)	The vacation groups referred to above shall consist of a minimum of five (5) employees and shall be posted on notice boards. Vacation groups shall be subject to change by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Failing agreement, the vacation groups shall be referred to a single arbitrator for binding resolution
(e)	If an employee cancels a vacation booking, the Company will hold the vacancy open for a period of five (5) days in order to permit other employees to apply for it.
9.10	If a paid statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with pay. The extra day will be granted, wherever possible, on one of the days adjacent to the employee's vacation, or as otherwise agreed between the Company and the employee
9.11	An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off'because of a reduction in the work force shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which the employee has qualified. An employee who has not become eligible for their first vacation and who is laid off shall be allowed pay in lieu of vacation in accordance with the applicable vacation laws. Such employees may leave their vacation pay with the company for a period not exceeding six (6) months or until the end of the then current vacation year, whichever first occurs.
9.12	Vacation pay will be paid by separate cheque with a covering statement of deductions, two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled vacation, or on the regular pay day, at the employee’s option.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	Should differences arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the manner and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other restriction of production, or interference with work in or about the Company's plant or premises, nor will employees take part in any such action.
10.02	The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 14
06/01/97-05/31/2000
10.03	A Union Committee consisting of four (4) regular employees shall be elected in a manner determined by the Union. The Union will keep the Company advised at all times of the names of the Union committee and all shop stew ards.
10.04	When an employee is suspended, dismissed, or given written discipline, a Union committee member or shop steward shall be present at the time of such action. The Union representative shall be one chosen by the employee and who is on shift.
10.05	An earnest effort will he made to settle all gnevances oi potential grievances promptly m the following mannet (incvances shall be taken up on Company time dunng rcgulai working houts Time limits may only be changed by mutual agi cement between the Union and the Company
Shop stewards may initiate discussions with supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action does not solve the matter, a Union committee member will be allowed to investigate. In the event that a Union steward ora Union committee member must leave their job in connection with the matter-, they shall first notify the supervisor as to what department they are going to and give an explanation why they are going Permission to leave the department will be granted as promptly as possible but shall in no case exceed one hour They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in that department.
Step with
Step Two: If the grievance is not resolved at Step One, it shall be put in writing and delivered to the Plant Manager or designated management representative. The grievance shall be discussed, within two (2) working days, between the Chief Steward and the department steward (with or without the grievor) and the Plant Manager or designated management representative.
Step Three:	If the grievance is not resolved at Step Two, a meeting shall be scheduled
between the Union committee arid the Company, within two working days of the Step Two meeting, or such longer period as may he mutually agreed. The Union business representative and/or the grievor may attend.
10.06	If an employee is dismissed and feels that the dismissal is unjust, the employee shall, within three (3) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Union committee The Union committee will in turn notify the Company on the same day they receive such notice from the employee
One: The employee shall first discuss the matter with tho department steward together the department supervisor.
The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with beginning at Step 'Three.
10.07	A settlement reached at any step of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding and signed by both parties.
10.08	Ifthe grievance is not resolved at Step T hree, either party may, within five (5) working days of the Step Three meeting, refer the matter to arbitration, by writing to the other party If agreement on an arbitrator cannot be reached within thirty (30) days of the date the grievance was referred to arbitration, either party may request the Minister of Labour to appoint the chairperson
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 15
R B/wr (U SWA 2952)	06/01/97- 05/31 /2000
10.09	The arbitrator shall arrange and conduct a hearing, and publish a written decision as soon as possible. The decision shall be final anti binding upon the parties.
10.10	Each party shall be responsible foi one-hall' (1/2) the Ices and expenses of’the arbitrator.
10.11	A grievance concerning the dismissal of an employee shall proceed before a single arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the date the grievance was referred to arbitration, or such longer- period as may be agreed. The arbitrator- is to be agreed upon within one (I ) week of the date the grievance was referred to arbitration, or failing agreement, either party may request the Minister of [.about to appoint the arbitrator Articles 10.09 and 10.10 shall apply.
10.12	If it is decided that an employee was dismissed without just and reasonable cause, the employee shall be reinstated to their former position and shall be compensated for lost benefits or wages, or granted such lesser compensation as is deemed fair in the circumstances
ARTICLE 11 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
11.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of all employees during the hours of their employment. Pi elective devices and all other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company, first aid shall be available for employees as per the federal and Provincial regulations.
11.02	Protective devices and other safety equipment provided by the Company and agreed to by the Union shall be used by the employees
11.03	There shall be a joint Company-Union safety inspection committee composed of four (4) representatives from the Company and four (4) representatives from the Union who shall meet and cany out inspections once a month. The Company-Union safety inspection committee may recommend to the Plant Manager-, improvements in safety conditions and shall be informed of the disposition made of their recommendations. The committee shall also investigate causes of accidents which occur and shall make recommendations designed to prevent recurrence of such accidents, to the Plant Manager or designated management representative. One (1) Company representative, and one (1) member of the Union safety inspection committee (or designated alternate) shall be involved in accident investigations.
The Safety Committee may recommend to the Plant Manager improvements in safety conditions The Plant Manager shall advise the committee in writing prior to the next safety meeting of the disposition made iegarding the Committee’srecommendation
11.04	It is the responsibility of the Company to give new employees instruction on how to perform the duties expected of them Instaiction may be given by a supervisor or by an employee designated by the Company. No employee shall be required to work in any job or operate a piece of equipment until the employee has received proper instaiction
11.05	By mutual agreement, members of the Health and Safety Committee shall be entitled to time off from work with no loss of seniority or regular- pay to attend seminars for instruction and upgrading on health and safety
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 16
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
VRTICLE 12 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
12.01	Should it become necessary to close the plant or a department of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one (I) or more veai's senionty
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within the ninety (90) days period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one (I) year, and employees receiving Workers' Compensation, or off because of sickness or non-compensable accident will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 8 07
(c) .	“
(c) The closing is not biought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action oi Act of God.
(j) In order to qualify lot sepaiation allowance employees will continue to work m a satisfactory mannci as long as i equiied
(e)	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule which is to be used in computing the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service. Payments arc to be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or the employee's basic work week if different at their regulai rate of pay.
Ye ars jaf Credi t ed _S ervj c e
1
2
4
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11 and ovei
Example:
Weeks of Pay 1
1-1/2
2
2-1/2
3-	I/2
4-	1/2
5-	l/2
6-	1/2
7-1/2
add l-l/2 weeks' pay for each year of credited sei vice above ten (10) years
12 years of credited service
First 10 years of credited service	y	7-1/2 weeks'pay
Service over 10 years (12/10 or 2 x 1-1/2)	4 weeks' pay
Total Separation Allowance:	-	10-1/2 weeks' pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 17
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
(1) The company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this agreement, at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to such closing. Effective on the date of such notice being issued all employees with seniority will be eligible to receive sepal-ation payments whether they arc working or laid off.
12.02	Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
12.03 In the event that part of the plant, remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list lot possible recall The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they arc eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above section. Those re-employed on this basis will receive seniority credits up to the time of their layoff brit shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff
12.04	In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Croup Life Insurance, MSP, Extended Health, and dental plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE 13 - WORK METHODS
Change in Working Methods
13.01	(a) When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is
expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union of such change at least ninety (90) days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article
4.05	(a). Employees with one (I) or more years of seniority who arc affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 12. Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, their rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts all opportunities to post to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee's ability to leam on the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort is unable to qualify their rate protection shall not be affected. In the application of or adjustment of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid at the time of the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets, at twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower- rate prevails.
C825097.DOC (01123198)	Page 18
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
(b) Establishing rates ibr new jobs bor the purpose of this clause a new job is defined as one which is not presently being performed in the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE 14 - CONTRACTING OUT
14.01	The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration anti frequency of the job. urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison
14.02	When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
14.03	Should an Arbitration Committee be called on to review the Company's action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in ordet to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard to all circumstances Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the ticcision
14.04	This provision does not apply to installation and construction work
14.05	The Company may at times experiment to determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees When this is done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should ttic Company elect to contract out, after the trial period.
ARTICLE 15 - PARI TIME EMPLOYEES
15.01	Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full-time employees, and, except as otherwise agreed with the Chief Steward, part-time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full-time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work. Part-time employees shall work less than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
15.02	The Union may submit and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure
C825097 DOC (01123138)	Page 19
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
ARTICLE 16 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
16.01	Employees, not to exceed two (2), who arc appointed to or elected to do business for the Union shall be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prioi to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay provided they are capable of doing the job within the usual qualifying period, fhe Company agrees to invoice the [inion monthly where employee is on Union leave.
16.02	Leave of absence lot the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, conferences, or negotiations of this Agreement shall be granted by the Company on a written request from the Local Union subject to the following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall be granted leave of absence not to exceed thirty (30) days, providing that the absence of such employee shall not unreasonably all bet the operations of the Company. The Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than fourteen (14) days before the requested leave is to commence. A request for an extension of a leave of absence must be made prior to the expiration of the leave already grained, and will be considered in relation to existing conditions. The Company agrees to allow two percent (2%) of the bargaining unit to he away at any given time However, under no circumstances is it permissible to have more than two people absent from one department per shift
16.03	At the option of the Company, when an employee's personal affairs make it desirable tor them to be relieved < r Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the regular vacation period to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason. This is providing that such leave of absence docs not interfere with the requirements of the business. It is agreed that leave of absence shall not interfere with other employees' vacation choices.
16.04 Leave of absence will not be gi anted foi the put pose of allowing any employee to take another position temporal ily, try out new work, oi ventuie into business for theinselves
16.05	Leave of absence, befoie being granted must Ire lequested in writing and approved by the Company in writing A copy ol the request, whethei approved or not approved, is to be given to the Chief Stewaid
16 06 An employee may be granted maternity leave of up to eighteen (18) weeks in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Employment Standards Act, or such further leave as may be allowed under that Act
16.07 An employee with seniority who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the date the employee intends to take leave supported by appropriate documentation shall be granted an unpaid parental leave of up to twelve (1 2) weeks if
(a)	(i) in the case of a female employee, she becomes the natural mother of a child; or
(ii)	in the case of a male employee, he becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child; or
(iii)	the employee adopts a child under the law of the province
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 20
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97-05/31/2000
(b)	Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee.
(c)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless othetwise mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company
16.08 An employee who holds a posting will tic reinstated at the expiry of the leave to their posted job. If the employee is absent for more than one (I) year, then the employee shall be reinstated to the posted job, or to one of equal rating. Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave.
ARTICLE 17 - GEN ERA 1
17.01	'flie Company shall supply bulletin boards for 1 he use of the Union, for the posting of notices of official union business, such notices to be approved by the Management.
17.02	Laundry services for outer work clothing shall lie maintained at no cost to the employee.
17.03	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
17.04	I tie Company and the Union agiee to supply a copy of this Agreement to each employee of the Company affected theieby
17.05	The Company agrees to provide a full day's pay to any employee suffering injury or emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital attention. To be eligible for this pay. the employee must report to their supervisor or to the first aid attendant before leaving the plant
17.06	The Company agrees that any employee of the Company summoned to appear for Jury Duty, or who serves on Jury Duty, or is a Subpoenaed Witness, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them loi jury service and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days provided the employee has completed the probation period.
17.07	Any working conditions now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining
17.08	When an employee who has completed the probation period attends the funeral or memorial service of an immediate relative, the employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for the day of the funeral or memorial service and two (2) other days either immediately before or after the funeral or memorial service, provided such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on their regular work days For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following Wife, Husband, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mothcr-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Stepmother, Stepfather, Brother-in-Law, Sister-in-Law, Grandparents, Grandchildren, and Step-children
C625097. DOC (01 /23/98)	Page 21
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
In the case of grandparents-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, the employee is entitled to the day of the funeral or memorial service only.
17.09	(a) Launderable outer work clothing, oilskin aprons, belts, and oilskin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular- performance of duty, and must tie returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee effective date of ratification, the Company agrees to grant a footwear allowance of fifty-live dollars ($55.00) per year to those employees with seniority. Amend footwear allowance to provide sixty-five dollars ($65.00) effective January I, 1998 and seventy-five dollars ($75.00)eifective January 1, 2000.
(b) The Company will supply safety-toe rubber footwear to employees with seniority, employees without seniority may purchase this footwear from the Company. Worn-out boots will be replaced for employees with seniority on an exchange basis, employees who are supplied footwear under Ibis clause are not entitled to the footwear allowance under Article 1 7.09 (a) above
17.10	Tools - Mechanical Tradesmen of the Mechanical Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement tools. Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per contract year per affected employee.
Effective January 1, 1998, increase to one hundred and forty dollars ($140 00) per year Effective January 1, 2000, increase to one hundred and sixty dollars ($160 00) per year
17.11	The Chief Shop Stewaid shall be notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment of each new employee
17.12	The Company agrees to allow employees wheie iequired. live (5)minutes cleanup time prior to their regular quitting time
17.13	The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licences required in the performance of their duties, including reimbursement of lost wages incurred as a result of writing exams to obtain such licences.
17.14	Management personnel shall not perform production (bargaining unit) work nor shall management personnel displace Union personnel except in extreme absenteeism and where management personnel are involved in training unqualified employees, or in product development.
Extreme absenteeism shall mean that there are insufficient qualified employees available to start up operations at the beginning of a shift.
All exceptions noted above shall be discussed with the appropriate shop steward or an alternate designated by the Union.
17.15	Procedure for Newly Hired Personnel When hired, a new employee reports to the first aid attendant or personnel supervisor who ensures the following documents are given to the employee:
Page 22
06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
C 825097 DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
(a)	Set ot Safety Rules
(b)	Set of Sanitary Rules
(c)	Set of Security Rules
The first aid attendant or personnel supetvisor outlines hours of work, when lunch and coffee breaks occur and how to identify when they occur. Also, the employee is given their time card and shown where anti howto clock in. The first aid attendant or personnel supervisor also outlines the location of washrooms, locker rooms and lunchrooms.
In addition, the first aid attendant or personnel supervisor ensuies the new employee is introduced to the department supetvisor who then takes the employee to the department, shows the employee the equipment, pointing out any potential hazards
17.16	The Union committee will be given a copy of any disciplinary note which is placed in an employee's file, including any written record of a verbal warning Upon the expiration of one year from the date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal file, the Company will be precluded from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action provided the employee has not received further progressive discipline during 1 tie one year period If an employee has not been actually at work for at least one thousand, six hundred (1600) hours during the one (1) year period under this clause, the disciplinary entry or reference will remain on the record until the employee has actually worked one thousand, six hundred (1000) hours
17.17	The Company reserves the right to protect liom any lay off, employees working on an approved apprenticeship program. The number of employees in this category is limited to three (3). Members of the bargaining unit, provided they meet the necessary qualifications for the program, have the right to apply for the program and will be given preference over new hires.
17.18	An employee shall retire on the first day of the month following the employee's 65th birthday
ARTICLE 18 - BENEFITS
18.01	Weekly Indemnity (a) Weekly indemnity benefits will be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan its detailed in the "Group Benefits" booklet prepared by the insurance company, a copy of which shall be provided to the Union and employees
(b)	Benefit payments shall be based on sixty (60) percent of claimant's regular weekly earnings (40 hours at regular rate), exclusive of overtime, premiums, etc., immediately preceding the claim.
(c)	Weekly indemnity benefits shall be paid for up to seventeen (17) weeks for employees wno have completed ninety (90) working days of employment.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 23
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
(d)	The Company will pay the first twenty dollars ($20.00) of the required premium per employee, with the balance of the cost shared equally between the Company and the employee.
(e)	The waiting period shall be three (3) working days, except when an employee is hospitalized during the waiting period due to an illness or accident. Benefits shall be paid on the basis of working days, not calendar days.
(1) Claims must be submitted no later than fifteen (IF) working days from the first day of absence, unless there is a reasonable explanation given.
(g)	In the event an employee has it claim refused by the Workers' Compensation Board for reasons of "non-compensable claim", the employee shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan. I his is provided the terms and conditions of the plan are met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from the Workers' Compensation Hoard, for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity plan must be repaid to the insurer
(h)	Where there has been a delay in the payment oi Workers' Compensation Benefits, employees will be advanced payment under the terms of the Weekly Indemnity Plan, subject to the following
(j)	'fhe employee has completed all the necessaiy forms;
(it)
There has been a delay of two (2) weeks oi more since the benefits became payable
(iii) The employee will authoiize, in wilting, inpayment by the Woikeis’ Compensation Board directly to tire Weekly Indemnity Plan when Woikeis’ Compensation Benefits become av ailable
(iv)	In the event that the Woikeis’ Compensation claim has been denied, arid the teims and conditions of the weekly Indemnity Plan have not been met, the employee will repay all amounts previously advanced
(v)	It is not intended that an employee receive wage loss payment from more than one source for the same period which exceeds one hundred percent (1 00%) of normal wages. It is understood that in those situations, the insurance carrier may recover amounts in excess of one hundred percent (100%) in accordance with the subrogation provisions of the plan.
(vi)	All eligible employees will be covered with group life insurance and AD&D for twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). Effective January I, i998 amend twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) to read thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00).
New employees have a ninety (90) working day period before becoming eligible to join the plan.
The full cost of this coverage is to be paid for by the Company
(j) M S P. (Medical Services Plan of British Columbia) coverage is provided for all eligible employees.
New employees have a ninety (90) working day waiting period before becoining eligible for this benefit.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 24
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
(k)	The Company shall continue to pay the premiums for MS P , extended Health, dental, life insurance and other insured benefits tor eligible employees on extended disability. W C B. or sick leave for a maximum of three years from (lie date the absence from work commenced, lurch employee shall be required to provide adequate evidence of such disability or sickness.
(l)	A long-term disability plan shall be provided for all employees, to provide coverage after seventeen (17) weeks of disability The plan shall be governed by the terms of the insurance plan, a copy of which has been provided to the Union, l ire premiums for this coverage shall be paid by the employee.
(in) Extended Health Plan:	fire Company will pav the premiums to provide an extended
health plan, details of which have been provided to the Union. The plan shall include hearing aid coverage to a maximum of live hundred dollars ($500 00) per lifetime and vision care eighty percent (80%) coverage after deductible, maximum one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
18.02	Modified Duty: 'fire Company shall endeavour to provide modified duty to employees recovering from injury or illness, and employees shall endeavour to ieturn to work as soon as they arc able where modified duty is available. The assignment of an employee to modified duty shall be the subject of mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. The W C.B. policy on modified duty work shall be used as terms of reference, subject to the provisions of this collective agreement
18.03	Abuse of Benefits: Misrepresentation in connection with weekly indemnity claims shall be grounds for discipline, including dismissal
18.04	Dental Plan: The Company agrees to paiticipate in the Retail Clerks Dental Plan on the following basis. The Company will contribute thirty-two cents ($0.32) per hour for each straight time hour worked by all employees in the bargaining unit. Paid vacation and statutory holiday pay shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of this clause. Such contributions shall not exceed twelve dollars anti eighty cents ($12.80) per employee per week.
If it is determined by actuarial advice that different contributions at-e required to maintain benefits under the plan, then the contributions shall be changed in amounts and on dates determined by such actuarial advice
Contributions by the Company shall not exceed thirty-seven cents ($0.37). If actuarial advice requires more than thirty-seven cents ($0.37), then any additional amounts shall be paid by employees by payroll deduction.
The terms and conditions of the plan shall govern coverage for employees of the Company
18.05	Pension Plan, The Company agrees to make contributions to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan for each hour paid by the Company to frill time employees for all hours paid after completing at least ninety (90) days worked.
"Hours paid" will include all hours for which compensation is paid, including vacation, statutory holidays, bereavement leave, paid and unpaid leave for Union business, and jury duty (and up to thirty [30] days of weekly indemnity, Workers Compensation and authorized leaves of absence) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week per employee
C825097 DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 25
06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
Contributions shall he as follows:
Amend forty-five cents (450) io read fifty-nine cents (590) effective June I, 1998
The Union acknowledges that the Company is not responsible for the nature or level of benefits provided to employees by CCWIPP, and is in no way liable for any potential deficit in the CCWIPP pension fund. The linion further acknowledges that the Company's only obligations with respect to CCWIPP are contributions which the Company agrees with the Union to pay into the plan.
Contributions will be made to CCWIP, or such other plan as may be designated in writing by the Union; and further, to permit voluntary contributions by employees by payroll deduction
18.06	employees are and shall remain solely responsible for the cost of the long-term disability coverage. Responsibility for the provision of the plan shall be turned over to the Union effective January I, 1998
18.07	The parties agree to establish a joint benefits committee consisting of two (2) members appointed by the Company and two (2)members appointed by the Union The committee will regularly review the terms and conditions of the benefits provided under the Collective Agreement, including the claims experience data, administrative procedures, and costs and may make recommendations to the Company, the Union, the benefits consultant, or the carriers.
The committee shall not have the power to amend the Collective Agreement oi to make changes which result in cost increases, except where the changes are agreed to by the patties to the Collective Agreement
ARTICLE 19 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
19.01	This Agreement shall take effect June I, 1997 and shall remain in effect until May 31, 2000 and from year to year- thereafter, provided that either patty may give written notice of termination within four (4)months prior to May 11, 2000
This Agreement shall remain in force during any period of negotiation, until
(a) the Union commences a lawful strike;
(b)
the Company imposes a lawful lockout; or
(c)
the Parties ratify a new Collective Agreement
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
Fletcher’s Fine Foods Ltd 8385 Fraser Street Vancouver, B.C.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF ‘THEUNION
United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, AFL CIO CLC Local 15 18
Page 26
06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
M W Iluntei
R. Breinncr
(i WlinlleV '
i I evangelist a
R "Morse
/
C825097 DOC (01123199)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 27
06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
APPENDIX A. - JOB RATES
Classification
Bracket:
Help Qualified Janitor
Bacon Press Operator.,
Bacon Sheer Operator .........................
Toby Slicer Operator ....................
Bacon Grader and Scaler ......................
Peed Sliced Meat and Wiener Packaging Machine.
Cry-o-Vac Machine Operator ...................
Mechanical Skinner Operatoi...................
Comb Hang and Select Bellies Curing Room Person Smoked Meat Prepar
Cook's Helper..........
SluHer ..............
Whizard Knife Operator
Cook.,.................
Pastry Maker...........
Sanitation (no contract)
Pickle Injector Operator
Scaler .............
Frank-O-Matic Operator
3
3
A
4 4
rk Lift Operator................................................ 4
hot
Head Cook...................
Power Doily Scaler. ........
Export Loader..........
Deboning Machine Operator.
Meat Grinder................
Maintenance Helper .........
Shippers.............
Receiver....................
Freezer Headperson.........
Sanitation (one-year contract) Stock Controller Porn Utility Person
Maintenance.................
Truck Drivers - Deliveries..
Truck Drivers - Semi-Trailers Silent Cutter Operator
4
4
4
5 5
7
7
7
7
7
8 1 1 I I 12 14 16
Smokehouse Operator.,...............................................16
Non Certified Maintenance....
Carpenter/General Utility.,...
Certified Welder,............
4th Class Engineer/Maintenance
3rd Class Engineer/Maintenance Journeyman Millwright.,.
Journeyman Electrician
26
30
33
33
38
38
.40
Note: A person posting to a job with a one-yeat- contract is:
C82509.7.DOC (01/23/98)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97
Page 28 05/31/2000
(a)	exempted from any layoff during the one-vear period and
(b)	excluded from bidding onto another job during the one-vear period
The onc-year contract is effective from the date of the awarding of the posting and is subject to the eight (8) week qualifying period. At the end of each one (I) year contract, the employee may elect to revert to the no-contract position (Bracket 3) or to take another one (I) year contract provided that a more senior employee on layoff'may exercise their right to (ill this position upon the anniversary date of the contract
C825097.DOC (01123198)	Page 29
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
.APPENDIX B. - STAR!' RATE
AH new employees hired after October 1, 1988 shall be paid a starting rate of $8.00 per hour Effective October 19, 1997, automatic increases of one-sixth (1/6) the difference between $8.00 per hour and the Bracket 1 rate shall be granted upon the completion of 1,000, 2,000, yOOO, 4,000, and 5,000 hours. At the completion of 6,000 hours worked, the bracket labour rates shall apply.
"Hours worked" for this purpose shall include hours absent from work for which compensation is paid under the terms of this Agreement except it shall not include paid absences totalling more than 240 hours in a calendar vear, unpaid absences, or layoffs.
Any employee receiving the $8.00 per hour stalling rate and perfomung a higher rated job shall receive the appropriate rate based on the following formula:
C825097 DOC (01123198)
RB/wr (USWA 2952)
Page 30
06/01/97-05/31/2000
WAGE RATES
Start Rate Aftet 1000 hours After 2000 houis After 3000 hours
8 00	8	00
0,20	0	ft)
10 67	10	73
12.00;	12,09
8 00 9 42 10 84 12.24
Aftei 4000 hours hours
13.33.	13 46.	13.66
I 1 A.................14 82 .....................15 OX
Bracket 1	:	.....16.00 .........D. 20 ,..........16.50
Bracket 2	16.08	16.28 i	16.58
Bracket 3	I 6.16	16.36 i	16.66
Bracket 4	16.24	16.44 !	16.74
Bracket 5	I 6.32	16.52 |	16.82
Bracket 7	I 6.48	16.68 i	.16.98
Bracket 8	16,56	16.76 ;	17.06
Bracket I 1 Brackel I 2 Bracket 14 Bracket I6 Bracket 26 Bracket ft) Bracket 33 Bracket 38 Bracket 40
16.80 16 88 17 04
17	T'
18	00 18 32 18 56 18 % 10 12
17.00
17.08
17	24 1 7 40
18	20 18 52
18	76
19	16 19 32
17.30 17.38 17 54
17	70
18	50 18 82
19	06 19 46 19 62
On the payroll following June 1, 1998 there will he a one-time lump sum payment of two hundred dollars ($200 00), less statutory deductions, to all lull-time employees on payroll as of June 1, 1998.
FirsJyAftL Attendants:	The Company will determine the number of first aid attendants
required, and will post any vacancies, specifying the shift required. The posting will be filled by the senior qualified applicant, who shall agree to perform first aid duties for at least one year.
The Company will reimburse employees for coui se fees and renewal fees upon successful completion First aid attendants will be allowed up to forty (40) hours with pay when necessarily absent to take first aid courses, including exams written during their regular working hours
First Aid Premiums:
Level 3	40	cents
Level 2	35	cents
Level 1	30	cents
Circle rate or over-rate eliminations will only be effective if and when an employee is transferred to a higher iatedjob permanently
C825097.DOC (01123198)	Page 31
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
October 1, 1988 - Letter of Understanding ?/l
RED DEER PLANT
This will confirm that if the Company operates the Red Deer plant behind lawful picket lines, Fletcher's will not require its Vancouver plant employees to handle products produced behind the picket line. This letter shall not be binding on a successor employer at Red Deer
November 26, 1991 - Letter of Understanding #2
REST PERIODS - WIENER I .IM
Because of the unique circumstances, the parties agree to continue the past practice regarding the second rest period for employees on the wiener line when wieners are being run continuously, on a without prejudice basis
Employees will take the second rest period at the end of the shift and may punch out early. Time cards will be adjusted to reflect time worked to the end of the shift. 'This is not under any circumstances to constitute it precedent
February 16, 1992 - Letter of Understanding #3
LEAD HANDS
1	The Plant Vlanagci may appoint one ot moie employees in a department to act as it lead hand
2	To promote a harmonious relationship within the department, the Union plant Committee shall be consulted on such appointments and given the opportunity to put forward other candidates
3.	Following consultation, the Company will give the Union Plant Committee five (5) days notice of all appointments.
4.	The lead hand shall coordinate the work and assist in training, familiarization and safety.
5.	In no circumstances shall a lead hand hire, lay off, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline, transfer employees to other departments, or reduce hours
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 32
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31 /2000
6	The lead hand designation may be terminated by the Company for just cause 01 relinquished voluntarily by the incumbent at an\ time, in which case the person shall resume their previous position or an equivalent one
7	Lead hands shall be paid twenty-live cents (25c) per hour above the highest regular hourly rate in their department
February 16, 1992 - Letter of Understanding M
BANKING OF OVERT I ML
Effective June 1, 1992 full time employees may elect to bank hours of overtime on the
following basis:
1	Employees must advise the Company in wiiiing prior to January 1st and July 1st if they elect to bank overtime instead of being paid for it, such election to be binding for the next six (6) month period and thereafter unless changed prior to the next election date.
2. Overtime hours shall be banked in dollars at the rate the employee was receiving at the time the overtime was worked.
3	The maximum amount which can be banked at any one time shall be forty (40) times the employee's regular rate of pav
4. An employee desiring to take time oil under this provision Shall give the Company two weeks written notice A sincere effort will be made to grant the time off when requested by the employee., provided that such request does not interfere with the requirements of the business or with other employees' vacation choices.
5	Banked time may be taken off only in inciements of four (4) hours
6.	Pay for time off shall be included in the employee's regular payroll cheque at the
employee's current regulai rate of pay and the amount paid shall be deducted from their overtime bank
7 Upon two (2) weeks' notice, the employee may request to be paid out all money in their overtime bank, to be included in their next payroll cheque Employees who make this request are not eligible to bank hours until the next election date (January 1 st or July 1st)
C825097.DOC (01123198)	Page 33
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
February 16, 1992 - Letter of Understanding #5 PART PIMP. WORK - WITkl M)S
The company may employ part-time workers Tor work performed on Saturdays and Sundays under the following conditions:
1	1'liI] time employees with seniority who are on layoff status shall be called in order of seniority and given the option of working or not at the part-time rate as detailed in number five (5) below, provided they are qualified to perform the work io be done.
2	The Company will not use part time workers to perform jobs on weekends that are normally performed during the week unless those jobs ai-e being performed to capacity throughout the week or unless it is impossible to perform these jobs during the week.
3	The company shall notify the union prior io any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by part-time workers, and notify the union in writing for the reasons therefor.
4	The Company will not increase the number of weekend part time workers beyond fifteen (IS) without first having a joint meeting with the Union to reasonably justify and explain the reasons for the part time work
5	The rate of pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar Saturday or Sunday shall be ten dollars ($10 00) per hour
6	It is also further understood that full-time employees, not on layoff, anti provided the weekly guarantee for them has been met, have no seniority rights in respect to working any Saturday or Sunday hours
7	Maintenance work, The Company will not hire qualified trades persons to perform maintenance work on weekends Part time workers will not be hired to perform skilled maintenance work that is normally performed during the week by regular maintenance employees.
February 16, 1992 - Letter of Understanding #6
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1. The Parties agree to the principle of providing the necessary training for bargaining unit employees that will enable these employees to graduate into the trades positions available within the location.
'Through the implementation of apprenticeship training programs, current and future bargaining unit employees, who have a background as to the plant operations, will be able to add to that knowledge, specific expertise in the trade categories.
C825097.DOC (01123198)	Page 34
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31 /2000
Apprenticeship Program Application
2	The Parties will work with the apprenticeship branch of the Provincial Government in order to establish an ongoing apprenticeship training program
3	The Company agrees to pay the cost of all course materials and fees related specifically to the requirements of the aforementioned program upon successful completion of each level of the program. The Company further agrees that all necessary training will be made available to the apprentice in order that they will be able to meet the requirements of the program as stipulated by the apprenticeship branch
4	Should an employee, who is participating in the program, not meet the program requirements there, will be no obligation on the part of the employer to retain this employee within the maintenance depa* imen!.
5. Rates of pay and progression for apprenticeship training will he as follows:
Year I	Biacket	7
Year 2	Bracket	1 1
Yeai 3	Bracket	16
Year 4	Bracket	26
Yeai 3	Bracket	3 3
Upon successful completion of the program, the bracket specified in Appendix "A" shall apply.
Letter of Understanding #7
I'he Company acknowledges that in return foi the deletion of At tide 5 02 (a) from the 1991 -1994 Collective Agreement, it will retain sanitation work within the bargaining unit for the duration of this Collective Agreement
Letter of Understanding #8
HE: TRANSFER OF BENEFIT PLANS
1 The Parties agree to establish a committee with equal representation from the Union
and the Company, with a mandate to agree on the terms by which the administration of the extended health, life insurance, AD&D, LTD and Weekly Indemnity benefit plans will be transferred to the Union.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 35
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
a The transfer of the plans to the Union shall occur no later than March 3 I. 1998 unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
.1. The Company shall not arbitrarily withhold transfer if it is shown to be economically justifiable for the Company to make such transfer.
C825097.DOC (01/23/98)	Page 36
RB/wr (USWA 2952)	06/01/97 - 05/31/2000
WKW
Local 1518
July 17, 1998
Workplace Information Directorate Collective Agreements Unit, Labour Branch Human Resources Development Canada Hull, Quebec KIA0J2
Dear Sirs:
Re: Signed Collective Agreement - June 1. 1997-May 31. 2000
Enclosed herewith please find the Collective Agreement between the United Food & Commercial Workers, Local 1518 and Fletcher's Fine Foods, Vancouver, BC.
There are approximately______350 members in this unit.
Yours truly
Brooke Sundin
President & Chief Executive Officer
BS:wr
Ends.
(USWA Local 2952) n:\contract\sca2. doc
Brooke Sundin
Plosidont
Ross Bremner
executive Vioo-Proeidoi it
Jack Allard
Sccretaiy-Treasi iroi
HEAD OFFICE	VICTORIA OFFICE	KELOWNA OFFICE	PRINCE GEORGE OFFICE
4021 KINGSWAY	2/50 QUADRA SI., No. 1b	IS5ASHFHRD.	I/O, L30X 055
RURN/\BV, U.C. V5II IY9	VICTORIA, li (5. V8F 458	KULOWNA, B.C VIX 0115	PRINCF. GF.ORGP, P.G. V2I 4VI
PHONF- (504) 434-0101	PHONI.: (?5CJ) 384-4701	PHONO: (250) 705-6909	PHONE: (260) 503-9328
FAX: (604) 434-4 145	I AX: (250) 301 -4 /62	FAX (250) 706 -3890	I AX: (260) 503 72 /7
»ri::r>2
NANAIMO OFFICE	INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
200 - l/OWAIiACFSI.	4740 IMPERIAL
NANAIMO, 13.0. V9R SB 1	ISURNABY, (3.C. V6J 1C2
PHONF: (250) 753-0321	PHONF: (004) 430-3056
I AX: (250) 753 031 !	FAX: (004) 433-1298