UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F;L.-C.l,0.-C.L.G.
LOCAL 1518
700 - 4211 Klngsway BURNABY, B.G. V5M 1Z6
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FLETCHER’S FINE FOODS LTD.
8385 FRASER STREET VANCOUVER, B.C. V5X 3X8
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONALUNION
A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.
LOCAL 1518
700-4211 Kingsway BURNABY, B.C. V5H 1Z6
JUNE 1, 1991 - MAY31, 1994
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
1	General..............................1
2	Bargaining Agency....................1
3	Management...........................3
4	Gender...............................4
5	Wages................................4
6	Thirty-Seven Hour Guarantee..........7
7	Hours of Work and Overtime ..........8
8	Statutory Holidays..................14
9	Seniority...........................18
10	Vacations ..........................25
11	Grievance Procedure.................30
12	Safety and Health...................34
13	Separation Allowance ...............35
14	Work Methods........................38
15	Contracting Out.....................40
16	Part-Time Employees ................41
17	Leaves of Absence ..................41
18	General.............................44
19	Benefits............................49
19.06	Letter of Understanding
#1 - Long Term Disability-..........54
20	Duration of Agreement...............56
Appendix A-Job Rates.........................58
Appendix B - Bracket Values and Labour Rates ..60 Appendix C - Letters of Understanding
-	#2 - Deli Flavor Trucks..................62
-	#3 - Red Deer Plant......................63
-	#4 - Rest Periods - Wiener Line..........63
-	#5 - Order of Layoff - Article 9.07......64
-	#6 - Lead Hands ..........................64
-	#7 - Banking of Overtime..................65
-	#8 - Part-TimeWork-Weekends ..............66
-	#9 - Weekly Indemnity.....................68
-	#10 - Apprenticeship Program .............69
-	#11 - Pension.............................70
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Vancouver, British Columbia this 7th day of February, A.D. 1992.
BETWEEN:
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD., 8385 Fraser Street, Vancouver, B.C. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION, A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C., LOCAL 1518, 700 -4211 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
One of the main purposes cf this Agreement is to maintain, in full force and effect, a harmonious relationship between the Management and the Employees. No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Management and the Union.
ARTICLE 2- BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company or anyone authorized to act
1
for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency as certified by the Industrial Relations Council for the Province of British Columbia, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1518, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C., Local 1518, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union.
2.02	(a) The Company agrees to retain in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Article 2.01, of this Agreement, only members in good standing. The Company shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members, whether part time or full time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union after attaining seniority.
(b) The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee's date of hire, the contents
2
_ of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide the Chief Steward of the Union, once a month, with a list containing names cf all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2.03	(a) The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such fine:s, assessments and initiation fees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The monthly dues shall be deducted bi-weekly for the first twenty-four (24) pay periods of each year.
(b)	The Company will procure from each new and probationary employee the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union will be granted after attaining seniority.
(c)	Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the month for which dues are deducted and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
The management of the plant and direction cf the working forces including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling are vested
3
exclusively in the Company, prqvided that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4-GENDER
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 5-WAGES
5.01	The wage rates to be paid .employees are detailed in Appendix “B” of thisFagreement.
5.02	(a) Full time employees whose schedule
calls for work on calendar Saturdays and Sundays or Statutory Holidays mentioned in this agreement shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate for all scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee. Such premiums shall not be considered as part of the employee's basic rate.
(b) The incrementsbetweenbracketswill remain at eight cents (8c/) for the duration of this agreement. ;
5.03	When a qualified employee required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job he shall receive his higher rate. A qualified employeeworking fifty percentor more of his time on the highest rated job shall be paidthatrate.
5.04	(a) Employees shall receive the applicable
job rates provided for in the wage sched-
4
ule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
(b) The word 'qualified' as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance. Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall not exceed eight (8) weeks, after which the rate shall be paid.
5.05	(a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is
transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate while so doing. At the expiration of twelve (12) weeks the lower job rate shall prevail.
(b) if an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
5.06	(a) An off shift premium of forty-five cents
(45?) per hour will be paid for all hours worked between six p.m. (6) and six a.m. (6). Effective June 1, 1993, the off shift premium will be increased to fifty cents (50?) per hour.
(b) An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. inclusive, shall receive an off shift premium of forty-five cents (45?) per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. and for hours in excess <£ his scheduled hours occurring immediately
5
after 8:00 a.m. Effective June 1, 1993, the off shift premium will be increased to fifty cents (500) per hour.
5.07	The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time and one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company. The Company agrees to distribute the pay on Company time during regular working hours.
5.08	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance cf hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. The Company agrees to provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to and from the hospital. In the event the employee chooses to go directly home from the hospital, the Company agrees to reimburse, upon presentation of a valid receipt, an amount up to the cost of transporting the employee.
5.09	Attached to this Agreement shall be a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
5.10	Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for mere than
6
one (1) continuous hour in temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius shall receive a premium of twenty-five cents (250) per hour for all hours so worked.
ARTICLE 6 - THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR
GUARANTEE
6.01	The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as herein provided.
6.02	An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours missed by such absence.
6.03	An employee who is excused from work for part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
6;04 An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week is of forty hours.
6.05	Employees with seniority on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given. Should notice extend into the subsequent week, then the employees shall be entitled to their guaranteed hours of pay for each day of their notice period.
6.06	When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissable to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
6.07	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays or, in the case of off shift, days in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
6.08	In order to meet the demands of the business the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in the event of a layoff occurring in the plant.
ARTICLE 7- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
7.01	The normal work week shall be eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. The schedule of hours is to be posted on the bulletin board and agreed to by both parties.
7.02	The schedule of hours referred to in Article 7.01 shall be regular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement
a
with the Union Committee and the Management.
7.03	In compliance with Article 7.02 it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
7.04	(a) All time worked before or after the above
schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's regular rate of pay. If by necessity an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of 11 continuous hours, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
(b)	The Union agrees to co-operate with Management to get the necessary overtime work done. The working of overtime shall be a voluntary decision of the individual employee. Employees who decline the overtime offer shall continue to receive equal consideration on the basis of Article 7.04(c).
(c)	When overtime is necessary, the Union Steward of the department concerned shall be notified. The employee posted on the job for which overtime is required shall have the first option of working the overtime. In the event this employee does not wish to work the overtime, the supervisor will then canvass the other employees within the department as to their individual wishes. This canvass is to be conducted in the order of senior qualified person, to junior qualified person.
9
If any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation, he shall be given the first opportunity the next time overtime is required in the department.
In the event that the necessary number of employees is not obtained within the department, the Company may draw employees from other departments in the plant on the basis of senior qualified employee available at the time overtime is requested.
Where overtime on off shifts is required, the Company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Steward and make the call-ins.
7.05	(a) Overtime rates of one and one-half (1-
1/2) times the regular hourly rates shall be paid for any time worked in excess of the scheduled hours as agreed to in this Article, up to three (3) hours in any one day and double time thereafter.
(b)	Double the regular hourly rates shall be paid to all employees for work performed on Sunday, except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday.
(c)	One and one-half (1-1/2) times the employees’ regular rate shall be paid for the first four (4) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double time thereafter.
7.06	(a) Employees when called for work shall be
guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that
10
day at their regular job rate. Under this provision workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For work performed on Saturdays, Sundays or statutory holidays, the full time employee shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
(b) Continental Work Week - Notwithstanding the other provisions of this agreement, the Company may post a Tuesday to Saturday or a Wednesday to Sunday work week, which shall be at straight time, for maintenance employees and smokehouse operators hired after October 1, 1988 or for existing employees who apply for such postings.
The parties agree that the other provisions of this agreement dealing with overtime and statutory holidays shall apply to the 6th and 7th days of these work weeks in the same manner as those provisions would apply in respect of Saturdays and Sundays for employees working a Monday to Friday work week.
7.07	Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company's premises, is specially called in at any time outside his normal working hours, shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rates.
7.08	(a) Meal Period
Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more
11
than 5 hours without the first meal period (which shall be without pay) and 5 hours without a second break as outlined in (b) below.
(b) Overtime Breaks
If an employee is expected to work more than 1/2 hour beyond the end of the shift a paid 15 minute rest period shall be provided. In addition, if the employee works overtime such that he is working more than 5 hours since the meal period referred to in (a) above, then a further 15 minute paid rest break shall be provided; and the Company will either provide a meal, or pay the employee a $6.00 meal allowance, which shall be added to his gross earnings for that week.
7.09	Employees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty.
7.10	(a) Continuous shift operations shall be giv-
en forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shifts except in an emergency. Employee's who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be
12
paid the applicable overtime rate until the expiration of the forty-eight (48) hour notice.
(b) Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours.
7.11	(a) The Company will allow the employees
reasonable time for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This time is to be scheduled and handled by the Supervisor of the department, the same as any other work assignment. A qualified operator shall be available as needed to sharpen knives of those desiring this service. It is understood and agreed that there shall be a full-time employee available to sharpen knives for those who do not sharpen their own and that this will be a "light duty" job for an employee with a disability.
(b) The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers and hooks necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
7.12	A fifteen minute (15) rest period will be given
twice each shift, midway before lunch and
13
	midway after lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2-1/2) hours It is agreed that except in cases cf personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the day It is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not be abused
7.13	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, in preference to laying off of employees.
7.14	If any female employees are engaged or are presently working in the plant they shall receive exactly the same rate of wages as male employees, if they are performing the task usually or previously performed by a male employee, providing, however, that the employee is as qualified to do the same work and is physically capable of doing same.
7.15	When other than emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effort will be made to rehire employees who may be on layoff status in the department where overtime is to be worked
7.16	A holiday shall be an employee's regular shift on a holiday
7.17	Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule he need not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to the standard working week
ARTICLE8- STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	
8.01	Ten (10) statutory holidays shall be recog-
	14
nized and a regular hourly paid employee, who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Article 6.01 hereof, and who has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing the holiday, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his job rate. If an employee works on any such holiday or, in the case of off-shift, the day in lieu of, he shall receive in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted in the event of the holiday falling on Sunday), at two (2) times his job rate.
The statutory holidays referred to herein are:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day First Monday in August and any other holiday declared by either the Federal or Provincial Governments.
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days next preceding or next following any public holiday shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good cause arising from circumstances beyond his control. The Company will advise the Union in writing of such deductions.
8.02	In the event of a holiday falling on Sunday it shall be observed on the day substituted by the Federal Government. If the Federal or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed, hourly rated
15
employees required to work on it shall for the hours so worked receive three (3) times their regular hourly rates provided that if such day is in substitution for a holiday hereinafter specified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
8.03	Any employee having fifteen (15) days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recognized holiday in the same payroll week in which such holiday occurs shall be entitled to receive pay for such holiday.
8.04	An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, compensable or non-compensable accident, during the period in which a recognized paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay and his regular rate of pay.
When a recognized paid statutory holiday falls during the 3 day waiting period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for each such statutory holiday.
Any employee who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits and is still disabled shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for any statutory holiday follow-
16
	ing within three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability.
8.05	If any of the paid holidays referred to in this Article occur while an employee is on leave of absence to attend Union functions he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
8.06	An additional floating statutory holiday shall be granted to all employees with seniority. This statutory holiday is to be granted at the discretion of Management, but it is understood that the months June through September are the most likely months in which no employees would be accommodated should they request their entitlement.
	It is also further understood that the preferable days of Monday or Friday will be granted upon request, but again at the Company's discretion.
	There is to be no carry-over from one calendar year to the next and thus all entitlements must be taken prior to December 31st of each year. However, if an employee is prevented from taking the floating statutory holiday priorto December31 because of a compensable accident, sickness or an approved leave of absence, then the holiday will be carried forward past December 31st and must be taken in the next calendar year.
8.07	New employees are not eligible for statutory holiday pay during their first 30 calendar days of employment. 17
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY	
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
9.02	New employees shall be on probation and shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have accumulated sixty (60) days worked, provided these days have been accumulated within six (6) consecutive calendar months.
9.03	During the probationary period, an employee may be dismissed on grounds of unsuitability. The suitability of a probationary employee shall be determined by the Company; however, the Company shall not act in a manner which is arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith.
9.04	Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be calculated from the original day of employment.
9.05	Seniority lists shall be revised and brought up-to-date every two (2) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union.
9.06 (a) In the bargaining unit the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed two (2) months.	
	18
(b)	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. in the case that no application is received for any posting, the vacancy shall be filled by the junior qualified employee available until the junior employee in the plant is trained for the job posting. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. An employee who was absent when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply for the vacancy.
There shall be no more than three (3) job postings per employee per year unless special exemption is granted by Management.
In the event an employee fails to qualify for a job posting they shall be transferred to the help qualified pool.
(c)	Vacancies
A vacancy exists when a job is performed for an average of 20 hours per week for 12 consecutive weeks, or when a posted position becomes vacant due to such things as a resignation, dismissal, retirement or a posting into another classification.
19
(d)	Temporary Transfers
In the case of temporary transfers of 5 consecutive work days or less, the Company may fill the position by transferring the junior qualified employee in the department or, if unavailable, in the plant.
(e)	Temporary vacancies of more than 5 consecutive work days will be filled by the senior qualified employees who have requested consideration for such transfers according to the following procedure:
(i)	the Company will post a list of anticipated vacancies. for the following week no later than Wednesday noon;
(ii)	employees shall indicate interest by signing the list prior to Thursday midnight;
(iii)	scheduling will be done by the Company on Friday for the following payroll week;
(iv)	if there are no qualified applicants, the Company may schedule the work according to Article 9.04(d) above;
(v)	if as a result of this procedure a further vacancy or vacancies arise, the Company will endeavour to fill them by offering the vacancy to the senior qualified employee, provided this does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
20
(f)	Employees who apply for temporary transfer to a lower-ratedjob shall be paid the lower rate.
9.07	Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or is discharged for just cause.
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report for work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact, by telephone, and registered letter to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within two (2) working days after receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
(c)	Has been laid off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Seniority	Length of
at Date of	Allowable Time
SeDaration	Off Pavroll
21
Less than one year One year and over
One Year
Two years maximum
(d)	Is absent without leave for more than five (5) working days, unless a reasonable explanation for the absence is provided.
9.08	Absence from work because of sickness, compensable or non-compensable accident or leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating. This is provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than two (2) months.
9.09	In the case of reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as follows:
(a)	Probationary employees, i.e., those with less than sixty (60) days worked.
(b)	Those with plant seniority.
In the latter case, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior operator, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the plant. In such cases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union.
9.10	(a) In cases of increases in the working
forces, rehiring shall be in the reverse order to that of layoffs. The Company shall advise the Union when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired. In cases where it is necessary to secure
22
workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled.
(b)	In case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1) working day's notice for every completed six (6) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. In the case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Company's control which results in the closing of a part or whole of the plant, employees shall be given one (1) calendar day's notice for every completed six (6) months' seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days' notice and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days, but such two days shall be exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days is available at the time any layoff is to become effective, then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work.
(c)	Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no lay-
23
	off notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee, and provided that the employees and the Union are informed that such work is of a temporary nature.
9.11	When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees to lower rated jobs because of a shortage of work, the employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer. In the case of temporary transfers the basis shall be that of the junior qualified employee.
9.12	In cases of gang reduction or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee.
9.13	Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agreement to notify the employee.
9.14	Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance. Said employee shall be allowed six (6) months in which to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned. If said employee does not qualify within such time, he shall report to the help qualified pool without prejudice and loss of seniority.
	24
9.15	Employees may, in case of ill health, be transferred from one department to another, as may be mutually agreed upon.
9.16	Disabled or handicapped employees will be assigned to jobs wherever possible without regard to seniority, at a rate or rates agreed upon.
ARTICLE 10-VACATIONS
10.01	Vacation eligibility requirements are based upon credited service. The period January 1st through December 31st shall be considered the vacation year.
10.02	First vacation - An employee becomes eligible for vacation for the first time after one (1) year when the employment records show the following:
(a)	They have attained seniority within six months from date of hire;
and
(b)	Have not been off the payroll for more than sixty (60) consecutive days.
Payment for this first vacation entitlement will be calculated at four percent (4%) of the gross earnings in the calendar year.
In the event the employee is off the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date for the purposes of this section becomes the date of rehire.
10.03	Subsequent vacations - An employee who has received his first vacation, is thereafter
25
eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations, any time on or after January 1 in the succeeding vacation year. This is providing he is currently on the active payroll, and since receiving his last vacation, he has at all times been on the active or benefit payroll.
10.04	Length of Vacations - Effective date of ratification, vacations with pay to employees shall be granted as follows:
Length of Service
After 1 year After 4 years After 10 years After 19 years After 24 years After 30 years
Length of Vacation
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
7	weeks
10.05	Method of Calculating Vacation Pay: 1st Year - Calculated at four percent (4%) of earnings between date of hiring and December 31 of the same year, but not payable until reaching first anniversary date.
Subsequent Entitlements - Pay for each week of holiday entitlement shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate or two percent (2%) of gross earnings for each week of holidays, whichever is the greater. The calculation of the percentage amount is based on the gross earnings in the previous calendar year.
10.06	Completion of required service after January 1: Employees who, after January 1 and prior to the end of the calendar year, reach the service required to entitle them to an addi-
26
tional week cf vacation, in accordance with the vacation scale set out in Article 10.04 above, will become eligible for such additional week of vacation on completion of the required years of service.
10.07	(a) Employees absent for reasons of sick-
ness, compensable or non-compensable accident, who return to work following these phases within one year, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 10.04, and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in Article 10.07(b).
(b) In case of sickness, compensable and non-compensable accident certified by a practicing physician, an employee, upon his return to the service of the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence, not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received. The above credits shall be confined to one year's vacation rights on the basis of forty (40) hours per week for the twenty-six week period at his regular rate of pay.
10.08	Employees whose service with the Company terminates before the end of any vacation year, shall receive vacation pay in accordance with the applicable percentages set out in Article 10.05.
10.09	Vacation Scheduling
(a) Vacation periods shall be arranged subject to the demands of the business, but a sincere effort will be made to arrange
27
vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively.
(b) Vacation taken subsequent to March 1 in each year shall be allocated as follows:
The Company shall post a notice in the first week of December, advising employees of the vacation selection process, so that employees will be ready to exercise their choices in January.
Commencing January 1st, employees shall select their vacation periods in order of seniority, however, only one vacation period shall be selected by seniority until all employees in each vacation group have selected one period. Employees who choose to split their vacation within this time frame shall then select the balance of their vacation in order of seniority. Senior employees must exercise their choice within two working days in order not to hold up the decisions of the next most senior employees.
The selection of vacation periods taken in the months of January and February shall be as per Article 10.09(a) above.
Vacation selection is to be completed not later than March 1st for that vacation year. After the employee has selected his full vacation entitlement he shall be given a receipt signed by his supervisor confirming the employee's selection.
28
Employees who have not booked vacation dates by March 1st in accordance with this selection process shall lose seniority preference in selection of vacation periods.
If the employee has not scheduled his vacations by November 1st, then the Company will schedule them for November or December.
(c)	The Company and the Union agree to a formula of 12.5 percent of the employees per vacation group off on vacation at any one time. A greater number may be permitted by the Company if it will not adversely affect production.
(d)	The vacation groups referred to above shall be posted on notice boards and subject to change by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
10.10	If a paid statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with pay.
10.11	An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off because of a reduction in the work force shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified. An employee who has not become eligible for his first vacation and who is laid off shall be allowed pay in lieu of vacation in accordance with the applicable vacation laws. Such employees may leave their vacation pay with the Company for a period not exceeding six (6) months or
29
until the end of the then current vacation year, whichever first occurs.
10.12	Vacation pay will be paid by separate cheque with a covering statement of deductions, one week prior to the scheduled vacation.
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
11.01	Should differences arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the manner and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other restriction of production, or interference with work in or about the Company's plant or premises, nor will employees take part in any such action.
11.02	The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. An earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner:
11.03	When an employee is suspended, dismissed, or given written discipline, the Company shall have a Union representative present at the time of such action. The Union representative shall be one chosen by the employee who is working in the department.
11.04	Shop Stewards may initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action does not solve the matter, a representative of the Union will be allowed to further investigate.
30
In the event that either a Union Steward or a Union representative must leave his job or department in connection with the matter, he shall first notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. Permission to leave his department will be granted as promptly as possible but shall in no case exceed one hour. They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in said department.
11.05	Step I. The employee shall first take the question up with his department steward and his department supervisor at the same time.
11.06	Step 2. If the case is not settled, then it shall be handled between the Chief Steward and the department steward where the grievance was initiated, with or without the aggrieved employee and the Plant Manager, or his designee.
11.07	Step 3. In the event that no conclusion is reached in the two (2) preceding steps, a meeting shall be scheduled between the Grievance Committee and the Company. An outside Union representative may attend this meeting. Also, the aggrieved employee may attend to present his evidence.
11.08	All grievances after Step 1 shall be in writing, and when a settlement is reached it shall be final and binding and signed by both parties.
11.09	If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dis-
31
missed, he shall within three (3) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee. The Grievance Committee will in turn notify the Company on the same day they receive such notice from the employee.
The dismissal in question then shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such, beginning at the third step.
11.10	If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his former position and shall be compensated for any benefits or lost wages, or granted such lesser compensation as is deemed fair in the circumstances.
11.11	There shall be time limits of two (2) working days between each step of the grievance procedure, unless changed by mutual agreement.
11.12	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours.
11.13	Grievance Committee
(a)	A Grievance Committee of four (4) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee. Grievances shall be taken up at such times agreeable to both parties.
(b)	Where the foregoing procedure for the settlement of disputes has been employed, and the dispute remains unset-
32
tied, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Committee consisting of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company and the third who shall act as Chairman to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of British Columbia. A decision of the majority of the Arbitration Committee shall be deemed to be a decision of the Committee. In reaching its decision the Committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. Decisions rendered shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned. The Company and the Union agree to bear an equal share of expense incurred, if any, by reason of employment of a third member of an Arbitration Committee.
11.14	Expedited Arbitration
In the case of dismissal, the parties agree to proceed before a single arbitrator, within thirty (30) days of the notice to arbitrate, or such longer period as may be agreed. The arbitrator is to be agreed upon within one week of the notice to arbitrate or, failing agreement, the arbitrator shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour or his designate. Otherwise, the other provisions of Article 11.13 above shall apply.
33
ARTICLE 12-SAFETY AND HEALTH
12.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of all employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and all other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. First aid shall be available for employees as per the Federal and Provincial regulations.
12.02	Protective devices and other safety equipment provided by the Company and agreed to by the Union shall be used by the employees.
12.03	There shall be a joint Company-Union safety inspection committee composed of four representatives from the Company and four representatives from the Union who shall meet and carry out inspections once a month. The Company-Union safety inspection committee may recommend to the Plant Manager, improvements in safety conditions and shall be informed of the disposition made of their recommendations. The Committee shall investigate causes of accidents which occur and shall make recommendations designed to prevent recurrence of such accidents to the Plant Manager or his representative. One Company member and one Union member shall be involved in accident investigations.
The Safety Committee may recommend to the Plant Manager improvements in safety conditions. The Plant Manager shall advise the committee in writing prior to the next
34
safety meeting of the disposition made regarding the Committee's recommendation.
12.04	It is the responsibility of the Company to give new employees instruction on how to perform the duties expected of them. Instruction may be given by a supervisor or by an employee designated by the Company. No employee shall be required to work in any job or operate a piece cf equipment until he has received proper instruction.
ARTICLE 13 -SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
13.01	Should it become necessary to close the plant or a substantial department cf the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one (1) or more years seniority.
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid oft within the ninety (90) days period preceding the date cf notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Workers' Compensation, or off because of sickness or non-compensable accident will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 9.07(c).
(c)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow-
35
down or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
(d)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(e)	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule which is to be used in computing the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service. Payments are to be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or the employee's basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
Years of
Credited Service
2
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8. 9. 10
Weeks of Pay
.....1
.....1-1/2
......2
.....2-1/2
.....3
.....3-1/2
.....4-1/2
.....5-1/2
.....6-1/2
.....7-1/2
11 and over, add to 1-1/2 weeks’ pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Example:
12 years of credited service:
First 10 years of
credited service	7-1/2 weeks’pay
36
Service over 10 years
(12110 or 2 x 1-112)	3 weeks' nav
Total Separation Allowance
10-1/2 weeks' pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
(f)	The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this agreement, at least 90 calendar days prior to such closing. Effective on the date of such notice being issued all employees with seniority will be eligible to receive separation payments whether they are working or laid off.
13.02	Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
13.03	In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligible for recall, during which time, the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above section. Those reemployed on this basis will receive seniority
37
credits up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
13.04	In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE 14 - WORK METHODS
Change in Working Methods
14.01	(a) When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union of such change at least ninety (90) days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 5.05(a). Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 13. Where an employee is transferred to
38
work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts all opportunities to post to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee's ability to learn on the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort is unable to qualify his rate protection shall not be affected. In the application of or adjustment of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid him at the time of the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets, at twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
(b) Establishing rates for new jobs: For the purpose of this clause a new job is defined as one which is not presently being performed in the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job
39
rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE 15 - CONTRACTING OUT
15.01	The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.'
15.02	When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
15.03	Should an Arbitration Committee be called on to review the Company's action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard to all circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the decision.
40
15.04	This provision does not apply to installation and construction work.
15.05	The Company may at times experiment to determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees. When this is done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out, after the trial period.
ARTICLE 16 - PARTTIME EMPLOYEES
16.01	Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full-time employees, and, except as otherwise agreed with the Chief Steward, part-time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that parttime work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full-time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work. Part-time employees shall work less than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
16.02	The Union may submit and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 17- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
17.01	Employees, not to exceed two (2), who are appointed to or elected to do business for
41
the Union shall be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one weeks notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay provided they are capable of doing the job within the usual qualifying period.
17.02	Leave of absence for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, conferences, or negotiations of this Agreement shall be granted by the Company on a written request from the Local Union subject to the following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall be granted leave of absence not to exceed thirty (30) days, providing that the absence of such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company. The Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than fourteen (14) days before the requested leave is to commence. A request for an extension of a leave of absence must be made prior to the expiration of the leave already granted, and will be considered in relation to existing conditions. The Company agrees to allow 2% of the bargaining unit to be away at any given time. However, under no circumstances is it permissable to have more than two people absent from one department per shift.
17.03	At the option of the Company, when an employee's personal affairs make it desirable
42
for him to be relieved of Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the regular vacation period to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason. This is providing that such leave of absence does not interfere with the requirements of the business. It is agreed that leave of absence shall not interfere with other employees' vacation choices.
17.04	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
17.05	Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and approved by the Company in writing. A copy of the request, whether approved or not approved, is to be given to the Chief Steward.
17.06	An employee may be granted maternity leave of up to 18 weeks in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Employment Standards Act, or such further leave as may be allowed under that Act.
17.07	An employee with seniority who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the date he intends to take leave supported by appropriate documentation shall be granted an unpaid parental leave of up to 12 weeks if:
(a)	(i) in the case of a female employee, she becomes the natural mother of a child; or
(ii) in the case of a male employee, he becomes the natural father of a child
43
or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child; or
(iii) the employee adopts a child under the law of the province.
(b)	Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee.
(c)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company.
17.08	An employee who holds a posting will be reinstated at the expiry of the leave to his or her posted job or one of equal rating. Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave. However, employees on parental leave shall not accrue vacation credit for the period of leave.
ARTICLE 18-GENERAL
18.01	The Company shall supply bulletin boards for the use of the Union, for the posting of notices of official Union business, such notices to be approved by the Management.
18.02	Laundry services for outer work clothing shall be maintained at no cost to the employee.
18.03	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for
44
changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
18.04	The Company and the Union agree to supply a copy of this Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
18.05	The Company agrees to provide a full day's pay to any employee suffering injury or emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital attention. To be eligible for this pay, the employee must report to his supervisor or to the first aid attendant before leaving the plant.
18.06	The Company agrees that any employee of the Company summoned to appear for Jury Duty, or who serves on Jury Duty, or is a Subpoenaed Witness, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days with their regular gang.
18.07	Any working conditions now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
18.08	When an employee attends the funeral cf an immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral and two other days either immediately before or after the funeral, provided such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate
45
relative shall be one of the following: Wife, Husband, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mofher-in-Law, Father-inLaw, Stepmother, Stepfather, Brother-inLaw, Sister-in-Law, Grandparents, Grandchildren and Step-children.
In the case of grandparents-in-law, son-inlaw and daughter-in-law, the employee is entitled to the day of the funeral only.
18.09	(a) Launderable outer work clothing, oilskin aprons, belts, and oilskin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Effective date of ratification, the Company agrees to grant a footwear allowance of fifty-five (55) dollars per year to those employees with seniority.
(b)	The Company will supply safety-toe rubber footwear to employees with seniority. Employees without seniority may purchase this footwear from the Company. Worn-out boots will be replaced for employees with seniority on an exchange basis. Employees who are supplied footwear under this clause are not entitled to the footwear allowance under Article 18.09(a) above.
46
18.10	Tools - Mechanical Tradesmen of the Mechanical Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement tools. Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum of $80.00 per contract year per affected employee, effective date of ratification.
18.11	The Chief Shop Steward shall be notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment of each new employee.
18.12	The Company agrees to allow employees where required, five (5) minutes cleanup time prior to their regular quitting time.
18.13	It is understood that where the word "he" is used in this Agreement, it shall also cover female employees.
18.14	The Company recognizes the importance and desirability of stabilizing employment on an annual basis and to that end will attempt to give employees fifty-two weeks work per year including the vacation period. It is understood and agreed by the Company and the Union that the foregoing sentence constitutes a statement of policy only and is not intended to and does not impose any contractual obligations whatsoever on the Company.
18.15	The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licences required in the performance of their duties,
47
including reimbursement of lost wages incurred as a result of writing exams to obtain such licences.
18.16	Management personnel shall not perform production (bargaining unit) work nor shall management personnel displace Union personnel except in extreme absenteeism and where management personnel are involved in training unqualified employees, or in product development.
Extreme absenteeism shall mean that there are insufficient qualified employees available to start up operations at the beginning of a shift.
All exceptions noted above shall be discussed with the appropriate shop steward.
18.17	Procedure for Newly Hired Personnel. When hired, a new employee reports to the first aid attendant or personnel supervisor who ensures the following documents are given to him or her:
(a)	Set of Safety Rules.
(b)	Set of Sanitary Rules.
(c)	Set of Security Rules.
The first aid attendant or personnel supervisor outlines hours of work, when lunch and coffee breaks occur and how to identify when they occur. Also, the employee is given his time card and shown where and how to clock in. The first aid attendant or personnel supervisor also outlines the location of washrooms, locker rooms and lunchrooms.
48
In addition, the first aid attendant or personnel supervisor ensures the new employee is introduced to the department supervisor who then takes the employee to the department, shows him or her the equipment, pointing out any potential hazards.
18.18	Upon the expiration of one year from the date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal file, the Company will be precluded from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action provided the employee has not received further progressive discipline during the one-year period.
18.19	The Company reserves the right to protect from any lay off, employees working on an approved apprenticeship program. The number of employees in this category is limited to three (3). Members of the bargaining unit provided they meet the necessary qualifications for the program, have the right to apply for the program and will be given preference over new hirees.
ARTICLE 19- BENEFITS
19.01	Weekly Indemnity
(a) Weekly indemnity benefits will be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan as detailed in the "Group Benefits" booklet prepared by the insurance company, a copy of which shall be provided to the Union and employees.
49
(b)	Benefit payments shall be based on 60 percent of claimant's regular weekly earnings (40 hours at regular rate), exclusive of overtime, premiums, etc., immediately preceding the claim.
(c)	Service scale for duration of payments is:
3 Months to 18 Months service......15 weeks
18 Monthsto Five Years service.....16 weeks
5 Years to 7 Years service.........26 weeks
7 Years to 10 Years service .......34 weeks
10 Years and over..................52 weeks
New employees shall have a 90 working day waiting period.
(d)	The Company will pay the first $20.00 of the required premium per employee, with the balance of the cost shared equally between the Company and the employees.
(e)	The waiting period shall be three working days, except when the employee is hospitalized during the waiting period due to an illness or accident. Benefits shall be paid on the basis of working days, not calendar days.
(f)	Claims must be submitted no later than 15 working days from the first day of absence, unless there is a reasonable explanation given.
(g)	In the event an employee has a claim refused by the Workers' compensation Board for reasons of “non-com pensable claim”, he shall become eligible for bene-
50
fits under the Weekly Indemnity plan. This is provided the terms and conditions of the plan are met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from the Workers' compensation Board for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity plan must be repaid to the insurer.
(h)	It is not intended that an employee receive wage loss payment from more than one source for the same period which exceeds 100 percent of normal wages. It is understood that in those situations, the insurance carrier may recover amounts in excess of iOO percent in accordance with the subrogation provisions of the plan.
(i)	All eligible employees will be covered with group life insurance for $25,000.00. Effective April 1, 1989, accidental death and dismemberment coverage (maximum $25,000) shall be added.
New employees have a 90 working day period before becoming eligible to join the plan.
The full cost of this coverage is to be paid for by the Company.
(j)	M.S.P. (Medical Services Plan of British Columbia) coverage is provided for all eligible employees.
New employees have a 90 working day waiting period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
51
(k)	The Company shall continue to pay the premiums for M.S.P., Major Medical, dental, life insurance and other insured benefits for eligible employees on extended disability or sick leave for a maximum of three years from the date the absence from work commenced. Each employee shall be required to provide adequate evidence of such disability or sickness.
(l)	A long term disability plan is provided for all eligible employees. Details of this plan are contained in Appendix “C” of this Agreement.
(m)	Vision care coverage will be provided to a maximum of $110.00 every 24 months for each insured member.
Reimbursement will not be provided for any expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eye glasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes.
No deductible or co-insurance applies to the vision care items.
(n)	Hearing aid coverage to a maximum of $500.00 per lifetime is to be provided. This coverage is to be detailed the same as in the industry settlement of June 1, 1982.
19.02	Light Duty
The Company shall endeavour to provide light duty to employees recovering from injury or illness, and employees shall endeavour to return to work as
52
soon as they are able where light duty is available. The assignment of an employee to light duty shall be the subject of mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. The W.C.B. policy on light duty work shall be used as terms of reference, subject to the provisions of this collective agreement.
19.03	Abuse of Benefits
Misrepresentation in connection with weekly indemnity claims shall be grounds for discipline, including dismissal.
19.04	Dental Plan
The Company shall provide a prepaid Dental Plan with M.S.A., providing for eighty (80) percent coverage under Plan “A”; and fifty (50) percent coverage under Plan “B” for all Bargaining Unit employees. The cost of the plan shall be paid by the Company. For all employees hired after the signing of this Agreement, participation in this plan will be a condition of employment after an employee has completed six (6) months of service, provided said employees are not receiving coverage under a different Dental Plan.
19.05	The Company agrees to continue the present pension plan. The monthly benefit shall be increased during the term of this Agreement to the following amounts:
January 1, 1991	$20.20
Effective January 1, 1993, this section will be deleted and Letter of Understanding #11 (re: Pension) will apply.
19.06	May, 1983 - Letter of Understanding #1
53
LONGTERM DISABILITY
Effective June 1, 1983, the Company will arrange to have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following provisions:—Full time employees actively at work on the effective date are eligible for the Plan on attainment of one year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full time work to be eligible.
—	Long Term Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurance company based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability
' as it considers satisfactory. To qualify, any case involving alcohol or drug related conditions will require active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment .under an approved specialist, and will only be paid in cases of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). Any employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will not receive any credited service during the period of time that he receives such benefits.
—	The amount of benefit will be $1,100.00 per month for new claims arising after July 1, 1986 less -any benefit for which the employee is eligible under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan Primary Disability Benefit, Workers' Compensation or other government or government sponsored plan, excluding any pre.-existing disability benefit. The employee
5 A
will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied.
—The benefit will commence after the employee has been absent due to the disability for one year or after his sickness and accident pay entitlement has expired, whichever is earlier, and will be payable until recovery, actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first.
—Should an employee return to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee's return to work; otherwise, the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
—No benefit will be paid to an employee under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan where the employee is entitled to receive benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan and no employee shall receive a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan while he is receiving benefits under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan.
—Where an employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitation program of up to 24 months, the benefit will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources does not exceed 90% of the pre-disability normal gross wages.
—No benefit will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot or in-
55
surrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a felony.
—Where an employee'is absent from work and receiving Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer, then as of the end of the third year his seniority and employment with the Company shall be deemed broken and thereafter there shall be no obligation on the part of the Company to rehire him. Notwithstanding the foregoing proviso as to a period of three or more consecutive years, if an employee returns to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and if within one year thereafter he again ceases work as the result of the same or a related disability and receives Long Term Disability benefits, then such further period of absence from work while receiving Long Term Disability benefits shall be deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence and such further period of absence shall be taken into account and added onto the previous absence in determining whether the employee has been absent from work and received Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer.
ARTICLE 20- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
20.01 This Agreement shall take effect-as of the 1st day of June, 1991 and shall remain in effect until the 31st day of May, 1.994 and from year to year thereafter, provided, however, that this Agreement may be terminated on the 31st day of May, 1994, or on the 31st day of May any year thereafter by either party on written notice mailed by registered post to the Company or to the Union not more than ninety (90) days and not less
56
than (30) days prior to the 31st day of May, 1994 or prior to the 31st day of May of any year thereafter.
20.02 During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on Behalf of the Company:
Fletcher's Fine Foods Ltd.
8385 Fraser Street, Vancouver. B.C.
M.W. HUNTER,
G. WHALLEY,
D. ONIONS,
D. SAGAR.
Signed on Behalf of the Union:
United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C. Local 1518.
R. BREMNER T. EVANGELISTA D. WILSON P. MORSE
57
Appendix A.
JOB RATES
Classification:
Bracket:
Help Qualified.................................1
Janitor........................................1
Bacon Press Operator..
Bacon Slicer Operator.,
Toby Slicer Operator.
Bacon Grader and Scaler..
Feed Sliced Meat and Wiener Packaging Machine
Cry-o-Vac Machine Operator.....................
Mechanical Skinner Operator....................
Comb Hang and Select Bellies...................
Curing Room Man..................:.............
Smoked Meat Prepar.............................
Scaler - Pork Cut, Smoked Meats................
Cook’s Helper..................................
Truck Washer...................................
Stuffer........................................
Whizard Knife Operator.........................
Cook...........................................
Pastry Maker...................................
Night Cleanup (no contract)....................
Pickle Injector Operator.......................
Frank-O-Matic Operator.........................
Fork Lift Operator.............................
Freezer Man Helper.............................
Head Cook......................................
Drop Hog - Remove Jowl.........................
Deboning Machine Operator......................
Meat Grinder...................................
Majnterjare©J-teJpe,r..........................
Shippers.......................................
Warehouse Receiver.............................
Freezer Headman................................
58
^*vj:sj:vgcnaicn^4^i*^-4i»-ci3Cjactfc(i3GJCjL>rorororor>oroPOi\>)rororv>ro
Night Cleanup (one-year contract)..............7
Shipper Deskman................................8
Automatic Butt Puller Operator.................8
Automatic Loin Puller Operator.................8
Stock Controller...............................8
Silent Cutter Operator........................11
Smokehouse Operator...........................11
Ham Boner/Pork Utility Man....................11
Maintenance..................................,11
Truck Drivers- Deliveries.....................12
Steakand Portion Cutter.......................12
Truck Drivers - Semi-Trailers.................14
Non-Certified Maintenance.....................26
Carpenter/Handyman............................30
Certified Welder..............................33
4th Class Engineer/Maintenance................33
3rd Class Engineer/Maintenance................38
Journeyman Millwright.........................38
Journeyman Electrician........................40
Chief Engineer................................40
Note: A person posting to a job with a one-year contract is:
(a)	exempted from any layoff during the one-year period and
(b)	excluded from bidding onto another job during the one-year period.
The one-year contract is effective from the date of the awarding of the posting and is subject to the 8-week qualifying period. At the end of each one-year contract, the employee may elect to revert to the no-contract position (Bracket 3) or to take another one-year contract provided that a more senior employee on layoff may exercise his right to fill this position upon the anniversary date of the contract.
59
Appendix B.
BRACKET VALUES AND LABOUR RATES
1.	All new employees hired after October 1, 1988 shall be paid a starting rate of $8.00 per hour. Automatic increases of one-third the difference between $8.00 per hour and the Bracket 1 rate shall be granted upon the completion of 52, and 104 weeks worked. At the completion of 156 weeks worked, the Bracket Labour Rates shall apply. “Days worked” for this purpose shall include days absent from work for which compensation is paid under the terms of this Agreement except it shall not include paid absences of more than thirty (30) days, unpaid absences or layoffs.
Any employee receiving the $8.00 per hour starting rate and performing a higher rated job shall receive the appropriate rate based on the following formula:
$8.00 + (bracket for job performed x .08)
Example: Bracket 7 job = $8.00 + (7 x .08) = $8.56.
2.	(a) All full-time employees with seniority as of June 1, 1991 who are actively employed on January 31, 1992 and who have not been absent from work for more than 3 months in the period June 1, 1991 to January 31, 1992, shall be paid the $1000 lump sum payment on or before February 28, 1992. “Actively employed” shall include days paid byW.C.B.
(b) Full-time employees who are actively employed on January 31, 1992 and who ob-
60
tained seniority subsequent to June 1, 1991 and full-time employees who have been absent from work for more than 3 months under (a) above shall be entitled to a pro-rated payment based on hours paid between June 1, 1991 and January 31, 1992.
(c)	Probationary and part-time employees are not eligible.
(d)	The labour rates in the 1991 - 94 collective agreement shall be increased as follows:
by twenty (20) cents per hour, effective February 16, 1992;
and by thirty (30) cents per hour, effective May 1, 1993;
and by twenty (20) cents per hour, effective December 1, 1993.
All employees on payroll as of date of ratification.
FEB.	MAY	DEC.
16/92	1/93	1/93
Starti
After
After
Bract
Bract
Bract
Bract
Brac
Brack
Brac
Brack
Brack
Bract
61
Bracket 16 Bracket 26 Bracket 30 Bracket 33 Bracket 38 Bracket 40
First Aid Attendants
15.90	16.20
16.70	17.00
17.02	17.32
17.26	17.56
17.66	17.96
17.82	18.12
16.40
17.20
17.52
17.76
18.16
18.32
The Company will determine the number of first aid attendants required, and will post any vacancies, specifying the shift required. The posting will be filled by the senior qualified applicant, who shall agree to perform first aid duties for at least one year.
The Company will reimburse employees for course fees and renewal fees upon successful completion. First aid attendants will be allowed 20 hours with pay during working time for study when renewing certificates, and will be paid their regular wages for exams written during their regular working hours.
First Aid Premiums:
Class A Class B Class C Survival
40 cents 35 cents 30 cents 15 cents
Circle rate or over-rate eliminations will only be effective if and when an employee is transferred to a higher rated job permanently.
October 1,1988.
Letter of Understanding#2
DELI FLAVOR TRUCKS
This letter is to confirm that it is not the intention of the Company to have Deli Flavor trucks delivering
62
Fletcher's products to large customers such as supermarkets and chain stores. The Deli Flavor trucks are intended to deliver Deli Flavor and Del Pak items to deli customers not serviced by Fletcher's trucks. Fletcher's products will not normally be delivered by the Deli Flavor drivers to their customers.
October 1,1988
Letter of Understanding#3
REDDEERPLANT
This will confirm that if the Company operates the Red Deer plant behind lawful picket lines, Fletcher's will not require its Vancouver plant employees to handle products produced behind the picket line. This letter shall not be binding on a successor employer at Red Deer.
November26,1991 Letter of Understanding#4 REST PERIODS-WIENER LINE
Because of the unique circumstances, the parties agree to continue the past practice regarding the second rest period for employees on the wiener line when wieners are being run continuously, on a without prejudice basis.
Employees will take the second rest period at the end of the shift and may punch out early. Time cards will be adjusted to reflect time worked to the end of the shift. This is not under any circumstances to constitute a precedent.
63
December 11,1991 Letter of Understanding#5 ORDER OF LAYOFF- ARTICLE9.09
It is understood and agreed that if no employees with seniority have the immediate essential qualifications necessary for the efficient operation of the plant, then the Company may retain a probationary certified trades or first aid employee who has those skills, out of order of layoff.
February 16,1992 Letter of Understanding#6 LEAD HANDS
1.	The Plant Manager may appoint one or more employees in a department to act as a lead hand.
2.	To promote a harmonious relationship within the department, the Union Plant Committee shall be consulted on such appointments and given the opportunity to put forward other candidates.
3.	Following consultation, the Company will give the Union Plant Committee five (5) days notice of all appointments.
4.	The lead hand shall coordinate the work and assist in training, familiarization and safety.
5.	In no circumstances shall a lead hand hire, lay off, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline, transfer employees to other departments, or reduce hours.
6.	The lead hand designation may be terminated by the Company for just cause or relinquished voluntarily by the incumbent at any
64
time, in which case the person shall resume their previous position or an equivalent one.
7.	Lead hands shall be paid 25 cents per hour above the highest regular hourly rate in their department.
8.	Employees presently holding the position of department co-ordinator, who are not appointed as lead hands, shall continue to receive the co-ordinator premium of 20 cents above the highest job bracket in the department only until May 31, 1994.
9.	This Letter of Understanding shall expire upon the termination of this Agreement in accordance with Article 20.01 and 20.02.
February 16,1992
Letter of Understanding#?
BANKING OF OVERTIME
Effective June 1, 1992 full-time employees may
elect to bank hours of overtime on the following basis:
1.	Employees must advise the Company in writing prior to January 1st and July 1st if they elect to bank overtime instead of being paid for it; such election to be binding for the next 6 month period and thereafter unless changed prior to the next election date.
2.	Overtime hours shall be banked in dollars at the rate the employee was receiving at the time the overtime was worked.
3.	The maximum amount which can be banked at any one time shall be 40 times the employee's regular rate of pay.
65
4.	An employee desiring to take time off under this provision shall give the Company two weeks written notice. A sincere effort will be made to grant the time off when requested by the employee; providedthat such request does not interfere with the requirements of the business or with other employees' vacation choices.
5.	Banked time may be taken off only in increments of 4 hours.
6.	Pay for time off shall be included in the employee's regular payroll cheque at the employee's current regular rate of pay and the amount paid shall be deducted from his overtime bank.
7.	Upon2 weeks’ notice, the employee may request to be paid out all money in his overtime bank, to be included in his next payroll cheque. Employees who make this request are not eligible to bank hours until the next election date (January 1st or July 1st).
8.	This Letter of Understanding shall expire upon the termination of this Agreement in accordance with Article 20.01 and 20.02.
February 16,1992
Letter of Understanding #8
PART-TIMEWORK -WEEKENDS
The Company may employ part-time workers for
work performed on Saturdays and Sundays under
the following conditions:
1.	Full-time employees with seniority who are
on layoff status shall be called in order of seniority and given the option of working or
66
	not at the part-time rate as detailed in (5) below, provided they are qualified to perform the work to be done.
2.	The Company will not use part-time workers to perform jobs on weekends that are normally performed during the' week unless those jobs are being performed to capacity throughout the week or unless it is impossible to perform these jobs during the week.
3.	The Company shall notify the Union prior to any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by part-time workers, and notify the Union in writing for the reasons therefor.
4.	The Company will not increase the number of weekend part-time workers beyond 15 without first having a joint meeting with the Union to reasonably justify and explain the reasons for the part-time work.
5.	The rate of pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar Saturday or Sunday shall be $10.00 per hour.
6.	It is also further understood that full-time employees, not on layoff, and provided the weekly guarantee for them has been met, have no seniority rights in respect to working any Saturday or Sunday hours. In the event they wish to work, they have the option to do so at the part-time rate as detailed herein. If the Company specifically requests full-time employees to work on weekends, they will be paid the applicable overtime rate.
7.	Maintenance work: The Company will not hire qualified trades persons to perform maintenance work on weekends. Part-time
	67
	workers will not be hired to perform skilled maintenance work that is normally performed during the week by regular maintenance employees.
February 16,1992 Letter of Understanding#9	
WEEKLY INDEMNITY	
The parties agree to form a joint committee which shall meet as soon as practical after ratification of the collective agreement. Terms of reference shall	
be:	
1.	To reduce the overall cost of the plan to the Company and the employees;
2.	To consider a trusteed plan (either joint or Union trustees, as the parties may agree);
3.	Alternatively to evaluate other carriers or changes to the existing plan which would achieve the first objective;
4.	To consider ways to reduce administrative costs;
5.	To make written recommendations to the parties to this collective agreement by June 1, 1992 or such further date as may be agreed.
	Messrs. Bremner and Whalley will co-chair the committee. The parties will make a genuine effort to accomplish these objectives.
	68
February 16,1992
Letter of Understanding^ 0
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1.	The Parties agree to the principle of providing the necessary training for bargaining unit employees that will enable these employees to graduate into the trades positions available within the location.
Through the implementation of apprenticeship training programs, current and future bargaining unit employees, who have a background as to the plant operations, will be able to add to that knowledge, specific expertise in the trade categories.
Apprenticeship Program Application
2.	The Parties will work with the apprenticeship branch of the Provincial Government in order to establish an ongoing apprenticeship training program.
3.	The Company agrees to pay the cost of all course materials and fees related specifically to the requirements of the aforementioned program upon successful completion of each level of the program. The Company further agrees that all necessary training will be made available to the apprentice in order that they will be able to meet the requirements cf the program as stipulated by the apprenticeship branch.
4.	Should an employee, who is participating in the program, not meet the program requirements there will be no obligation on the part of the employer to retain this employee within the maintenance department.
69
5.	Rates of pay and progression for apprenticeship training will be as follows:
Year 1	Bracket	7
Year 2	Bracket	11
Year 3	Bracket	16
Year 4	Bracket	26
Year 5	Bracket	33
Upon successful completion of the program, the bracket specified in Appendix " As hall apply.
February 16,1992
Letter of Understanding#! 1
PENSION
1.	The Company and the Union agree that Fletcher’s Fine Foods Ltd. Union Pension Pian (the “Plan”) will be discontinued effective December 31, 1992, and the accrued benefits owing to each employee participating in the Plan at that time shall be calculated and allotted to each such employee. If there is a surplus upon discontinuance, it will accrue to the Company provided this is supported by the plan text and the regulatory authorities.
2.	Effective January 1, 1993, the Company agrees to begin contributing to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (“CCWIP”).
3.	Contributions made after January 1, 1993, by the Company to CCWIP shall be 24 cents per hour for each hour paid by the Company to full time employees for all hours paid after completing at least 90 days worked.
70
	“Hours paid” will include all hours for which compensation is paid, including vacation, statutory holidays, bereavement leave, paid and unpaid leave for Union business, and jury duty (and including up to 30 days of weekly indemnity, Workers' Compensation and authorized leaves of absence) to a maximum of forty hours per week per employee.
4.	In accepting this change in pension, the Union acknowledges that the company is not responsible for the nature or level of benefits provided to employees by the CCWIP, and is in no way liable for any potential deficit in the CCWIP pension fund. The Union further acknowledges that the Company’s only obligations with respect to the CCWIP are in contributions which the Company agrees with the Union to pay into the Plan.
5.	Subject to approval by the applicable regulatory authorities, the employees’ accrued benefits will be transferred to CCWIP if it is advantageous to the employees. The calculation of the employees' accrued benefits to be transferred will be made in accordance with the requirements of or with the approval of the regulatory authorities.
	71
		JULY				
S M	T	W	T	f	S	S M
		1	7	3	4	
fi fi	7	fi	9	10	11	2 3
1213	14	15	16	1V	18	9 10
19 20	71	7?	73	74	25	16 17
26 27	28	29	30	31		23 24
	OCTOBER					30 31
S M	T	W	T	F	S	
			1.	?	3	S M
4 8	6	7	8	9	10	1 2
t1 12	13	14	15	16	17	8 9
18 19	70	21	22	23	24'	1516
25 26	27	28	29	30	31	22 23 29 30
	JANUARY					
S M	T	W	T	F	S	S M
				1	2	1
3 4	5	fi	7	8	9	7 a
10 11	1?	13	(4	15	16	14 15
1718	14	70	71	77	S3	21 22
24 25	26	'll	28	29	30	28
31						
		APRIL				S M
S M	T	W	T	F	S	
			1	?	3	2 3
4 5	A	7	6	0	10	9 10
11 12	13	14	15	18	1/	1617
16 19	90	71	77	M	24	23 24
25 26	27	28	29	30		30 31
		JULY				
S M	T	W	T	F	S	S M
			1	7	3	1 2
4 5	fi	7	8	y	1(1	8 9
11 12	13	14	1b	16	1/	16 16
18 19	S	21	77	73	74	22 23
25 26		28	29	30	31	29 30
	OCTOBER					
S M	T	W	T	F	8	S M
				1	2	' 1
3 4	5	fi	7	ft	M	7 8
1011	1?	13	14	It*	1H	14-18
1718	1H	20	71	22	23	21 22
24 25 31	26	27	23	29	30	28 29
	JANUARY					
S M	T	W	T	F	S	S M
2 3	4	5	fi	7	9	6 7
9 10	11	12	19	14	1h	13 14
		18	70	21	22	20 21
23 24	26	26	27	28	29	27 28
19 9 2
AUGUST T W T
F 9
4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22
25	28	27	28	29
NQVEMBR T	W	T	F	S
3	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	1$	20	21
24	28	»	27	28
19 9 3
FEBRUARY T W T
2	3	4
9 10 11
MAY
T W T
AUGUST T W T
3	4	6
31
NOVEMEA T W T
2	3 4
30	’
19 9 4 FEBRUARY T W T
1	2 3
SEPTEMBER M T V T ?
2	3	4
8 7	8	9 10.11 12
1314 15 16 1? 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER
P M T W
1	2	3
$ 7	8	9	10
13 14 15 16 17 20 21 22 23 24 27 2$ 2$ 30 31
S
4	5
11 12
U it
			MARCH				
F	S	S M	T	W	.T	P	S
h	6	1	2	8	4	b	8
1?	13	7 8	9	10	11	12	13
19	20	14-15	1fi	17	1ft	19	20
26		21 22	2fi	74	2b	26	if
		28 29	30	31			
				JUNE			
		S M	T	W	T	F	S
			1	• ?	3	4	fi
		6 7	ft	9	10	11	17
		1314	15	16	17	•1ft	19
		20 21	7?	25	24	iib	26
		27 28	29	80			
			SEPTEMBER				
F	S	S M	T	W	T	F	3
6	7			1	2	3	4
13	14	S 6	7	fi	9	10	11
70	21	1213	14	15	16	17	18
21	28	19 20	21	72	73	24	26
		26 27	28	29	30		
			DECEMBER				
F	8	8 M	T	W	T	F	S
a	fi			1	2	3	4
i»	13	5 6	7	ft	»	10	11
19	TO	12 13	14	15	1fi	1/	18
26	27	19 20	71	72	23	24	25
		26 27	28	29	30	31	
		MARCH				
F	S	S M T	W	T	F	3
4	5		2	3	4	5
11	12	6 7 6	9	10	11	12
18	19	13 14 15	16	17	18	19
25	26	20 21 22	23	24	25	26
		27 28 29	30	31		
APRIL
T W T F
$
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1511 I! 2? If it g
24 26 28 27 28 29 30
MAY
S M T W T F S
g 9 10 fl 12 13 14
38 & » 8 14
29 30 31
S M
JUNE T W T
5 6	7	6	.
12 13 14 15 1 22 2. 19 20 21 29 30 26 27 28