Article
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
INDEX
Page #	
Purpose	1
Definitions	1
Recognition	2
Union Security and Union Dues	3
Management Rights	6
Strikes and Lock-Outs	7
Grievance Procedure	8
Arbitration	11
Seniority	13
Lay Off and Recall Provisions Applicable to all Employees	17
Special Provisions Applicable to Members of the Cold Storage Dept.	19
Special Provisions Applicable to Members of the Sanitation Dept.	22
Shift Transfer	23
Department Transfer	25
Job Posting	26
Hours of Work, Overtime & Working Conditions	28
Special Provisions Applicable to tho Facilities Department	35
Leaves of Absence	43
INDEX
Article	
19	Bulletin Boards
20	Jury Duty
21	Wages
22	Bereavement Leave
23	Paid Holidays
24	Vacations with Pay
25	Health and Welfare
26	Cost of Living Allowance
27	Special Provisions Applicable to Seasonal Employees
28	Health and Safety
29	Duration
30	Labor/Management Committee Schedule "A" Appendix I
Page #
45
45
45
46 46 48 50 53
55
55
56
56
57 63
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to establish and maintain collective bargaining relations between the Company and its employees employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement and to provide a mechanism for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
3.01	The word "employee" shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, who is not a "seasonal employee" as hereinafter defined.
2.02	The phrase "probationary employee" shall mean an employee who has not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has not aquired seniority.
2.03	The phrase "seniority employee" shall mean an employee who has completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has been retained in the employ of the Company following completion of the probationary period and who has acquired seniority.
1
2.04	Tho phrase "seasonal employee" shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement whose employment is during the periodfrom and including June15th in any year to and including December 15th in any year.
Seasonal employees shall not acquire seniority or seniority rights, shall not interfere with the seniority rights of seniority employees and shall not displace probationary employees. The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to seasonal employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to seasonal employees and such provisions shall only
apply to seasonal employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions. By mutual agreement this period will be extended and such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld regardless of tho lay off situation in other departments.
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
2.06	The Company and the Union do not and will not, as a matter of policy, discriminate against any emplyee because of race, creed, colour, sox, natinal origin or membership in the Union.
ARTICLE 3
RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole
2
bargaining agent of all employees of the Company in the Townships of Romney and Mersea, save and except Foremen and persons above the rank of Foreman, Secu rity Guards, persons employed in the growing and harvesting of agricultural products, Office and Sales Staff, Quality Assurance Personnel, Pollution Control Personnel, Retail Sales Personnel, Fishermen, Net Menders, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during the school vacation periods.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND UNION DUES
4.01	All seniority employees who are members of the Union shall remain members of the Union. A new employee shall become a member of the Union upon completion of the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement. A seasonal employee shallbecomeamembor of the Union after he has worked a total of thirty (30) actual days, consecutive or intermittent, within any period of three (3) consecutive months.
4.02	The Union expressly agrees that no seniority employee and no seasonal employee will be denied membership in the Union except for the non-payment of Union dues.
4 03 The Company will deduct union dues, as set from time to time by the Union, from the pay of each seniority employee who isamemberofthe Unionandfrom the pay of each seasonal employee who is a member of the Union, as hereinbefore provided, when so
3
authorized by such employee, in writing, on a form acceptable to the Company. Such deductions shall be made monthly on the employees' fourth pay period each calendar month and the amount so deducted shall be transmitted to the Union before the 10th day of the following calendar month.
4.04	(a) There shall be elected or selected one (1)
Steward from each shift (day/afternoon), in each Department, for a total of two (2) from each Department. A Steward must have at least one (1) year of seniority with the Company.
(b)	The Union's Negotiating Committee shall bo comprised of one (1) Steward from each Department plus (2) members from the bargaining unit at large.
(c)	One (1) of the members from the bargaining unit at large, shall be the Chief Steward.
4.05	The Company will not recognize any employee as a Steward until it has received written notice from the Union to this effect. The Union will inform the Company, in writing, of any changes in the names of the Stewards.
4.06	(a) It is acknowledged that Stewards havo their
regular duties to perform as employees and that such duties must be performed in the same manner and to the same extent as other employees. A Steward shall not leave his regular duties withut receiving
4
permission from his suporvisor. The supervisor will not unreasonably refuse to grant a Steward permission to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of time, without loss of pay, in order to perform any of the duties required to be performed by a Steward pursuant to tho provisions contained in Article 7 of this Agreement.
(b)	The Chief Steward shall have up to ono (1) hour par day, or up to a maximum of five (5) hours per week to perform union business if necessary Such time must he mutually agreed upon with his appropriate Supervisor and such agreement will not bo unreasonably refused.
4.07	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, in the event of a layoff, Stewards will be the last to be laid off within their Department and on the shift where they exercise their seniority, provided they have the ability, willingness arid qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done. The Chief Steward will bo the last to be laid off provided he has the ability, willing ness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform tho jobs to be done.
4.08	The Company will provide an office to the Union. The Business Agent, Vim-President and/or the President of the Union will not be denied access to tho Company'spremises forthe purpose of conducting Union business regarding employees of the Company, provided prior notification is given to the Human
Resources Manager, or his designate, and his approval is obtained.
4.09	The remaining working foremen shall riot perform work on Saturdays, Sundays or Paid Holidays normally performed by bargaining unit employees except for installation and maintenance of production and processing equipment. During the term of this Agreement, the number of working foremen will not exceed nine (9). The Company will supply the Union with a list of working foremen. No new persons will be added to this list.
4.10	Itisagreedthat neither party to this Agreement shall enter into any agreement or contract with the employees which conflicts with the terms of this Agreement, except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union and copy of such agreement shall be forwarded to the Chief Steward
ARTICLE 5
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function oftho Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, direct, assign, classify, re-classify, transfer, promote, demote and lay off any employee who is subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
(c)	suspend, discharge or otherwise
6
discipline any employee who is subject to the provisions of this Agreement, subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as provided herein and subject to the provisions herein contained with respect thereto;
(d)	determine the kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, engineering and designing of its products, processing and production methods, control of materials and practices to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations; and
(e)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the express provisions of this Agreement
5.02	Without restricting or limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company retains all rights not specifically relinquished or modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
STRIKES AND LOCK OUTS
6.01	There shall be no strike or lock-out so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
- 7 -
6.02	The word "strike" and tho word "lock-out" shall bo as defined in the Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	A grievance shall be definod as any difference or dispute between the Company and airy seniority employee of the Company regarding tho interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable and an allegation that this Agreement has been violated. Seniority employees shall process their grievances in the manner and within the time limits prescribed in this article and in Article E of this Agreement.
7.02	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this article and the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall tho provisions ot this article or the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement he available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee
7.03	Anytime limit referred to in this article and/or Article 8 of this Agreement within which any procedure is required to be taken or within which a decision is required to be delivered or within which a notice is required to be given arc. mandatory and may only be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and tho Union,
8
7.04	Section 44(6) of the Labour Relations Act does not apply to this Collective Agreement.
7.05	Step 1 Complaint Stage
A seniority employee who has a complaint shall firstly take the complaint up with his immediate supervisor within five (5) calendar days of the time when the cause of the complaint occurred. Theemployee may beaccom-panied by his Steward, if he so desires. If the complaint is not satisfacatorily resolved within five (5) calendar days afterthe employee has contacted his immediate supervisor, the complaint may then be taken up as a grievance.
Step 2 Grievance Stage
If a seniority employee's complaint is not satisfactorily resolved, the employee concerned may submit a grievanceinwriting to the appropriate department manager, or designate, within two (2) regular working days after receiving the supervisor's response. Within five (5) calendar days after the receipt of the grievance there will be a meeting with the employee concerned and his Steward or Chief Steward, the Department Managerand a Human Resources representative. The Company shall deliver its final decision in writing to the employee within five (5) calendar days after the meeting.
7.06	In the case of a grievance alleging the improper discharge of a seniority employee, the discharged
9
employee may submit his grievance in writing to the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as pro-, vidod in Step 2 of sub-article 7.05 of this Agreement, within five (5) calendar days after the date of hisdisharge. Thereafter, the provisions of Step 2 of sub-article 7.05 of this Agreement shall apply.
7.07	If the written decision of the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as provided for in Step 2 of sub-article 7.05 of this Agreement, is not satisfactory to the employee and provided tho complaint and the grievance have boon processed in the manner hereinbefore laid down, within the time limits prescribed, the grievance may be taken to arbitration in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement.
7.08	By way of illustration, but not by way of limitation, the following shall conclusively to deemed to be just cause for discharge;
(a)	theft or destruction of the Company’s property;
(b)	carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(c)	neglect of duties:
(d)	unauthorized absenteeism;
(e)	insubordination;
(f)	fighting or disorderly conduct;
10
(g)	consumption of intoxicants or nonprescription drugs while on tho job;
(h)	being under the influence of intoxicants or non-prescription drugs while on the job;
(i)	bringing intoxicants or non-prescription drugs onto the Company premises; and
(j)	being in possosion of intoxicants or nonprescription drugs on Company premises.
7.09	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 8 of this Agreement which is not filed or processed within the time limits prescribed in this article.
ARTICLE 8
ARBITRATION
8.01	Either party may, subject to Article 7 of this Agreement, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit a grievance to arbitration, The notice shall be delivered by the party desiring to submit the grievance to arbitration to the other party within five (5) calendar days aftorthe date on which the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, delivered the written decision as provided in sub-article 7.05. Such notice shall also contain the name of the party's appointee to the Board of Arbitration.
8.02	Following the receipt of the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01, the party receiving the notice shall, within ten (10) calendar days following receipt ot such notice, inform the other party of the name of its
11
appointee to the Board of Arbitration
8.03	The two appointees so appointed shall, within twenty (20) calendar days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration. If the party receiving the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01 fails to appoint an appointee within the time proscribed in subarticle 8.02, or, if the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon a Chairperson within the time proscribed, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party.
8.04	The Board of Arbitration shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, in writing, and the decision is final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. Thodecision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration is the decision of the Board of Arbitration but, if there is no majority, the decision of the Chairperson shall govern.
8.05	The Board of Arbitration shall not have jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to make any decision which is inconsistent with any term or provision of this Agreement, or to deal with any matter which is not covered by this Agrement.
8.06	The Company and the Union shall each bear the expenses and fees of their respective appointee to the Board of Arbitration and the Company and the Union shall each pay ono half (1/2) of the expenses
12
and foes of the Chairperson
8.07	The provisions of this article do not apply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this article be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
9.01	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee until fie has worked a total of sixty five (65) actual days, consecutive or intermittent, within any period of nine (9) consecutive months, l or the purposes of clarity it is oxpessly understood and agreed that days worked as a seasonal employee will not be included in calculating the sixty-five (65) actual days of work as a probationary employee. A probationary employer; shall have no seniority. A probationary employee who is re tained in the employ of the Company following completion of the probationary period, afuresaid, shall acquire seniority, shall then become a seniority employee and his name shall be added to the seniority list with a seniority date which is sixty-five (65) calendar days prior to the day on which ho completed his probationary period. Article / and 8 of this Agreement are nut applicable to a probation ary employee and those articles are not available to the Union on behalf of a probationary employee.
9.0?. The Company will prepare and post seniority lists, every six (6) calendar months, which lists will include the name of each seniority employee, that employee's classification, that employee's department,
13
that employee's shift, when applicable, and that em-plyee's seniority date. A copy of the seniority listswill bo sent to the Union office.
9.03	(a) Seniority shall be determinative only as expressly provided in this Agreement.
(b) Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force in accordance with Article 10.02.
9.04	An employee shall lose his seniority and his employment shall be terminated if the employee:
(a)	quits, resigns or retires;
(b)	fails to report for work or fails to notify the Company for two (2) consecutive working days without supplying a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure;
(c)	is laid off and not recalled for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
(d)	is absent from work due to illness or injury for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
(e)	has been laid off and fails to return to work within five (5) working days after recall by the Company; provided that notice of recall which has been sent to the employee by registered mail at his address on the records of the Company shall conslusively
14
be deemed to have been received by the employee on the fifth (5th) day after it was mailed:
(f)	is discharged and not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance and arbitation procedures contained herein;
(g)	overstays a leave of absence granted by the Company without notifying the Company and without supplying a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure:
(h)	engages in gainful employment while on leave of absence from the Company; or
(i)	leaves work without obtaining a leave of absence, unless the employee supplies a reason satisfactory to the Company for not obtaining a leave of absence.
9.05	(a) Seniority will be applied on a "departmental
basis" and each seniority employee will be classified as a member of one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Facilities Department
15
(5)	Cold Storage Department
(6)	Sanitation Department
(b) In the event that lay-off occurs in any department employees' seniority rights will be applied on a plantwide basis in accordance with sub-article 10.02, in that the seniority employee displaces the lowest seniority employee within the general classification regardless of department or shift.
9.06	An employee who becomes a seniority employee, as provided in this Agreement, will be assigned his seniority rights as a member of one of the Departments indentified above and on the shift, if applicable, wherein he started his probationary period.
9.07	(a) The appointment, selection or promotion of any employee to a position not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. If a seniority employee is appointed, selected or promoted to a position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement and is later transferred back to a position within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, such employee shall return to the bargaining unit with all of the seniority which that employee had at the time of his appointment, selection or promotion and such employee shall be credited with additional seniority with respect to the time when he was not employed within the said bargaining unit, provided he returns to the bargaining unit within one (1) year from the time of his
16
appointment, selection or promotion.
(b) Readmission after one (1) year of a non union member will be determined by mutual agreement between the Union negotiating committee and the Company. Such readmission will not be subject to the provisions of Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement and are not applicable to such employee.
ARTICLE 10
LAYOFF AND RECALL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES
10.01	In the event of layoff, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	The Department, the classification and the shift (where applicable) within which the layoff is to occur will be identified.
(b)	All seasonal employees (excepting those identified in sub-article 27.01) employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department, where they are presently employed will be laid off first.
(c)	If, all seasonal employees as identified in sub-article 10.01 (b) are laid off, then probationary employees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department will be laid off.
17
(d)	If, all probationary employees as identified in sub-article 10.01 (c) are laid off, then seniority employees employed within that classification, that department, and on that shift shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority, provided the employees retained have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
10.02	A seniority employee who has been laid off, in accordance with sub-article 10.01 (d) shall have the right to displace the most junior seniority employee in the General classification, on a plant wide basis (as described in sub-article 9.05) normally within one (1) working day unless prevented from doing so because of operating circumstances. The foregoing is contingent upon such employee having the ability, willingness and qualifications to perform the work of the omployoe whom he seeks to displace.
10.03	(a) In order lo decline his eligibility to exercise tho right as provided in sub-article 10.02, a seniority employee must, during the month of September in any year, indicate on a form supplied by the Company, that ho is not willing to accept work in the other departments (as described in sub-article 9.05 (a).) This right will apply in January of the year following the completion of such form.
10.03	(b) Should such seniority employee later (after September in any year) wish to be eligible to exercise the right as provided in sub-article 10.02, such seniority
18
employee must indicate on a form supplied by the Company that he is again willing to accept work in the other departments. This right will then again be effective commencing on the first day of the payroll month following the completion of the latter form. A minimum of one (1) week notice is required.
10.04	In the event that there is insufficient skilled work available, the Company may retain at work persons who are classified to perform such skilled work for the balance of that pay period and, during such period of retention, such persons will be permitted to perform work normally done by other employees notwithstanding that other employees who have higher seniority than these persons retained are laid off.
10.05	Recall shall be in the inverse order of layoff, provided the employees recalled have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
10.06	Probationary employees shall have no recall rights.
ARTICLE 11
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE COLD STORAGE DEPARTMENT
11.01	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Cold Storage Department. Where there is a conflict between any other provision of this Agreement and the provisions of this article, the
19
provisions of this article shall govern
11.02	A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Department will retain the right to transfer into the General classification in the Fish, Cook or Vegetable Departments, with full seniority, provided that such application fortransfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of eachyearandfiledwith the HumanRosources Department. An employee who transfers, in accordance with the foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred on commencement of the following calendar year. The provisions of Article 14 of the Collective Agreement do not apply to such transfer.
11.03	An employee who is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department will be assigned duties in their classification, on a rotating basis, or on straight afternoons as required by the job. Should a straight daytime assignment become available, such assignment will be offered first to the other Cold Storage personnel, in order of departmental seniority, provided that such employee has the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the job to be done. Those Cold Storage Employees who voluntarily choose to work the straight nights or to go on shift rotation will be excluded from the above provisions.
11.04	(a) Prior to hiring new employees into the Cold Storage Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. If any employee is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department his first day of work in the Cold Storage Department shall be his seniority date, for shift rotation, overtime and transfers of area. Such employee shall
20
receive credit for all of his previous seniority with the Company for vacation, lay off and recall purposes. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him.
(b)	A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Department who wishes to transfer from one "area" of the Department to another "area" of the department must make application for such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such request is subject to the requirement that the Company have a junior employee within the "area" applied to who has the same qualifications. Such junior employee will be re-assigned duties in tho vacated area upon the commencement of the following calendar year. The employee who requested the transfer in accordance with this sub-article will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencement of the following calendar year. For the purposes of this sub-article "area" shall mean either "Plant #1", "North End" or the "Distribution Centre."
11.05	(a) Should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur in the Cold Storage Department on a Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it shall first he assigned to Cold Storage employees who are regularly employed in the Plant where such overtime occurs.
(b) Such overtime will be offered equally throughout tne year on a rotating basis starting with the most senior employee and continuing to the most junior employees who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
21
(c)	Any employee who does not desire such overtime and premium pay assignments shall not be required to accept such assignments; however, such employee will be credited with having worked such overtime; for equal distribution of overtime purposes only.
(d)	If none of the employeos desire suck overtime then such overtime assignments will be worked by the most junior employees in the department who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
(e)	Should an employee within a certain classification have the opportunity to work overtime in advance of the normal schedule of overtime rotation, such employee will be credited to having worked that rotation.
ARTICLE 12
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE SANITATION DEPARTMENT
12.01	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the following conditions shall apply to members of the Sanitation Department:
(a)	A member of the Sanitation Department will exercise his seniority rights in the General Worker classification within the Company when not required for duties on his regular third shift.
(b)	A member of tho Sanitation Department who has been a member of the Sanitation
22
Departmentfor a period of not less than one (1) year and who nolongerwishesto be a member of the Sanitation Department must advise the Company of this fact, in writing, between the 1 st day of September and the 30th of September in any year. As of the 1st day of January of the following year, he will no longer be classified as a member of the Sanitation Department and he will not be allocated work in the Sanitation Department. Only one (1) employee per year will be allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. Ifmore than one seniority employee applies, the one with the greatest plant wide seniority will be allowed to transfer.
12,02	Prior to hiring new employees into the Sanitation Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him.
ARTICLE 13
SHIFT TRANSFER
13.01	A seniority employee will havo the privilege of transferring from one shift to another on an annual basis, within his department, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
13.02	Applicationsfor shifttransfer.withina department, will be accepted between September 1st and September 30th of each year and must be filed, in writing, with the Human Resources Department. Application forms will be supplied by the Company and may be obtained from the
23
Human Resources Department
13.03	The privilege of transferring from one shift to another will only apply to production personnel whoso seniority rightsapply to one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
13.04	A seniority employee will be granted his full seniority rights on the shift to which he is transferred within the department wherein his rights apply upon commencement of the following calendar year.
13.05	A seniority employee who transfers from one shift to another shift in accordance with this article and who is employed in a classification other than the General clas sification will automatically be reclassified as a member of the General classification unless tho Company requires that employee to work in his previous classification at the time of the shifttransferor unless thee mployeewho transfers has more seniority than the junior employee in that classification, in which event, the junior employee in that classification will be reclassified as a member of the General classification.
13.06	If the seniority of an employee whose shift is transferred in accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently on the shift to which such employee transferred, the transferred employee's senior ity will follow the seniority of the other employee.
24
ARTICLE 14
DEPARTMENT TRANSFER
14.01	A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferring from one Department to another on an annual basis, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
14.02	Applications for transfer from one Department to another will be accepted between September 1st and September 30th of each year and must be filed, in writing, with the Human Resources Department. Application forms will be supplied by the Company and may be obtained from the Human Resources Department.
14.03	The privilege of transferring from one Department to another will only apply to production personnel whose seniority rights apply to one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
14.04	A seniority employee will bo granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred upon commencement of the following calendar year. He will be offered work in the Department in his classification and consistent with his ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
14.05	If the seniority of an employee who is transferred
25
in accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently in the department to which such employee transferred, the transferred employee's seniority will follow the seniority of the other employee.
ARTICLE 15
JOB POSTING
15.01	When a permanent vacancy occurs within tho bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, within a classification above the General Classification, as the result of the death, retirement or resignation of a seniority employee, the Company will, it it decides to fill the vacancy, post notice of the vancancy for a period of five (5) calendar days in order to allow seniority employees to apply. All postings and the namesof the successful applicants will be posted on the job posting bulletin boards and copies will be given to the Chief Steward.
15.02	The Company will consider the following factors in determining which, if any, of the applicants is to be awarded the posted position.
(a)	Tho most senior back up or trainee in that job classification shall automatically fill the posted vacancy;
(b)	The requirements of the posted position and the qualifications, skill, experience and ability of the applicant (s) to satisfactorily perform the requirements of tho posted position; and,
(c)	Seniority.
26
When factor (b) is relatively equal as between two (2) or more applicants, factor (c) will govern.
'15.03 If no applications are received from seniority employees or if none of the applicants is awarded the posted vacancy, the Company may then fill the vacancy in such manner as it determines.
15.04	The Company may fill the posted vacancy in such manner as it determines until the vacancy is filled or the Company proceeds in accordance with sub-article 15.03.
15.05	Notwithstanding anything contained in this article or in this agreement, applications received from tho Departmentandonthe shiftwhere tho vacancy occurred, will be given preference.
15.06	An employee who is a member of a classification other than the General classification and who no longer wishes to remain a member of that classification must advise the Company of this fact, in writing, between the 1st day of September and the 30th day of September in any year. As of the 1st day of January in the following year, such employee will no longer bo so classified and will be classified as a member of the General Classification.
15.07	An employee who is awarded a posted position in accordance with the provisions cf this article and who, at his option or at the option of tho Company, is not retained in the posted position, following the trial period, will be transferred back to the department and the shift and the classification where ho was working immediately priorto being awarded the posted position and he will be allocated work in that department and on that shift and tho classification in
27 -
accordance with his seniority and his ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
15 08 The successful applicant fora posted vacancy will not bo eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of sx (6) months after being awarded the posted vacancy
15 09 The classification rate of pay for the posted position will be adjusted on the first day worked in that job following the trial period
ARTICLE 16
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND WORKING CONDITIONS
16.01	Hoursofwork shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
16.02	All overtime and premium pay assignments, with the exception of the seasonal work as described in subArticle 27.01, which occurin a Departmenton aSaturday, Sunday, or Paid Holiday, will bo assigned to seniority employees who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees. For tho purposes of this article, employees who are regularly employed in production areas doing production work will bo given first priority for overtime and premium pay assignments in production areas to do production work which occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or paid holidays prior to assigning such work to employees in the Warehouse, Stockroom or Janitor classifications.
- 28
16.03	Any employee who does not desire overtime and premium pay assignments shall riot be required to accept such assignments provided the employee has, prior to when the overtime and premium pay assignments occur, filed a request, in writing, with his supuivisor to bo excused from the overtime and premium pay assign merits. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossible to approve every request, it is recognized that the Company may have to limit the number of requests which can bo approved. In any week, only ten percent (10%) of the employees on the seniority list, within a classification, shall, ori a progressive basis (i.o., first week first ten percent (10%); second week - second ten percent (10%); etc.) be eligible to make such requests. If, in any week, all employees within the classification who are eligible for that week do not make such a request, additional employees on the seniority list, within the classification, up to a total of ton percent (10%) of the employee:; in the classi fication will, in accordance with seniority, then ho eligible to make such a request.
16.04	All overtime amt premium [ray assignments scheduled by the Company must Ire worked by the employee assigned unless the employee lias permission from the appropriate Company official to be absent from work.
16.05	All hours actually worked by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday, both inclusive, shall be paid for at one and one-half ( I 1/8) times the employee's regular straight time rate of pay.
16.06	All hours actually worked by an employee on a
Saturday oron a Sunday shall bo paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) time:; tho employee's regular straight time rate of pay
1G.07 Inthe event that an employee reports forwork at his regular time on his regular shift, Monday to Friday, both inclusive, without having been previously advised not to roporl for work, he will be given three (3) hours of work at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. If no work is available, he will h e paid the equivalent of three (3) hours pay at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. As a condition of payment, tho employee shall perform any available work which ho is capable of performing and which he is requested to perform.
16.08	Tho following provisions apply to overtime and premium pay assignments;
(a)	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, overtime and premium pay assignments will bo assigned firstly to seniority employees who are currently working in tho Department and on the shift where such overtime or premium pay assign moots occur, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work io other employees.
(b)	In the event that overtime is scheduled in advance cf a regular shift, such overtime will be assigned to those employees who are scheduled to work in that Department
30
on the same following shift of work
(c)	Notwithstanding anything contained in this article or this Agreement, should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur in the Vegetable Department following a shift, it will be assigned to those employees who performed those duties on the shift immediately preceding tho overtime or premium pay assignment occurring, prior to assigning such work tu other employees and provided that such other employees have the ability, willingness, and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done. This overtime will not interfere with or displace those employees
who are regularly scheduled to work on the shift on which tho overtime or premium pay assignment occurred.
(d)	When it is found that there are insufficient employees available within a Department wherein overtime work and premium pay assignments are required, the additional work will be assigned to seniority employees who are working in the other Departments (Fish Department, Cook Department or Vegetable Department), on the same shift, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees.
16,09	An employee who wants permission to be absent
31
from work, for a reason that is known to him pnor to the commencement of his scheduled shift, must receive permission to be absent from his supervisor prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift The permission of the supervisor will not be unreasonably refused
16 10 If anemployee is unable to report to work, for any reason, he shall notify his supervisor, or if the employee is unable to contact his supervisor, the Human Resources Department, as soon as possible and, in any event, pnor to the commencement of his scheduled shift The employee shall advise his supervisor, or the Human Resources Department, as the case may be,why he is unable to report for work and when he expects to report for work
16.11	(a) When an employee is absent due to a work
related injury /illness:
- the employee must be seen by a medical practitioner immediately following an injury/illriess causing an absence from work.
following this visit, a medical certificate confirming this visitation must be received by the Occupational Health & Safety Coordinator, or designate, and
such medical certificate must include the type of injuryAllness, the expected duration and the medical restrictions, if any.
(b) When an employee is absent due to a
32
non-work related injury/illnoss for more than three (3) consecutive working days:
-	a medical certificate must be received by the Occupational Health & Safety Coordinator, or designate, no later than ono (1) week from the beginning of tho absence; and.
-	such medical certificate must include the type of injury/illness and the expected duration.
(c) Prior to returning to work, following an absence duo B injury/illnoss, the Company must receive, within a reasonable time period before the expected return, medical certification identifying tho em ployee's date of return arid confirming that such an employee can return to regular duties; or,
-	if regular duties cannot be performed, tho medical Certificate must include specific information identifying such employee's medical restrictions in order for such orn ployee to receive consideration for modi fled work. A form is available in Human Resources for this purpose.
16.12	Any medical examination requested by tho Company shall be promptly complied with by all employees. The Company shall pay for all such examinations. The Company reserves tho right to select itsown medical
33
examiner or physician and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done to an employee, havo such employee re-examined at the Union's expense.
16.13	It shall he the duty of every employee to advise the Company of his address and telephone number and any changes thereto. If art employee fails to do so, the Company will not lie liable for the employee's failure to receive notice of recall or any other notice issued to the employee by the Company.
16.14	There will ho a seventeen cents ($ .17) per hour premium on the ntiomoon or second shift for all hours of work performed on such shift arid twonty-fivo ($ .26) por hour premium on the evening or third shift for all hours of woik performed on such shift.
16.16	I here shall bo no pyramiding of any premium pay, indudii ip but not limited to, ovei time and paid holiday pay.
16.16	An employee who is called back to work after completing his normal shift will he paid for all hours worked at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times his regular straight lime rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of tliteo (3) hours of pay at his regular straight time late of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
16.1/ An employee who is called in to work on a Saturday, on a Sunday or on a Paid Holiday will be paid for all hours worked at the rate of one and one half (1-1/ 2)
time;; his legulai straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at his regular
34
straight time rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
16.18 The Company will make reasonable efforts to train and keep their employees up to date on new equipment before hiring new employees. The Company will cooperate with employees with respect to new ideas and techniques.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE FACILITIES DEPARTMENT
17.01	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Facilities Department. Where there is a conflict between any other provision of this Agreement and the provisions of this article, the previsions of this article shall govern.
17.02	(a)
Experience as at April 1 st of each year.
ARTICLE 17
Article 17.02 (b)
- 35-
Newly hired employees who bring outside experience to the job will receive credit for such experience in accordance with the schedule identified below. Such creditwill be based solely upon the manager's assessment of the newly hired employee's experience and communicated, in writing, in the offer of employment. This rate will be reviewed to the next rate level as at April 1st of each year.
Outside Experience Credit	$/Hour
17.03	Employees who are successful in obtaining
Article 17.02 (c)
Licences
A Refrigeration
B Refrigeration
Second Stationary
Third Stationary
Fourth Stationary
Mobile Mechanic
General Machinist
Millright
Electrician
Electronics
Technical Mechanic
Maintenance Gas Fitter (G5)
High Pressure Weldor
36
additional licences, as required by the Company, shall receive the appropriate pay for such licences. In tho event that any employee's rate is above the rate as identified in sub-article 17.02 above, future rate changes will be equal to the Facilities group increase less five cents ($ .05) until the rate is consistent with the rate identified in sub-article 17.02 above. The Company will only pay for such licence as the employee is required to have to perform the duties which are assigned to tho employee by the Company. The Company will continue its current practice with respect to existing employees regarding payment for licences.
17.04	The Company maintains the porogativo to hire semi-skilled and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the Collective Agreement provided these rates are not inconsistent with rates paid to employees in the same job classification.
17.05	The supervisor of the Facilities Department will schedule the shifts and the assignments to be carried out by each employee under their authority. Such schedule of shifts will be made in advance with a copy of such schedule given to each employee of tho Department by his supervisor. Any adjustments to the schedule for entitled vacation or emergency requirements must be directed through the Department supervisor. Supervisors will prepare a listing for plant coverage as required by the Company during the Christmas arid New Years's holiday break in advance of such period.
17.06	Prior to hiring new employees into the Facilities Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other Departments. If any employee from
37
another Department is transferred by the Company to the Facilities Department, his first day of work inthe Facilities Department shall be his seniority date, provided however, that such employee shall receive credit for all of his previous seniority for vacation purposes only. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him. Tho following conditions will apply to such person:
1(a) An employee will receive the rate of pay paid to a new employee hired into the Facilities Department.
(b)	An initial review upon completion of a two (2) week trial period will determine further continuance of the employee into the program.
(c)	An employee who warrants continued training, as determined by the Company, will continue the Basic Aprenticeship Training Program for a period of up to six (6Jmonths. Upon completion of this period, an employee will receive the prevailing categorized rates applied to members of the Facilities Department.
(d)	It is agreed by both parties to this Agreement that an employee, who has been given consideration under this provision to transfer to the Facilities Department, will retain the right to transfer back into the General Classification, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer
- 38
is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department.
(e)	Also, should the employee who transferred to the Facilities Department not qualify within a six (6) month period of time, the Company may transfer the employee back to the General Classification with full seniority in the same Department and on the same shift from where he came.
17.07	A new employee hired into the Facilities Depart-mentwho is unable to meetthe standards of performance as determined by the Company during tho first six (6) months of employment, will not be retained in the Facilities Department, He will, provided however that he has completed his probationary period, be given the opportunity for work in the General Classification in another Department on the shift as determined by the Company, provided that he is able, willing, and qualified to do the work offered to him. The employee's first day of work in the General Classification will be his seniority date in that group, provided however, that such employee shall receive credit for all of his previous seniority for vacation purposes only.
17.08	Educational Courses
Tho Company will sponsor Company approved courses by reimbursing the employee for tuition fees and required course boo ksafterthe successfrl completion of the course and by providing transportation with a Company vehicle, if available. In order to qualify for reimbursement from the
39
Company, the employee must submit receipts confirming payment.
17.09 Overtime
When practical, overtime within the Facilities Department on a Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holiday will be allocated to personnel within the Department who last performed these duties in the area and on the regular shift whore the overtime occurs, provided such employees have the qualifications to do the work. If this overtime isnotdesired by those who qualify under the above conditions, the overtime will be allocated to the personnel within tho Department who last performed these duties in tho area where the overtime occurs, provided such employees have the qualifications to do the work. Regular shift shall mean 1 st, 2nd or 3rd shift. For the purposes of this subarticle and sub-article 17.10 "area" shall mean either Fish, Cook, Vegetable, General Maintenance, Electrical, Mobile, Refrigeration or Machine Shop.
If this overtime isnotdesired by those who qualify undor the above conditions, then the whole Department becomes eligible, based on seniority, qualification and willingness to perform the jobs to be done.
Overtime which occurs immediately following a regular shift and of a duration of less than two (2) hours, will bo allocated to the personnel within the Department who were on duty for the full immediate shift prior to when this overtime occurred, based on seniority, qualifications and willingness to perform the jobs to be done. This overtime will bo allocated, upon approval of the Foreman in charge, based on an estimation of the time required to complete
40
the job
17.10	Entitled Vacation
Vacations will be granted to members of the Facilities Department in accordance with the Vacations With Pay article in this Agreement. Provided, however, that during the period June 15th to September 15th of each year, the Company will allow each seniority employee from each area to be on vacation for one (1) week in this period of time.
17.11	Employees of the Facilities Department shall be required to wear safety boots while at work. The Company shall pay the sum of fifty-five dollars ($55.00) annually to the employees of the Facilities Department to purchase safety boots. Payment shall be made by the Company upon the Company being provided with satisfactory proof of purchase and the purchase price paid.
17.12	All "Facilities Leaders" will receive sixty cents ($.60) per hour in addition to their regular straight time rate of pay.
17.13	A Facilities Department employee who is called back to work after completing his normal shift or who is called in to work on a Saturday, on a Sunday or on a Paid Holiday will be paid, for all hours worked, at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
-41 -
17.14	A seniority employee in the Facilities Department who wishes to transfer from one area of the Department to another area of the Department must make application for such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such request is subject to the requirement that the Company have the requisite qualified personnel in each area and to the requirement that there be an employee in the area applied to who will voluntarily transfer to the other area. An employee who transfers in accordance with this subarticle will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencement of the following calendar year. For the purposes of this sub-article "area" shall mean either Fish, Cook or Vegetable General Maintenance.
17.15	A seniority employee in the Facilities Department shall have the privilege to transfer into the General Classification in another Department, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1 st and September 30th of each year and filed with tho Fluman Resources Department. An employee who transfers into the General Classification of another Department, in accordance with the foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred on commencement cf the following calendar year. The provisions of Article 14 of the Collective Agreement do not apply to such transfer. Only one employee per year will bo allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. If more than one seniority employee applies, tho one with the greatest seniority will be allowed to transfer.
17.16	All Refrigeration personnel will work on all three
42
shifts on an equal rotating basis except that the Leader will he assigned to work the day shift in the absence of the supervisor.
ARTICLE 18 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
18.01	A leave of absence for good and valid reasons may be granted by the Company to a seniority employee upon written application being made therefor. A leavo of absence, if granted, shall be without pay and benefits. A request for a leave of absence will be considered by the Company only when such request is made in writing, specifying the reason therefore and the duration of the leave of absence requested. Such written request must be dolivered to the Company not less than one (1) month in advance of the commencement of the requested leave of absence; provided, however, that the provision for advance notice may he waived by the Company in cases of emergency.
18.02	(a) The Company shall, when presented with a
request in writing from the Union at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay to a Steward for a period not to exceed ten (10) working days for the purpose of Union business such as conventions, delegations and seminars.
The request shall state the purpose of the leave of absence and the length thereof. The maximum number of working days which can be taken in a year under this sub-article shall not exceed twenty (20)
43
working days in the aggregate in any period of twelve (12) calendar months, excluding Executive, Membership and Negotiating meetings.
(b)	The Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the employee at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed two (2) years to a seniority employee who is elected to a fulltime position with the Union. The employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate during the leave of absence.
18.03	An employee who has been granted a leave of absence shall not, during the period of the leave of absence, engage in gainful employment for any other person,firm or corporation. The failure to comply with this provision will result in the termination of that employee's employment with the Company.
18.04	The decision to grant or not to grant a leave of absence rests solely with the Company. The refusal to grant a leave of absence and/or any conditions imposed by the Company with respect thereto shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
18.05	When a leave of absence is requested, the Company will give its answer within five (5) working days. In an emergency situation, the Company will give its answer as quickly as possible.
-44 -
ARTICLE 19 BULLETIN BOARDS
19.01	The Company will permit posting of notices of employee meetings or functions on bulletin boards conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
19.02	All notices must be signed by the appropriate Company official prior to being posted on the bulletin boards.
ARTICLE 20
JURY DUTY
20.01	The Company shall grant a leave of absence to a seniority employee who is required to serve as a juror or who is subpoenaed to appear in any court as a witness. The Company shall pay to such senority employee the difference between the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay and the payment the employee received for attending as a juror or a subpoenaed witness. In order to qualify for payment from the Company, the employee must submit proof of service and the amount of pay received.
ARTICLE 21
WAGES
21.01	The wage rates to be paidto seniority employees, save and except seniority employees who are employed in the Facilities Department, are as prescribed in Schedule “A” which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement.
45
ARTICLE 22 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
22.01	In the event of the death of a member of a seniority employee's immediate family, the Company will grant, upon application made by the employee, up to three (3) days leave of absence, with pay at the employee's regular straight time rate of pay, up to and including the day of funeral, provided that such daysare regularworking days upon which the employee would have otherwise been scheduled to work. Po be eligible for payment hereunder, the employee must, if requested by the Company, provide satisfactory evidence of death. The phrase "immediate family" shall conclusively mean the spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, step-mother, step-father, step-son, stepdaughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,grandchild, grandmother or grandfather of the seniority employee.
ARTICLE 23
PAID HOLIDAYS
23.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to the following paid holidays with pay at their regular straight time hourly rate of pay:
Now Year's Day
Heritage Day (2nd Monday in February)
Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
46
Thanksgiving Day
The Day Before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
23.02	If any seniority employee is required to work on any of the above Holidays, he shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/2) for the time worked in addition to the Holiday Pay.
23.03	Each paid holiday will be observed on the day on which the paid holiday occurs unless the Company designates another day as the day on which the paid holiday is to be observed, in which event, the paid holiday will be observed on the day designated by the Company and not on the day on which it occurs.
23.04	It is agreed that all seniority employees shall be paid a full regular day's pay at the employee's appropriate hourly rate for the above mentioned Holidays. A regular day for this purpose shall be eight (8) hours.
23.05	Eligibility for the above named Holidays shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The employee who is available for work on his scheduled shift preceding and following the Holiday, or when the employee has the consent of the Company to be absent, but, not in excess of fourteen (14) days.
(b)	An employee who is ill or injured up to twelve (12) working days prior and/or
47
following the Holiday shall be paid for the Holiday, providing he supplies the Company with a Doctor's certificate if required.
(c)	In order to qualify for pay for the Holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day hereinbefore referred to must fall within ten (10) working days before and within ten (10) working days after the said Holiday
(d)	For the purpose of clauses a,b, and c, above, the days between Boxing Day and New Year's Day shall not be counted.
23.06	Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, the Company will not pay paid holiday pay to any employee who has been paid Worker's Compensation for the paid holiday.
ARTICLE 24 VACATION WITH PAY
24.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to vacation as provided in this article.
24.02	Vacations shall be granted in the vacation year next following the vacation year in which it was earned. For the purposes of this article, the vacation year shall mean the twelve (12) month period commencing on the employee's date of hire or on the employee's anniversary date of hire, as the case may be, and ending on the day preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in the following year. The phrase "date of hire" shall conclusively be interpreted to mean the employee's seniority date.
-48-
24.03	All seniority employees with more than one (1) year but less than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be four percent (4%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.04	All seniority employees with more than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be six percent (6%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.05	All seniority employees with more than thirteen (13) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be eight percent (8%) of the empoyee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the empoyee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.06	All seniority employees with more than twenty-two (22) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be ten percent (10%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.07	The Company will make every effort to grant vacations at times requested by the emloyees. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossible to approve vacation, as requested, it is recognized that it may be necessary to limit
-49-
t! io number of employees who may bo on vacation at any one tirno or to not approve vacation a:; requested. Tho Company will, to trio oxtont possible, givo priority to employees' vacation lequost on a "first-come - first servo" basis allowing for a ton (10) day waiting period. During tho ion (10) days following the application for a vacation, should a more senior employee apply for tho sarrio period of vacation, priority will bo given to the more senior employee. Once tho ten (10) day waiting period is over, if trie vacation request is granted, no senior em-poyoo will bo entitled to claim piiority over a more junior employee with inspect to tho vacation time granted.
24.08	Vacation pay will be paid by tho company by the 15th of Soptemboi in each year. Upon request by an employee, vacation pay will bo paid one other time during ihe calendar your.
article 25
health and welfare
85.01	SEMI PRIVATE - 100% of the piemiurns will bo paid by the Company fos semi-private hospital coverage for all seniority employees while in active employment of tho Company and their eligible dependents, where such an employee makes application therefor.
85.02	LIKE INSURANCE - Tho Company will pay 100% of tho premiums payable for life insurance for all seniority employees while in tho active employment of the Company where such employee makes application therefor, as follows:
iG,000.00 effective April i, 1990
25.03	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN - Tho Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for a prescription drug plan ($1.00 co-pay) for seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company, and their eligible dependents where such an employee makes application therefor.
25.04	The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for Life Insurance coverage fur eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company who have attained the 65th birthday where such an employee makes application therefor. Tho amount of Life Insurance coverage shall be six thousand dollars ($6,000.00). The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for Life Insurance coverage for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of tho Company who have attained their 70th birthday where such an employee makes application therefor. The amount of Life Insurance coverage shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
25.05	It shall be the responsibility of the employees to ensure they comply with all eligibility requirements for coverage under this article. The details of the coverage are more specifically set out in the original contract for insurance coverage.
25.06	DENTAL PLAN - The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable under the Green Shield Basic 100 Dental Plan or a Plan providing equivalent coverage on the basis of the 1987 O.D.A. schedule of fees, on behalf of eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company and their eligible dependents as defined in the Plan where such an employee
51 -
makes application therefor
25.07	The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for a Weekly Indemnity Plan for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, coverage will he for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks commencing on the one hundred and twentieth (120) day of absence from work and the amount of coverage shall be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of olegible earnings subject to a maximum of three hundred and twenty dollars ($320.00) per week.
25.08	To become eligible for the Company's portion of premiums for the Health and Welfare coverages, seniority employees must have completed their probationary period and must have received eighty (80) hours of pay from the Company in any payroll month. The hours credited will be based on the payroll month and the days of the week in which the payroll week ends in a month will bo credited to that same month. Entitled vacations with pay and specified holiday, if any, shall he considered as time worked.
25.09	Any seniority employee who is absent from work because of illness or injury or who has been laid off by the Company and who wishes to continue to participate in the Health and Welfare coverage as provided in this Article as a member of the Company's group with respect to such coverage may do so, subject to all requirements of tho Plansand provided he continues to be an employee of the Company and continues to meet all the requirements of the plan and provided he pays to the Company the amount of the premium payment in advance of the
52
premium due dates. This privilege does not apply to semi-private hospitalization coverage. This privilege shall terminate on the expiry of one (1) year from tho commencement of the illness, injury or lay off.
25,10	PENSION PLAN-The Company will pay into the Union Pension Plan, on behalf of each seniority employee, the sum of sixteen cents ($.16) for each nonovertime hour worked by each seniority employee, sub-jeetto a maximum of six dollars and forty cents ($6.40) pot week. Each seniority employee will pay into the said Pension Plan by means of payroll deduction, tho sum of sixteen cents ($. 16) for each non-overtime hour worked by each seniority employee, subject to a maximum of six dollars arid forty cents ($6.40) per week. The Company's contributions and the employees' deductions will be remitted by the Company by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month for which thecontributions arid deductions are being made.
ARTICLE 26 COST- OF-LIVING-ALLOWANCE
26,01	Seniority employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided a Cost of Living Allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	The Company agrees to provide Cost of Living Allowance determined in the manner and to the extent hereinafter set forth in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index, published by Statistics Canada (1931 = 100), arid hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
53
(b)	Cost of Living Adjustment will be made upward or downward as hereinafter provided based on changes in the C.P.I. but in no event will a decline in the C.P.I. below 136.4 provide a basis of reduction in the wage rates herein set forth.
(c)	Adjustments in the Cost of Living Allowance shall be made at the following times, based on the following C.P.I.:
Commencing the first pay period following:
April 1, 1989 October 1, 1989 April 1, 1990 October 1, 1990
Based on the C.P.I. Published for:
February, 1989 August, 1989 February, 1990 August, 1990
26,02	Tho amount of Cost of Living Allowance which shall be effective commencing the first full pay period following April 1, 1989, shall be one cent (1 cent) per hour adjustments for each 0.5 increase in the C.P.I. published for February, 1989, over the base cf 136.4 and for any period thereafter shall be one cent (1 cent) par hour adjustment for each 0.5 increase in the C.P.I published for tho appropriate month as indicated above over tho base of 136.4.
26,03	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later bo made in any published C.P.I
54
26 04 The provisions of this article are inoperative forthe term of this Agreement and is replace by Appendix # I which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement
ARTICLE 27
SPECIAL PROVISION APPLICABLE TO SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
27.01	Seasonal work shall include all General arid Heavy classified jobs performed on raw or unfrozen fruit and vegetables prior to the Belt Freezers but shall exclude any coated and/or value added productions.
27.02	Seasonal employees shall be called hack in order of years of service in that those with the most years of service shall he called back before those with lesser years of service provided that they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the duties to be done.
ARTICLE 28 HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.01	(a) The Company will make reasonable provi-
sions for the safety and health of the employees in the plant during their working hours. The Company agrees to notify the Union Safety Representative (Chief Steward) of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
(b) The Company will supply copies of 'Form 7
55
Cornpensation forms and copies of "Restrictions List" to the Chief Stowad.
ARTICLE 29
DURATION
29 01 This Agreement shall become effective the 1st day ot Aprill 1991 and shall remain in effect until the 27th day of March 1993
29.02	Either party to this Agreement may, within the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the 27th day of March of 1993, give notice in writing to the othor party of its desire to make a new agreement.
ARTICLE 30
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
30.01 The Company and the Union recognize tho value of cooperation in the solution of problems common to the relations between them. For purpose of improving such relations and reaching mutual understandings as to the proper aims and objectives of each other, the joint labour-management committee shall beestablishedwithin thirty (30) days after the execution of this Contract consisting of representatives of the Company and the Union. Only persons employed by the Company or the Union shall serve on this Committee. The Labour-Management Committee shall meet monthly and shall consider such matters as shall be mutually agreed upon except that such commttee shall not consider any mattor which properly should be considered under tho Grievance Procedure
- 56
Dated this 1 st day of April 1991
OMSTEAD FOODS LIMITED
Ronald Steingart Thomas Omstead Ronald Omstead Marguerite Rivard Brian Broadhead
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 459
Lawrence Moynahan Gilbert Beleutz Chris Avelar Rui Rebelo Caesar Martinho Jack Harfmann Roger Simpson Roy Whaley Randy Imeson Don Laird
SCHEDULE"A'
(CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES FOR SENIORITY EMPLOYEES SAVE AND EXCEPT SENIORITY EMPLOYEES EMPLOYED IN THE FACILITIES DEPARTMENTS)
(A)	SENIORITY EMPLOYEES HOURLY RATE OF
PAY
Job Grade	As at April 1, 1991
1. General	$13.12
57
2 Heavy Labour Janitor
3.	Padlocker/Casemaker Smelt Machine Operator Perch Machine Operator Filloter
Bandsaw Operator Lift Truck Driver Sanitation "B" Crewperson Coil Sweeper Caseprinting Makeup Bob Cat Operatot K & K Operator
4.	Yardperson
5.	Belt Freezer Operator Form Fill Machine Operator Production Inventory Clerk Warehousoperson Sanitation "A" Crewperson Scale House
6.	Cooklino Operator Fishline Operator Vegline Operator Stockroom Keeper Cold Storage Driver
Cold Storage Inventory Clerk
7.	Leader Note #1
-58-
$13.12
$13.47
$13.62
$13.77
$13.87
$14.07
When an employee has not performed the duties of his classification fora minimum of three (3) hours in any day, he will be paid, for that day, the General classification rate of pay.
(B)	PIECE WORK (SENIORITY EMPLOYEES)
RATES PER POUND - BASED ON 60LB HOUND WEIGHT
(')
cents/pound
Dressed Pickerel Dressed White Perch Dressed Bass Medium Bass Fillets Small Bass Fillets Large Bass Fillets Butterfly Perch Fillets Small Butterfly Perch Fillets Perch Special Split Fillets Small Perch Special Split Fillets Yellow Pan H/G Yellow Fillets Pickerel Pieces & Tails Cohoo Fillets Skinless Yellow Fillets Yellow Special Split Fillets Whitefish Fillets
$ 08 per pound 12 per pound 08 per pound 22 per pound 24 per pound 22 per pound 34 per pound 36 per pound 36 per pound 38 per pound 15 per pound 15 per pound 20 per pound 15 per pound 20 per pound 18 per pound 15 per pound
Note #1
When Hand Filleters are engaged in hand filleting, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the filleter
-59-
classification as provided in Schedule (A) Note #2
When Hand Filleters arts not engaged in hand filleting, they will be paid the rate of pay of the general classifica tion as provided in Schedule (A)
Note #1
When Perch Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Perch Machines, they will be paid no loss than the rate of pay of the Perch Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Perch Machine Operators are not operating the Perch Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of tho General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Effective Date
conts/Fish
April 1, 1991
12256
(iii) Daily Hate
Number of Fish	April 1/91
60
34.000-	34,999
35.000-	35,999
36.000-	36,999
37.000-	37,999
38.000-	38,999
39.000-	39,999
40.000-	40,999
41.000-	41,999
42.000-	42,999
43.000-	43,999
44.000-	44,999
45.000-	45,999
46.000-	46,999
47.000-	47,999
48.000-	48,999
49.000-	49,999
50.000-	50,999
51.000-	51,999
52.000-	52,999
53.000-	53,999
54.000-	54,999
55.000-	55,999
56.000-	56,999
57.000-	57,999
58.000-	58,999
59.000-	59,999
60.000-	60,999
61.000-	61,999
62.000-	62,999
63.000-	63,999
64.000-	64,999
65.000-	65,999
66.000-	66,999
67.000-	67,999
$105.54
$105.93
$106.32
$106.70
$107.09
$107.47
$107.86
$108.25
$108.63
$109.02
$109.41
$109.80
$110.18
$110.57
$110.96
$111.34
$111.73
$112.12
$112.50
$112.89
$113.27
$113.66
$114.05
$114.43
$114.82
$115.20
$115.59
$115.98
$116.36
$116.75
$117.14
$117.53
$117.91
$118.30
61
68.000-	68,999
69.000-	69,999
70.000-	70,999
71.000-	71,999
72.000-	72,999
73.000-	73,999
74.000-	74,999
75.000-	75,999
76.000-	76,999
77.000-	77,999
78.000-	78,999
79.000-	79,999
80.000-	80,999
81.000-	81,999
82.000-	82,999
83.000-	83,999
84.000-	84,999
85.000-	85,999
86.000-	86,999
87.000-	87,999
88.000-	88,999
89.000-	89,999
90.000-	90,999
$118.69
$119.07
$119.46
$119.85
$120.23
$120.62
$121.00
$121.39
$121.78
$122.16
$122.55
$122.93
$123.32
$123.71
$124.09
$124.48
$124.87
$125.26
$125.64
$126.03
$126.42
$126.80
$127.19
Note #1
When Smelt Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Smelt Machines, they will bo paid no less than the rate of pay of the smelt Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Smelt Machine Operators are not operating the
62
Smelt Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(C)	Probationary Employees
The starting rate for probationary employees shall not be less than twenty cents ($ .20) per hour above the minimum wage established by the Government. After completion of the probationary period, seniority employees will be paid the applicable hourly rate.
Appendix# I	(Reference: 26.04 - COLA)
For the duration of this Collective Agreement, the Cost of Living formula shall be inactive.
The amount of forty four ($ .44) cents per hour paid at the end of the last agreement shall be maintained throughout the term of this Collective Agreement.
A payment of one hundred and five ($105.00) dollars will be made by the Company, directly into each seniority employee's pension plan, on their behalf, at the following times:
-	following ratification
-	October 1, 1991
-	April 1, 1992
-	October 1, 1992
- 63