Collective Agreement
Between:
Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation
And
unifor
and its local 561
<9
UniFOR
theUnion | lesyndicat
EXPIRY DATE: APRIL 30, 2017
00321 (12)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSES	2
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS	2
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION	4
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS	4
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	5
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF	5
ARTICLE 7 - APPOINTMENT OF STEWARDS	7
ARTICLE 8 - USE OF CORPORATION FACILITIES	7
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES	8
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION	10
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY	11
ARTICLE 12 - JOB TRANSFERS	17
ARTICLE 13 - JOB POSTING	17
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE	19
ARTICLE 15 - UNIFORMS AND SUPPLIES	20
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS	21
ARTICLE 17 - HEALTH & SAFETY	22
SCHEDULE “A”	24
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	24
ARTICLE 19 - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES	29
SCHEDULE “B”	31
ARTICLE 20 - VACATION WITH PAY	31
SCHEDULE “C”	35
ARTICLE 21 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	35
SCHEDULE “D”	35
ARTICLE 22 - BENEFIT PROGRAM	35
ARTICLE 23 - PENSION PLAN	36
ARTICLE 24 - SICKNESS AND DISABILITY	36
ARTICLE 25 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS	39
ARTICLE 26 - DENTAL PLAN	39
ARTICLE 27 - EXTENDED HEALTHCARE	39
ARTICLE 28 - POST RETIREMENT HEALTHCARE COVERAGE	40
ARTICLE 29 - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM	40
ARTICLE 30 - TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT	40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SEVERANCE PAY	42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SICK AND DISABILITY REQUEST FOR PAYMENT	43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - OVERTIME	44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOINT LABOUR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE	45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PROCESSING OF PICKEREL/SAUGER	46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND, LOCAL 561 SOCIAL	
COMMITTEE FUND & LEADERSHIP TRAINING FUND	47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHORT DAY LEAVE EARLY	48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - LEAD HANDS - PROCESSING AREAS ONLY	49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SICK LEAVE CALCULATION	50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PART TIME WORKERS	51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - FLOATING HOLIDAY	53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - ARTICLE 18.12 & BI-WEEKLY PAYROLL	54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC & MAINTENANCE MECHANIC POSITIONS	55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RECLASSIFICATION & JOB ROTATIONS	56
WAGE APPENDIX A	57
WAGE APPENDIX B	58
1
WAGE APPENDIX C
59
ARTICLE 1
1.01
ARTICLE 2
2.01
PURPOSES
The purposes of this agreement are:
a)	to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Corporation and its plant employees;
b)	to establish procedure for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances; and;
c)	to promote and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement. All subject to the provisions of Article 4.
DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this agreement:
a)	"Union" means the Unifor Local 561.
b)	"Bargaining Unit" means the employees of the employer described in Article 3;
c)	"Corporation" means the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation;
d)	"Daily rate of pay" means the employee's hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight;
e)	"Overtime" means work performed by an employee in excess of eight hours in a day or in excess of forty hours in his/her scheduled work week for all employees;
f)	"Straight-time rate" means the regular hourly rate of pay;
g)	"Time and one-half" means one and one-half times the straight time rate;
h)	"Double time" means twice the straight time rate;
i)	"Employee" means an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit;
j)	"Hourly rate of pay" means the rate of pay scheduled in Article 19 applicable to the employee's classification;
2
k)	"Layoff" means an employee whose employment has been temporarily terminated because of lack of work, and who is subject to recall to work;
l)	"Union dues" means the dues established pursuant to the constitution of the Union as the dues payable by its members as a consequence of their membership in the Union, and shall not include any initiation fee, insurance premium, or special levy.
m)	"Leadhand" is a person who performs work and directs the work of others, and shall not have the authority to hire, fire, suspend, or otherwise discipline other employees. A leadhand shall be a Union member.
n)	Industrial Mechanic means a person who has a certificate of qualification from a recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as a journeyman industrial mechanic by provincial or federal licensing authorities.
o)	Journeyman-Millwright Mechanic means a person who holds a trade certificate from a recognized trade school and is certified as a Red Seal Journeyman-Millwright Mechanic.
p)	Maintenance Helper means a person who normally assists a Maintenance Mechanic, Industrial Mechanic, Apprentice, or Journeyman, in the completion of tasks. However the Maintenance helper is also expected to perform and complete tasks on their own.
q)	Maintenance Mechanic means a person who is responsible for completing more complex tasks in the maintenance department on their own.
r)	Journeyman-Electrician means a person who holds a trade certificate from a recognized trade school and has a Red Seal Journeyman-Electrician certificate, and is licensed in the Province of Manitoba.
s)	Apprentice means a person who is selected and enrolled in a Province of Manitoba Apprenticeship & Industrial Training Division apprenticeship program and working towards obtaining a journeyman license.
t)	“Part time worker” is an employee who works up to but no more than 20 hours in a seven (7) day period Monday to Sunday. (See Letter of Understanding Re Part-Time Workers).
3
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION
3.01
ARTICLE 4
4.01
4.02
4.03
The Canada Labour Relations Board has not certified the Union as the bargaining agent for plant employees, but nonetheless, the Corporation voluntarily recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Corporation in the Province of Manitoba, except:
a)	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit during the currency of this agreement;
b)	Foremen, supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisor;
c)	Office staff;
d)	Employees described by the Certificate of Certification issued by the Canada Labour Relations Board dated February 22nd, 1973. (No. of Certificate F-66-2694).
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
The Union recognizes the undisputed right of the Corporation to operate and to manage its business in all respects and to make and to alter from time to time rules and regulations which are to be observed by employees.
The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to hire, to promote, to layoff, to recall, to transfer, to suspend, to discipline, and to discharge any employee for just cause, subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided.
The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and to manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities without limiting the generality of the foregoing. It shall be the prerogative of the Corporation to decide upon operating techniques, methods, machinery, and equipment, the schedules of production, processes and means of production of its products, and all other matters which can be justified on the basis of prudent business operations.
The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the provisions of this agreement. The Corporation shall not exercise this right in a discriminatory manner and shall act in a manner which is fair, reasonable, in good faith, and consistent with the collective agreement.
The Union and the Corporation mutually agree that the employees coming under its jurisdiction, and Management, will abide by all the terms of this Agreement.
4
4.04	When new rules and/or regulations are to be implemented by Management they shall be discussed with the Union executive five (5) working days prior to the date the new rules or regulations are to be implemented. If the Union executive is not in agreement with the new rules and/or regulations, they may be referred to the grievance and arbitration process set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	SLOWDOWNS OR INTERRUPTIONS OF PRODUCTION It is agreed that the Union will not, during the term of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Corporation’s plants or premises nor will employees take part in any such actions.
5.02	STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS DURING THE LIFE OF THE AGREEMENT It is agreed that the Union will not, during the life of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement nor will employees take part in any such action. It is agreed that the Corporation will not during the life of this Agreement lock out employees.
5.03	It is not the intention of the Corporation during the life of this Agreement to contract out any work currently being performed by the maintenance department and should the need arise to contract out this work the Corporation shall first consult with the Union to see if it can first be done within the required time by existing maintenance employees.
ARTICLE 6	- UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
6.01	All employees of the Corporation covered by this agreement who are existing members of the Union shall as a condition of employment maintain their membership in good standing for the duration of the agreement. All new employees upon completion of two hundred and fifty (250) working hours shall as a condition of employment become members of the Union.
6.02	The Corporation agrees to a check-off of the amount of regular monthly union dues of all employees and shall transmit the amount so deducted, along with a list of the names of the employees from whom such deductions were made, to the Union office prior to the 15th day of each month.
5
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
a) Union dues will be deducted monthly and/or on regular pay periods, as directed by Unifor Local 561.
a)	The Corporation agrees that all new employees shall on the first day of employment sign an application for membership in the Union which shall provide for Corporation deduction of initiation fees, Union dues and assessments. For the convenience of the Corporation, application forms shall be supplied by the Union.
b)	SKILLED TRADES COUNCIL DUES
The Company agrees, once they are in receipt of signed authorization cards from employees in the classifications of Apprentice, Industrial Mechanic, Maintenance Mechanic, Journeyman-Millwright Mechanic and Journeyman Electrician to deduct the Unifor Skilled Trades Council dues as may be adopted by the Unifor Skilled Trades Council, % hour per year.
The first such deduction will be made from the employee’s first pay following completion of their probationary period. Thereafter deductions will be made in January of each succeeding calendar year. These deductions along with the names of the employees shall be remitted to the financial secretary of the Union.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Corporation harmless against any claim or liability arising out of the application of this article except for any claim or liability arising out of an error committed by the Corporation in connection with deduction of the amount equal to the monthly membership dues.
The Corporation agrees to show a year-to-date total of union dues paid on each employee's pay stub.
The Corporation agrees to include union dues deductions on the employee's T4 slips.
The Corporation will provide an on-site Union office with a desk, computer and printer and telephone/fax combination for the use of the Union and Union Committees.
The local Union executive will be in charge of the keys, however the Corporation will retain keys for access in the case of an emergency.
In recognition of the high quality of product processed by the employees who are members of Unifor and the respectful relationship between the Corporation and the Union, the Corporation agrees to fly the "Unifor flag” as a banner of the organization on its flag pole in accordance with the "Heritage Canada” Rules and Protocol for flying a flag on a Federal Building. The Union will provide the flag which will at all times remain the
6
property of the Union. (The Flag pole will be installed on the Northwest corner of the Penthouse to the right of the Canadian Flag)
ARTICLE 7 - APPOINTMENT OF STEWARDS
7.01	The Corporation acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint employees as stewards.
7.02	The Union shall notify the Corporation promptly and in writing of the names of its stewards. The Corporation will provide the Stewards with smocks, or in the case of maintenance, coveralls that state "Union Rep Unifor”.
7.03	Union officers and committee members shall be entitled to leave their work station during working hours in order to carry out their functions under this agreement, including but not limited to, the investigation and processing of grievances, attendance at meetings with the employer and/or the Union representative.
7.04	Permission to leave their work station during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from their immediate supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7.05	The Corporation agrees to pay their employees, at the regular straight time rate including the premium(s) they would have received had they not been fulfilling their Union duties, who are Union officers, shop stewards or on committees fulfilling their Union duties while attending meetings, and/or investigating and processing grievances pertaining to the Corporation. The time and place to be approved by both the Corporation and the Union.
ARTICLE 8 - USE OF CORPORATION FACILITIES
8.01	If an authorized Union representative, who is not employed by the Corporation, desires to speak to local Union representatives in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he/she shall first obtain approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), of the Plant Production Manager or his/her designate, who shall then call the local Union representative(s) to the office where they may confer privately. These discussions will be arranged so that they will not interfere with production.
8.02	The Corporation agrees to supply one (1) bulletin board for the exclusive use of the Union. The Corporation shall have the right to refuse the posting of any information which it considers adverse to its interests or to the interests of any of its representatives. All notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Union. Corporation to supply lockable bulletin board.
7
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
9.01
9.02
9.03
GENERAL
a)	The time limits presented in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
b)	An employee who presents a complaint may, if the employee so desires, be assisted or represented by a duly elected representative of the Union.
COMPLAINTS
a)	An employee shall have the right to discuss and settle with the supervisor of their department any complaint they may have. Such discussions shall take place within two (2) working days of the date when the employee first became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
b)	In the event that the supervisor fails to satisfactorily resolve that complaint within two (2) working days of notification, the employee may refer the matter to the Plant Production Manager or the Director of Quality Assurance and Technical Services or his/her designate.
c)	The Plant Production Manager or the Director of Quality Assurance and Technical Services or his/her designate may resolve the complaint within two (2) working days of presentation, or failing this, the complaint may be submitted in writing as a formal grievance.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 1
Whether Article 9.01 and 9.02 have been complied with or not, the Union shall have the right to file a written grievance in accordance with the following procedures:
a)	A Union steward may present the grievance to the Vice-President of Human Resources and Government Services or designate within ten (10) working days of the date on which they first became aware of the action or circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
b)	The grievance shall state the nature of the grievance, the article violated, and the redress sought.
8
c)
9.04
9.05
9.06
The Vice-President of Human Resources and Government Services or designate shall reply in writing to the grievance within seven (7) working days of its presentation. Should the Union not receive the reply within the seven (7) working day period it will advise the Vice-President of Human Resources and Government Services or designate. If the Vice-President of Human Resources or designate fails to provide the response within a further three (3) days the grievance will be found in favour of the grieving party. Within a further ten (10) working days from receipt of the reply from the VicePresident of Human Resources and Government Services or designate, the Union shall advise whether the response resolves the grievance or whether the Union is proceeding to Stage 2.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 2
a)	Should the grievance still remain unresolved, the Union may take the matter up with the Vice-President of Operations or his designate.
b)	The Vice-President of Operations or his designate will meet with the Union and National Representative or his designate at a time mutually arranged. Authorized Union representatives from outside the plant may be involved at this stage.
c)	Any decision made shall be given in writing to the National Representative or his/her designate within seven (7) working days subsequent to the meeting between the Vice-President of Operations or his designate and the Union.
d)	Within ten (10) working days from receipt of the reply provided in c) above, the Union shall advise whether the response resolves the grievance or whether the Union is proceeding to arbitration.
POLICY GRIEVANCE
In respect of any violation of the agreement, the Union may, in its discretion, file a Union, group or policy grievance. In such a case, the procedure shall commence at Stage 2 of Article 9.
CORPORATION GRIEVANCE
The Corporation shall have the right to institute a grievance in respect of any violation of this Agreement, and the grievance shall be served on the President or Chief Steward of the Union, with a copy by registered mail to the Union. In such case, the procedure shall commence at Stage 2 of Article 9.
9
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF ARBITRATION
When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the request shall be made by notice in writing to the other party of the Agreement, indicating so. The notice to the Corporation shall be by personal delivery or email to the Vice-President of Operations or the Vice-President of Human Resources and Government Services. The notice to the Union shall be by personal delivery or email to the President of the Local Union. The parties agree to the use of a single person Board of Arbitration. The following persons will be called upon, on a rotation basis commencing with the first person on the list, who shall then serve at the first arbitration. Thereafter, for each successive arbitration, the person on the list immediately following the last person to have served as Arbitrator shall then be called upon to serve. In the event that the person requested to serve is unavailable to hear the matter within 60 calendar days the next person on the list shall be requested to serve. In the event that all parties on the list are unavailable to hear the matter within 60 calendar days the matter shall be referred to the person who was first contacted to hear the matter.
1.	Mr. Arne Peltz
2.	Mr. Michael Werier
3.	Ms. Diane Jones
DECISIONS OF THE ARBITRATOR
The Arbitrator shall render his or her decision within 21 working days of hearing the matter. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding and enforceable on all parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modify or amend any of its provisions. However, the Arbitrator shall have the right to dispose of any grievance made pursuant to Article 14 by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which the Arbitrator deems just and equitable.
DISAGREEMENT ON DECISION
Should the parties disagree as to the meaning of the decision, either party, within ten (10) days of the receipt of the arbitration award, may apply to the Arbitrator to meet with the parties to clarify the decision. The Arbitrator shall meet promptly with the parties and clarify its decision.
EXPENSES OF THE BOARD
10
Each party shall pay one-half the fees and expenses of the Arbitrator.
10.05
10.06
10.07
10.08
ARTICLE 11
11.01
AMENDING OF THE LIMIT
The time limit fixed on both the grievance and arbitration procedure may be extended by consent of the parties to this Agreement.
WITNESSES
At any stage of the grievance or arbitration procedure, the parties may have the assistance of the employee(s) concerned as witness(es) and any other witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties or the arbitrator(s) to have access to the Corporation's premises to view any working conditions which may be relevant to the settlement of the grievance.
No person may serve on the Board of Arbitration who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
When a period of time as outlined in Article Nine (9) and Ten (10) is expressed as a number of days, that number of days shall not include Saturday, Sunday, or any other non-working days.
- SENIORITY
a)	An employee, other than those in the Maintenance Classifications, shall be on probation until completion of five hundred (500) working hours. An employee in a Maintenance Classification shall be on probation during his/her first one thousand and forty (1040) working hours. During the probationary period the employee shall be entitled to all rights and privileges of this Agreement except where specifically excluded, and during the probationary period the employee may be laid off without reference to seniority. A probationary employee discharged shall have no right to the grievance procedure in respect to such discharge. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be established from the date the employee first entered the service of the Corporation.
b)	For the purpose of seniority the length of service as shown on the Corporation's records shall be the determining factor.
c)	Seniority shall be on a plant-wide basis.
d)	A list showing seniority of service shall be forwarded to the Union office in January and July of each year, along with an updated list of addresses and phone numbers as supplied by the employees.
11
11.02
e)	In matters of filling new positions and vacancies, the Corporation agrees that seniority will be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job.
f)	Where two or more employees commence employment on the same day, seniority shall be determined by using:
a.	the first initial of the last name;
b.	if the first initial of the last name is the same, the first initial of the first name;
c.	if the first initials of the last name and the first name are the same, then by using the day of birth in a month (1 to 31), with the lower number receiving the higher seniority ranking.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
a)	In the matter of a layoff, the employee with the least seniority will be laid off first.
b)	Recalls will be in the reverse order of layoff.
c)	No new employees will be hired while there are available employees laid off who are qualified to perform the work.
d)	Employees who have been laid off due to lack of work shall retain and continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ten (10) consecutive months.
e)	A list of recall and layoff reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward. The list will include the date and time the employee was recalled and how the employee was contacted.
f)	Subject to the exceptions contained in paragraph (g) below, all employees, with the exception of probationary employees as defined in Article 11.01 (a) who are to be laid off and who are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to two (2) days notice before layoff or two (2) days pay in lieu of such notice.
g)	Paragraph 11.02 (f) above shall not apply to new employees until they have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19, or have four (4) years of continuous seniority. The aforesaid employees who are to be laid off and are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to one (1) day’s notice before layoff or one (1) day's pay in lieu of such notice. When such
12
11.03
an employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19, or has four (4) years of continuous seniority, the provisions of 11.02 (f) above shall apply thereafter.
h)	Lay-offs in the Maintenance Department will be by classification, and seniority within the affected classification, without reference to Plant seniority. Such layoff shall be determined by the need for specific qualifications to ensure the continued safe and efficient operation of the Plant. Maintenance personnel shall have no rights to bump into the Plant. Any deviation from the above-mentioned procedure regarding layoffs and recalls will be carried out following consultation and with the agreement of the Union, and will be subject to Article 9 and 10 in this collective agreement.
i)	If the Corporation issues a lay-off notice to an employee the employee will be eligible for overtime opportunities in accordance with Article 18.08 until the end of the day Sunday the week that the notice had been given.
j)	The Chief Steward of the Plant Committee shall head the plant seniority list in the plant during his/her term of office for layoff purposes only.
If layoffs occur the Plant Chief Steward will be the last to be laid off provided he/she can perform the remaining available work.
The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights
forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire, when an employee:
a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Corporation or is dismissed for just cause;
b)	fails to return to work after being recalled from a lay-off by the Corporation. The Corporation must provide the employee with not less than two (2) clear days notice from the date of notification to the effective date of the recall (Tuesday notification for a Friday recall). The employee will be notified of the recall by the Corporation in accordance with the following:
i.	the Corporation will telephone the employee at the last telephone number on record provided by the employee. A message may be left with a person or machine if the employee does not personally answer the phone. Date of notification will be the day the telephone call occurred or message was left.
13
11.04
11.05
ii.	if there is no answer and no person/machine to leave a message with, the Corporation will issue a letter via Priority Post mail to the employee’s last given address on record. Date of notification will be deemed to be the day the letter was sent.
It is the responsibility of the employee to keep the Corporation and the Union informed at all times of any changes in their address and telephone number.
c)	has been laid off for more than ten (10) consecutive months other than due to the revamping/upgrading of the plant, which time shall not be included;
d)	rejects an offer of work in response to a recall notice following a layoff;
e)	is absent from work for two (2) days or more without notifying the Corporation with a justifiable reason acceptable to the Corporation, in which case the employee shall be considered to have resigned.
f)	engages in other gainful employment while on sick leave or compensation.
TRANSFER OUT OF BARGAINING UNIT
a)	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside of the bargaining unit without their consent. An employee who accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate seniority for a twelve (12) month period. An employee who returns to the bargaining unit within this twelve (12) month period will be credited with seniority accumulated to date and will be classified as process labour.
b)	The Corporation will deduct and remit to the Union the arrears of Union dues for this employee for this period of time within two (2) months of their return to the bargaining unit.
c)	An employee will only be allowed to return to the bargaining unit once, and further, it must be within this 12 month period.
d)	An employee terminated while in a position outside the bargaining unit will not be able to return to the bargaining unit nor will the employee have access to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
TEMPORARY TRANSFER
14
11.06
a)	Due to fluctuations in fish receipts which necessitate a temporary increase or decrease from one or more Departments, as defined below, the transfer of employees to another Department will be by seniority. The junior employee will be transferred providing they can perform the work satisfactorily. An employee who has been transferred will be required to return to the job from which they were transferred when work becomes available on the job.
b)	The Departments referred to in Article 11.05 (a) above are as follows:
-	Fresh Processing
-	Cool Room
-	Shipping and Receiving
-	Tunnel/Frozen Grader
-	Quality Control
-	Caviar
-	Sanitation
c)	Where it is necessary to secure workers at notice of less than two (2) days to fill temporary positions because of illness, accident, extra vacation, bereavement leave or leave of absence (of two (2) days or less), the Corporation, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next eligible senior employee and so on down the list until the temporary vacancy is filled. Employees recalled under such circumstances shall retain the job to which they are appointed until replaced by the employee with whom the Corporation was unable to communicate with. When replaced by the more senior employee, then the junior recalled employee will be on immediate layoff and the laid off junior employee and the employee filling the temporary vacancy will not be entitled to any weekly guarantee. The Corporation agrees a Union executive officer, or in their absence a shop steward, will be present and will record the name(s) of the employee(s) called and the time of day they were called to verify the call-in was by order of seniority.
d)	A temporary assignment shall be one of thirty (30) calendar days or less, or a temporary assignment created because of sickness, vacation, accident or approved leave of absence. After the thirty (30) calendar days the Corporation and the Union shall meet and discuss whether the temporary assignment should be extended or if the job should be posted as provided for in 13.01. If the Union and the Corporation fail to agree whether the job should be posted, it will be subject to Article 9 and 10.
SHIFT CHANGES
Should it be deemed necessary by the Corporation to make shift changes, the procedure will be:
15
11.07
a)	requests for such changes will be dealt with on a seniority basis;
b)	should no employee wish to make a shift change, the employee with the least seniority on the shift where the shortage of work occurred must accept the shift change;
c)	an employee can exercise their seniority rights for shift preference when a recall occurs. It will be dealt with as follows:
1)	When an employee is recalled they will be advised of their shift and start time.
2)	Once an employee has returned to work and they do not wish the shift that they have been assigned, he or she may exercise their seniority rights for a different shift by notifying their supervisor of their preference for a different shift. This will be done by the employee completing a "Shift Change Request Form” and giving it to their supervisor.
3)	Once the supervisor receives the "Shift Change Request Form” the employee will be placed upon their preferred shift as soon as operational requirements allow for it, but in any event no later than 2 working days (i.e. employee gives the supervisor the "Shift Change Request Form” on Monday; they will be moved to their requested shift no later than Wednesday).
d)	If the Corporation consolidates the afternoon shift with the day shift, an employee occupying a posted position shall be entitled to exercise seniority rights for placement into the same posted position on the day shift.
In the event an employee wishes to exercise their preference for a change in shift at any time other than a recall, the employee will follow the procedure set out above and the change will occur on the first day of work of the week immediately following the request.
The Corporation shall post by 3 p.m. every Friday the shift schedule effective the following week showing employee seniority and shift preferences.
In the event an employee wishes to exercise their preference for a change in shift at any time other than a shift consolidation or recall, the employee will follow the procedure set out in 11.06 (c) above and the change will occur on the first day of work of the week immediately following the request.
16
11.08
The Corporation will email a list to the Chief Steward by 3 p.m. every Friday indicating the shift schedule effective the following week showing employee seniority and shift.
11.09	GENERAL LABOUR TRANSFER REQUESTS
An employee wishing a permanent transfer to another Department (as defined in Article 11.05 (b)) shall file a General Labour Job Transfer Request with the Human Resources Department. An employee’s request shall lapse one (1) year after the date of filing but may be renewed from year to year at his/her request. The Corporation shall maintain a file of such forms.
Before filling General Labour vacancies in a Department with new employees, full consideration shall be given to any General Labour employees who have filed a General Labour Job Transfer Request with the Corporation, provided they have the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job. If there is more than one active request, preference will be given to the senior employee provided he/she can perform the regular duties of the job.
An employee shall only be permitted to transfer Departments pursuant to this provision once every twelve (12) months. Under extenuating circumstances, the Union and the Corporation may agree to allow an employee to transfer prior to the completion of twelve (12) months in the new Department.
For greater certainty, this request for transfer process does not apply to the placement of employees in the context of lay-offs and recalls.
ARTICLE 12 - JOB TRANSFERS
12.01	a) Employees transferred temporarily at the request of the Corporation
to jobs having a lower wage rate shall continue to receive the rate paid for their regular job.
b)	Employees transferred temporarily at the request of the Corporation to jobs having a higher wage rate shall receive the higher wage rate.
ARTICLE 13 - JOB POSTING
13.01	All permanent job classification vacancies (other than General Labour), newly created jobs and vacancies in positions set out in "Schedule E” shall, within two (2) working days of such permanent job vacancy or newly created job becoming available, be posted on the plant bulletin board for three (3) working days. During this time employees who have completed the probationary period of employment may make application for transfer to such
17
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07
jobs. For positions other than Leadhand and Apprentice positions,
seniority will be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job. The Corporation agrees to provide a period of on the job familiarization for the successful candidate. The length of time for this on the job familiarization shall be determined by the Corporation and shall consist of a period of up to two hundred and fifty (250) working hours and will be indicated on the job posting for the position. Accepted employees will be given this on the job familiarization followed by a probationary period of 250 working hours. If the Corporation determines that an employee has not successfully completed his/her probationary period, the employee will revert back to his/her previous position (and any employee occupying that position will be returned to his/her previous position).
“SCHEDULE E”
Leadhand Freezer Operator
Material Handling Equipment Operator Shipper/Receiver
Sanitation Quality Control
It is understood that an employee who successfully bids into a posted position is not entitled to any additional rights.
Employees who bid on and are accepted for Job Postings in the Sanitation Department must commit to the posting for a minimum of twelve (12) months.
Subject to Article 11.02, employees who complete the requirements of Article 13.02 may, at anytime thereafter, relinquish their position and exercise their seniority to bump back into the Plant. A minimum of two (2) weeks’ written notice to their immediate Supervisor is required.
Sanitation personnel shall have the right to exercise their seniority to bump into the Plant, subject to Article 13.02
Under extenuating circumstances the Corporation and the Union may allow an employee not to complete the obligations set out in 13.02
Sanitation employees will not be required to perform any other duties except sanitation.
Should the Corporation decide to create an Apprentice position, the position will be posted. Applicants will be assessed based upon skill, ability and qualifications, and if two or more applicants are relatively equal, seniority will be the determining factor. In the absence of a qualified internal applicant, the Corporation may hire an external applicant for the Apprentice position.
18
13.08
ARTICLE 14
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
Should the Corporation decide to create or fill a vacant Leadhand position, the position will be posted. Applicants will be assessed based upon skill, ability and qualifications, and if two or more applicants are relatively equal, seniority will be the determining factor. The familiarization period and probationary period in Article
13.01	will be applicable.
- DISCHARGE, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE
When an employee other than a probationary employee has been dismissed or suspended without notice, he/she shall have the right to interview his/her Shop Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
An employee shall be notified in writing by the employer with a copy to the secretary of the Union or the department steward as to the reasons for the discharge or suspension, and the length of the suspension. Such notice shall be given prior to the employee leaving the Plant.
In order to ensure that discipline through the plant is applied in a fair and even-handed manner, the Corporation will apply the principle of progressive discipline according to the following guidelines:
a)	an oral reprimand, with notation in the employee’s personnel file
b)	a written warning;
c)	a suspension or suspensions without pay in line with the severity of the case;
d)	dismissal for just cause.
The Corporation will apply these guidelines to employee behaviours requiring discipline in each of these three (3) separate categories:
a)	attendance
b)	performance
c)	misconduct
The Corporation and the Union recognise that some offences requiring discipline may be so severe as to result in immediate suspension or dismissal.
Two (2) copies of discipline reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward.
Disciplinary memos will be on the employee's file for a period of one (1) year. After one (1) year of no further infractions, the disciplinary memos shall be removed from the employee's file.
An employee shall have the right to have a steward present at any discussion with supervisory personnel which is the basis of disciplinary action. This shall only apply if a steward is in the plant at the time.
19
14.07
14.08
ARTICLE 15
15.01
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
15.06
An employee, immediately upon request, will have access to review their personnel record on their own time, in the personnel office during office hours.
Any disagreement as to the accuracy of information contained in the file will be discussed with the Plant Manager. If it is found that information is incorrect, the appropriate changes will be made and shall become part of the employee's record. All disciplinary reports placed in the files must have a corresponding copy given to the employee involved and two copies given to the Chief Steward.
- UNIFORMS AND SUPPLIES
The Corporation will supply safety rubber boots (non-skid), uniforms, hearing protection, beard nets, hairnets, full face masks if required, bump caps, aprons, knives, steels, sharpening stones, and gloves to the employees. This apparel will remain the property of the Corporation and will be left on the Corporation premises at the completion of the working day.
Locks and lockers will be provided for each long-term employee and will be assigned according to seniority.
A non-refundable charge of $15.00 for rubber safety boots shall be deducted from the employee's pay. Replacement of rubber safety boots for reasons other than wear and tear whereby the old rubber boots are returned to the supply room, shall be assessed against the employee at the rate of $15.00 per pair for rubber safety boots. In the event of an employee leaving the Corporation, the rubber safety boots become the property of the employee.
Employees shall be responsible for all supplies issued to them. A price list will be posted at the beginning of each contract year showing prices of all supplies and a copy of the list will be provided to the chief steward of the Union. The cost price would be the amount deducted from an employee's cheque for replacement of supplies other than for normal wear and tear.
The Corporation will supply suitable apparel including insulated vests and/or jackets and winter boots suitable for 20°F below zero for employees working in the Shipping & Receiving Department, Tunnels/Frozen Grader Department, Caviar Department, Quality Control Department and Cool Room Department as required. This apparel will remain the property of the Corporation and will be left on the Corporation premises at the completion of the working day.
All employees on the Maintenance seniority list will be reimbursed five hundred dollars ($500.00), upon presentation of receipts within sixty (60)
20
days from date of purchase for tools and CSA approved safety footwear to be worn at work, in each year of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
16.01	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
a)	Employees will be granted a leave of absence without pay to attend Union meetings and conventions. Time so granted does not affect the employee's vacation period nor seniority. The Employer agrees to pay the employees attending as if they were at work and to bill the Union for the reimbursement cost of wages and all benefits including the amount of any contributions required to be made by the employer. The Union agrees to reimburse the Employer for these costs. The Union will give the Corporation one (1) week's notice of such leave of absence. Request for leave of absence must be made in writing.
b)	The Corporation may grant leave of absence without pay up to one (1) year to any employee for a legitimate personal reason. To be valid, every application must be submitted in writing and approved by the Corporation in writing. An employee on a valid leave of absence shall retain their accumulated seniority and earn additional seniority to their said leave of absence.
c)	Leave of absence of up to one (1) year will be granted without pay to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time when requested by the Union for the purpose of full time employment with the Union. To further this leave the employee must submit a request no later than three (3) weeks prior to the approved leave expiration date. During this period seniority will continue to accumulate. Upon return from such leave of absence, work similar to that which the employee last did will be provided.
The leave of absence clause as outlined above cannot be used to avoid losing seniority as provided in Article 11.03 (c) in the Collective Agreement.
16.02	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
In the event of a technological change, the provisions of the Canada Labour Code will apply.
16.03	NEW MACHINERY
In the event that new machinery should be brought in creating new classifications and jobs, wages and classifications for such shall be negotiated with the Union immediately.
21
16.04
16.05
16.06
16.07
16.08
ARTICLE 17
17.01
SUPERVISORS WORKING
Supervisors will not in a continuous and sustained way, perform work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
a)	in cases of instructing employees; and
b)	when as a result of sudden sickness or accident there are no employees available to perform the work.
When a supervisor is going to be performing bargaining unit work in accordance with the allowable provisions set out above, the supervisor will make every effort to inform a committee member prior to doing the work, including the reason(s) why. In those situations where a supervisor cannot inform a committee member prior to doing the work, they shall do so as soon as practicable thereafter. Notwithstanding the above, in every instance where a committee member requests the reason why the supervisor is working, the reason(s) shall be provided.
NO DISCRIMINATION
The Corporation and the Union, and all employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall adhere to the provisions of the Federal Human Rights Code.
Employees will be allowed maternity/paternity leave in accordance with Division V.1 Section 59 of the Canada Labour Code Part III.
Where mandatory provisions of any statute enacted by the Government of Canada are more beneficial to an employee than the provisions contained in this collective agreement, the said statutory provisions shall be deemed to supersede the provisions of the collective agreement.
VIOLENCE AGAINST EMPLOYEES
The Corporation agrees to recognize that employees sometimes face situations of violence or abuse in their personal life that may affect their attendance or performance at work.
- HEALTH & SAFETY
The Union and the Corporation shall take all reasonable steps in order to promote and improve the health and safety practices. Additionally, the parties will co-operate in the application and enforcement of reasonable
22
health and safety rules and practices, as published and posted by the Plant Management and the Health and Safety Committee.
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
17.06
17.07
17.08
The Corporation and all employees shall comply with all applicable Federal health and safety laws and regulations. Nothing precludes the Corporation and the Union from mutually agreeing on a safety and health procedure and/or practice which, in their opinion, would provide a greater measure of safety and health for employees than provided for in the Federal law or regulations.
There shall be established a health and safety committee composed of not more than five (5) representatives each from the Union and the Corporation. Any meeting convened by the committee must include equal representation from each party and shall be attended by a minimum of two (2) representatives from each party. The health and safety committee shall hold meetings at least once per month, or more frequently if necessary for the purpose of considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating, reviewing and improving health and safety conditions and practices. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the Corporation and the Union.
Union members of the Health and Safety committee shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of paid leave per calendar year, to attend educational courses and seminars for instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
Time spent by members of the committee in the course of their duties as approved by the Corporation shall be considered as time worked.
The Corporation shall provide the members of the health and safety committee with a summary of each accident, or occurrence of an occupational disease that occurred at the workplace during the previous month. This summary will be provided at the monthly safety and health meetings.
The Corporation agrees the Union shall have the right to elect or appoint the Union committee members to the health and safety committee. The Union shall notify the Corporation in writing of the names of each representative.
A scheduled monthly plant inspection will take place two (2) days prior to the monthly Health and Safety Committee Meeting by the Committee’s Inspection Team. The Inspection Team will be limited to two (2) union members and two (2) management members of the Health and Safety Committee. Union members will be allowed the necessary paid time to complete all phases of the inspection process.
23
The Inspection Team will report to the Health and Safety Committee. The Health and Safety Committee will then make recommendations on corrective action to the Corporation. The Corporation will advise the CoChairs that it has implemented the corrective action within the time frame scheduled by the Health & Safety Committee, or to suggest written alternative solutions or to request an extension of time for completion from that originally set by the Health & Safety Committee. In any case it will be done within the original time frame set by the Health & Safety Committee.
17.09	All incident investigations will be jointly carried out by the Corporation and Union co-chairs of the committee or their designates, within twenty-four (24) hours or as soon as reasonably practical of the incident occurring. Upon completion of the investigation the Corporation and Union co-chairs or their designates will meet with the Corporation Health and Safety Coordinator to review the findings of the investigation and make recommendations in writing to the Plant Manager or designate on the appropriate course of action.
17.10	There shall be no consuming of food or beverages in the plant except in the cafeteria.
SCHEDULE"A"
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
18.01	The normal shift start times for the majority of employees will be:
- Days	6:45 a.m. to 3:15 p.m.
- Afternoons	3:15 p.m. to 11:45 p.m.
-	Midnights	10:15 p.m. to 6:45 a.m.
a)	All employees who have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate of pay as described in Article 19 shall be guaranteed a thirty-six (36) hour work week, based on five (5) consecutive days Monday to Friday inclusive, with time and one-half paid for any time worked over and above eight (8) hours in any one (1) day, or after forty (40) hours in any week.
b)	The Corporation may utilize the reduction from a regular forty (40) hour work week to the guaranteed thirty-six (36) hour work week no more than once during a week (Monday to Friday).
c)	Hours lost under this clause will not affect any of the overtime provisions of the Collective Agreement.
24
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18.06
18.07
18.08
d)	All employees in the Part Time Classification shall be paid the rate of pay as described in Article 19 and shall work up to but no more than 20 hours in a seven (7) day period Monday to Sunday.
Employees, other than part-time workers, required to work overtime on Sunday shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees required to work beyond the regular hours in any day shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first two (2) hours of overtime, and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees, other than part-time workers, required to work overtime on Saturday shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) minutes over regular time will be guaranteed fifteen (15) minutes pay at time and one-half the regular rate.
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) to thirty (30) minutes will be guaranteed thirty (30) minutes pay at time and one-half the regular rate. All overtime must be authorized and the employee time card initialled by the respective supervisor the same day that the overtime occurs.
No employees will be required to work more than two and one-half (2 1/2) hours without a coffee or lunch break. Overtime is included in the provisions of this clause.
Where the Corporation requests overtime be worked, such request shall be made on the previous day; when this is not done and the request is made on the date on which overtime is to be worked, employees working over ten (10) hours shall be paid a meal allowance of $10.00. The meal payment would be included in the following week's pay cheque.
a)	Overtime occurring Monday - Friday will be offered to employees at work in the following manner: by the job by seniority, then by seniority with that Department, and if not enough employees volunteer, then offered by seniority to the remaining employees.
b)	Overtime occurring Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holidays will be offered in the following manner:
i.	The Corporation will post a notice by Tuesday that
overtime may be available the following Saturday, Sunday and/or General Holiday.
ii.	Employees wishing to work overtime on their
regular shift on the Saturday, Sunday or General Holiday must sign up with their Supervisor by the
25
end of their shift on Wednesday, indicating their desire to work on the Saturday, Sunday and/or General Holiday. The Supervisor will provide the sign-up sheet for the employee to sign.
iii.	If overtime work is available on the Saturday,
Sunday and/or General Holiday, the Corporation will select employees from those that have signed up for the overtime by seniority within that Department, and if not enough, then by plant wide seniority. An employee wishing to opt out of working overtime on any of the days submitted must notify his/her Supervisor by no later than two (2) hours prior to the end of his/her shift on Friday.
iv.	The Corporation will post a notice indicating those
that have been selected to work overtime on the Saturday, Sunday or General Holiday by 2:00 p.m. on Friday. Employees that have signed up for overtime are responsible for determining whether they have been scheduled to work overtime. Human Resources will have a copy of the list for employees to call in for confirmation if they are not at work when the notice is posted.
v.	An employee that has signed up and been
scheduled to work overtime pursuant to this provision is not eligible to use sick leave credits or other paid leaves if the employee does not attend the overtime shift.
vi.	An employee that does not attend work for a
scheduled overtime shift on Saturday, Sunday or General Holiday during a peak production period without notifying the Corporation with a justifiable reason acceptable to the Corporation in advance of the overtime shift will be disqualified from being scheduled for overtime the following weekend (including a General Holiday if applicable).
18.09
18.10
18.11
Two (2) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each shall be granted for each work day of eight (8) hours.
The Corporation will grant the employees a five (5) minute period during which time they will clean up. This will be the last five (5) minutes of their shift.
WAGES
26
An employee is entitled to be paid for services rendered at the rate of pay specified in Article 19 attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement.
18.12
18.13
18.14
Payday shall be weekly by direct deposit and each employee shall be provided with an itemized statement of his wages and deductions, including total earnings to date and total income tax to date Any payroll errors will be corrected as follows:
i)	less than forty dollars ($40.00) - next pay period;
ii)	forty dollars ($40.00) or more - next business day.
Any employee who at the time of the signing of this Agreement is receiving a higher rate or benefits than those specified shall not have his wage scale or benefits reduced. An employee's rate of pay as it was at the time of signing this agreement shall be increased by the negotiated increases in the rate of pay.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family is defined as father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, spouse, child, grandchild, step brother, step sister or wards* of the employee; common-law spouse, common-law spouse’s mother, common-law spouse’s father, and common-law spouse’s children. For the purposes of this clause spouse and common law spouse shall also include a same sex partner.
a)	Where a member of their immediate family dies, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave for a period of up to four (4) consecutive working days. Where the bereavement leave is taken for death of a spouse or child the employee will be granted up to five (5) consecutive working days. In all cases the bereavement leave will include the day of the funeral. During such a period the employee shall be paid for those days which were not regularly scheduled days of rest for that employee.
b)	An employee is entitled to a special leave with pay of one (1) day, for the purposes of attending services in the event of the death of the employee's aunt, uncle, grandparent, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, nieces and nephews, or a relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee permanently resides or to attend services in which the employee is serving as an active pallbearer.
c)	It is recognized by the parties that the circumstances which call for leave in respect of bereavement are based on individual circumstances. On request, the Corporation may, after considering the particular circumstances involved, grant leave without pay for a period greater than that provided for in clause 18.14 (a) and (b).
27
d)	The Corporation may request some verification of the death and relationship to the employee or that the employee was acting as an active pallbearer before honouring any claim in questionable cases.
e)	Qualifier for bereavement benefits is a person who has passed their probationary period.
f)	For the purpose of administering pay for any absence under this
clause it shall include the premium(s) the employee would have been paid had they not been absent due to bereavement.
*For the purpose of this Article, "Ward" means a person who is without full legal capacity or is otherwise incapable of managing his own affairs, and whose person, property or rights are under the protection of another person known as a guardian.
18.15	JURY DUTY / WITNESS
Where an employee is called and serves as a juror or a witness, provided it is not in their own defence, the Corporation will make up the difference between their jury pay or witness fees and the employee's regular average hourly earnings for such periods of jury duty or time they serve as a witness as fall within the normal work day.
Where an employee is called for jury duty or as a witness other than in his/her own defence, and where he/she is not required to be present to fulfill such duties, the employee will report for work in the usual manner.
The term witness does not include employees subpoenaed as a witness by the Union.
18.16	EMERGENCY CALL-IN
a)	An employee who has left the premises of the Corporation after completion of the employee's scheduled shift and who is called for work, shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate for all hours worked on recall up to the starting time of their scheduled shift, but in any event, the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate.
b)	An employee called in to work, as in 18.16 (a) above, on a Sunday, will be paid at one and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular hourly rate thereafter, but in any event, the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at one and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate.
28
18.17
BANKED MONEY
The Corporation will allow employees to bank $50.00 per week for 10 consecutive weeks, or a minimum of $100.00 per week up to a maximum of $1500.00. Employees may withdraw this money between November 1 and December 15, or at a time of layoff or recall or if granted a leave of absence by the Corporation that is not paid for to make up the difference in the pay period. These withdrawals are subject to the following:
a)	Employees must provide the Company with advanced written notice of at least 24 hours,
b)	The amount requested must be specified by the Employee in writing but cannot be less than $100.00,
c)	These monies will be included on the pay cheque issued the week following the request.
For the purposes of lay off these monies will not extend an employees service if withdrawn just prior to layoff.
Employees have to book their holiday weeks exclusive of the floater before a leave of absence may be granted.
ARTICLE 19 - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
19.01	Effective May 1, 2014, employees occupying a posted position as at
April 30, 2014 will be reclassified in accordance with the following Department and Classification structure. Employees occupying a General Labour Classification may be assigned by the Corporation to any of the General Labour assignments and duties within the Department. The Corporation will consult with the Union regarding rotations of General Labour assignments and duties within Departments. Transfers to General Labour assignments and duties outside of a Department will be made pursuant to Article 11.05.
FRESH PROCESSING DEPARTMENT
Classification as at April 30, 2014 Forklift
Pallet Jack Operator Filleting Machine Operator Heading Machine Operator Scaling Machine Operator Hand Filleter General Labour Leadhand
New Classification May 1, 2014
Material Handling Equipment Operator
Material Handling Equipment Operator
General Labour
General Labour
General Labour
General Labour
General Labour
Leadhand
COOL ROOM DEPARTMENT
29
Classification as at April 30, 2014 Forklift Pallet Jack Operator Spiral Freezer Feeder General Labour Leadhand	New Classification May 1, 2014 Material Handling Equipment Operator Material Handling Equipment Operator General Labour General Labour Leadhand
TUNNEL/FROZEN GRADER DEPARTMENT Classification as at April 30, 2014	New Classification May 1, 2014
Forklift Pallet Jack Operator Tunnel Feeder General Labour Leadhand	Material Handling Equipment Operator Material Handling Equipment Operator General Labour General Labour Leadhand
SHIPPING & RECEIVING DEPARTMENT Classification as at April 30, 2014	New Classification May 1, 2014
Forklift Pallet Jack Operator Shipping and Receiving Fresh Receiving Repack General Labour Leadhand Forklift (Freezer) Shipping Receiving (Freezer) Hi Reach Operator (Freezer) Leadhand (Freezer)	Material Handling Equipment Operator Material Handling Equipment Operator Shipper/Receiver General Labour General Labour Leadhand Freezer Operator Freezer Operator Freezer Operator Leadhand
Classification as at April 30, 2014 Caviar (General Labour) Leadhand Pallet Jack Operator	CAVIAR DEPARTMENT New Classification May 1, 2014 General Labour Leadhand Material Handling Equipment Operator
Classification as at April 30, 2014 Sanitation Leadhand	SANITATION DEPARTMENT New Classification May 1, 2014 Sanitation Leadhand
QUALITY CONTROL DEPARTMENT
Classification as at April 30, 2014	New Classification May 1, 2014
Quality Control	Quality Control
Leadhand	Leadhand
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Classification as at April 30, 2014	New Classification May 1, 2014
Maintenance Helper Maintenance Mechanic Industrial Mechanic Maintenance Journeyman Electrician Journeyman Maintenance Apprentice Trades	Maintenance Helper Maintenance Mechanic Industrial Mechanic Journeyman-Millwright Mechanic Journeyman-Electrician Apprentice
19.02	Effective May 1, 2014, the Corporation will cease paying premiums
other than those set forth in Articles 19.06 and 19.07. The wage rates for all classifications other than those in the Maintenance Department effective May 1, 2014 are as set forth in Wage Appendix
30
19.03
19.04
19.05
19.06
19.07
ARTICLE 20
20.01
20.02
20.03
A and Wage Appendix B (April 30, 2014 rates included for information purposes only).
The new employee starting rate shall increase $ .50 per hour for all hours worked after completion of 300 hours worked, and increase a further $ .50 per hour for each additional 300 hours worked until the employee reaches the plant General Labour Rate as described in Article 19 above.
All new employees returning on the next recall shall be credited with all hours worked since they last established seniority with the Corporation, to establish a basic wage rate for that employee.
Effective May 1, 2014, the Corporation will cease paying premiums other than those set forth in Articles 19.06 and 19.07. The wage rates for all classifications in the Maintenance Department effective May 1, 2014 are as set forth in Wage Appendix C (April 30, 2014 rates included for information purposes only).
Leadhand Premium
A leadhand premium of $0.60 per hour worked will be paid for actual hours worked and while attending meetings.
Shift Premium
Employees (other than Sanitation Department employees) that occupy a position with a regularly scheduled shift on the Afternoon or Midnight Shifts (as defined in Article 18.01) will be paid a shift premium of $0.85 per actual hour worked and while attending meetings during the Afternoon or Midnight Shifts. Employees in the Sanitation Department are not eligible for a shift premium as the wage rate has incorporated a shift premium.
SCHEDULE"B" - VACATION WITH PAY
The vacation period is from January 1st through December 31st.
Before leaving for their vacation, employees may request to be paid their vacation pay for the portion of their vacation period upon which they are embarking. Requests must be submitted prior to the payroll cut off for the last pay period prior to the vacation period.
Early Window - January, February and March Vacation Scheduling
31
20.04
a)	Prior to the first day of September of each year, the Corporation shall post a notice advising employees who wish to schedule all or a portion of their vacation in the months of January, February or March of the following year to contact their Supervisor by September 15th.
b)	By September 15th, any employee wishing to schedule all or a portion of his/her vacation in the months of January, February or March of the following year will record his/her preferred period of vacation on the vacation request form and submit it to his/her Supervisor.
c)	By September 30th, the Corporation will review the vacation preferences requested by the employees for the months of January, February and March. If production requirements so permit, each employee that has submitted a request will be authorized to take his/her vacation by seniority, by shift, by department in accordance with his/her preference. If production requirements do no so permit, the Corporation will meet with the employee to obtain the employee’s alternate vacation preferences during the months of January, February or March, to be selected by seniority, by shift, by department. The employee may elect to forego scheduling vacation during the months of January, February or March and defer his/her vacation scheduling until the Main Vacation Scheduling Procedure.
d)	Employees that have submitted a request pursuant to this early window will be notified of the decision in writing regarding their vacation request by September 30th.
Main Vacation Scheduling Procedure
a)	Prior to January 15th of each year, the Corporation shall post a listing of employees who are entitled to vacations during that year and their earned vacation entitlements for the year. This procedure is applicable to employees who are on layoff during this period of time.
b)	Prior to February 15th each employee will record his/her preferred period of vacation on a vacation request form and provide it to his/her Supervisor.
c)	The Corporation will review the vacation preferences requested by the employees. If production requirements so permit, each employee will be authorized to take his/her vacation by seniority, by shift, by department in accordance with his/her preference. If production requirements do not permit the Corporation to approve the preferences and/or if an
32
20.05
20.06
20.07
20.08
employee fails to submit a vacation request form, the Corporation will meet with the employee to obtain the employee’s alternate vacation preferences, to be selected by seniority, by shift, by department. In assessing production requirements for vacation scheduling, the Corporation may establish vacation blackout periods during the 3rd and 4th week of May, June, September, 1st and 2nd week October which no vacations will be permitted to be scheduled except for extenuating circumstances that will be approved by the Corporation.
d)	Employees will be provided with confirmation of their scheduled vacation in writing before March 15th. If the Corporation does not authorize an employee to take their vacation during the employee’s preferred vacation period, such employee will be so notified in that notice. The Corporation agrees to review with the Union the reasons why and employee’s vacation preference was denied, if requested to do so.
e)	It is agreed that the final decision regarding the authorization of an employee’s vacation period remains with the Corporation. However, once an employee’s vacation preference has been authorized, it will not be changed unless mutually agreed by the employee and the Corporation.
An employee that earns less vacation pay than his/her vacation entitlement for the vacation period may request to schedule the balance of the vacation as time off without pay or forfeit the time off and work.
An employee that is entitled to three or more weeks of vacation may request to leave one week of vacation unscheduled. Such vacation must be taken during the vacation year, and vacation requests submitted to take this unscheduled vacation will be authorized on a first come first serve basis. If as at November 1 the vacation has not been taken or is not scheduled to be taken by December 31st, the Corporation may schedule the vacation with at least two weeks’ notice of the schedule to the employee.
Vacations earned during the current vacation period must be taken during the vacation period immediately following that in which they are earned. Vacation periods can only be accumulated and carried over in special cases by mutual agreement between the Corporation and the employee.
If a statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the vacation period shall be extended by one (1) working day.
33
20.09
20.10
20.11
20.12
An employee’s length of vacation is based on the employee’s seniority on the employee’s individual anniversary date with the Corporation in the year in which the vacation is to be taken, and will be as follows:
a)	An employee with more than one (1) complete year of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
b)	An employee with more than two (2) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at six percent (6%) of their total earnings.
c)	An employee with more than nine (9) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at eight percent (8%) of their total earnings.
d)	An employee with more than fourteen (14) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to five (5) weeks of vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at ten percent (10%) of their total earnings.
e)	Employees with more than twenty one (21) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at twelve percent (12%) of their total earnings.
Should an employee who is entitled to vacation resign having given due legal notice or be discharged, said employee shall receive pay in lieu of vacation at the applicable rates outlined in 20.09.
An employee's vacation time will be included in his/her length of qualifying service.
Payment of wages in lieu of vacation is not permitted. If a layoff occurs at a time when an employee’s vacation has been scheduled, the employee may elect to continue to receive the vacation and vacation pay as scheduled or to cancel the vacation and reschedule it for a period later in the same year, to be scheduled on a first come first serve basis, however, vacation scheduled to be taken in December must be taken as scheduled. An employee that has been laid off may request to cancel a portion of his/her vacation scheduled later in the year and receive that portion of his/her vacation and vacation pay during the period of lay-off.
34
20.13
20.14
ARTICLE 21
21.01
21.02
If death occurs in the immediate family of an employee while the employee is on vacation, the vacation leave will be extended at the request of the employee, by the length of the bereavement entitlement.
Employees with three (3) weeks or more vacation entitlement can split two (2) weeks of vacation subject to operational requirements. To assist the Corporation in determining its operational requirements the request for this vacation must be submitted in writing 24 hours prior to the day being requested, and will be considered in the order received. However, if the Corporation asks employees if they want to use split vacation time or should the employee choose to split and use vacation time as a result of the Corporation reducing the work week to 36 hours, the requirement of the request being made 24 hours in advance does not apply.
SCHEDULE"C" - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
All employees shall be entitled to and shall be granted a holiday with pay on each of the general holidays listed below, and all other holidays proclaimed by the Government of Canada or the Government of the Province of Manitoba, if the employee has worked and received wages for fifteen (15) out of the last thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday. Employees shall be paid the amount of wages they would have normally earned during their regular shift, including premiums, without being required to render services for the following general holidays:
New Year's Day Louis Riel Day Good Friday Floating Holiday
Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
An employee is not entitled to be paid for a statutory holiday on which he does not work when he is not entitled to wages for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday, unless absent with the permission of the Corporation in respect of absences relating to certified illness, illness in the employee's family necessitating the employee's absence from work, death in the employee's family, jury duty or non-compensable injury.
35
21.03
21.04
21.05
21.06
ARTICLE 22
22.01
ARTICLE 23
23.01
If an employee works on any of the above-named paid statutory holidays, they will receive payment at the rate of time and one-half for the first six (6) hours worked and double time thereafter.
If a holiday as set forth in Clause 21.01 falls on a day which is not a regular working day, the first working day preceding the holiday or the first working day thereafter shall be considered the holiday.
Where a holiday as set out in Clause 21.01 falls during the period of an employee's vacation, the period of vacation shall be lengthened by one (1) working day.
In a week in which a statutory holiday occurs, the regular hours per week will be reduced by one-fifth for each holiday therein.
SCHEDULE"D" - BENEFIT PROGRAM
a)	All employees who are on the Corporation's seniority list, and who remain on the seniority list, are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below.
b)	New employees are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below when the Corporation records show that the employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19.
c)	Employees are not entitled to any benefits under Schedule D other than the Pension Plan as described in Article 23 until they reach the General Labour Rate as described in Article 19. There is an obligation upon the employee to complete all eligibility requirements of the insurer and maintain the same with the insurer in order to be eligible for, and the maintenance of, the benefits available under the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
- PENSION PLAN
a)	The Superannuation Plan as outlined by the Public Service Superannuation Act which was placed into effect by the Corporation on behalf of the employees on April 1st, 1973 is to continue.
b)	Once yearly, the Corporation will distribute to all employees enrolled in the Superannuation Plan, a written statement prepared by Superannuation Directorate showing the status of their plan within five (5) working days after receiving these statements from Superannuation Directorate.
36
c)	Employees who have worked for 1040 hours will be enrolled in the Superannuation Plan.
ARTICLE 24 - SICKNESS AND DISABILITY
24.01
24.02
a)	No employee shall be discharged because of sickness or disability resulting from accident sustained while performing Corporation duties. On returning to work, the employee shall receive their former position provided such employee is not adjudged incapable of performing their former duties, in which case the Corporation will endeavour to find suitable work.
b)	An employee shall accumulate sick leave credits to a maximum of one and one-quarter (1%) days for each full month of employment calculated for every four (4) week period, cumulative to a maximum of one hundred (100) days. The Corporation will provide employees with a statement of their accumulated sick time on a quarterly basis. (January 1st, April 1st, July 1st, October 1st).
c)	For the purposes of determining the accumulation of sick leave credits every four (4) week period referred to in b) above, the calculation will be based on regular hours worked or paid during the four (4) week period. (see note re: sample calculation in Letter of Understanding on Sick Leave Calculation).
An employee shall be granted sick leave with pay when unable to perform
duties because of illness or injury provided:
a)	that the Corporation is satisfied that the employee's condition prevents them from carrying out their duties;
b)	that the employee has the necessary sick leave credits;
c)	that a medical certificate is presented to the Corporation, at their request, when an individual's absence because of sickness exceeds three (3) working days. Notwithstanding the foregoing the Corporation reserves the right to request a medical certificate in respect of any absence in order to be properly satisfied that the employee's condition prevents them from carrying out their duties. The Corporation undertakes to utilize this provision with reasonable discretion;
d)	If an employee becomes ill and cannot report for work, a message must be left on the Corporation's sick phone ((204) 983-6606) or their supervisor must be contacted no later than the normal starting time of their shift. Upon return to duty the employee is required to report to their immediate supervisor.
37
24.03
24.04
Employees off work for more than one day and under doctor’s care must inform the Corporation and will not be required to call on a daily basis.
e)	Payment shall be made as follows:
i)	three hundred (300) hours or more of accumulated sick leave
credits:
-	100% of regular wages for all days sick up to the maximum of the employee’s accumulated sick leave credits
ii)	two hundred (200) hours or more of accumulated sick leave
credits:
-	75% of regular wages for first day sick
-100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee's accumulated sick leave credits;
iii)	less than two hundred (200) hours of accumulated sick leave
credits:
1.	no pay for the first three days;
2.	100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee's accumulated sick leave credits;
iv)	the employee must complete the necessary forms requesting
payment (see attached)
In cases of suspected abuse of absences the Corporation may require an employee to take a medical examination. In such cases the Corporation shall notify the union in advance of its intention to require the employee to take a medical examination by a physician other than the employee’s own physician and the Corporation will absorb the cost for such medical examination.
a)	Any employee who is injured on the job and is sent from the Plant for medical care, will be paid for the time lost for such treatment during the shift in which the injury occurred, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
b)	If any employee is unable to perform the work and is instructed not to return to work after treatment, he will be paid for the balance of the shift not worked, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
c)	Should an employee be injured while working overtime, so seriously as to require immediate medical attention, the employee shall receive payment at the applicable rate for the remaining hours of overtime which would have been worked in the department where the injury occurred.
38
d)	When any employee is injured at work so seriously as to require transportation, the Corporation agrees to provide or pay the cost of transportation on the day injury occurs, between the Plant, hospital, and home.
ARTICLE 25 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
25.01
a)	All eligible employees with less than six (6) years seniority will be covered for $20,000 life insurance; employees with more than six (6) years seniority will be covered for $50,000 life insurance. The Corporation shall pay the premiums.
b)	The long term disability plan shall be as follows:
i)	To provide for sixty percent (60%) of the employees gross earnings per month to be capped in accordance with Plan Rules;
ii)	To provide for a 105 day waiting period;
iii)	Premiums to be paid by the Corporation.
c)	The accidental death and dismemberment plan shall be as follows:
i)	Basic coverage to be equivalent to the basic life insurance;
ii)	Premiums to be paid by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 26 - DENTAL PLAN
26.01	All eligible employees shall be covered by a dental plan. Coverage will be
in effect for the entire year, including layoffs.
COVERAGE: Routine 100%
Major 50%
Annual maximum is $1100 per person for combined routine and major. Deductible is $25.00 single and $50.00 family coverage.
The Corporation shall pay for the full cost of single coverage and will pay the cost of the family plan other than $15.00 per month which will be deducted from the employees in the family plan.
ARTICLE 27 - EXTENDED HEALTHCARE
39
27.01	All eligible employees will be covered for extended healthcare benefits
listed below. The Corporation will pay the premium for the single coverage. Employees who choose the family coverage will be required to pay the difference in premium costs between single and family coverage.
75% Prescription drugs
100% Semi-private hospital care and ambulance Deductible will be $10.00 for single and $25.00 for family.
a)	The Corporation will provide four hundred dollars ($400) every two years towards the cost of prescription eyewear for each employee.
b)	The Corporation will provide orthopaedic care to a maximum of $100.00 in every calendar year for each employee who is at the General Labour Rate.
c)	Within ninety (90) days of May 1, 2014 the Corporation will provide for a pay direct prescription drug card to be added to the extended healthcare plan.
d)	Within ninety (90) days of May 1, 2014 the Corporation will provide for an Employee Assistance Plan.
ARTICLE 28 - POST RETIREMENT HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
28.01	The Corporation will make available a post retirement healthcare plan as
follows:
a)	Dental - 80% routine
- 80% major
Maximum coverage $500.00 per person per year.
b)	Prescription drugs ambulance, semi-private hospital room.
All premiums will be paid by the retiree.
ARTICLE 29 - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
29.01	The Corporation will annually, upon request from the Union, meet with the
Union to discuss issues related to the Corporation’s apprenticeship
program such as what trade is going to be apprenticed, schooling, payment of tuition and books and how the union can assist with the apprenticeship program. The apprenticeship standards will be as per the Manitoba Apprenticeship Board, and the apprentice upon successful completion will be expected to write their Certificate of Qualification.
40
ARTICLE 30 - TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01	The Corporation and the Union agree that this Agreement shall be
effective from May 1, 2014 onto April 30, 2017 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement is given by either party to the other party not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union's or the Corporation's amendments, the other party shall within five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement, or conclusion of a new collective labour agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have cause this Agreement to be executed this_______day of_________________, 2014.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE CORPORATION:
41
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SEVERANCE PAY
1.	In the event of termination, except in the case of termination for just cause, employees who have worked for the Corporation for twelve (12) consecutive months shall be entitled to severance pay, payable upon the termination of their employment, and calculated pursuant to the provisions hereof.
2.	Severance pay pursuant to this Article shall be calculated as follows:
The employee who has completed twelve (12) or more consecutive months of employment, shall be paid the greater of:
a)	one week's pay at the employee's regular hourly rate, or
b)	four days' pay at the employee's regular hourly rate for each year of completed employment.
The continuity of employment shall include layoff and/or any authorized leave of absence. For the purposes of this Letter of Understanding a layoff does not constitute a termination until the employee’s recall rights set out in 11.02(d) have expired. When the employee’s recall rights have expired while on a layoff, the layoff shall become a termination and the employee shall be eligible to receive severance pay as set out above.
Agreed on the 10h day of November 2005.
42
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SICK AND DISABILITY REQUEST FOR PAYMENT
NAME:
EMP.NO:
I,
was absent from work from
___________________________________to_____________________________________
due to illness, rendering me unable to perform my regular duties.
DOCTOR'S CERTIFICATE ATTACHED: _______________YES_________NO
I request payment under the sick and disability plan: __YES __________NO
Employee Signature
Date
Authorized by	Date
NOTE:	Making false statements requesting payment may result in dismissal.
Agreed to November 10, 2005.
43
September 13, 2011
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OVERTIME
For all non maintenance employees to assist the Corporation with meeting its production requirements during peak periods (defined below) any overtime will first be offered on a volunteer basis by seniority in accordance with Article 18.08. In the event that the Corporation cannot fill its overtime requirements on a voluntary basis, the Corporation shall have the right to require up to the most junior 25% of employees in the plant on the shift experiencing the need who did not volunteer or are not available, to work overtime. However the use of this mandatory overtime provision shall not be used in conjunction with the voluntary overtime to exceed a maximum of 60% of employees by shift working in the Plant.
If the Corporation still cannot meet its overtime requirement it may at its own discretion choose to cancel the overtime it has assigned prior to the commencement of the overtime without any penalty.
For the purposes of this Letter of Understanding only the most junior employee shall include employees who are on probation as well as employees who have acquired seniority under the Collective Agreement.
For all maintenance employees to assist the Corporation with meeting its maintenance requirements on production equipment during peak periods, which for the purposes of this "Letter Of Understanding are defined as, May 24 - July 15th inclusive and September 1 - October 31st inclusive any overtime will first be offered on a voluntary basis by seniority in accordance with Article 18.08. The number of maintenance employees needed on the weekend when the plant is processing is a minimum of one (1) Electrician and one (1) Mechanic on each of the day and afternoon shifts. In the event there are insufficient volunteers to fill the minimum staffing requirements set out above, maintenance employees will be scheduled in reverse order of seniority. For the purpose of this Letter Of Understanding the term "Mechanic” includes "Maintenance Mechanic”, Industrial Mechanic” and Maintenance Journeyman”.
It is further understood that the Union will be given ten (10) days from date of ratification to meet with the maintenance employees in an effort to propose another viable option acceptable to the Corporation that meets these staffing requirements.
This Letter of Understanding shall be in effect from the date of ratification of the Collective Agreement until April 30, 2015 and shall be renewed thereafter by the parties on an annual basis, on every April 30 unless one of the parties notifies the other party in writing at least 2 weeks prior to April 30, that they do not wish to renew this letter.
44
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING JOINT LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Corporation and the Union have agreed to form a joint labour-management committee. The primary purpose of the committee will be to make recommendations to the management of the Corporation.
The primary objectives of the committee will be to:
•	Deal with changes in the industry that impact the workplace.
•	Create efficiencies and eliminate waste in processing to ensure that as much product as possible is processed at the Winnipeg Plant.
•	Increase returns to fishers in order to maintain and increase deliveries, which will result in economic benefit to employees.
• Facilitate improved communication and provide for dialogue and input from affected employees prior to recommendations being made that affect the Winnipeg Plant.
•	Increase the size of the workforce employed twelve months a year, as well as retain experienced employees.
•	Retain current work and add new work as a viable alternative to outsourcing.
The committee shall be structured and function as follows:
•	The committee will be comprised of six (6) employees of the Corporation. Three (3) will be appointed by the Union and three (3) will be appointed by the Corporation. The Union’s appointees shall consist of the Local President, the Chief Steward and one other appointee of their choice.
•	The Corporation will pay wages and benefits of employees attending committee meetings.
•	Guests may be invited to attend meetings from time to time upon the invitation of either the Union or the Corporation. Any costs involved with the attendance of the guests at committee meetings who are not employees shall be entirely paid by the party at whose invitation the guest attends.
•	The committee will determine its own processes and meeting schedule. Notwithstanding this, the first meeting shall take place within 30 days of the ratification of the Collective Agreement.
•	Unless agreed otherwise by the committee, all discussions occurring at committee meetings shall be held in strictest confidence.
•	The committee will discuss and agree on what information is necessary to make recommendations it wishes to present to the Corporation. The Corporation will provide this information subject to the provisions of the Access to Information Act or any other applicable statute.
•	Unless otherwise specified, this Letter of Understanding does not in any way, nor is it intended to, amend, diminish or restrict the rights and obligations of the Union or Management as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
Agreed on the 10th day of November, 2005.
45
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PROCESSING OF PICKEREL/SAUGER
The Corporation agrees that it will ensure that all pickerel / sauger purchased by the Corporation will be processed at the Plessis Road Facility subject to the following:
While this Letter of Understanding is intended to provide job security for the employees of the Corporation, should the Corporation determine that pickerel is to be processed at Regional Processing Facilities established in accordance with the Regional Processing Policy established and adopted by the FFMC Board of Directors in 2001 (a copy of which has been provided to the Union), this Letter of Understanding will not prohibit it from doing so. As well, the Corporation will continue to sell unprocessed pickerel to its established markets for these products, which will not be processed and sold under any FFMC brand.
This Letter of Understanding is in effect for the life of this Collective Agreement.
46
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND & LOCAL 561 SOCIAL COMMITTEE FUND
On April 15th of each year the Corporation will pay the following amounts:
i)	$1000.00 to the UNIFOR SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND, mailed to:
205 Placer Court North York Willowdale, Ontario M2H 3H9
ii)	$2000.00 to the Unifor Local 561 Social Committee Fund, mailed to:
Box 123
1376 Grant Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3M 3Y4
iii)	$4000.00 to the Unifor Leadership Training Fund, mailed to:
Unifor Canada 205 Placer Court Toronto, Ontario M2H 2H9
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SHORT DAY LEAVE EARLY
The Parties agree that on any given day should the opportunity arise for an employee(s) to leave work early, the Corporation may consider requests that have been received from employees to leave early that day. Requests will be determined by plant wide seniority, subject to operational requirements (i.e. need a stacker(s) and these employees have the most seniority and can’t be replaced), allowing the employee(s) the opportunity to leave early if they so desire.
An employee who leaves work early in accordance with this understanding may elect to take the time off without pay or, if the employee has unscheduled vacation available provided it is used in not less than two hour increments. The requirement to provide 24 hours’ notice to use unscheduled vacation entitlements in Article 20.14 would not be applicable.
An employee who leaves work early without pay in accordance with this understanding will be marked on "authorized leave”. This authorized leave without pay will be subject to deduction for contribution to Superannuation.
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LEAD HANDS - PROCESSING AREAS ONLY
For the purposes of this L.O.U., Processing areas will be defined as Lines 1 - 5; Mincing line; Fillet Injector; Skinning/Packaging Line and Portioning.
During the 2008 round of negotiations, the parties discussed at great length not only the large number of Lead Hands, but also the duties of Lead Hands and the amount of time spent doing things such as data entry instead of working on the line(s).
The parties have agreed that in the Processing Areas as defined herein, there shall be a maximum of fourteen (14) Lead Hands.
When one of the areas as set out above is not operating, the junior Lead Hand from the areas, on the shift, will be dealt with in the same manner as the employees from the affected area. As additional areas are not operating, this process will be followed.
There will be no additional duties added to Lead Hands without prior consultation and agreement of the Union. Such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld.
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SICK LEAVE CALCULATION
Sick Leave calculation in accordance with article 24.01, shall be as follows:
•	The Collective Agreement states - One and one-quarter (1 %) days of sick leave per month based on hours worked or paid;
•	1 % days X 12 months = 15 maximum days of sick leave accrual per year
•	15 days X 8 hours per day = 120 maximum hours of sick leave accrual per year.
Payroll does not work on a monthly basis but on a weekly basis (and will switch to biweekly sometime in the May 1, 2014 to April 30, 2015 year of the agreement), so as
a result:
•	Sick leave is calculated in a period of 4 weeks;
•	Regular number of hours worked or paid in a four (4) week period = 160
•	There are thirteen (13) four (4) week periods in a year;
•	120 sick leave hours per year divided by 13 periods = 9.23 hours of sick leave earned in each period of four (4) weeks.
If an employee was off work for sixteen (16) unpaid hours in a period of four weeks, the sick leave accrual would be 144/160 x 9.23 = 8.31 hours for the four (4) week period.
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PART TIME WORKERS
The Parties have agreed that the employment and use of Part Time workers will be in accordance with the following:
a)	Part time workers will be called in and scheduled to work only when a sufficient number of full time employees is not available.
b)	Call in and scheduling of part time workers will be limited to Saturdays, Sundays and holidays as identified in Article 21.01 of the Collective Agreement.
c)	Any work available in the plant on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays as identified in Article 21.01 of the Collective Agreement will be offered first to full time employees in accordance with article 18.08 of the Collective Agreement.
d)	The rate of pay for part time workers is $15.00 per hour and is not subject to the overtime provisions for Saturdays and Sundays in Articles 18.02 and 18.04, respectively of the Collective Agreement.
e)	Part time workers who work beyond eight (8) hours in any day shall be compensated in accordance with Article 18.03 of the Collective Agreement.
f)	The employer will maintain a separate seniority list for part time workers.
Part time workers will have seniority only among the group of part time workers and are exempt from the seniority provisions of Article 11 of the Collective Agreement. The Corporation will provide the Union with a copy of the Part time worker seniority list on a quarterly basis and/or upon request of the Union.
g)	Part time workers will be called in and scheduled by seniority to a maximum of up to but no more than 20 hours in a seven (7) day period Monday to Sunday.
h)	Part time workers shall be on probation until completion of two hundred and fifty (250) working hours.
i)	Should a part time worker become a regular, full time employee in accordance with and as a result of the job posting provisions of Article 13 of the Collective Agreement, the employee will be credited with hours worked as a part time worker (career hours) for all purposes of the Collective Agreement. A part time worker who becomes a regular, full time employee will start at the new employee starting rate plus an additional $.50 per hour for each 300 hours worked since the date of hire as a part time worker in accordance with Article 19 of the Collective Agreement.
51
j)	Should a part time worker become a regular, full time employee, the employee will be placed on the full time seniority list according to the employee’s date of hire as a part time worker.
k)	Part time workers shall receive vacation pay on their regular pay cheques calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
l)	In addition to the above, the following specific articles of the Collective Agreement will not apply to part time workers: Article 18.01, 18.14, 18.15,
18.16	and 18.17; and Articles 20, 21,22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 in their entirety.
m)	Part time workers will be covered by all terms of the Collective Agreement unless specifically stated otherwise in this Letter of Understanding.
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
FLOATING HOLIDAY
The parties agree that the day known as "Floating Holiday” which is listed in Article 21 of the Collective Agreement between the parties will normally be observed on the Monday following the Easter weekend. When Plant Shut Down occurs the week after Easter weekend, the "Floating Holiday” will be banked by the employee and taken at a later date at a time mutually agreed to between the employee and the Corporation. If the day is not taken by December 31st it will be paid out.
Similarly, if a Plant Shut Down occurs during a week that another General Holiday occurs, the General Holiday will be banked by the employee and taken at a later date at a time mutually agreed to between the employee and the Corporation. If the day is not taken by December 31st it will be paid out.
The foregoing applies to Plant Shut Downs only, and not regular lay-off and recall periods.
53
NEW: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: ARTICLE 18.12 AND BI-WEEKLY PAYROLL
In the 2014 collective bargaining negotiations, the parties agreed that during the first year of the new collective agreement the Corporation would transition from a weekly payroll with hard-copy pay statements issued to employees to a bi-weekly payroll with electronic pay statements issued to employees. The Corporation agreed to consult with the Union with respect to the implementation of the weekly payroll an electronic pay statement system, including the timing of the transition, the installation of a computer terminal for use by employees to access electronic pay statements and other issues related to the implementation of the new system.
The transition will occur not later than April 30, 2015. Effective the date of the transition, Article 18.12 will read as follows:
“18.12 Payday shall be bi-weekly by direct deposit and each employee shall be provided on the day prior to the payday with an itemized statement of his/her wages and deductions, including total earnings to date and total income tax to date. Any payroll errors will be corrected as follows:
i.	less that forty dollars ($40.00) - next pay period
ii.	forty dollars ($40.00) or more - next business day”
54
NEW: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC AND MAINTENANCE MECHANIC POSITIONS
In the 2014 collective bargaining negotiations, the parties discussed issues related to the complement of Maintenance classifications. The Corporation advised the Union of its intention to transition from the use of Industrial Mechanics and Maintenance Mechanics to Journeyman-Millwright Mechanics. The Corporation has agreed to continue to use the current Industrial Mechanic and Maintenance Mechanic classifications with the present incumbents. The parties agree that the Corporation will not be required to post or fill any Industrial Mechanic or Maintenance Mechanic vacancies created by way of leaves of absence, retirements, resignations or terminations of the present incumbents in the Industrial Mechanic and Maintenance Mechanic classifications.
55
NEW: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RECLASSIFICATION AND JOB ROTATIONS
In the 2014 round of collective bargaining negotiations the parties agreed to implement the Department and Classification restructuring set forth in Articles 11, 13, 19 and Wage Appendices A, B and C. The parties have agreed to meet in November 2014 and April 2015 to review and discuss any issues and concerns related to the reclassifications and job rotations being implemented by the Corporation.
56
Wage Appendix A
Employees Hired Prior to May 1st, 2008
Classification	April 30, 2014 without Premium	April 30, 2014 with premium(s)	May 1, 2014	May 1, 2015	May 1, 2016
General Labour Rate	$19.28	$19.28	$19.67	$20.06	$20.46
Freezer Operator	$19.28	$20.58	$20.99 i ii iii iv v	$21.41 i	$21.84 i
Material Handling Equipment Operator	$19.28	$19.88	$20.28 ii	$20.68 ii	$21.10 ii
Quality Control	$19.28	$19.28	$20.28 iii	$20.68 iii	$21.10 iii
Sanitation	$19.28	$20.18	$20.58 iv	$21.00 iv	$21.42 iv
Shipper/Receiver	$19.28	$20.10	$20.50 v	$20.91 v	$21.33 v
i	Freezer Operator includes $1.30 (Freezer Premium $0.48 + Shipping and Receiving $0.22 + Forklift Operator $0.60)
ii	Material Handling Equipment Operator includes $0.60 (Forklift Operator $.60)
iii	Quality Control includes $0.60 (New Quality Control premium $0.60 including material handling job requirement)
iv	Sanitation includes $0.90 (Night shift premium $0.85 + new $0.05 per hour material handling job requirement)
v	Shipping/Receiving includes $0.82 (Shipping and Receiving $0.22 + Forklift Operator $0.60)
57
Wage Appendix B
Employees Hired After April 30, 2008 i ii iii iv v
Classification	April 30, 2014 without Premium	April 30, 2014 with premium(s)	May 1, 2014	May 1, 2015	May 1, 2016
General Labour Rate	$17.05	$17.05	$17.39	$17.74	$18.09
Freezer Operator	$17.05	$18.35	$18.72 i	$19.09 i	$19.47 i
Material Handling Equipment Operator	$17.05	$17.65	$18.00 ii	$18.36 ii	$18.73 ii
Quality Control	$17.05	$17.05	$18.00 iii	$18.36 iii	$18.73 iii
Sanitation	$17.05	$17.95	$18.31 iv	$ 18.68 iv	$19.05 iv
Shipper/Receiver	$17.05	$17.87	$18.23 v	$18.59 v	$18.96 v
Part Time	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
New Employee Starting Rate	$12.00	$12.00	$12.24	$12.48	$12.73
i	Freezer Operator includes $1.30 (Freezer Premium $0.48 + Shipping and Receiving $0.22 + Forklift Operator $0.60)
ii	Material Handling Equipment Operator includes $0.60 (Forklift Operator $.60)
iii	Quality Control includes $0.60 (New Quality Control premium $0.60 including material handling job requirement)
iv	Sanitation includes $0.90 (Night shift premium $0.85 + new $0.05 per hour material handling job requirement)
v	Shipping/Receiving includes $0.82 (Shipping and Receiving $0.22 + Forklift Operator $0.60)
58
Wage Appendix C Maintenance Department
Classification	April 30, 2014 without Premium	April 30, 2014 with premium(s)	May 1, 2014	May 1, 2015	May 1, 2016
Maintenance Helper (Prior to May 1st, 2008)	$20.68	$20.68	$21.09	$21.52	$21.95
Maintenance Helper (Hired after April 30th, 2008)	$18.45	$18.45	$18.82	$19.20	$19.58
Maintenance Mechanic	$24.40	$24.40	$24.89	$25.39	$25.89
Industrial Mechanic	$28.84	$28.84	$29.42	$30.01	$30.61
Journeyman - Millwright Mechanic	$30.92	$30.92	$31.54	$32.17	$32.81
Journeyman -Electrician	$31.96	$31.96	$32.60	$33.25	$33.92
Maintenance Apprentice Trades:	Level 1	70% of top rate
	Level 2	75% of top rate
	Level 3	80% of top rate
	Level 4	85% of top rate
59