AGREEMENT
MERM. __ I;
No 0F |
EMP.Cf. ii j cAcS': J ,
NOM.'.RE *	| '* /
D'l.V.PIOYE . j (/ /V
BETWEEN
FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING CORPORATION
- and -
RETAIL WHOLESALE CANADA CANADIAN SERVICE SECTOR DIVISION OF U.S.W.A. LOCAL 561
F fc V
vMU
♦As.sg

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DESCRIPTION
PAGE NO.
Purposes Definitions Recognition Management Functions Strikes and Lockouts
1
1
2
3
3
Union Security and Check-off
Appointment of Stewards
Use of Corporation Facilities
Grievance Procedures - General
Complaints
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Policy Grievance Corporation Grievance
5
6 6 6 7 7 7
Arbitration
4
4
7
Seniority
Layoff and Recall Transfer out of Bargaining Unit Temporary Transfer Shift Changes
Job Transfers
Job Posting
Discharge, Suspension and Discipline Uniforms and Supplies
9
10 11 12 13
13
13
14
15
General Provisions - Leave of Absence Technological Change New Machinery Supervisors Working No Discrimination
16
16
16
17
17
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
DESCRIPTION
PAGE NO.
Health & Safety
Hours of Work and Overtime Wages
Bereavement Leave Jury Duty Emergency Call-in
Job Classifications and Wage Rates
Vacation with Pay
Statutory Holidays
Benefit Program
Pension Plan
Sickness and Disability
Life Insurance Plan
Dental Plan
Extended Healthcare
Post Retirement Healthcare Coverage
Termination of Agreement
Letter of Understanding - Severance Pay
Letter of Understanding - Sick and Disability
Request For Payment
17
19
20 21 22 22
23
24
27
28 28 28 30
30
31
31
32
33
34
1
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSES
1.01	The purposes of this agreement are:
a)	to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Corporation and its plant employees;
b)	to establish procedure for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances; and,
c)	to promote and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement. All subject to the provisions of Article 4.
ARTTCEE 2 - DEETNTTTONS
2.01	For the purpose of this agreement:
a)	“Union” means the Retail Wholesale Canada Canadian Service Sector Division of the United Steelworkers of America Local 5 6 1.
b)	“Bargaining Unit” means the employees of the employer described in Article 3;
c)	“Corporation” means the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation;
d)	“Daily rate of pay” means the employee’s hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight;
e)	“Overtime” means work performed by an employee in excess of eight hours in a day or in excess of forty hours in his scheduled work week for all employees;
f)	“Straight-time rate” means the regular hourly rate of pay;
g)	“Time and one-half’ means one and one-half times the straight time rate;
h)	“Double time” means twice the straight time rate;
i)	“Employee” means an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit;
j)	“Hourly rate of pay” means the rate of pay scheduled in Article 19 applicable to the employee’s classification;
k)	“Layoff means an employee whose employment has been temporarily terminated because of lack of work, and who is subject to recall to work;
l)	“Union dues” means the dues established pursuant to the constitution of the Union as the dues payable by its members as a consequence of their membership in the Union, and shall not include any initiation fee, insurance premium, or special levy.
m)	“Leadhand” is a person who performs work and directs the work of others, and shall not have the authority to hire, fire, suspend, or otherwise discipline other employees. A leadhand shall be a Union member.
n)	Industrial mechanic means a person who has a certificate of qualification from a recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as a journeyman industrial mechanic by provincial or federal licensing authorities.
o)	Maintenance journeyman means a person who holds more than one (1) trade certificate from a recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as a journeyman in both trades.
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION
3.01	The Canada Labour Relations Board has not certified the Union as the bargaining
agent for plant employees, but nonetheless, the Corporation voluntarily recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Corporation in the Province of Manitoba, except:
a)	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit during the currency of this agreement;
b)	Foremen, supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisor;
c)	Office staff;
d)	Employees described by the Certificate of Certification issued by the Canada Labour Relations Board dated February 22nd, 1973. (No. of Certificate F-66-2694).
3
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	The Union recognizes the undisputed right of the Corporation to operate and to manage its business in all respects and to make and to alter from time to time rules and regulations which are to be observed by employees.
4.02	The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to hire, to promote, to lay off, to recall, to transfer, to suspend, to discipline, and to discharge any employee for just cause, subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided. The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and to manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities without limiting the generality of the foregoing. It shall be the prerogative of the Corporation to decide upon operating techniques, methods, machinery, and equipment, the schedules of production, processes and means of production of its products, and all other matters which can be justified on the basis of prudent business operations. The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the provisions of this agreement. The Corporation shall not exercise this right in a discriminatory manner and shall act in a manner which is fair, reasonable, in good faith, and consistent with the collective agreement.
4.03	The Union and the Corporation mutually agree that the employees coming under its jurisdiction, and Management, will abide by all the terms of this Agreement.
4.04	When new rules and/or regulations are to be implemented by Management they shall be discussed with the Union executive the day the new rules or regulations are to be implemented. If the Union executive is not in agreement with the new rules and/or regulations, it may be subject to Article 9 and 10.
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	SLOWDOWNS OR INTERRUPTIONS OF PRODUCTION
It is agreed that the Union will not, during the term of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Corporation’s plants or premises nor will employees take part in any such actions.
5.02	STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS DURING THE LIFE OF THE AGREEMENT
It is agreed that the Union will not, during the life of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement nor will employees take part in any such action. It is agreed that the Corporation will not during the life of this Agreement lock out employees.
ARTICLE 6 - TINTON SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06 6.07
All employees of the Corporation covered by this agreement who are existing members of the Union shall as a condition of employment maintain their membership in good standing for the duration of the agreement. All new employees upon completion of two hundred and fifty (250) working hours shall as a condition of employment become members of the Union.
The Corporation agrees to a check-off of the amount of regular monthly union dues of all employees and shall transmit the amount so deducted, along with a list of the names of the employees from whom such deductions were made, to the Union office prior to the 15th day of each month.
a) Union dues will be deducted monthly.
The Corporation agrees that all new employees shall on the first day of employment sign a post-dated application for membership in the Union effective upon completion of 250 working hours, which shall provide for Corporation deduction of initiation fees, Union dues and assessments. For the convenience of the Corporation, application forms shall be supplied by the Union.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Corporation harmless against any claim or liability arising out of the application of this article except for any claim or liability arising out of an error committed by the Corporation in connection with deduction of the amount equal to the monthly membership dues.
The Corporation agrees to show a year-to-date total of union dues paid on each employee’s pay stub.
The Corporation agrees to include union dues deductions on the employee’s T4 slips.
The Corporation agrees to deduct from those employees who are absent for any reason other than layoff, the dues missed by the employee for the period of absence.
ARTICLE 7 - APPOINTMENT OF STEWARDS
7.01	The Corporation acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint employees as stewards.
7.02	The Union shall notify the Corporation promptly and in writing of the names of its stewards.
7.03	Union officers and committee members shall be entitled to leave their work station during working hours in order to carry out their functions under this agreement, including but not limited to, the investigation and processing of grievances, attendance at meetings with the employer and/or the Union representative.
5
7.04	Permission to leave their work station during working hours for such purposes
shall first be obtained from their immediate supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7.05
The Corporation agrees to pay their employees, at the regular straight time rate, who are Union officers, shop stewards or on committees fulfilling their Union duties while attending meetings, and/or investigating and processing grievances pertaining to the Corporation. The time and place to be approved by both the Corporation and the Union.
ARTICLE 8 - USE OF CORPORATION FACILITIES
8.01	If an authorized Union representative, who is not employed by the Corporation, desires to speak to local Union representatives in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall first obtain approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), of the Plant Superintendent or his designate, who shall then call the local Union representative(s) to the office where they may confer privately. These discussions will be arranged so that they will not interfere with production.
8.02	The Corporation agrees to supply one (1) bulletin board for the exclusive use of the Union. The Corporation shall have the right to refuse the posting of any information which it considers adverse to its interests or to the interests of any of its representatives. All notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Union. Corporation to supply lockable bulletin board.
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES 901	GENERAL
a)	The time limits presented in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
b)	An employee who presents a complaint or grievance at any stage may, if the employee so desires, be assisted or represented by a duly elected representative of the Union.
c)	A grievance may be presented by an employee on his own behalf or on behalf of himself and one or more other employees.
6
9.02
9.03
9.04
COMPLAINTS
a)	An employee shall have the right to discuss and settle with the supervisor of their department any complaint they may have. Such discussions shall take place within 48 hours of the date when the employee first became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
b)	In the event that the supervisor fails to satisfactorily resolve that complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of notification, the employee may refer the matter to the Plant Superintendent or his designate.
c)	The Plant Superintendent or his designate may resolve the complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of presentation, or failing this, the complaint may be submitted in writing as a formal grievance.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 1
An employee, whether they have complied with Article 9.01,9.02, or not, who feel themselves to be aggrieved, shall have the right to present a written grievance in accordance with the following procedures:
a)	An employee may present their grievance to the supervisor of their department within ten (10) days of the date on which they first became aware of the action or circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
b)	The grievance shall state the nature of the grievance, the article violated, and the redress sought.
c)	The supervisor shall reply to the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of its presentation. If the supervisor fails to reply within the said time period the grievance shall be deemed to be denied at this stage.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 2
a)	Should the supervisor fail to satisfactorily resolve the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of notification, the employee shall refer the matter to the shop steward of the department.
b)	Within a period of three (3) days after expiration of the time period in (c) of Stage 1, the shop steward, with or without the grievor in attendance, may take the matter up with the supervisor of the department.
7
9.05
9.06
9.07
ARTICLE
10.01
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 3
a)	Should the grievance still remain unresolved, the Union may take the matter up with the Plant Superintendent or his designate within three (3) days,
b)	The Plant Superintendent or his designate will meet with the Union at a time mutually arranged to make his decision. Authorized Union representatives from outside the plant may be involved at this stage.
c)	Any decision made shall be given in writing within seven (7) days of the grievance being filed at Stage Three (3).
d)	If the grievance is denied, the Union may process the grievance to arbitration.
POLICY GRIEVANCE
In respect of any violation of the agreement, the Union may, in its discretion, file a Union, group or policy grievance. In such a case, the procedure shall commence at Stage Three (3) of Article 9.
CORPORATION GRIEVANCE
The Corporation shall have the right to institute a grievance in respect of any violation of this Agreement, and the grievance shall be served on the President or Chief Steward of the Union, with a copy by registered mail to the union. In such case, the procedure shall commence at Stage 3 of Article 9.
10 - ARBITRATION
COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF ARBITRATION
When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration , the request shall be made by registered mail addressed to the other party of the Agreement, indicating the name of its nominee on an Arbitration Board, Within five (5) days thereafter, the other party shall answer by registered mail indicating the name and address of its appointee to the Arbitration Board. The two arbitrators shall then meet to select an impartial chairman.
8
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06
10.07
FAILURE TO APPOINT
If the recipient of the notice fails to appoint an arbitrator or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a Chairman within seven (7) days of appointment, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour, Government of Canada, upon the request of either party.
BOARD PROCEDURE
The Board may determine its own procedure, but shall give full opportunity to all parties to present evidence and make representations to it.
DECISIONS OF THE BOARD
The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Board. Where there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board. The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding and enforceable on all parties, but in no event shall the Board of Arbitration have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modify or amend any of its provisions, However, this Board shall have the right to dispose of any grievance made pursuant to Article 14 by confirming the Management’s action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which the Board of Arbitration deems just and equitable.
DISAGREEMENT ON DECISION
Should the parties disagree as to the meaning of the decision, either party, within ten (10) days of the receipt of the arbitration award, may apply to the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration to reconvene the Board to clarify the decision, The Arbitration Board shall meet promptly with the parties and clarify its decision.
EXPENSES OF THE BOARD
Each party shall pay:
a)	the fees and expenses of the arbitrator it appoints; and
b)	one-half the fees and expenses of the Chairman.
AMENDING OF THE LIMIT
The time limit fixed on both the grievance and arbitration procedure may be extended by consent of the parties to this Agreement.
9
10.08	WITNESSES
At any stage of the grievance or arbitration procedure, the parties may have the assistance of the employee(s) concerned as witness(es) and any other witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties or the arbitrator(s) to have access to the Corporation’s premises to view any working conditions which may be relevant to the settlement of the grievance.
10.09	No person may serve on the Board of Arbitration who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
10.10	When a period of time as outlined in Article Nine (9) and Ten (10) is expressed as a number of days, that number of days shall not include Saturday, Sunday, or any other non-working days.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
An employee shall be on probation for a period of 250 working hours. During the probationary period the employee shall be entitled to all rights and privileges of this Agreement except where specifically excluded, and during the probationary period the employee may be laid off without reference to seniority. A probationary employee discharged shall have no right to the grievance procedure in respect to such discharge. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be established from the date the employee first entered the service of the Corporation.
b)	For the purpose of seniority the length of service as shown on the Corporation’s records shall be the determining factor.
c)	Seniority shall be on a plant-wide basis.
NJ
d)	A list showing seniority of service shall be forwarded to the Union office in January and July of each year, along with an updated list of addresses and phone numbers as supplied by the employees.
e)	In matters of filling new positions and vacancies, the Corporation agrees that seniority will be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job.
f)	Where two or more employees are hired on the same day, seniority shall be determined alphabetically. This applies to new hires effective December 1, 1993.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
10
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
In the matter of a layoff, the employee with the least seniority will be laid off first.
Recalls will be in the reverse order of layoff.
No new employees will be hired while there are available employees laid off who are qualified to perform the work.
Employees who have been laid off due to lack of work shall retain and continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ten (10) consecutive months.
Two lists of recall and layoff reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward.
Subject to the exceptions contained in paragraph (g) below, all employees, with the exception of probationary employees as defined in Article 11 .01 (a) who are to be laid off and who are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to two (2) days notice before layoff or two (2) days pay in lieu of such notice.
Paragraph 11.02 (f) above shall not apply to new employees until they have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19. The aforesaid employees who are to be laid off and are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to one (1) day’s notice before layoff or one (1) day’s pay in lieu of such notice. When such an employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19, the provisions of 11.02 (f) above shall apply thereafter.
Layoff in the Maintenance department shall be made without reference to Plant seniority. Such layoff shall be determined by the need for specific qualifications to ensure the continued safe and efficient operation of the Plant.
Maintenance personnel shall have no rights to bump into the Plant.
Any deviation from the above-mentioned procedure regarding layoffs and recalls will be carried out following consultation and with the agreement of the Union, and will be subject to Article 9 and 10 in this collective agreement.
11.03
11.04
11
The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and
there shall be no obligation to rehire, when an employee:
a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Corporation or is dismissed for just cause;
b)	fails to return to work within two (2) days after being telephoned or notified by registered letter to their last given address on the Corporation record. It is the responsibility of the employee to keep the Corporation and the Union informed at all times of any changes in their address and telephone number.
c)	has been laid off for more than ten (10) consecutive months;
d)	rejects an offer of work in response to a recall notice following a layoff;
e)	is absent from work on more than two (2) occasions for two (2) days or more in a one year period without notifying the Corporation, in which case the employee shall be considered to have resigned.
f)	engages in other gainful employment while on sick leave or compensation.
TRANSFER OUT OF BARGAINING UNIT
a)	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside of the bargaining unit without their consent. An employee who accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate seniority for a twelve (12) month period. An employee who returns to the bargaining unit within this twelve (12) month period will be credited with seniority accumulated to date and will be classified as process labour.
b)	The Corporation will deduct and remit to the Union the arrears of Union dues for this employee for this period of time within two (2) months of their return to the bargaining unit.
c)	An employee will only be allowed to return to the bargaining unit once, and further, it must be within this 12 month period.
d)	An employee terminated while in a position outside the bargaining unit will not be able to return to the bargaining unit nor will the employee have access to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
TEMPORARY TRANSFER
12
11.05
a)	Due to fluctuations in fish receipts which necessitate a temporary increase or decrease from one or more groups, as defined below, the transfer of employees will be by seniority. The junior employee will be transferred providing they can perform the work satisfactorily. An employee who has been transferred will be required to return to the job from which they were transferred when work becomes available on the job.
b)	The groups referred to in Article 11.05 (a) above are as follows:
-	Processing and Pre-Processing
-	Cool Room
-	Fresh Receiving and Repack
-	Grading Room and Tunnels
-	Dry Storage
-	Cold Storage
-	Quality Control
-	Sanitation
c)	Where it is necessary to secure workers at notice of less than two (2) days to fill temporary positions because of illness, accident, extra vacation, bereavement leave or leave of absence (of two (2) days or less), the Corporation, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next eligible senior employee and so on down the list until the temporary vacancy is filled. Employees recalled under such circumstances shall retain the job to which they are appointed until replaced by the employee with whom the Corporation was unable to communicate with. When replaced by the more senior employee, then the junior recalled employee will be on immediate layoff and the laid off junior employee and the employee filling the temporary vacancy will not be entitled to any weekly guarantee. The Corporation agrees a Union executive officer, or in their absence a shop steward, will be present and will record the name(s) of the employee(s) called and the time of day they were called to verify the call-in was by order of seniority.
d)	A temporary assignment shall be one of thirty (30) calendar days or less, or a temporary assignment created because of sickness, vacation, accident or approved leave of absence. After the thirty (30) calendar days the Corporation and the Union shall meet and discuss whether the temporary assignment should be extended or if the job classification should be posted. If the Union and the Corporation fail to agree whether the job should be posted it will be subject to Article 9 and 10.
SHIFT CHANGES
13
il.O 6
Should it be necessary to make shift changes, the procedure will be:
a)	requests for such changes will be dealt with on a seniority basis;
b)	should no employee wish to make a shift change, the employee with the least seniority on the shift where the shortage of work occurred must accept the shift change.
ARTICLE 12 - JOB TRANSFERS
12.01	a) Employees transferred temporarily at the request of the Corporation to jobs
having a lower wage rate shall continue to receive the rate paid for their regular job.
b) Employees transferred temporarily at the request of the Corporation to jobs having a higher wage rate shall receive the higher wage rate.
ARTICLE 13 - JOB POSTING
All permanent job vacancies or newly created jobs shall, within two (2) working days of such permanent job vacancy or newly created job becoming available, be posted on the plant bulletin board for three (3) working days. During this time employees who have completed the probationary period of employment may make application for transfer to such jobs. Seniority will be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job.
cr\
ARTTCUF. 14 - DISCHARGE. SUSPENSION AND DTSCTPFTNF
14
14.01	When an employee other than a probationary employee has been dismissed or suspended without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Shop Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises, A claim by an employee that he has been unjustly discharged or suspended from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of his grievance is lodged with the Plant Superintendent or his designate within ten (10) days after the employee was suspended or ceased to work for the Corporation.
Such special grievances may be settled by confirming Management’s action in dismissing or suspending the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the parties to this agreement.
14.02	An employee shall be notified in writing by the employer with a copy to the secretary of the Union or the department steward as to the reasons for the discharge or suspension, and the length of the suspension. Such notice shall be given prior to the employee leaving the Plant.
14.03	In order to ensure that discipline throughout the plant is applied in a fair and evenhanded manner, the Corporation shall use the following guidelines for similar offenses, recognizing that some offenses may result in immediate suspension or dismissal:
a)	verbal warning
b)	written warning
c)	a suspension or suspensions in line with the severity of the case
d)	termination
14.04	Two (2) copies of discipline reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward.
14.05	Disciplinary memos will be on the employee’s file for a period of one (1) year. After one (1) year of no further infractions, the disciplinary memos shall be removed from the employee’s file.
14.06	An employee shall have the right to have a steward present at any discussion with supervisory personnel which is the basis of disciplinary action. This shall only apply if a steward is in the plant at the time.
14.07	An employee, immediately upon request, will have access to review their personnel record on their own time, in the personnel office during office hours.
15
14.08	Any disagreement as to the accuracy of information contained in the file will be discussed with the Plant Superintendent. If it is found that information is incorrect, the appropriate changes will be made and shall become part of the employee’s record. All disciplinary reports placed in the files must have a corresponding copy given to the employee involved and two copies given to the Chief Steward.
14.09	The employee shall be notified in writing by the employer, with full disclosure of the reasons, grounds for action and/or penalty, with a copy to the secretary of the Union.
ARTTCT/E 15 - UNIFORMS AND SUPPLIES
15.01	The Corporation will supply safety rubber boots (non-skid), uniforms, hairnets, full face masks if required, bump caps, aprons, knives, steels, sharpening stones, and gloves to the employees. Freezer room, shipping, fresh receiving, and repack to be supplied with suitable apparel and winter boots, all suitable for 20°F below zero. This apparel will remain the property of the Corporation and will be left on the Corporation premises at the completion of the working day.
15.02	Locks and lockers will be provided for each long term employee and will be assigned according to seniority.
15.03	A deposit of $15.00 for rubber safety boots shall be deducted from the employee’s pay. Replacement of rubber safety boots for reasons other than wear and tear whereby the old rubber boots are returned to the supply room, shall be assessed against the employee at the rate of $15.00 per pair for rubber safety boots. In the event of an employee leaving the Corporation, the rubber safety boots become the property of the employee.
15.04	Employees shall be responsible for all supplies issued to them. A price list will be posted at the beginning of each contract year showing prices of all supplies. The cost price would be the amount deducted from an employee’s cheque for replacement of supplies other than for normal wear and tear.
15.05	The Corporation will supply beard nets, and winter boots for employees working on the tunnels, if necessary.
15.06	Mechanical and electrical staff with more than six (6) months seniority who purchase safety footwear, shall be reimbursed seventy-five dollars ($75.00) toward such purchases and/or repairs in each year of the collective agreement, upon submitting their receipts to the Corporation.
15.07	Each maintenance employee would receive a tool allowance of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125 .00) in each year of the collective agreement. Receipts must accompany all claims for the tool allowance. This would be in effect until the end of the present contract.
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
16
16.01	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
a)	Employees will be granted a leave of absence without pay to attend Union meetings and conventions. Time so granted does not affect the employee’s vacation period nor seniority, The Union will give the Corporation one (1) week’s notice of such leave of absence. Request for leave of absence must be made in writing.
The Corporation may grant leave of absence without pay up to one (1) year to any employee for a legitimate personal reason, To be valid, every application must be submitted in writing and approved by the Corporation in writing. An employee on a valid leave of absence shall retain their accumulated seniority and earn additional seniority to their said leave of absence.
Leave of absence of up to one (1) year will be granted without pay to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time when requested by the International Union for the purpose of full time employment with the Union. During this period seniority will continue to accumulate. Upon return from such leave of absence, work similar to that which the employee last did will be provided.
The leave of absence clause as outlined above cannot be used to avoid losing seniority as provided in Article 11.03 (c) in the Collective Agreement.
16.02
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
In the event of a technological change, the provisions of the Canada-Labour Code will apply.	—
16.03
J
NEW MACHINERY
In the event that new machinery should be brought in creating new classifications and jobs, wages and classifications for such shall be negotiated with the Union immediately.
SUPERVISORS WORKING
17
16.04
J Foremen and foreladies will not in a continuous and sustained way, perform work ''b	usually done by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
a)	in cases of instructing employees; and
b)	when as a result of sudden sickness or accident there are no employees available to perform the work.
16.05	NO DISCRIMINATION
The Corporation and the Union, and all employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall adhere to the provisions of the Manitoba Human Rights Act.	/ l/
Employees will be allowed maternity/paternity leave in accordance with Division V. 1 Section 59 of the Canada Labour Code Part III.
16.07	Where mandatory provisions of any statute enacted by the Government of Canada
are more beneficial to an employee than the provisions contained in this collective agreement, the said statutory provisions shall be deemed to supercede the provisions of the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - HEALTH & SAFETY
17.01	The Union and the Corporation shall take all reasonable steps in order to promote and improve the health and safety practices. Additionally, the parties will cooperate in the application and enforcement of reasonable health and safety rules and practices, as published and posted by the Plant Management and the Health and Safety Committee.
17.02	The Corporation and all employees shall comply with all applicable Federal health and safety laws and regulations. Nothing precludes the Corporation and the Union from mutually agreeing on a safety and health procedure and/or practice which, in their opinion, would provide a greater measure of safety and health for employees than provided for in the Federal law or regulations.
18
17.03
9 > /
17.04
17.05
17.06
17.07
17.08
There shall be established a health and safety committee composed of not more than five (5) representatives each from the Union and the Corporation. Any meeting convened by the committee must include equal representation from each party and shall be attended by a minimum of two (2) representatives from each party. The health and safety committee shall hold meetings at least once per month, or more frequently if necessary for the purpose of considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating, reviewing and improving health and safety conditions and practices. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the Corporation and the Union.
Union members of the Health and Safety committee shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of paid leave per calendar year, to attend educational courses and seminars for instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters,
Time spent by members of the committee in the course of their duties as approved by the Corporation shall be considered as time worked.
The Corporation shall provide the members of the health and safety committee with a summary of each accident, or occurrence of an occupational disease that occurred at the workplace during the previous month. This summary will be provided at the monthly safety and health meetings.
The Corporation agrees the Union shall have the right to elect or appoint the Union committee members to the health and safety committee. The Union shall notify the Corporation in writing of the names of each representative.
Every three (3) months a plant inspection will be carried out by the safety committee. The inspection team will be limited to two (2) Union members and two (2) Management members.
There shall be no consuming of food or beverages nor smoking in the plant except in the cafeteria.
SCHEDULE “A”
19
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OE WORK AND OVERTIME
18.0]
a)	All employees who have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate of pay as described in Article 19 shall be guaranteed a thirty-six (36) hour work week, based on five (5) consecutive days Monday to Friday inclusive, with time and one-half paid for any time worked over and above eight (8) hours in any one (1) day, or after forty (40) hours in any week.
b)	The Corporation may utilize the reduction from a regular forty (40) hour work week to the guaranteed thirty-six (36) hour work week no more than once during a week (Monday to Friday).
c)	Hours lost under this clause will not affect the provisions under Clause 18.04.
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18.06
Work performed on any Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees required to work beyond the regular hours in any day shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first two (2) hours of overtime, and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees required to work overtime on Saturdays shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) minutes over regular time will be guaranteed fifteen (15) minutes pay at time and one-half the regular rate.
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) to thirty (30) minutes will be guaranteed thirty (30) minutes pay at time and one-half the regular rate. All overtime must be authorized and the employee time card initialed by the respective supervisor the same day that the overtime occurs.
20
18.07	No employees will be required to work more than two and one-half (2 1/2) hours
without a coffee or lunch break. Overtime is included in the provisions of this clause.
18.08
\I
Where the Corporation requests overtime be worked, such request shall be made on the previous day; when this is not done and the request is made on the date on which overtime is to be worked, employees working over ten (10) hours shall be furnished with supper to a maximum of $5.00 or paid $5.00 at the employee’s choice. The meal payment would be included in the following week’s pay cheque.
Overtime will be offered in the following manner:
- by the job by seniority, then by seniority within that department; and if not enough employees volunteer, then offered by seniority to the remaining employees.
18.09	Two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each shall be granted for each work day of eight (8) hours.
18.10	The Corporation will grant the employees a five (5) minute period during which time they will clean up. This will be the last five (5) minutes of their shift.
18.11	WAGES
An employee is entitled to be paid for services rendered at the rate of pay specified in Article 19 attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement,
18.12	Payday shall be weekly and each employee shall be provided with an itemized statement of his wages and deductions, including total earnings to date and total income tax to date.
18.13	Any employee who at the time of the signing of this Agreement is receiving a higher rate or benefits than those specified shall not have his wage scale or benefits reduced. An employee’s rate of pay as it was at the time of signing this agreement shall be increased by the negotiated increases in the rate of pay.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
21
18.14
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family is defined as father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, child, grandchild, or wards* of the employee; common-law spouse, common-law spouse’s mother, common-law spouse’s father, and common-law spouse’s children.
Where a member of their immediate family dies, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave for the purpose of attending services for a period of up to four (4) consecutive working days and not exceeding the day following the funeral, but in all cases the bereavement leave will include the day of the funeral. During such a period the employee shall be paid for those days which were not regularly scheduled days of rest for that employee.
b)	An employee is entitled to a special leave with pay up to a maximum of one (1) day, for the purposes of attending services in the event of the death of the employee’s aunt, uncle, grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, nieces and nephews, or a relative permanently residing in the employee’s household or with whom the employee permanently resides.
c)	It is recognized by the parties that the circumstances which call for leave in respect of bereavement are based on individual circumstances. On request, the Corporation may, after considering the particular circumstances involved, grant leave without pay for a period greater than that provided for in clause 18.14 (a) and (b).
d)	The Corporation may request some verification of the death and relationship to employee before honouring pay claim in questionable cases.
*For the purpose of this Article, “Ward” means a person who is without full legal capacity or is otherwise incapable of managing his own affairs, and whose person, property or rights are under the protection of another person known as a guardian.
JURY DUTY
22
Where an employee is called and serves as a juror or a witness, provided it is not in ^5 b ' '	their own defense, the Corporation will make up the difference between their jury
^	pay or witness fees and the employee’s regular average hourly earnings for such
'L>	periods of jury duty or time they serve as a witness as fall within the normal work
day.
Where an employee is called for jury duty or as a witness other than in his own defense, and where he is not required to be present to fulfill such duties, the employee will report for work in the usual manner.
The term witness does not include employees subpoenaed as a witness by the Union.
18.16
EMERGENCY CALL-IN
a)	An employee who has left the premises of the Corporation after completion of the employee’s scheduled shift and who is called for work, shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate for all hours worked on recall up to the starting time of their scheduled shift, but in any event, the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at one and one-half (11/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate.
b)	An employee called in to work, as in 18.16 (a) above, on a Sunday, will be paid at one and one-half times the employee’s regular hourly rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular hourly rate thereafter, but in any event, the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at one and one-half times the employee’s regular hourly rate.
ARTICLE,! 9 - TOR PT ASSTFTP ATTOIVS V\n \\ \C.l Tf ATF.S
23
General Labour Rate
Mav 1. 1996 Mav 1, 1997 Mav 1. 1998 $13.73	$13.99	$14.26
New Employee Starting Rate
$ 8.00
The new employee starting rate shall increase $ .25 per hour for all hours worked after completion of 300 hours worked, and increase a further $ .25 per hour for each additional 300 hours worked until the employee reaches the plant General Labour Rate as described in Article 19 above.
All new employees returning on the next recall shall be credited with all hours worked since they last established seniority with the Corporation, to establish a basic wage rate for that employee.
The following classifications or premiums will onl;
Leadhand increment	1
Freezer premium
Hi-Reach operator
Filleting machine operator
Heading machine operator
Scaling machine operator
Spiral freezer operator
Splitting machine operator
Hand filleter
Shipping and receiving
30
.48
.05
.20
.20
.20
.20
.20
.39
.22
to actual hours worked:
Maintenance Department
Maintenance helper
Industrial mechanic
Maintenance Journeyman: Mechanic / welder Mechanic / machinist Mechanic / electrical
Electrician Journeyman
Mav 1. 1996 Mav 1. 1997 Mav 1. 1998 $14.23	$14.49	$14.76
$16.36	$16.62	$16.89
$18,69	$18.95	$19.22
$19.88	$20.14	$20.41
Shift Premium: 3:30 pm to 12:00 midnight 10:30 pm to 7:00 am
43
65
SCHEDULE "B"
24
ARTICLE 20 - VACATION WITH PAY
20.01
20.02
20.03
The vacation period is from January 1 st through December 3 1 St.
The Corporation agrees to issue separate itemized cheques for employee’s vacation pay. Before leaving for their vacation, employees shall be entitled to their vacation pay for the portion of their vacation period upon which they are embarking.
a)	Prior to the first day of February of each year, the Corporation shall post a listing of employees who are entitled to vacations during that year. This procedure is applicable to employees who are on layoff during this period of time.
b)	Within a period of one (1) month after this list has been posted, each employee will record his preferred period of vacation on the said list.
c)	On or before the 1st of April, the Corporation will review the vacation preferences requested by the employees. If production requirements so permit, each employee will be authorized to take his vacation in accordance with his preference, and shall be so notified on or before the said date.
d)	If the Corporation does not authorize an employee to take their vacation during the employee’s preference vacation period, such employee will be so notified before the 1st of April, The Corporation agrees to review with the Union the reasons why an employee’s vacation preference was denied, if requested to do so. Second choice to be by way of seniority.
e)	It is agreed that the final decision regarding the authorization of an employee’s vacation period remains with the Corporation. However, once an employee’s vacation preference has been authorized, it will not be changed unless mutually agreed by the employee and the Corporation.
23
20.04
20.05
20.06
Vacations earned during the current vacation period must be taken during the vacation period immediately following that in which they are earned. Vacation periods can only be accumulated and carried over in special cases by mutual agreement between the Corporation and the employee.
If a statutory holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the vacation period shall be extended by one (1) working day.
The length of vacation is established by seniority with the Corporation as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, and will be as follows:
op - o 3
a)
b)
c)
d)
An employee with less than one (1) complete year of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to one (1) day for each full month worked up to a maximum of ten (10) working days. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
An employee with more than one (1) complete year of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
An employee with more than two (2) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at six percent (6%) of their total earnings.
An employee with more than nine (9) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at eight percent (8%) of their total earnings.
An employee with more than fourteen (14) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks of vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at ten percent (10%) of their total earnings.
Employees with more than twenty two (22) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at twelve percent (12%) of their total earnings.
26
20.07
20.08
20.09
20.10 20.11
20.12
a)	Notwithstanding Clause 20.06 where an employee with more than six (6) complete years of seniority works less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the total regular working hours during the calendar year preceding, they shall be entitled to one (1) day’s vacation for each month worked up to a maximum of ten (10) days, Vacation pay shall be calculated at six percent (6%) of their total earnings.
b)	Notwithstanding Clause 20.06 where an employee with less than six (6) complete years of seniority works less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the total regular working hours during the calendar year preceding, they shall be entitled to one (1) day’s vacation for each month worked up to a maximum of ten (10) days. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
For the purpose of calculating (a) and (b) above, an employee absent from work due to certified illness, or illness in the employee’s family necessitating his absence, or death in his family, or jury duty, or injury, or authorized leave of absence, or other justifiable absence acceptable to the Corporation shall be considered as having not been away from work during any of those periods.
Should an employee who is entitled to holidays resign having given due legal notice or be discharged, said employee shall receive pay in lieu of holidays at the applicable rates outlined in 20.06.
An employee’s vacation time will be included in his length of qualifying service. Payment of wages in lieu of vacation is not permitted.
If death occurs in the immediate family of an employee while the employee is on vacation, the vacation leave will be extended at the request of the employee, by the length of the bereavement entitlement.
Employees with more than three (3) weeks vacation entitlement can split one (1) week of vacation.
27
SCHF,DTTT,F, T"
ARTICLE 21 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
21.01
All employees shall be entitled to and shall be granted a holiday with pay on each of the general holidays listed below, and all other holidays proclaimed by the Government of Canada or the Government of the Province of Manitoba, if the employee has worked and received wages for fifteen (15) out of the last thirty (3 0) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday. Employees shall be paid the amount of wages they would have normally earned during their regular shift, including premiums, without being required to render services for the following general holidays:
New Year’s Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Dominion Day Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday Civic Holiday Remembrance Day Victoria Day Labour Day
21.02
21.03
J
An employee is not entitled to be paid for a statutory holiday on which he does not work when he is not entitled to wages for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday, unless absent with the permission of the Corporation in respect of absences relating to certified illness, illness in the employee’s family necessitating the employee’s absence from work, death in the employee’s family, jury duty or non-compensable injury.
If an employee works on any of the above-named paid statutory holidays, they will receive payment at the rate of time and one-half for the first six (6) hours worked and double time thereafter.
21.04	If a holiday as set forth in Clause 21 .01 falls on a day which is not a regular working day, the first working day preceding the holiday or the first working day thereafter shall be considered the holiday.
21.05	Where a holiday as set out in Clause 21.01 falls during the period of an employee’s vacation, the period of vacation shall be lengthened by one (1) working day.
21.06	In a week in which a statutory holiday occurs, the regular hours per week will be reduced by one-fifth for each holiday therein.
28
SCHEDULE "D"
ARTICLE 22 - BENEFIT PROGRAM
All employees who are on the Corporation’s seniority list, and who remain on the seniority list, are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below.
New employees are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below when the Corporation records show that the employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19.
There is an obligation upon the employee to complete all eligibility requirements of the insurer and maintain the same with the insurer in order to be eligible for, and the maintenance of, the benefits available under the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
22.01	a)
b)
ARTICLE 23 - PENSION PLAN
23.01	a) The Superannuation Plan as outlined by the Public Service Superannuation
Act which was placed into effect by the Corporation on behalf of the employees on April 1st, 1973 is to continue.
b)	The Corporation agrees to supply all employees covered by the above Public Service Superannuation Act, once yearly before February 15th, a written statement showing the status of their plan as of December 3 1st of the previous year.
ARTICLE 24 - SICKNESS AND DISABILITY
24.01
No employee shall be discharged because of sickness or disability resulting from accident sustained while performing Corporation duties, On returning to work, the employee shall receive their former position provided such employee is not adjudged incapable of performing their former duties, in which case the Corporation will endeavour to find suitable work.

\0°
cW-f
b)
c)
An employee shall accumulate sick leave credits at the rate of one and one-quarter (11/4) days per month for each month of continuous employment, cumulative to a maximum of one-hundred (100) days.
Where an employee works fifty percent (50%) or more of normal straight time hours in any month they shall receive sick leave credits for that month on a pro rata basis rounded to the nearest one-quarter (1/4).
24.02
29
An employee shall be granted sick leave with pay when unable to perform duties because of illness or injury provided:
a)	that the Corporation is satisfied that the employee’s condition prevents them from carrying out their duties;
b)	that the employee has the necessary sick leave credits;
c)	that a medical certificate is presented to the Corporation, at their request, when an individual’s absence because of sickness exceeds three (3) working days. Notwithstanding the foregoing the Corporation reserves the right to request a medical certificate in respect of any absence in order to be properly satisfied that the employee’s condition prevents them from carrying out their duties. The Corporation undertakes to utilize this provision with reasonable discretion;
d)	If an employee becomes ill and cannot report for work, a message must be left on the Corporation’s sick phone (204 983-6606) or their supervisor must be contacted no later than one and one-half (11/2) hours beyond the normal starting time of their shift. Upon return to duty the employee is required to report to their immediate supervisor.
e)	Payment shall be made as follows:
i)	two hundred (200) hours or more of accumulated sick leave credits:
-	75% of regular wages for first day sick
-100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee’s accumulated sick leave credits;
ii)	less than two hundred (200) hours of accumulated sick leave credits:
-	no pay for the first three days;
-	100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee’s accumulated sick leave credits;
iii)	the employee must complete the necessary forms requesting payment (see attached).
30
24.03	The Corporation reserves the right to require an employee to take a medical
examination by a physician appointed by the Corporation. In such case, the Corporation will absorb the cost for such medical examination. This clause will not apply to employees as of April 3 0,1981.
24.04	a) Any employee who is injured on the job and is sent from the Plant for medical
care, will be paid for the time lost for such treatment during the shift in which the injury occurred, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
b) If any employee is unable to perform the work and is instructed not to return to
work after treatment, he will be paid for the balance of the shift not worked, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
c)	Should an employee be injured while working overtime, so seriously as to require immediate medical attention, the employee shall receive payment at the applicable rate for the remaining hours of overtime which would have been worked in the department where the injury occurred.
d)	When any employee is injured at work so seriously as to require transportation, the Corporation agrees to provide or pay the cost of transportation on the day injury occurs, between the Plant, hospital, and home.
ARTICLE 25 - LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
Effective January 1, 1991 all eligible employees with less than six (6) years seniority will be covered for $20,000 life insurance; employees with more than six (6) years seniority will be covered for $30,000 life insurance. The Corporation shall pay the premiums,
J 25.01 J
'1
ARTICLE 26 - DENTAL PLAN
J
lojS
26.01

Effective October 1,1990 all eligible employees shall be covered by a dental plan. Coverage will be in effect for the entire year, including layoffs.
COVERAGE: Routine 100%
Major 50%
Annual maximum is $1000 per person for combined routine and major. Deductible is $25,00 single and $50.00 family coverage.
The Corporation shall pay for the full cost of single coverage and will pay the cost of the family plan other than $15 .00 per month which will be deducted from the employees in the family plan.
31
10 K
ARTICLE 27 - EXTENDED HEALTHCARE	ToT’
1(o G '"'7 ’
27.01
Effective January 1, 1991 all eligible employees will be covered for extended healthcare benefits listed below. The Corporation will pay the premium for the single coverage, Employees who choose the family coverage will be required to pay the difference in premium costs between single and family coverage.
75% Prescription drugs	v
100% Semi-private hospital care and ambulance
Deductible will be $10.00 for single and $25.00 for family.
ARTICLE 28 - POST RETIREMENT HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
28.01	The Corporation will make available a post retirement healthcare plan as follows:
a) Dental - 80% routine - 80% major
Maximum coverage $500.00 per person per year.
b) Prescription drugs ambulance, semi-private hospital room. All premiums will be paid by the retiree.
ARTICLE 29 - TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
32
29.01	The Corporation and the Union agree that this Agreement shall be effective from
May 1, 1996 onto April 30, 1999 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement is given by either party to the other party not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union’s or the Corporation’s amendments, the other party shall within five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement, or conclusion of a new collective labour agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement
i9 9 7,
to be duly executed this-6th day of V^pgust,-+996C
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE CORPORATION:
D. Casson Shearer
M. Paul
33
August 6, 1996
3ljJ
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SEVERANCE PAY	1
1. In the event of termination, except in the case of termination for just cause, employees who have worked for the Corporation for twelve (12) consecutive months shall be entitled to severance pay, payable upon the termination of their employment, and calculated pursuant to the provisions hereof.
2.
Severance pay pursuant to this Article shall be calculated as follows:
The employee who has completed twelve (12) or more consecutive months of employment, shall be paid the greater of
3
a)	one week’s pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate, or	'
b)	two days’ pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate for each year of completed employment
The continuity of employment shall include layoff and/or any authorized leave of absence.
S'-
August 6, 1996
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SICK AND DISABILITY
REQUEST FOR PAYMENT
NAME:
EMP.NO
I,
was absent from work from
to
due to illness, rendering me unable to perform my regular duties.
DOCTOR’S CERTIFICATE ATTACHED: YES ___________________NO
I request payment under the sick and disability plan: _YES _NO
Employee Signature
Date
Authorized by
Date
NOTE:
Making false statements requesting payment may result in dismissal.
P.1/16
DasH
MEMO RANDU M OF AGREEMENT
WHEREAS tite FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING' CORPORATION and the RETAIL WHOLESALE CANADA CANADIAN SERVICE SECTOR DIVISION OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 561 are presently bound by a collective agreement which expired April 30, 1996;	"
This memorandum shall constitute a complejgoffer from the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation to its employees, who are members of the Retail Wholesale Canada Canadian
—1VRjC OC'vl'JI ^*r££>iyii Vi MIC WIliiCU OWStSiWOnCSIS Vi rUllCI 1U2 l^nUHl AO I
RatifiR^tiQn.of the amendments hereinafter set out. together with the current collective agreement shall constitute a new collective agreement to commence or. the 1 si dav Of Mav
agreerr
1996 and expire on the 30th day of April 1999.
AGREED ON THE
1L
DAY OF AUGUST, 1996.
August 6, 1996
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SICK AND DISABILITY
REQUEST FOR PAYMENT
NAME:
EMP.NO:
I,
was absent from work from
to
due to illness, rendering me unable to perform my regular duties.
DOCTOR’S CERTIFICATE ATTACHED: _____________YES ___________NO
I request payment under the sick and disability plan: _YES ____NO
Employee Signature
Date
Authorized by
Date
NOTE:
Making false statements requesting payment may result in dismissal.
OCT 22
'96 09 MS RW CANADA WPG9448987
s
P.1/lb
Oo'H
‘MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
WHEREAS the FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING CORPORATION and the RETAIL WHOLESALE CANADA CANADIAN SERVICE SECTOR DIVISION OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 561 are presently bound by a collective agreement which expired April 30, 1996;
This memorandum shall constitute a complete offer from the Freshwater Fish Marketing
Corporation to its employees, who are members or the Retail Wholesale Canada Ca

DC'IVHjS SCCIOI
c1*--!Vm ■	Y____' ***■’'•
l£.Ovl Olvvrrrvih.ViS vi	UJCl 1 AHIF) 1	(
1996 and ex
amendments hereinafter set out, together with the CLUTSilt cc constitute a new collective agreement to commence on the 1st day of Mav
cpire on the 30th day of April 1999.
AGREED ON THE
JL
DAY OF AUGUST, 1996.
B. Popko
2,01	(n) Industrial mechanic means a person who has a certificate of qualification from a recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as1 a journeyman industrial mechanic by provincial or federal licensing authorities.
2.01	(o) Maintenance joumeyman means a person who holds more thanone(l)
trade certificate from a, recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as a journeyman in both trades.
U'w ! C.C- r>o	r\n LniTOn wr	i
6.01	All employees of the Corporation covered by this agreement who are
existing members of the Union shall as a condition of employment maintain their membership in good standing for the duration of the agreement. All new employees upon completion of two hundred and fifty (250) working hours shall as a condition of employment become members of the Union.
OCT Z2 '’3b 03:48 KW CHmjJH WHC3448387
6.03
The Corporation agrees that all new employees shall on the first day of employment sign a post-dated application for membership in the Union
Corporation deduction of initiation fees, Union dues and assessments. For the convenience of the Corporation, application forms shall be supplied by the Union.
OCT 22 '9S B9:56 RW CANADA WPG944S987
6.07	The Corporation agrees to deduct from those employees who are absent
for any reason other than layoff, the dues missed by the employee for the period of absence.
UU l C.C. '	• h-d r\^ lui iriun	i
11.01	(a) An employee shall be on probation for a period of 250 working hours.
During the probationary period the employee shall be entitled to all rights and privileges of this Agreement except where specifically1 excluded, and during the probationary period the employee may be laid off without reference to seniority. A probationary employee discharged shall have no right to the grievance procedure in respect to such discharge. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be established from the date the employee first entered the service wa LllC Corporation.
OCT Zd 'yfe uy:bb KW CHISHUH rrbyu^tiyb (
11.02	(g) Paragraph 11.02 (f) above shall not apply to new employees until they have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19. The aforesaid employees who are to be laid off and are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to one (1) day’s notice before layoff or one (1) day’s pay in lieu of such notice. When such an employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19, the provisions of 11.02 (f) above shall apply thereafter.
I t_C— w'LJ tJ	ink* L*m lnt/n vni 'sjttu-'ui
11,02	(h)	Layoff in the Maintenance department shall be made without reference to
Plant seniority. Such layoff shalt be determined by the need for specific qualifications to ensure the continued safe and efficient operation of the Plant,
Maintenance personnel shall have no rights to bump into the Plant.
11.05	(b) The groups referred to in Article 11.05 (a) above are a$ follows Processing and Pre-processing Cool Room
Fresh Receiving and Repack Grading Room and Tunnels Dry Storage Cold Storage Quality Control Sanitation
uui 'eCd _yb ay: ay kw lhinhuh wr^y^atsya,'
r,o/id
O a~u
1 i .05 (c) Amend 2nd last sentence.. . .
,. ,......When replaced by the more senior employee, then the junior recalled
employee will be on immediate layoff and the laid off junior employee and the employee filling the temporary vacancy will not be entitled to any weekly guarantee.
(JU I dd ' yb ay : Bb KW LHINH JH WI-'bb^aUB (
15.03	A deposit of $15.00 for rubber safety boots shall be deducted from the
employee’s pay. Replacement of rubber safety boots for reasons other than wear and tear whereby the old rubber boots are returned to the supply room, shall be assessed against the employee at the rate of $15.00 per pair for rubber safety boots. In the event of an employee leaving the Corporation, the rubber safety boots become the property of the employee.
UL. I ££	' yto W'^ KW vHi'IHUH
r . (s id
CL^v-^1
15.04	Employees shall be responsible for all supplies issued to them. A price list
will be posted at the beginning of each contract year showing prices of all supplies. The cost price would be the amount deducted from an employee’s cheque for replacement of supplies other than for normal wear and tear.
ijt_. I clc. 'VO k3V*OD	‘wt-inr-iuri wr^744o^o(
15.06	Mechanical and electrical staff with more than six (6) months seniority who
purchase safety footwear, shall be reimbursed seventy-five dollars ($75,00) toward such purchases and/or repairs in each year of the collective agreement, upon submitting their receipts ta the Corporation.
ij'w i <LC ud	rcw iw’-ini-iui-i wnjD^o^of
tO C!AV
15.07	Each maintenance employee would receive a tool allowanfcfe of one
hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125,00) in each year of the collective agreement. Receipts must accompany all claims for the tool allowance. This would be in effect until the end of the present contract,
OCT 22 '96 09:55 RUI CHNRDH NH0y44a9BT
17.04	Union members of the Health and Safety committee shall he entitled to
sixteen (16) hours of paid leave per calendar year, to attend educational courses and seminars for instruction and upgrading on health and safety marters.
UL- I	' yto * Dtf KN L.HHHJJH Wi-’byq.qs'zJa f
18,01	(a) All employees who have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate of pay as described in Article 19 shall be guaranteed a thirty-six (36) hour work week, based on five (5) consecutive days Monday to Friday inclusive, with time and one-half paid for any time worked over and above eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or after forty (40)hour$ in any week.
(b) The Corporation may utilize the reduction from a regular forty (40) hour work week to the guaranteed thirty-six (36) hour work week no more than once during a week (Monday to Friday).
(Cl
Hours iosi under this clause will iiot
Clause 18,04,
the DiCmaiGuS under
UL I d.cL '	rw UHHMJJM wrb^WOf
I J U>^ J. '-J	(
iO (W^ '
18,11	DELETE; “When breakdowns occur, such as power failure,
employees shall be entitled to their regular coffee breaks”:
UL I <Ld. ' yb ay; KW LHINHUH wrby^aya <
18.12
DELETE:
“Banked overtime,,
OCT 22 '96 09:55 RW CANADA WPG9448987
18,16
DELETE:
.errors in excess of $10,00
IJU I dd •' yb uy: SU KN cmHUH
18.17	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family is defined as father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-inlaw, spouse, child, grandchild, or wards* of the employee; common-law spouse, common-law spouse’s mother, common-law spouse’s father, and common-law spouse’s children,
UL-1	■ 'uo	r%w LHnhUh
r . u'/ J.ui
ARTICLE 19 - JOB CI/lffW/C47,/OAtt/lM) 054 G£ &4TJSS
Mav L 1996 Mav 1. 1997' Mav 1. 1998 Genera! Labour Rate	$13.73	$13.99	$14,26
New Employee Starting Rate	$ 8,00
The new employee starting rate shall increase $ .25 per hour for all hours worked after completion of 300 hours worked, and increase a further $ .25 per hour for each additional 300 hours worked until the employee reaches the plant General Labour Rate as described in Article 19 above.
All new employees reluming on the next recall shall be credited with all hours worked since they last established seniority with the Corporation, to establish a basic wage rate for that employee.
The following classifications	or premiums will only apply to actual hours worked;
Leadhand increment	$ .60
Freezer premium	,48
Hi-Reach opera tor	.05
Filleting machine operator	.20
Heading machine operator	.20
Scaling machine operator	.20
Spiral freezer operator	.20
Splitting machine operator	,20
Hand filleter	.39
Shipping and receiving	.22
Maintenance Department
Maintenance helper
Industrial mechanic
1996 Mav
$14.23	$14.49	$3.4.76
$16.36	$16.62	$16.89
Maintenance Journeyman: Mechanic / welder Mechanic / machinist Mechanic/ electrical
Electrician Journeyman
$18.69	$18.95	$19.22
$19.88	$20.14	$20.41
Shift Premium: 3:30 pm to 12:00 midnight 10:30 pm to 7:00 am
do
.65
OCT ZZ '06 00:00 RW CHNHDH W(Jtiy440ytSr
20.11	If death occurs In the immediate family of an employee while the employee
is an vacation, the vacation leave will be extended at the request of the employee, by the length of the bereavement entitlement.
UL-I ££ 'VO	KW LMMhiJM Wr!J^4^C^O f
20.12	Employees with more than three (3 j weeks vacation entitlement can split
one (1) week of vacation.
UUI '£cL "bb CbUbl KW LHHH.'JH WbL-y44b!yB(
21.03	If an employee works on any of the above-named paid statutory holidays,
they will receive payment at the rate of time and one-half for the first six (6) hours worked and double time thereafter,
OCT 22 '96 09:54 RW CPNRDfl WPG944S987
21.06	in a week in which a statutory holiday occurs, the regular hours per week
will be reduced by one-fifth for each holiday therein.
UL | ^ -yb 14^=31 KH LHMHUH Wl-'by‘+‘4dyt5(
r. m/ic
o

22.01	(b) New employees are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below when the Corporation records show that the employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19,
OCT 'Sb 0‘r^bl KN CHINHUH
r, j.d/ id
DELETE:
*,9
Q^l,i
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - health and safety draw.
UL-I CLd '	RW k,Hn.-UJH Wrb^44070f
24.02	(e) Payment shall be made as follows:
^ *
i)	two hundred (200) hours or more of accumulated sick leave credits: -75% of regular wages for first day sick;
-100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee's accumulated sick leave credits:
ii)	less than two hundred (200) hours of accumulated sick leave credits:
- no pay for the first three days;
-100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee’s accumulated sick leave credits;
iii)	the employee must complete the necessary forms requesting payment (see attached).
ARTICLE 29 - TERMINATION AGREEMENT
29.01
from May 2,1996 onto April 30,1999 and thereafter from year to yew unless written notice of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement is given by either party to the other party not more than sbdy (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union’s or the Corporation's amendments, the other party shall with five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement, or conclusion of a new1 collective labour agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed this_day of__________________, 1996.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE
CORPORATION;	UNION:
G, McCurley		D, Oswald		
A. MacLeod		S. Schulz		
M. Smith	--	D. Casson		
B.Popko		Y. Shearer		
J. Franco
M. Paul