COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
OMSTEAD FOODS LIMITED
(hereinafter called the "Company")
— and —
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 459
(hereinafter called the "Union")
TERM:
March 28, 1993 to
April 1, 1995
INDEX
Article	Page#	
1	Purpose	4
2	Definitions	4
3	Recognition	6
4	Union Security and Union Dues	6
5	Management Rights	10
6	Strikes and Lock Outs	11
7	Grievance Procedure	11
8	Arbitration	15
9	Seniority	16
10	Layoff and Recall Provisions Applicable to all Employees	20
11	Special Provisions Applicable to Members of the Cold Storage Department	23
12	Special Provisions Applicable to Members of the Sanitation Department	26
13	Shift Transfer	27
14	Department Transfer	28
15	Job Posting	30
16	Hours of Work, Overtime and Working Conditions	33
17	Special Provisions Applicable to the Facilities Department	40
18	Leaves of Absence	49
INDEX
Article		Page#
19	Bulletin Boards	51
20	Jury Duty	51
21	Wages	51
22	Bereavement Leave	52
23	Paid Holidays	52
24	Vacation with Pay	54
25	Health and Welfare	57
26	Cost-of-Living-Allowance	60
27	Special Provision Applicable to Seasonal Employees	61
28	Health and Safety	62
29	Duration	62
30	Labour Management Committee	63
—	Schedule "A	63
—	Schedule “B”	69
—	Letter of Understanding (Red Circled Employees)	72
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose <f this Agreement is to establish and
maintain collective bargaining relations betweenthe Company and its employees employed within the bargaining i/n/fdescribed inArticle3ofthisAgreementandto provide a mechanism for the prompt and equitable disposition <f grievances, as per Article 7 and 8 of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
3.01	The word “employee” shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, who is not a “seasonal employee” as hereinafter defined.
2.02	The phrase “probationary employee” shall mean an employee who has not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has not acquired seniority.
2.03	The phrase “seniority employee” shall mean an employee who has completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has been retained in the employ cf the Company following completion of the probationary period and who has acquired seniority.
2.04	The phrase “seasonal employee” shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement whose employment is during
— 4 -
the period from and including July 15th in any year up to and including January 15th of the following year.
Seasonal employees shall not acquire seniority or seniority rights, shall riot interfere with the seniority rights of seniority employees and shall not displace probationary employees. The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to seasonal employees are those provisions which arc specifically applicable to seasonal employees and such provisions shall only apply to seasonal employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural orthe feminine where the context orthe parties hereto so require.
2.06	The Company and the Union do not and will not, as a matter of policy, discriminate against any employee because of race, creed, colour, sex, national origin or membership in the Union.
2.07	dourly lead workers selected by the Company shall load and direct the workforce and be responsible for:
1.	Training employees when necessary
2.	Ensuring that directions of the supervisor' are followed
3.	Coordinating work as requited
4.	Checking work for quality arid quantity
5.	Reporting necessary information
ti. Performing necessaiy manual duties
— 5 -
Lead workers shall not normally replace an employee in a classified job unless a replacement is not available. It is agreed and understood lead workers will not issue discipline to other employees.
ARTICLE 3
RECOGNITION
3,01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent of all employees of the Company in the Townships of Romney and Mersea, save and except Foremen and persons above the rankof Foreman, Security Guards, persons employed in the growing and harvesting of agricultural products, Office and Sales Staff, Quality Assurance Personnel, Pollution Control Personnel, Retail Sales Personnel, Fishermen, Net Menders, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during the school vacation periods.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND UNION DUES
4.0'1 All seniority employees who are members of the Union shall remain members of the Union. A new employee shall become a member of the Union upon completion of the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement. A seasonal employee shall become a member of the Union after he has worked a total of thirty (30) actual days, consecutive or intermittent, within any period cf throe (3)consecutive months.
6
4.02	I'he Union expressly agrees that no seniority employee and no seasonal employee will he denied membership in the Union except for the non-payment of Union dues.
4.03	(a) The Company will deduct union dues, as set from time to time by the Union, from the pay of each seniority employee who is a member of the Union and fro m the pay of each seasonal employee who is a member of the Union, as hereinbefore provided, when so authorized by such employee, in writing, on aform acceptable to the Company. Such deductions shall be made monthly on the employees’ fourth pay period each calendar month and the amount so deducted shall be transmitted to the Union before the 10th day of the following calendar month.
(b)	Per the International Constitution, all employees who are in the Union and who have worked any hours within the calendar month, will pay Union dues.
4.04	(a) There shall be elected or selected one (1) Steward from each shift (day/afternoon), in each Department, for a total of two (2) from each Department. A Steward must have at least one (1) year of seniority with the Company.
(b)	The Union's Negotiating / Grievance Committee shall be comprised of one (1) Steward from each Department plus two (2) members from the bargaining unit at large.
(c)	Otic (1) of the members from tho bargaining unit at largo, shall be the ChiefSteward,andtheothershall he tho Assistant Chief Steward.
7
4.05	The Company will not recognize any employee as a Steward until it has received written notice from the Unionto this effect. The Unionwill inform the Company in writing, of any changes in the names of the Stewards.
4.06	(a) It is acknowledged that Stewards have their regular duties to perform as employees and that such duties must be performed in the same manner and to the same extent as other employees. A Steward shall not leave his regular duties without receiving permission from his supervisor. The supervisorwill not unreasonably refuse to grant a Steward permission to leave his regular duties fora reasonable length of time, without lossof pay, inorder to perform any of the duties required to be performed by a Steward pursuant to the provisions contained in Article 7 of this Agreement.
(b) The Chief Steward shall have up to one (1) hour per day, or up to a maximum of five (5) hours per week to perform union business if necessary. Such time must be mutually agreed upon with his appropriate Supervisot and such agreement will not be unreasonably refused.
The Chief Steward or his designate shall have the privilege of working on the day shift. The rate of pay shall be determined by his classification provided that work is available in his classification as determined by his years of service; or in the general classification if work is not available in his own classification.
4.07	Notwithstandingthe other provisions of this Agreement, in the event of a layoff, Stewards will be the last to bo laid off within their Department and ori the shift where
-0
they exercise their seniority, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done. The Chief Steward will be the last to be laid off provided he has the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform tho jobs to be done.
4.08	I ho Company will provide an office to tho Union. The Business Agent, Vice-President and/or President of the Union will not be denied access to the Company's premises for the purpose of conducting Union business regarding employees of the Company, provided prior notification isgiven to the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, and his approval is obtained.
4.09	The remaining working foremen shall not perform work on Saturdays, Sundays or Paid Holidays normally performed by bargaining unit employees except for installation and maintenance of production and processing equipment. Duringthe term of this Agreement, the number of working foremen will not exceed seven (7). The Company will supply the Union with a list of working foremen. No new persons will be added to this list
4.10	It is agreed that neither party to this Agreement shall enter into any agreement or contract with the ern ployees which conflicts with the terms of this Agreement, except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union and copy of such agreement shall be fowarded to the Chief Steward.
9
ARTICLE 5
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
(b)	hire, direct, assign, classify, re-classify, transfer, promote, demote and lay off any employee who is subject to the provisions cf this Agreement;
(c)	suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline any employee who is subject to the provisions of this Agreement, subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as provided herein and subject to the provisions herein contained with respect thereto;
(d)	determine the kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, engineering and designing of its products, processing and production methods, control of materials and practices to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitations, curtailment cr cessation of operations; and
(e)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rulesand regulations shall not be inconsistent with the express provisions of this agreement; and will be discussed with the Union prior to implementation.
— 10-
b,02 Without restricting or limiting tho generality of the foregoing, the Company retains all rights riot specifically relinquished or modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
STRIKES AND LOCK OUTS
6.01	Ihere shall be no strike or lock-out so long asthis Agreement continues to operate
6 02	1 ho word "strike" and the word "lock-out" shall be
as defined in the Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	A grievance shall be defined as any difference or dispute between the Company and any seniority employee of the Company regarding the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable and an allegation that this Agreement has been violated. Seniority employees shall process their grievances in the mariner and within the time limits prescribed inthis article and in Article 8 of this Agreement. Once accepted as a grievance, this grievance shall be the property of the Union.
7.02	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this article and the provisions of Article 0 of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this article or tho provisions of
11
Article 8 of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
7.03	Any time limit referred to in this article and / or Article 8 of this Agreement within which any procedures is required to be taken or within which a decision is required to bo delivered or within which a notice is required to be given are mandatory and may only be extended by mutual agreement between tho Company and the Union.
7.04	Step 1 Complaint Stage
A seniority employee who has a complaint shall firstly take ttie complaint up with his immediate supervisor on that shift, in that department within five (5) calendar daysof the time when the cause cf the complaint occurred. The employee may be accompanied by his Steward, if he so desires. If the complaint is not satisfactorily resolved within five (5) calendar days after the employee has contacted his immediate supervisor, the complaint may then be taken up as a grievance.
Step 2 Grievance Stage
If a seniority employee's complaint is riot satisfactorily resolved, the employee concerned may submit a grievance in writing to the appropriate department manager, or designate, within two (2) regular working days after receiving the supervisor's response. Within five (5) calendar days after the receipt of the grievance there will be a meeting with the employee concerned and his Steward or Chief Steward, the Department Manager and a Human Resources representative. The Company shall deliver its final decision in writing to the employee within five (5) calendar days after the meeting.
— 12-
7.05	In the case of a grievance alleging the improper discharge of a seniority employee, the discharged employee may submit his grievance in writing to the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as providedin Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement, within five (5) calendar days afterthe date of hisdischarge. Thereafter, the provisions of Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement shall apply.
7.06	If the written decision of the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as provided for in Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement, is riot satisfactory to the employee and provided the complaint and the grievance have been processed in the manner hereinbefore laid down, within the time limits prescribed, the grievance may betaken to arbitration in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement.
7.07	By way of illustration, but not by way of limitation, the following shall conclusively be deemed to be just cause for discharge;
(a)	theft or destruction of the Company’s property;
(b)	carelessnessendangeringthe safety of others;
(c)	neglect of duties;
(d)	unauthorized absenteeism;
(e)	insubordination;
(f)	fighting, or disorderly conduct;
(g)	consumption of intoxicants or non-prescription drugs while on the job;
- 13-
(ti) being under the influence of intoxicants or non-prescription drugs while on the job;
(i) bringing intoxicants or non-prescription drugs onto the Company premises; arid
(|) being in possession of intoxicants or nonprescription drugs on Company premises.
7.08	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 8 of this Agreement which is not filed or processed within the time limits prescribed in this article.
7.09	At any step of this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, cornplaint, difficulty or dispute further, if, inthe judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their Steward or the Union Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen (15) calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
14
ARTICLE 8
ARBITRATION
8.01	Either party may, subject to Article 7 of this Agreement, notify the otherparty in writing of itsdesire to submit a grievance to arbitration. The notice shall be delivered by the party desiring to submit the grievance to arbitration to the other patty within five (5) calendar clays after the date on which the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, delivered the written decision as provided in subarticle 7.04. Such notice shall also contain the name of the party's appointee to the Board of Arbitration.
8.02	Following the receipt ot the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01, the party receiving the notice shall, within ten (10) calendar days following receipt of such notice, inform the other party of the name of its appointee to the Board cf Arbitration.
8.03	The two appointees so appointed shall, within twenty (20) calendar days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration. If the party receiving the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01 fails to appoint an appointee within the time prescribed in subarticle 8.02, or, if the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon a Chairperson within the time prescribed, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either patty.
8.04	The Board of Arbitration shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, in writing, and the decision isfinaland binding upon the partiesand uponany employee affected by it. The decision of a majority of the
15
Board of Arbitration is the decision of the Board of Arbitration but, if there is no majority, the decision cf the Chairperson shall govern.
8.05	The Board cf Arbitration shall not have jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend or change any of the provisions cf this Agreetrierit or tosubstitute any now provision for any existing provision, or to make any decision which is inconsistent witli any termor provision of this agreement, or to deal with any matter which is not covered by this Agreement.
8.06	The Company and the Union shall each bearthe expenses and fees of their respective appointee to the Board of Arbitration and the Company and the Union shall each pay one half (1/2) of the expenses and foes of the Chairperson.
8.0/ The provisions of this article do not apply to probationary employees oi to seasonal employees nor shall tho provisions of this article be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee oron behalfofany seasonal employee.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
9.01	An employee shall bo considered a probationary employer; until he has worked a total of sixty-five (65) actual days, consecutive or intermittent, within any period of one (I) calendar your. Forthe purposes of clarity it is expressly understood and agreed that days worked as a seasonal employee will not be included in calculating the sixty-five (65) actual days of work as a probationary
16
employee. A probationary employee shall have no seniority. A probationary employee who is retained in the employ of the Company following completion of tho probationary period, aforesaid, shall acquire seniority, shall then become a seniority employee and his name shall bo added to tho seniority list with a seniority date which is the first date worked in that calendar year. Article 7 and ft of this Agreement are not applicable to a probationary employee and these articles are not available to the Union on behalf of a probationary employee.
9.02	The Company will prepare arid post seniority lists, every six (6) calendar months, which lists will include the name of each seniority employee, that employee's classification, that employee's department, that employee's shift, when applicable, and that employee's seniority date. A copy of the seniority lists will be sentto tho Unionoffice.
9.03	(a) Seniority shall be determinative only as expressly provided in this Agreement.
(b)	Seniority means length of continuous service with tho Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force in accordance with Article 10.02.
9.04	An employee shall lose his seniority and his employment shall be terminated if the employee:
(a)	quits, resigns or retires;
(b)	fails to report for work oi fails to notify the Company for two (2) consecutive working days without supplying a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure;
17
(c)	is laid off and not recalled for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
(d)	is absent from work duo to illness or injury for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
(e)	has been laid off and fails to return to work within five (5) working days after recall by the Company; provided that notice of recall which has been sent to the employee by registered mail at his address on the records of tlio Company shall conclusively be deemed to have been received by the employee on the fifth (5th) day after if was mailed;
(f)	is discharged and riot reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance and arbitratioti procedures contained herein;
(y) overstays a leave of absence granted by the Company without notifying the Company and without supplying a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure;
(h)	engages ingainful employmentwhile on leave of absence from the Company; or
(i)	leaves work without obtaining a leave of absence, unless the employee supplies a reason satisfactory to the Company for not obtaining a leave of absence.
9.05	(a) Seniority will be applied on a “departmental
basis” and each seniority employee will be classified as a member of one of the following Departments:
— 18
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
(5)	Facilities Department
(6)	Cold Storage Department
(7)	Sanitation Department
0.05	(b) In the event that lay-off occurs in any depart-
ment employees' seniority rights will be applied on a plant wide basis in accordance with sub-article 10.02, in that tho seniority employee displaces the lowest seniority employee within the general classification regardless of department or shift.
9.06	An employee who becomes a seniority employee, as provided in this Agreement, hasthe privilege of choosing their home department and shift by completing the appropriate forms in the Human Resources Department.
9.07	(a) The appointment, selection or promotion of any employee to a position not subject to the provisions of this agreement is not covered by this Agreement. If a seniority employee is appointed, selected or promoted to a position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement and is later transferred back to a position within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, such employee shall return to the bargaining unit with all of the seniority which that employee hadat the time of his appointment, selection or promotion and such
19
employee shall be credited with additional seniority with respectto the time when tie was not employed within the said bargaining unit, provided he returns to the bargaining unit within one (1) year from the time of his appointment, selection or promotion.
9.07	(b) Readmission after one (1) year of anon union
member will be determined by mutual agreement between the Union negotiating committee and the Company. Such readmission will not be subject to the provisions of Article 7 and 8 of this Agreement and are not applicable to such employee.
ARTICLE 10
LAYOFF AND RECALL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES
10.01	Intho event of layoff, the following procedureshall apply:
(a)	The Department, the classification and the shift (whereapplicable)within which the layoff is to occur will bo identified.
(b)	All seasonal employees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department, where they are presently employed will be laid off first.
(c)	If, all seasonal employeesas identified insubarticle 10.01 (b) are laid off, then probationary employees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department will be laid off.
20
(d)	If, all probationary employees as identified in sub-article 10.01 (c) are laid off, then seniority employees employed within that classification, that department, and on that shift shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority, provided the employees retained have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
10.02	(a) A seniority employee who has been laid off, in accordance with sub-article 10.01 (d) shall have the right to displace the most junior seniority employee in the General classification, on a plant wide basis (asdescribed in sub-article 9.05) normally within one (1) working day unless prevented from doing so because of operating circumstances. The foregoing is contingent upon such employee having the ability, willingness and qualifications to perform the work of the employee whom lie seeks to displace.
(b) The method of crewing, in order to fulfill tile obligations of Article 10, are prescribed in Schedule “B" which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement.
10.03	(a) In orderto decline his eligibility to exercise the rightas provided in sub-article 10.02, a seniority employee must, during the month of September in any year, indicate on a form supplied by the Company, that he is not willing to accept work in the other departments (as described in sub-article 9.05 (a)).This right will apply in January of the year following the completion of such form;
21
10.03	(b) Should such seniority employee later (after September in any year) wish to be eligible to exercise the right as provided in sub-article 10.02, such seniority employee must indicate on a form supplied by the Company that he is again willing to accept work in the other departments. This right will then again be effective commencing on the first day of the payroll week following the completion of the latter form. A minimum of one (1) week notice is required.
10.04	In the event that there is insufficient skilled work available, the Company may retain at work persons who are classified to perform such skilled work for one (1) working day, and, during such period of retention, such persons will be permitted to perform work normally done by other employees notwithstandingthat other employees who have higher seniority than these persons retainedare laid off.
Smelt Machine Operators and Belt Freezer Operators may be retained inthe Fish Departmentforthe remainder of the pay period provided the fishing fleets have a reasonable expectation that smelt could be caught. Such employees will not adversely affect employees who are presently working in that department.
10.05	Recall shall be in the inverse order of layoff, provided the employees recalled have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform thejobsto be done.
10.06	Probationary employees shall havenorecall rights.
22
ARTICLE 11
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE COLD STORAGE DEPARTMENT
11.01	(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employ-et's employed in tho Cold Storage Department. Whore there is a conflict between any other provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this article, the provisions cf this article shall govern.
(b)	Cold Storage employeesassigned to the Plant One (1) area will be supervised by the Fish Department and those Cold Storage employees will be requited to perform any arid all duties assigned within the Fish Department, without adversely affecting employees who are presently working in that department.
(c)	Warehouse persons and the Warehouse Leader classifications are included in the Cold Storage Departmentarid would displace employees in the general classification, on a plant wide basis upon lay off.
11.02	A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Department will retain the tight to transfer into the General classification in the Fish, Cook, Vegetable or Packaging Departments, with full seniority, providedthat such application for transfer' is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year arid filed with the Human Resources Department. An employee who transfers, in accordance with the foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which lie transferred
23
ori commencement of the following calendar year. The provisions of Article 14 tf the CollectiveAgreementdonot apply to such transfer.
11.03	An employee who is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department will be assigned duties in their classification, on a rotating basis, or on straight afternoons as required by the job. Should a straight daytime assignment become available, such assignment will be offered first to the other Cold Storage personnel, in order of departmental seniority, provided that such employee has the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the job to bo done. Those Cold Storage employeeswhovoluntarily chooseto work straight nights or to go on shift rotation will be excluded from the above provisions.
11.04	(a) Prior to hiring new employees into the Cold Storage Department,the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. If any employee is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department hisfirst day of work in the Cold Storage Department shall be his seniority date, for shift rotation, overtime and transfers cf area. Such employeeshall receivecreditfor all of his previous seniority with the Company for vacation, lay off and recall purposes. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him.
(b) A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Department who wishes to transfer from one “area” of the Department to another “area” cf the department must make application for such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st
24
and September 30th of each year, itie approval of any such request is subject to the requirement that the Company have a junior employee within the "area" applied to who lias the same qualifications. Such junior employee will be re-assigned duties in the vacated area upon commencement of the following calendar year. The employee who requested the transfer in accordance with this subarticle will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencement of the following calendar year, l or purposes of this sub-article "area" shall mean either “Plant .)", “North End” or the "Distribution Centre."
11.05	(a) Should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur in the Cold Storage Department or~a Saturday, Sunday or on a Paid Holiday, it shall first be assigned to Cold Storage employees who are regularly employed in the Plant where such overtime occurs.
(b)	Such overtime will be offered equally throughout the year on a rotating basis starting with tho most senior employee and continuing to the most junior employees who have the ability, willingness arid qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
(c)	Any employee who does not desire such overtime arid premium pay assignments shall not be required to accept such assignments; however, such employee will be credited witli having worked such overtime; for equal distribution of overtime purposes only.
(d)	If none of the employees desire suet i overtime then such overtime assignments will be worked by tho most junior employees in the department who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to he done.
25
(e)	Should an employee within a certain classification havethe opportunity to work overtime inadvance cf the normal schedule of overtime rotation, such employee will be credited to having worked that rotation.
ARTICLE 12
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE SANITATION DEPARTMENT
12.01	Notwithstandinganything contained inthis Agreement, the following conditions shall apply to members of the Sanitation Department:
(a)	A member of the Sanitation Department will exercise his seniority rights in the General Worker classificationwithinthe Companywhen not required in his classification.
(b)	A member cf the Sanitation Department who has been a member of the Sanitation Department for a period of not less than one (1) year and who no longer wishes to be a member of the Sanitation Department must advise tho Company of this fact, in writing, between the 1st day of September and the 30th day cf September in any year. As cf the 1st day of January cf the following year, he will no longer be classified as a member of the Sanitation Department and he will not be allocated work in the Sanitation Department. Only one (1) employee per year will be allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. If more than
— 26 -
one seniority employee applies, the one with the greatest plant wide seniority will be allowed to transfer.
12.02	Prior to hiring new employees into the Sanitation Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him.
ARTICLE 13 SHIFT TRANSFER
13.01	A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferring from one shift to another on an annual basis, within his department, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
13.02	Application for shift transfer, within a department, will be accepted between September 1st and September 30th cf each year and must be filed, in writing, with the Human Resources Department. Application forms will be supplied by the Company and may be obtained from the Human Resources Department.
13.03	The privilege of transferring from one shift to another will only apply to production personnel whose seniority rights apply to one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
— 27
13.04	A seniority employee will begranted hisfull seniority rights on the shift to which he is transferred within the department wherein his rights apply upon commencement of the following calendar year.
13.05	A seniority employee who transfers from one shift to another shift in accordance with this article, will be transferred on a one for one basis. The most junior employee in the same classification as the person who is transferring shifts will be reassigned to fill the vacancy created by the transfer.
13.06	If the seniority of an employee whose shift is transferred i n accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently on the shift to which such employee transferred, the transferred employee's seniority will follow the seniority of the other employee.
ARTICLE 14
DEPARTMENTTRANSFER
14.01	A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferring from one Departmentto another on an annual basis, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
14.02	Applications for transfer from one Department to another will be accepted between September 1st and September 30th of each year and must be filed, in writing, with the Human Resources Department.Applicationforms will be supplied by the Company and may be obtained from the Human Resources Department.
28
14.03	The privilege oftransferring from one Department to another will only apply to production personnel whose seniority rights apply to one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
14.04	Aseniorityemployeowill be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred upon commencement of the following calendar year. Hewill be offered work in the Department in his classification and consistent with his ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
A seniority employee who transfers from one department to another in accordance with this Article, will be transferred on a one-for-one basis. The most junior employee in the same classificationasthe person who istransferring departments, will be reassigned to fill the vacancy created by the transfer.
14.05	Ifthe seniority of an employee who istransferred in accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently in the department to which such employee transferred, the transferred employee's seniority will follow the seniority of the other employee.
29
ARTICLE 15
JOB POSTING
15.01	When a permanent vacancy occurs within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, within a classification above the General Classification, as the result ofthe death, retirement, resignation of a seniority employee or the creation of a new job, the Company will, if it decides to fill the vacancy, post notice of thn vacancy for a period of five (5) calendar days in order to allow seniority employees to apply. All postings arid the names ofthe successful applicants will be posted on the job posting bulletin boards and copies will be given to the Chief Steward.
15.02	Priorto posting permanent vacancies, the job will ha offered to:
The most senior “back-up” employee for that job classification from the department where the vacancy occurs;
If, afterthe above step isfollowed, and the vacancy isnot filled, the Company will post the vacancy as described in sub-article 15.01. The Company will select the candidate by considering:
(a)	The most senior backup in that job classification, from the plant wide seniority list.
(ti) The requirements ofthe posted position and the qualifications, skill, experience and ability ofthe applicants) to satisfactorily perform the requirements ofthe posted position; and,
(c)	Seniority.
30
When factor (b) is relatively equal as between two (2) or more applicants, factor (c) will govern.
15.03	Ifno applications are received from seniority employees or ifnone of the applicants is awarded the posted vacancy, the Company may then fill the vacancy in such manner as it determines.
15.04	The Company will post "Backup" positions for classified jobs. Successful candidates will be selected in the following manner:
(a)	The most senior applicant not currently holding a backup position, in the general classification, in the department where the vacancy occurs.
(b)	The most senior applicant not currently holding a backup position, in the general classification on the plant wide seniority list.
(c)	The most senior applicant in the department where the vacancy occurs.
(d)	The most senior applicant on the plant wide seniority list.
Notwithstanding the above steps, the successful candidate must possess the basic qualifications, skill and ability required to satisfactorily train to perform the duties of the job.
In the event there are two (2) or more applicants with relatively equal qualifications, skill and ability, the most senior applicant will be given preference.
31
15.0!i An employee who is a member of a classification other than the General classification and who rio longer wishes to remain a member of that classification must advise the Companyofthisfact, inwriting, betweenthe 1st day of September and the 30th day of September in any year. As of the 1st day of January in the following year, such employee will no longer be so classified and will be classified as a member of the General Classification.
15.06	An employee who is awarded a posted position in accordance with the provisions of this article arid who, at his option or at the option of the Company, is riot retained in the posted position, following the trial period, will be transferred back to the department and tho shift and the classification where he was working immediately prior to being awarded the posted positionand he will be allocated work in that department and on that shift arid the classification in accordance with his seniority and his ability, willingness arid qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs io be done.
15.07	The successful applicant for a classified position will not be eligible to apply for another classified posted vacancy fora period of six (6) months after being awarded tlio posted vacancy.
15.08	The Classification rate of pay tor tho posted position will bo adjusted on the first day worked in that job following tho trial period.
i 5.00 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article! or in this Agreement, the following provisions will apply:
32
(a)	All postings will be awarded as soon as possible and when jobs are filled, successful bidders will receive necessary training as operating circumstances permit.
(b)	The requirements of a newly created job will be determined by a committee Consisting of equal numbers of Unionand Company representatives. The “Neutralizer” or other agreed upon job evaluation system will be utilized to evaluate the job grade ofthat new positionand will be reviewed by the committee prior to establishing a pay rate for that job.
(c)	Employees in “backup” positions will be updated on these jobs periodically; these employees in updating assignments will be paid the general rate cf pay regardless cf their current classification or their rate cf pay. Classified employees displaced by these updating assignments in those jobs will be assigned general work without affecting their classified rate of pay.
ARTICLE 16
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND WORKING CONDITIONS
16.01	Hours ofworkshall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
16.02	All overtime and premium pay assignments with the exception of the seasonal work as described in
33
sub-article 27.01 (unless that seasonal work was performed by nseniority employee), which occur in a Department on a Saturday, Sunday, or Paid Holiday, will be assigned to seniority employees who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees. For the purposes of this article, employees who are regularly employed in production areas doing production work will be given first priority for overtime and premium pay assignments in production areas to do production work which occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holidays priorto assigning such work to employees in the Warehouse, Stockroom or Janitor classifications.
16.03	Any employee who does not desire overtime and premium pay assignments shall not be required to accept such assignments provided the employee has, prior to when the overtime and premium pay assignments occur, fileda request, in writing, with hissupervisorto be excused from the overtime and premium pay assignments. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossible to approve every request, it is recognized that the Company may have to limit the number of requests which can be approved. In any week, only ten percent (10%) of the employees on the seniority list, within a classification, shall, cn a progressive basis (i.e., first week - first ten percent (10%); second week -second ten percent (10%); etc.) be eligible to make such requests. If, in any week, all employees within the classification who are eligible for that week do not make such a request, additional employees on the seniority list, within the classification, up to a total of ten percent (10%) of the employees in the classification will, in accordance with seniority, then bo eligible to make such a request.
- 34-
16.04	All overtime and premium pay assignments scheduled by the Company must be worked by the employee assigned unless the employes has permission from the appropriate Company official to be absent from work.
16.05	All hours actually worked by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday, both inclusive, shall he paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's regular straight time rate of pay.
16.06	All hours actually worked by an employee on a Saturday or on a Sunday shall be paid for at one and one-half(1-1/2)timestheemployee's regularstraighttime rate of pay.
16.07	In the event that an employee reports for work at hisregulartimeonhisregularshift, Mondayto Friday, both inclusive, without having been previously advised not to report forwork, he will be given three (3) hours of work at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. If no work is available, he will be paid the equivalent of three (3)hours at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. As a condition of payment, the employee shall perform any available work which he is capable of performing and which he is requested to perform.
16.08	The following provisions apply to overtime and premium pay assignments:
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, overtime andpremium pay assignments will be assigned firstly to seniority employees who are currently working in the Department and on the shift where such overtime or premium pay assignments occur, provided they
35
have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform tho jobs to be done, prior ±> assigning such work to other employees.
(b)	In the event that overtime is scheduled in advance of a regular shift, such overtime will be assigned to those employees who are scheduled to work in that Department on the same following shift of work.
(c)	Notwithstanding anything contained in this article or this Agreement, should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur in the Vegetable Department following a shift, it will be assigned to those employees who performed those duties on the shift immediately preceding the overtime or premium pay assignment occurring, prior to assigning such work to other employees and provided that such other employees have the ability, willingness, and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done. This overtime will not interfere with or displace those employees who are regularly scheduled to work on the shift on which the overtime or premium pay assignment occurred.
(d)	When it is found that there are insufficient employees available within a Department wherein overtime work arid premium pay assignments are required, the additional work will be assigned to seniority employees who are working in the other Departments (Fish
36
Department, Cook Department. Vegetable Department or Packaging Department), on the same shift, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, priorto assigning such work to other employees.
16.09	An employee who wants permission to be absent from work, for a reason that is known to him prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift, must receive pen mission to be absent from his supervisor prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift. The permission of the supetvisor will not be unreasonably refused.
16.10	Ifan employee is unable to reportto work, for any reason, he shall notify his supervisor, or if the employee is unable to contact his supervisor, the Human Resources Department, as soon as possible, and, in any event, prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift. The employee shall advise his supervisor, or the Human Resources Department, as the case may be, why he is unableto reportforworkandwhen he expects to re port for work.
16.11	(a) When an employee is absent due to work related injury / illness:
’ the employee must be seen by a medical practitioner immediately following an injury / illness causing an absence from work.
• following this visit, a medical certificate confirming his visitation must be received by tho Occupational Health & Safety Coordinator, or designate, and
37
*	such medical certificate must include the type of injury / illness, the expected duration and the medical restrictions, if any.
(b) When an employee is absent due to a nonwork related injury / illness for more than three (3) consecutive working days:
*	a medical certificate must be received by the Occupational Health & Safety Coordinator, or designate, no laterthanone(l) weekfromthe beginning of the absence; and,
*	sucti medical certificate mustiriclude the type of injury / illness and the expected duration.
16.1	I (c) Prior to returning to work, following an absence due 10 injury / illness, the Company must receive, within a reasonable time period before the expected return, medical certification identifying the employee's date of return and confirming that such an employee can return to regular duties; or,
° if regular duties cannot be performed, the medical Certificate must include specific information identifying such employee’s medical restrictions in order for such employee to receive consideration for modified work. A form is available in Human Hesources for this purpose.
(d)	A committee with equal representation from the Company and the Union will fortnulate provisions for Modified Work. Return loWork interviews may be held with all workers who cannot do regular duties.
38
10.12	Any medical examination requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all employees. The Company shall pay for all such examinations. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done to an employee, have such employee re-examined at the Union’s expense.
10.13	It shall be the duty of every employee to advise the Company of his address and telephone number arid any changes thereto. If an employee fails to do so, the Company will not be liable forthe employee's failure to receive notice of recall or any other notice issued to the employee by the Company. The Company will send such changes to the Union hall on an ongoing basis.
16.14	There will be a seventeen cents ($.17) per hour premium on the afternoon or second shift for all hours of work performed on such shift and twenty-five ($.25) per hour premium on the evening or third shift for all hours of work performed on such shift.
16.15	Thore shall bo no pyramiding of any premium pay, including but not limited to, overtime arid paid holiday pay.
16.16	An employee who is called track to work after completing his normal shift will be paid for all hours worked at the rate of one and ono-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3/hours of pay at his regular straight time rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
39
16.17	An employee who is called in to work on a Saturday, on a Sundayor on a Paid Holiday will be paid tot all hours worked at the rate cf one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment cf three (3) hours of pay at his regular straighttime rate of pay. Inordertoqualify forthe minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
16.18	The Company will make reasonable efforts to train and keep their employees up to date on new equipment before hiring new employees. The Company will cooperate with employees with respect to new ideas and techniques.
16.19	Where rotation systems are presently being used, all workers will follow said rotation unless they are prevented from doing so by their medical restrictions.
16.20	An employee who replaces another employee on a temporary basis will return to their previous position upon the return of that employee.
ARTICLE 17
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE FACILITIES DEPARTMENT
17.01	(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Facilities Department.Where there is a conflict between any other provision of this Agreement the provisions cf this article shall govern.
40 —
(b) The Stockroom Leader position isincluded in the Facilities Department. Such employee will displace employees on a plant wide basis upon lay off.
17.02	(a) Experience as at April 1st of each year.
Minimum Starting Rate	$ 1 Hour
After 6 months	11.5b
After 1 year	'12.25
After 2 years	12.95
After 3 years	13.65
After 4 years	14.35
17,02	(b) Newly hired employees who bring outside experience to the job will receive credit for such experience in accordance with the schedule identified below. Such credit will be based solely upon the manager's assessment of the newly hired employee's experience and communicated, in writing, inthe offerof employment. This rate will be reviewed to the next rate level as at April 1st of each year.
Outside Experience Credit	$/Hour
1 year	i1.55
2 years	12.25
3 years	12.95
4 years	13.65
5 years	14.35
17.02
Licences	S/ Hour
A Refrigeration	1.10
B Refrigeration	.70
First Stationary	2.00
Second Stationary	1.50
Third Stationary	1.00
Fourth Stationary	.60
Mechanic	1.00
General Machinist	1.00
Millwright	.50
Electrician	1.00
Technical Mechanic	.50
Maintenance Gas Fitter	.50
High Pressure Welder	.20
17.03	Employees who are successful in obtaining additional licences, as required by the Company, shall receive the appropriate pay for such licences. Inthe event that any employee’s rate is above the rate as identified in subarticle 17.02 above, future rate changes will be equal to the Facilitiesgroup increase less five cents ($.05) untilthe rate is consistent with the rate identified in sub-article 17.02 above. The Company will only pay for such licence(s) as the employee is requiredto have to perform the duties which are assigned to the employee by the Company. The Company will continue its current practice with respect to existing employees regarding payment for licences.
17.04	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire semi-skilled and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined inthe Collective Agreement provided these rates are not inconsistent with rates paid to employees in the same job classification.
— 42 —
17.05	The supervisor cf the Facilities Department will schedule the shifts and the assignments to be carried out by each employee under their authority. Such schedule cf shifts will be made in advance with a copy of such schedule given to each employee of the Department by his supervisor. Any adjustments to the schedule for entitled vacation or emergency requirements must be directed through the Department supervisor. Supervisors will prepare a listing for plant coverage as required by the Company during the Christmas and New Year's holiday break in advance of such period.
17.0G Prior to hiring new employees into the Facilities Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other Departments. If any employee from another Department is transferred by the Company to the Facilities Department, his first day of work inthe Facilities Departmentshall be hisseniority date, provided however, that such employee shall receive credit for all of his previous seniority for vacation purposes only. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him. The following conditions will apply to such person:
(a)	An employee will receive the rate of pay paid to a new employee hired into the Facilities Department.
(b)	An initial review upon completion of a two (2) week trial period will determine further continuance of the employee into the program.
(c)	An employee who warrants continued training, as determined by the Company, will cotititiue the Basic Apprenticeship
43
Training Program for a period of up to six (6) months. Upon completion of this period, an employee will receive the prevailing categorized rates applied to members of the Facilities Department.
(d)	It is agreed by both parties to this Agreement that an employee, who hasbeengivenconsid-eration under this provision to transfer to the Facilities Department, will retain the right to transfer back into the General Classification, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1 st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department.
(e)	Also, should the employee who transferred to the Facilities Department not qualify within a six (6) month period of time, the Companymay transfer the employee back to the General Classification with full seniority in the same Department and on the same shift from where he came.
17.07 A new employee hired into the Facilities Department who is unable to meet the standards of performance as determined by the Company during the first six (6) months of employment, will not be retained in the Facilities Department. He will, provided however that he has completed hisprobationary period, be given theopportunity for work in the General Classification in another Department on the shift as determined by the Company, provided that he is able, willing, and qualified to do the work offered to him. The employee's first day of work in the General
—■ 44
Classification will be his seniority date in that group, provided however, that such em ployee shall receive cred it for all of his previous seniority for vacation purposes only.
17.08	(a) Educational Courses
l tie Companywillsponsor company approved courses by reimbursing the employee for tuition fees and required course booksafter the successful completion of the course and by reimbursing mileage costs. In order to qualify for reimbursement from the Company, the employee must submit receipts confirming payment. The Company will apply the above in a consistent and fair manner with all employees within the Facilities Department.
(b)	The Company recognizes the need to keep Facilities employees current on new equipment and will endeavour to do so.
17.09	Overtime
(a) When practical, overtime within the Facilities Dopai tment on a Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holiday will be offered to personnel within the Department who last performed those duties on the regular shift whore the overtime occurs, provided such e mployees I rave the qualifications to do the work. Regularshift shall mean I st, 2nd, or 3rd shift. If this overtime is not desired by those who qualify under the above conditions, the overtime will be offered to the personnel within that area, who last performed those duties in the area, regardless of the shift, where the overtime occurs, provided such employees have the qualifications to do the work. For tiro purposes of this sub-article and sub-article 17.10 “area1’ shall mean either Plant One (1), Plant Two (2), Fiefrigeration or electrical.
45
(b)	If this overtime is not desired by those who qualify under the above conditions, then the whole Facilities Department becomes eligible, based on seniority, qualifications and willingness to perform the jobs to be done.
(c)	In order to qualify for such overtime, the seniority employee must sign the voluntary overtime sheet before Wednesday at noon, of the week when the overtime will occur. Eligibility for such overtime is based on the conditions outlined above and not limited by shift unless otherwise specified. Those employees whosigned the voluntary overtime sheet and are required to work overtime, will be notified by the supervisor or designate prior to Thursday, noon before the weekend where the overtime occurs.
The voluntary overtime sheet for the following weekend will be posted by the Company immediately after the removalcfthe previousweeks’ sheetandwill be posted at both Plant One (1) and PlantTwo (2) maintenanceshops.
(d)	If, for any reason, the company needs more workers to perform the jobs to be done on Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holidays they may schedule the most junior employee(s) and move up the seniority list until the required needs are met
In order toqualify, the employee must have the necessary skills to perform the jobs to be done and the Company will follow the Employment Standards Act when scheduling employees for overtime. Overtime may be cancelled by the Company at any time prior to the beginning of the overtime shift.
(e)	Overtime which occurs immediately following a regular shift arid of a duration of loss than two (2) hours, will he allocated to the persontiel within the Department who were on duly for the full immediate shift prior to when this overtime occurred, based on seniority, qualifications arid willingness to perform the jobs to bo done. This overtime will be allocated, upon approval of tho Foreman in charge, based on an estimation of the time required to complete tho job.
17.10	Entitled Vacation
Vacations will he granted to members of the Facilities Department in accordance with the Vacations with Pay article in this Agreement. Provided, however, that during tho period of June 15th to September 15th of each year, the Company will allow each seniority employee from cacti area to be on vacation for one (1) week in this period of time.
17.11	Employees of the Facilities Department shall be required to wear safety boots while at work. The Company shall pay the sum of fifty-five dollars ($55.00) annually to the employees of the Facilities Department to purchase safety boots. Payment shall be made by the Company upon the Company being provided with satisfactory proof of purchase and the purchase price paid.
17.12	All “Facilities Leaders” will receive sixty cents ($.60) perhourin addition to their regular straight time rate cf pay.
17.13	A Facilities Department employee who is called hack to work after completing his normal shift or who is called into work on a Saturday, on a Sunday or on a Paid Holiday will be paid, for all hoursworked, at tho rato of one
-- 47
and one-half (1-1/2) his regular straight time rate of pay, subjectto a minimum payment of three (3) hoursof payat the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straighttimerateof pay. Inordertoqualifyforthe minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
17.14	A seniority employee in the Facilities Department who wishes to transfer from one area of the Departmentto another area of the Department must make applicationfor such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such request is subject to the requirement that the Company have the requisite qualified personnel in each area and to the requirement that there be an employee in the area applied to who will voluntarily transfer to the other area. An employee who transfers in accordance with this sub-article will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencementof the following calendar year. For the purposes of this subarticle "area" shall mean either Plant One (1) or Plant Two (2) General Maintenance.
17.15	A seniority employee in the Facilities Department shall have the privilege to transfer into the General Classification in another Department, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1 st and September30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department. An employee who transfers into the General Classification of another Department, in accordance with the foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Departmentto which he transferred on commencement of the following calendar year. The provisions of Article 14 of the Collective Agreement do not apply to such transfer. Only one
— 48 —
employee per year will be allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. If more than one seniority employee applies, the one with the greatest seniority will be allowed to transfer.
17.16	All Refrigeration personnel will work on all three shifts on an equal rotating basis except that the Leader will bo assigned to work the day shift in the absence of the supervisor.
ARTICLE 18
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
18.01	A leave of absence for good and valid reasons may be granted by the Company to a seniority employee upon written application being made therefore. Prior to the Company considering a leave of absence request, all vacation entitlements for that employee must be taken first. A leave cf absence, if granted, shall be without pay and benefits. A request for a leave of absence will be considered by the Company only when such request is made in writing, specifying the reason therefore and the duration of the leave of absence requested. Such written request must be delivered to the Company not less than one (1) month In advance of the commencement of the requested leave of absence; provided, however, that the provision for advance notice may be waived by the Company in cases of emergency.
18.02	(a) The Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the Union at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay to a Steward for a period not to exceed ten (10)working days for the purpose of Union business such as conventions, delegations and
49
seminars. The request shall state the purposeof the leave of absence and the length thereof. The maximumnumber of working days which can be taken in a year under this sub-article shall not exceed twenty (20) working days in the aggregate in any period of twelve (12) calendar months, excluding Executive, Membership and Negotiating meetings.
(b)	Tho Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the employee at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay for a period notto exceed two (2) years to a seniority employee who is elected to a full-time position with the Union. The employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate during the leave of absence.
'18.03 An employee who has been granted a leave of absence shall not, during the period of the leave of absence, engage in gainful employment for any other person, firm or corporation. The failure to comply with this provision will result in the termination of that employee's employment with the Company.
18.04	The decision to grant or not to grant a leave of absence rests solely with the Company. The refusal to grant a leave of absence and / or any conditions imposed by the Company with respect thereto shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement. In cases of emergency, a request for leave of absence will not bo unreasonably refused.
18.05	When a leave of absence is requested, the Company will giveitsanswerwithin five (5) working days. In an emergency situation, the Companywill give its answer as quickly as possible.
50
ARTICLE 19 BULLETIN BOARDS
19.01	The Company will permit posting of notices of employee meetings or functions on bulletin boards conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
19.02	All notices must be signed by the appropriate Company official prior to being posted on the bulletin boards.
ARTICLE 20
JURY DUTY
20.01	The Company shall grant a leave of absence to a seniority employee who is required to serve as a juror or who is subpoenaed to appear in any court as a witness. The Company shall pay to such seniority employee the difference between the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay and the payment the employee received for attending as a juror or a subpoenaed witness. In order to qualify for payment from the Company, the employee must submit proof of service and the amount cf pay received.
ARTICLE 21
WAGES
21 U1 The wage rates to be paid toseniority employees, save and except seniority employees who are employed in the Facilities Department, are as prescribed in Schedule “ A which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement.
51
ARTICLE 22 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
22.01	Inthe event of the death of a member of a seniority employee's immediate family, the Company will grant, upon application made by the employee, up to three (3) days leave of absence, with pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay, up to and including the day of the funeral, provided that such days are regularworkingdays upon which the employee would have otherwise been scheduled to work. To be eligible for payment hereunder, the employee must, if requested by the Company, provide satisfactory evidence of death. The phrase “immediate family” shall conclusively mean tho spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, step-mother, step-father, step-son, step-daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, grandmother or grandfather of the seniority employee.
ARTICLE 23
PAID HOLIDAYS
23.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to the following paid holidays with pay at their regular straight time hourly rate of pay:
New Year's Day
Heritage Day (2nd Monday in February)
Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
52
The Day Before Christmas Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
23.02	If any seniority employee is required to work on any of the above Holidays, he shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for the time worked in addition to the Holiday Pay.
23.03	Each paid holiday will be observed on the day on which the paid holiday occurs unless the Company designates another day as the day on which the paid holiday is to be observed, in which event, the paid holiday will be observed on the day designated by the Company and not on the day on which it occurs.
23.04	It is agreed that all seniority employees shall bo paid a full regularday's pay at the employee' appropriate hourly rate for the above mentioned Holidays. A regular day for this purpose shall be eight (8) hours.
23.00	Eligibility for the above named Holidays shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The employee who isavailable for work on his scheduled shift preceding and following the Holiday, or when the employee has the consent of the Company to be absent, but, notin excess of fourteen (14) days.
(b)	An employee who is ill or injured up to twelve (12) working days prior and/ or following the Holidayshall be paidforthe Holiday, providing he supplies the Company with a Doctor's certificate if required.
-53
(c)	In order to qualify for pay for the Holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day hereinbefore referred to must fall within ten (10) working days before and within ten (10) working days after the said Holiday.
(d)	For the purpose of clauses a, b, andc, above, the daysbetween Boxing Day arid NewYear's Day shall not be counted.
23.06	Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, the Company will not pay paid holiday pay to any employee who has been paid Worker's Compensation for the paid holiday.
ARTICLE 24 VACATION WITH PAY
24.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to vacation as provided in this article.
24.02	Vacations shall be granted in the vacation year following the vacation year in which it was earned. Forthe purposes of this article, tho vacation year shall mean the twelve (12) month periodcommencing onthe employee's date of hire or on the employee's anniversary date of hire, as the case may be, arid ending on the day preceding the employee’s anniversary date cf hire inthe following year. The phrase "date of hire" shall conclusively be interpreted to mean the employee's seniority date.
24.03	All seniority employees with more than one (1) year but less than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date cf hire in each year, shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be four percent
54 —
(4%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee’s anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.04	All seniority employees with more than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be six percent (6%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.05	All seniority employees witli more than thirteen (13) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive foui (4)weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be eight percent (8%) of the employee’s total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding tho employees anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.0G All seniority employees with more than twenty-two (22) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be ten percent (10%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.07	(a) The Company will make every effort to grant vacationsattimes requested bythe employees. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossible to approve vacation, as requested, it is recognized that it may be necessary to limit the number cf employees who may be on vacation at any one time or to riotapprove vacation as requested.
(b) Tlie Company, will, to the extent possible, give priority to employees' vacation request between January 16th and August 14thofeach year, on a "first-come -first
55
serve” basis allowing for a ten (10) day waiting period. During the ten (10) days following the application for a vacation, should a more senior employee apply for the same period of vacation, priority will be given to the more senior employee. Once the ten (10) day waiting period is over, if the vacation request is granted, no senior employee will be entitled to claim priority over a more junior employee with respect to the vacation time granted.
(c)	The Company may require employees to take up to two (2) weeks of their remainingvacation entitlement between August 15th and January 15th of each year.
The Companywill post, in advance of that time period, the vacation slots available within each classification for each department. The employee may applyforpreferredweeks vacation on a form supplied by the Company.
Vacation preference will be allocated to employees in order of seniority, for the vacation slots within each classification in each department.
Whereby the Company still requires additional employees to be on vacation, between August 15th and January 15th of each year, the Company will notify the most junior employee(s) in the Company, that they are required to take vacation. The Company will provide, to these employees, as much notice as possible.
Ifwork becomes available in a full time position during that mandatory vacation period, the Companywill offer that work to the most senior employee who is currently on mandatory vacation.
Employees who are required to take mandatory vacation will only be required to take one week, until such time all employees on the seniority list are scheduled to
- 56
takoone week of mandatory vacation, prior to scheduling the most junior employee for their second week of mandatory vacation.
24.08	Vacation pay, upon written request by the employee, will be paid by the Company, in the pay period following such request. The appropriate forms are available in the Human Resources office and must be submitted prior to 05:00 pm on Fridays to be issued the following week. Vacation pay will be paid by the Company by the 15th of September in each year.
ARTICLE 25
HEALTH AND WELFARE
25.01	SEMI PRIVATE - 100% of the premiums will be paid by the Company for semi-private hospital coverage for all seniority employees while in active employment of the Company and their eligible dependents, where such an employee makes application therefor.
25.02	LIFE INSURANCE -1 he Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for life insurance for all seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company where such employee makes application therefor, as follows:
16,000	effective April I, 1990
25.03	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN The Company
will pay 100% of the premiums payable fora “prescription only" drug plan ($3.00 co-pay) for seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company, and their eligible dependents where such an employee makes application therefor.
“Prescription only" drugs do not include any item that can be purchased “over the counter".
— 57
25.04	The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for Life Insurance coverage for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company who have attained the 65th birthday where such an employee makes application therefor. The amount of Life Insurance coverage shall be six thousand dollars ($6,000.00). The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for Life Insurance coverage for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company who have attained their 70th birthday where such an employee makes application therefor. The amount of Life Insurance coverage shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
25.05	It shall be the responsibility of the employees to ensure they comply with all eligibility requirements for coverage under this article. The details of the coverage are more specifically set out in the original contract for insurance coverage.
25.06	DENTAL PLAN - The Company will pay into the United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan - Ontario, eighteen cents (18 cents) pernonovertime hour worked by each seniority employee while in the active employment of the Company and their eligible dependents as defined in the Plan where such an employee makes application therefor. The Company's contributions will be forwarded to this Plan within fifteen (15) days of the month following the month for which the contributions are being made.
25.07	The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for a Weekly Indemnity Plan for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the
58
Company. Subject to the terms and provisionsotthe Plan, coverage will be for a period of twenty-six (26) week:; commencing on the one hundred arid twentieth (120) day ofabsence from work and the amount of coverage shall bo sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 213%) of eligible earnings subject to a maximum of three hundred arid twenty dollars ($320.00) per week.
25.OB To become eligible for the Company’s portion of premiums for the Healthand Welfare coverages, seniority employees must have completed tlieir probationary period and must have received eighty (80) hours of pay from the Company in any payroll month. The hours credited will bo based on the payroll months and the days of the week in which the payroll week ends in a month will be credited to that same month. Entitled vacations with pay and specified holiday, if any, shall bo considered as time worked.
25.09	Any seniority employee who is absent from work because of illness or injury or who l ias been laid off by the Company and who wishes to continue to participate in the Health arid Welfare coverage asprovided inthis Article as a member of the Company's group with respect to such coverage may do so, subject to all requirements of the Plans and provided he continues to be an employee of tlio Company and continues to meet all the requirements of tiio planand provided lie pays fothe Company the amount of the premium payment in advance of the premium duo dates. This privilege does riot apply to semi-private hospitalization coverage. 'This privilege shall terminate on the expiry of otic (I) year from the commencement of the illness, injury oi lay off.
59
25.10	PENSION PLAN-The Company will pay into the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plati, on behalf of each seniority employee, the sum of forty-seven cents ($.47) for each non-overtime hour worked by each seniority employee, subject to a maximum of eighteen dollars and eighty cents ($18.80) per week. These Company contributions will be remitted by the Company by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month for which the contributions are being made.
ARTICLE 26
COST-OF-LIVING-ALLOWANCE
26,01	Seniority employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided a Cost of Living Allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	The Company agrees to provide Cost of Living Allowance determined in the manner and to the extent hereinafter set forth in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index, published by Statistics Canada (1981=100), and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
(b)	Cost of Living Adjustment will be made upward or downward as hereinafter provided basedon changes inthe C.P.I. but in no event willadecline inthe C.P.I. below 136.4 provide a basis of reduction in the wage rates herein set forth.
(c)	Adjustments in the Cost of Living Allowance shall bo made at tho following times, basedon the following C.P.I.:
- -60-
Commencing the first pay Eased on the CPI period following	published for:
ApriM, 1989 October 1, 1989 April 1, 1990 October 1, 1990
February, 1989 August, 1989 February, 1990 August, 1990
26.02	‘I tie amount of Cost o( Living Allowance which shall bo effective commencing tho first full pay period following April 1, 1989, shall be one cent (1 cent) per hour adjustments for each 0.5 increase in the C.P.I. published for February, 1989, over the base of 136.4 and for any period thereafter shall be one cent (1 cent) per hour adjustment for each 0.5 increase in the C.P.I. published for the appropriate month as indicated above over the base of 136.4.
26.03	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published C.P.I.
26.04	Tho provisions of this article are inoperative for tire term of this Agreement. The amount of twenty eight cents (28 cents) pel hour will be maintained throughout the terms of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
SPECIAL PROVISION APPLICABLE TO SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
27.01	Seasonal workshall include all General and Heavy classified jobs performed on raw or unfrozen fruit arid vegetables priorto the Belt Freezers but shall exclude any coated and / or value added production::.
61
27.02	Seasonal employees shall be called back in order of years of service in that those with the most years of service shall be called back before those with lesser years of service provided that they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the duties to be done.
ARTICLE 28 HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.01	(a) The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees in the plant during their working hours. The Company agrees to notify the Union Safety Representative (Chief Steward) of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
(b) The Company will supply copies of “Form 7” Compensation forms immediately and copies of “Restrictions List” to the Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 29
DURATION
29.01	This Agreement shall become effective the 28th day of March 1993 and shall remain in effect until the 1st day of April 1995.
29.02	Either party to this Agreement may, within the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the 1st day of April of 1995, give notice in writing to the other party of its desire to make a new agreement.
62
ARTICLE 30
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
30.01	The Company and the Union recognize the value of cooperation in the solution of problems common to the relations between them. For purpose of improving such relations and reaching mutual understandings as to the proper aims and objectives of each other, the joint labour-management committee shall be established within thirty (30Jdays after tho execution of this Contract consisting of representatives of the Company and the Union. Only persons employed by the Company or the Union shall serve on this Committee. The Labour-Management Committee shall meet monthly and shall consider such matters as shall be mutually agreed upon except that such committee shall notconsiderany matterwhich properly should be considered in the Grievance Procedure.
SCHEDULE“A”
(CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES FOR SENIORITY EMPLOYEES SAVE AND EXCEPT SENIORITY EMPLOYEES EMPLOYED IN THE FACILITIES DEPARTMENTS)
(A)	SENIORITY EMPLOYEES HOURLY RATE OF PAY
Job Grade	As at April 1, 1991
1.	General	$13.12
2.	Heavy Labour	$13.12
Janitor
3.	Padlocker/Casemaker	$13.47
Smelt Machine Operator
Porch Machine Operator Filloter
63
Bandsaw Operator Lift Truck Driver Sanitation “B” Crewperson Coil Sweeper Caseprinting Makeup Automatic Palletizer Operator Mix Room Operator
4.	Belt Freezer Operator (Plant One)	$13.77
Belt Freezer Operator (Plant Two)
Packaging Line Operator Production Inventory Clerk Warehouseperson Sanitation " AC rewperson Onion Peeler Operator
5.	Cookline Operator	$13.87
Fishline Operator
Vegline Operator Stockroom Keeper Cold Storage Driver Cold Storage Inventory Clerk Process Control Operator
ti,	Leader	$14.07
Note#1
When an employee has not performed the duties of his classification fora minimum of three (3)hoursinanyday, he will be paid, for that day, the General classification rate of pay.
64
(B) PIECE WORK (SENIORITY EMPLOYEES)
HATES PER POUND- BASED ON GO LB. ROUNDWEIGHT
(i)	Hand Filleters
Dressed Pickerel	$
Dressed White Perch Dressed Bass Medium Bass Fillets Small Bass Fillets l arge Bass Fillets Butterfly Perch Fillets Small Butterfly Perch Fillets Perch Special Split Fillets Small Perch Special Split Fillets Yellow Pan H/G Yellow Fillets Pickerel Pieces & Tails Cohoe Fillet Skinless Yellow Fillets Yellow Special Split Fillets Whitefish Fillets
Note #1
When Fland Filleters are engaged in harid filleting, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the filleter classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Hand Filleters are not engaged in hand filleting, they will he paidtho rateof pay of the general classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(ii)	Perch Machine Rates
Effective Date	cents/Fish
April 1,1991	.12256
cents / pound .08 per pound .12 per pound .08 per pound .22 per- pound .24 per pound .22 per pound .34 per pound .36 per pound .36 per pound .38 per pound .15 per pound .15 per pound .20 per pound .15 per pound .20 per pound .18 per pound .15 por pound
65
Note #1
When Perch Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Perch Machines, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Perch Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Perch Machine Operators are not operating the Perch Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(iii) Smelt Machine Rates
Number of Fish
Daily Rate April 1/91
30.000	-	30,999
31.000	-	31,999
32.000	-	32,999
33.000	-	33,999
34.000	-	34,999
35.000	-	35,999
36.000	-	36,999
37.000	-	37,999
38.000	-	38,999
39.000	-	39,999
40.000	-	40,999
41.000	-	41,999
42.000	•	42,999
43.000	-	43,999
44.000	-	44,999
45.000	-	45,999
46.000	-	46,999
47.000	-	47,999
48.000	-	48,999
49.000	-	49,999
104.00 104.39 104.77 105.16 105.54 105.93 106.32 106.70 107.09 107.47 107.86 108.25 108.63 109.02 109.41 109.80 110.18 110.57 110.96 111.34
66
(iii) Smelt Machine Rates
Number of Fish
Daily Rate
April 1/91
50.000	-	50,999
51.000	-	51,999
52.000	-	52,999
53.000	-	53,999
54.000	-	54,999
55.000	-	55,999
56.000	-	56,999
57.000	-	57,999
58.000	-	58,999
59.000	-	59,999
60.000	-	60,999
61.000	-	61,999
62.000	-	62,999
63.000	-	63,999
64.000	-	64,999
65.000	-	65,999
66.000	-	66,999
67.000	-	67,999
68.000	-	68,999
69.000	-	69,999
70.000	-	70,999
71.000	-	71,999
72.000	-	72,999
73.000	-	73,999
74.000	-	74,999
75.000	-	75,999
76.000	-	76,999
77.000	-	77,999
78.000	-	78,999
79.000	-	79,999
80.000	■	80,999
111.73
112.12
112.50
112.89
113.27
113.66
114.05
114.43
114.82
115.20
115.59
115.98
116.36
116.75
117.14
117.53
117.91
118.30
118.69
119.07
119.46
119.85
120.23
120.62
121.00
121.39
121.78
122.16
122.55
122.93
123.32
67
(iii) Smelt Machine Rates
Number of Fish
Daily Rate
April 1/91
81.000	-	81,999
82.000	-	82,999
B3,000	-	83,999
84.000	-	84,999
05.000	-	85,999
86.000	-	86,999
8'7,000	-	87,999
88.000	-	88,999
89.000	-	89,999
90.000	-	90,999
123.71
124.09
124.48
124.87
125.26
125.64
12G.03
126.42
126.80
127.19
Note #1
When Smelt Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Smelt Machines, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Smelt Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Smelt Machine Operators are riot operating the Smelt Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(C) PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
The starting rate for probationary employees shall not be lessthan twenty cents ($20) per hour above the minimum wage established by the Government. After completion of the probationary period, seniority employees will be paid the applicable hourly rate.
68
SCHEDULE“B”
GUIDELINES FOR PLANT WIDE CREWING
(REFERENCE™ SUB-ARTICLE 10.02 (B))
A.	SCHEDULING SET UP FOR THE WEEK
Crewing requirements obtained from supervision.
I.	CLASSIFIED POSITIONS
*	On their shift in their department.
Note: If additional classifieds arc needed, goto backup's on that shift in that departinenta rid if still more are needed, yo to the most senior classified available from plaqt wide list arid if more are still needed - go to the backup's from the plant wide list.
II.	UNION STEWARDS
’ If union stewards have not been crewed in their classification per above, crow them as "heavy" (or light) if required.
III.	HEAVY AND LIGHT
•	Determine the total number of "Heavy and Light" employees required.
•	Go to plant wide seniority list and count the total number of "Heavy and Light" required.
*	Out of that total number required in the Company:
• crew Heavy and Light labour in "home" department / home shift.
69
• If still Heavy and Light to crew, and no more jobs in their home department / shift, crew:
* by seniority: same shift other shift
B.	LAYOFF
• Determine where lay off is: shift, department,
classification.
I.	CLASSIFIED
•	Go to junior classified on that shift, in that department (where layoff is)—they become "heavy" or "light" general.
•	That junior classified (now general) will displace the most junior heavy or general on that shift, in that department (if any).
•	The junior general employee displaces the junior heavy or general in the Company, wherever they are (regardless of shift).
•	The junior employee in the Company gets laid off.
II.	UNION STEWARD
<■ Union Steward is retained in department / shift if there is work.
III.	HEAVY LABOUR
•	Same procedure as above.
IV.	LIGHT GENERAL
•	Same procedure as above.
70
C.	REPLACEMENTS DURING THE WEEK
I.	When additional employees are required in the classification or backup positions above general, the Company will return appropriate employees back to their home department and shift (where applicable) before laid off or junior employees. These employees cannot refuse this work; even if this work is on the opposite shift.
II.	Following the above step, employees are recalled from lay off as per sub-article iO.OI of the Collective Agreement.
III.	Employees who have waived plant wide seniority as per sub-article 10.03 (a) will not be scheduled if there is no work in their homo department and shift. During the season (July 15 -January 15th)these employees will not displace employees in seasonal area as described in Article 27.01.
D.	WEEKEND OVERTIME CREWING
For Saturday Overtime: use Friday'screw sheets. For Sunday Overtime: use Monday's crew sheets.
For Friday, Saturday, Overtime on Paid Holiday weekends: use Thursday's crew sheets.
For Sunday & Monday Overtime on Paid Holiday weekends: use Tuesday's crew sheets.
Employees who performed full time work will be offered that overtime. Employees who performed seasonal work will be offered that overtime. Tho intent of sub-article 16.02 applies after this.
71
Letter of Understanding between United Food & Commercial Workers Union and Omstead Foods Limited
Re: Bottomtwenty four (24) seniority employees and/or new
seniority employeesduringtheterm of CollectiveAgreement.
It is agreed and understood, that effective immediately, the bottom
twenty four (24) production employees arid any new employees
who acquire seniority on the current seniority list will bo red-circled.
Tho following terms will apply:
1.	when scheduled for full time work, they will bo paid full time wages and will he eligible for benefits provided they work eighty (00) hours in that month
2.	when no work is available in tho full time area, they will bo offered work in the seasonal area (between July 15-Jan. 15) and will be paid $6,85 per hourand will ho eligiblefor benefits if they work eighty (80) hours in that month
3.	will have the right to waive seasonal work (upon ratification, and in September)
4.	if they are successful candidates for a job posting (classified or back-up), they remain red circled
5.	will be scheduled for full time work prior to probationary and seasonal employees
6.	no other people below these (24) employees would gain full time status before them
7.	seniority dates of the 24 red circled employees (as at March 27, 1992 seniority list) would be maintained
8.	a minimum of two (2) of these 24 rod circled employees per year, will re-gain their full time seniority status (effective April 1, 1994 and March 30, 1995)
9.	and/oi will regain their full time status through attrition (death, retirement, termination) in order of seniority on a one for one basis.
7 he above will apply only for ttie term of this Collective Agreement.
72
Dated this 28th day cf March 1993
OMSTEAD FOODS LIMITED
Harry Carroll Delbert Blose Ronald Steingart Jim Omstead Brian Broadhead Marguerite Rivard Ronald Omstead
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION — LOCAL 459
Bryan Neath Gene Collard Gilbert Beleutz John Baptista Randy Imeson Manuel Amaral Jorge Marteniano Roy Whaley John VanBeekveld Chris Avelar
73
LETTER 0V AGREEMENT I1ETWEEH
OH,STEAD FOODS LIMITED/OMSTEAD FOOD:; I'ORT STANLEY LIMITED hereinafter called the "CoMpanies" and
United Food £. Commercial Worketc Union
Local <159
hereinafter called the "Onion"
l5 aureeu and understood that, this collective aareement betweisn cead i'ooai; Limited and the United Food u Commercial Workers dii ami the lollective Agreement between umstead Foods port liey Limited and the United Food i. Commercial Worxers Union will
For the duration of the Omstoad Foods Limited a UFCW agreement i expiry date of April I, 1995 ), the Omstead Port Stanley Limited U UFCW agreement will be interpreted and administered separately.
It is also understood between tho
above will only be negotiated at agreement (April 1,	1995).
Agreed on this sdL________________
parties that any changes in the the expiry of this collective
dati
1 993
Signed for tho Uiuon
I_ &.? /£e-£T~
Omstead Foods iimifed
One Erie SI. South. Wheatley. Out. Canada NOH 2P0 Wheatley: (516) 825-4611 Detroit; (313) 9&W230 Telefax: (519) 825-7144
74