~r

tee
COLL
BARGAININ AGREEMENT
by and between
CAVENDISH FARMS
for its
NEW ANNAN PLANT
and
THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 1252
May 28, 1989 to December 31,1991
30
by the company is not acceptable with the union, the union may submit the matter to arbitration.
18.06	Employees shall receive the rate of their classification when qualified and dojng thejob. Except by agreement with the union the qualifying period shall not exceed two (2) weeks.
18.07	Employees shall receivetheir pay chequesweekly in a sealed envelope with the understanding that cheques will be delayed until later in the afternoon of pay day. Employees shall have their pay deposited in their bank account on request.
ARTICLE XIX Duration of Agreement
19.01	This agreement shall be in full force and effect as of
the 28th day of Mav. 1989 and shall	until the ai«t.
flay of neramhfiT. 1991.
19.02	If either party wishes to terminate this agreement, they shall give tne other party, not more than ninety (90) days or less than sixty (60) days notice in writing, prior to the date cf expiration.
19.03	When notice has been servedto either party by the other, negotiations shall begin no later than 21 cfaysafterthe receipt of notice has been received or such longerperiod cf time as may be agreed upon by both parties. During negotiations if an agreement is not reached by expiry date, the agreement shall continue in full force until a new agreement is signed between the parties or until the Labour Relations Act procedures required by law are completed whichever dates should occur first.
38
19,04	All prior agreements, both written and verbal are considered null ana void effectivethe date of signing of this agreement.
ARTICLE XX No Strike Provision
20.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide to all terms and conditions of this agreement and during its tarns will not permit its members to engage in any walk cut,sitdown, slow down, or any other interference or interruption of work, and it will not call or countenance or otherwise encourageany walk outs or states. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the company. Thecompany agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this agreement and during its term will not lockthe employees out.
20.02	It is agreed that employees required to maintain essential services for the protection of machinery and equipment shall report for work as usual in the event cf a strike or lockout. Essential services shall be deemed to be: Boiler and Refrigeration twenty-four (24) hour daily manning and operation. Electrical and maintenance in emergency situations.
ARTICLE XXI Pension and Life Insurance
21,01 The company will put thirteen (13) cents per hour per employee (maximum 40 hours per week) into a Trust Fund. The employee will alsocontrihute an equal amount. This fund will be administered by a joint Union and 'Management Pension Committee. Effective December 31, 1989 the Trust Fund Pension shall be closed out and an
39
individual employee RRSP shall be instituted with employee HlWXompany contributing 1.5% of hourly earnings for each hour worked to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
21.02	The Company agrees to pay 50% <f the cost and administration cf a compulsory Employee Life Insurance Plan. The value of the Life Insurance shall be ten thousand dollars per employee.
The Company believes that the Labour Management Committee has a valid purpose. The Company will schedule Labour Management meetings regularly, Attendance will be voluntary.
22.02	The Company and Union agree, in principal, to the need to identify and develop an Employee Assistance Program (i.e. Alhohcfl-MKPPKig-abuse, Illiteracy, Financial Planning,etc.). This program shall be co-ordinated through the Labour Management Committee. Those persons involved in the preparation shall consist of employees both StefE and Bargaining Unit interested in developing such programs.
Effective date of ratification the following classifications shall receive an upgraded adjustment (per hour) as follows:
ARTICLE XXn Labour Management
SCHEDULE A
Grader Room Operator Cafeteria
40
Process Fryer Operator Industrial Electronics Technician Maintenance Class I and Electrical Journeyman *Aboveexisting loader rate.
Shift Eoaniun
Effective Date cf ratification a premium of 25 cents per hour will be paid for all scheduled first shifts and 15 cents, per hour will be paid for all scheduled third shifts,
Effective January 1, 1990, a premium of 30 centsper hour will be paid for all scheduled first drifts and 20 cents per hour shall be paid for all scheduled third shifts.
BLOCK RELEASE TRAINING
With the introduction of a Block Release Program the Company agrees to maintain the existing Maintenance Departmental Seniority list for those employees presently under those Departmental Seniority lists. Future employees, either posting into or hired from outside the Bargaining Unit shall accumulate Departmental Seniority under a new Maintenance Department comprising _ all existing Maintenance subdepartments, (i.e. Processing, Packaging, etc.)
To accommodatefuture Departmental planning employees presently holding Maintenance Departmental Seniority shall have their existing seniority transferred to this new “Master Maintenance Department Seniority List”.
Effective the date of ratification the Company intends to introduce a Block Release Training program for Maintenance employees. Employees presently in the Maintenance Department who commence Block Release
41
$.10
$.62
$.25