AGREEM ENT
by and between
CAVENDISH FAjjRMS for its
NEW ANNAN PIJANT and
THE UNITED FOdD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 864
I January, 1992 to December 31, 1994
Article
II
III N
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXIII
XXIV
INDEX
Name	Page
Purpose................................ 1
Recognition............................ 1
Definition............................. 2
Management Rights...................... 3
Union Security......................... 4
Union Rights and Union Activities....	5
Grievance Procedure.................... 8
Arbitration.......................... 10
Discharge and Discipline............... 12
Seniority.............................. 13
Vacancies, Job Postings, Promotions..	16
Transfers.............................. 19
Layoff................................. 20
Health and Safety...................... 22
Hours of Work and Overtime............. 24
Leave of Absence....................... 32
Vacation Pay........................... 35
Statutory Holidays..................... 37
Clothing and Supply Provisions....... 38
Classifications and Wages.............. 41
Duration cf Agreement.................. 42
No Strike Provision.................... 43
Pension and Life Insurance............. 44
Labour Management...................... 44
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
By and Between
FARMS
for its
NEW ANNAN PLANT
and
THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, Local 864
ARTICLE I Purpose
1.01	The Company, or anyone authorized to act for it, recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for its employees at New Annan described as in the bargaining unit in Article li of this agreement, and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union or any committee thereof in any or all of the matters affecting the relationship between the said company, and such employees of the company included in the bargaining unit, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement in any difference that may arise between the company and its employees.
ARTICLE II Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all its employees at its plant in New
Annan who have gained seniority, save and except foremen, those above the rank cf foreman, management trainee, security person, office, sales, and clerical staff and persons hired for the agricultural farm work.
ARTICLE III
Definition
3,01	It is agreed by the parties that, except where a contrary intention appears in this agreement:
a)	Bargaining Unit means the unionized employees at Cavendish Farms referred to in Article 2.01.;
b)	Company means Cavendish Farms, New Annan,
P.E.I.;
c)	Employee means the employees within the Bargaining Unit defined in Article 2.01 save and except those pcrsons/posltions excluded;
d)	"Shall" is imperative and "May" is permissive;
e)	Union means Local 864 United Food and Commercial Workers;
f)	Words importing male persons include female persons;
g)	Words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular;
h)	Plant seniority is defined as the length of service in the Bargaining Unit;
i)	Departmental seniority is defined as the length of service in a department;
j)	The word shift means "the period of time" an employee works since employees may report to work on one day and leave on another it is more descriptive to refer to "the period eftime ofwork" as a shift rather than a day;
L
k)	Every schedule attached hereto and initialled by the parties is a part of this agreement.
3.02	The term probationary employee, when used in this agreement, refers to persons employed by the company within the bargaining unit described in this Article, who have not acquired seniority as defined in this agreement.
3.03	The term regular employee, when used in this agreement, refers to persons who have acquired seniority as defined in this agreement.
3.04	The term agricultural worker, when used in this agreement, refers to persons employed in the company’s farm operation, custom work or other agriculture jobs, either for the company or the company’s contract growers, related to supply and delivery of raw materials.
ARTICLE IV Management Rights
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the company to:
a)	Maintain order, discipline, efficiency.
b)	Hire, classify, direct, and layoff.
c)	Discharge, transfer, promote, demote, upgrade, downgrade, suspend, or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the right of the employees concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided.
d)	Make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement and are first discussed with the union.
e)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprises in
3
which the company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kind and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, engineering and designing of its products, the control of material and practices to be incorporated in the products produced and the extensions, limitations and cessation of operations.
4.02	Management functions shall not be limited in any way except as provided for specifically by the terms of this agreement.
4.03	It is mutually agreed that the company has the right to hire and employ outside the classifications established by this agreement such people as may be required, without regard to seniority, provided such persons shall be employed in a technical or specialized position.
4.04	Notices desired to be given to the Company shall be in writing and deposited in a post office and addressed to Cavendish Farms, P.O, Box 3500, Summerside, Prince Edward Island C1N 5J5 or received and acknowledged at the Human Resource office.
ARTICLE V Union Security
5.01	The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employees who are now members of the union shall maintain such membership and any employee hired after the signing of this agreement shall
4
become, after the stated probationary period, members of the union. Probationary employees will pay Union Dues.
5.02	The Company agreesto deduct each week the regula? weekly union dues from the employee’s pay. The Company will transmit the total amount so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Union on or before the 10th day of the following month. The Company will provide the union with a list each week naming employees who have paid Union Dues in that week so that the Union may comply with Article 5.04,
5.03	The employer shall, when remitting such dues, provide the names of employees from whose pay such deductions have been made. The company will provide to the union; name, address and telephone number <£ employees twice per year if the union requests it.
It will be the responsibility of the Union immediately
to advise the company of any deduction errors o r omissions arid authorize adjustment in union membership clues.
5,05	The company agrees to pay the union a penalty charge of \% (one percent) per month, or part thereof, for dues not mailed to the union’s financial secretary within the agreed time limit.
ARTICLE VI
Union Rights and Union Activities
6.01	The union shall notify the employer in writing of the names of its representatives as follows: officers, bargaining committee members, grievance committee members, stewards or any other committee formed by the union.
5
The Company shall notify the union of the deletions, or additions, to the supervisory and management staff, and no employee shall be recognized to have supervisory or foreman’s authority or direction of employees unless a notification has been given to the union.
6,03	The employer shall provide the union with all necessary information relating to the following matters for the employees within the bargaining unit on a current basis.
a)	Job postings,job awards, promotions, demotions, and transfers.
b)	Hirings, discharges, suspensions, written warnings, resignations, retirements and deaths.
An employee in the bargaining unit shall have access to his or her personal records at reasonable times and shall upon request be provided with copies cf material contained in such records which shall be corrected if proven inaccurate.
6,05	The Company agrees to place a bulletin board in a conspicuous place for the union to place all normal union notices. Any notice other than regular union business may be only posted after mutual agreement between union and management,
The employer agrees to inform new employees with the fact that a Collective Agreement b in effect. Further the Company will provice each new employee with a copy of the agreement and information on the Union which has been prior approved by management for distribution. The Union will be responsible to ensure the availability of the above information.
6.07 A Union Representative shall be entitled to leave his or her work during his or her working schedule hours in order to carry out his or her specific functions under the agreement including the investigation and the processing of grievances, attendance c£ meetings with management, participation in negotiations, conciliation, mediation. Permission to leave~w6rtrsBall he first obtained from the respective Supervisor and the Union Representative shall identify who the meeting is with, location f meeting and approximate length of meeting. Such permission shall not he unreasonably withheld. All time spent in performing Union duties during scheduled working hours will be considered to he time worked.
A Business Agent or International Representative of Union may discuss any matter with an employee on the company premises during working hours, provided he first receives permission from the Management Representative to do so. No group meeting for the purpose of conducting union affairs will be held on company premises without the permission of Management. For the purpose of Article 6.08 the Management Representative shall be either the Human Resource Manager or the Plant Manager. Permission for weekend visits must be obtained prior to Friday at 5:00 p.m. of the week in which the visit is required o r if this is not possible in cases of urgent need contact the designated representative ibove.
B The meeting between the outside representatives of the Union and the employee involved will not stop or reduce production activity.
6.09	Any notices given to the Union shall he in writing, deposited in the post office and addressed to the U.F.C.W.,
Local 864, P.O. Box 3242, Charlottetown, P.E.I., CIA 8W5 and/or U.F.C.W. Local 864, 297 Sackville Drive, Lower Sackville, N.S., B4C 2R7. Union dues and dues checkoff shall be mailed to U.F.C.W. Local 864, 297 Sackville Drive, Lower Sackville, N.S., B4C 2R7.
6.10	The company agrees to supply the union with suitable space to keep a tiling cabinet which is accessible to recognized plant union officials at all times.
ARTICLE vir Grievance Procedure
7.01	The Company and the Union agree to the need of a satisfactory and equitable grievance procedure. Nothing in this Article shall be interpreted as prohibiting employees from discussing their problems with their foreman. The purpose of this procedure will be to settle grievances promptly in the following manner:
Step 1 Within three (3) scheduled shifts of when the alleged grievance occurs and to ensure that corrective steps are taken as soon as possible, the employee with the alleged grievance and the Departmental Steward or in his absence his designate will see the foreman involved presenting the alleged grievance in writing, If the foreman fails to resolve the matter to the satisfaction of the union the grievance will be referred to Step 2.
Step 2 Within three (3) scheduled shifts of Step 1 a meeting will be held between the Departmental Steward, or in his absence his designate, and the Day Supervisor of the Department concerned or his designate. If the decision of
the Day Supervisor or his designate is unsatisfactory the grievance may be referred to Step 3.
Step3 Within the three (3) scheduled shifts after the Step2 meeting, the Chief Steward shall present the written grievance to the Human Resource Manager of the Company or his representative who shall reply to the grievance within three (3) working days after the meeting. If the reply is not satisfactory to settlethc grievance, it shall be referred to Step 4.
Step 4 Within three (3) scheduled shifts after Step3, the grievance will be discussed at a meeting of the Union Grievance Committee and the Company Representatives. The Union Grievance Committee shall comprise of the Chief Steward, the steward involved if possible, and any other officer of the Union and any Union Representative. The Company representatives shall comprise of the Human Resource Manager, the foreman involved if possible, and any other officer of the Company. The grieved employee may be present at any of the steps. There will be no loss of regular pay for employees involved in the grievance procedures as outlined in this Agreement. If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the Union, it may refer the matter to Arbitration.
Such action must be within thirty (30) days of the coinpletion of Step 4. Any time limits ill this step may be extended by mutual agreement of both the company and the Union representatives. If the Union Grievance Committee agrees that management officials of the company have not acted within the terms of this agreement and such actions have had a direct effect on the members of
the bargaining unit they may request a meeting with the company officials as outlined in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
The Company has the same lights as the Union Grievance Committee. When a grievance has been processed and it is found that any employee has lost hours of work because of anerroi on the Company's part, the time loss will be limited to the day immediately preceding the day the grievance is submitted.
ARTICLE VIII Arbitration
8.01	A grievance must proceed through the grievance procedure as set out in Article VII of this agreement, before it can be presented for arbitration.
8.02	The arbitration shall be the single arbitrator method.
8.03	The party referring the grievance to arbitration shall advise the other party, in writing, and submit a list of suggested arbitrators from which to select a single arbitrator. Selection is not restricted to this list but mutual agreement of the naming of an arbitrator must be completed within ten (10) working days.
If agreement cannot be reached on the selection of an arbitrator by the parties, then either party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the province of Prince Edward Island to have him appoint an arbitrator, and this appointment shall be binding on both parties.
8,05	The arbitrator shall not have the authority to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement, to substitute
10
any new provisions or to give any decision contrary to the terms and provisions of this agreement.
The arbitrator shall meet the parties within seven (7) working days of his appointment. The parties further request that a decision be rendered within twenty-one (21) days after the conclusion of the hearing.
8.07 The decision of the arbitrator shall he deemed to be the decision that will settle the dispute and such decision shall be final and binding on all parlies concerned, including the employees.
The expenses for the arbitrator shall be shared equally by both parties, each party pays its; own expenses for their own representative and witnesses.
8.09	The time limits referred to in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the company and union.
8.10	Any grievance not presented ‘withinthe terms cf this article shall be deemed abandoned and not entitled to any consideration thereafter.
8.11	For the purpose of this, the Chief Steward shall be the actual Chief Steward or his designated representative.
8.12	When a grievance affects the employee’s pay, etc., correction will be retroactive to the date of the original incident.
Where it would be advisableor beneficial to have an arbitration board deal with the case in lieu of a single arbitrator, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request agreement from the other party to a three (3)
person arbitration board and shall, at tlie.same time, submit the name of its representative on the Arbitration Board. If the other party agrees to the three person board it will appoint its representative within ten (19) days. The representatives, i n this case, will select the chairperson ofthc Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE IX Discharge and Discipline
9.01	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without cause.
9.02	It is recognized by the company and the union that from time to time it may be necessary to impose disciplinary action on an employee or discharge an employee. In order to establish the facts surrounding such disciplinary action or discharge and to allow for a cooling off period for the parties involved, the company will follow a “24 hour rule" policy. That is to say the employer may send the employee home for a period not to exceed a twenty-four (24) hour period subject to the above mentioned disciplinary action or discharge. If it is determined that such action is just, the action taken will begin on the day the employee is sent home. If it is detennined that such action is unjust, the employee will be paid for all time lost.
9.03	Employees and the Union shall be notified In writing of the grounds for discipline or discharge.
9.04	The record of any disciplinary action shall be
removed from an employee's file after twelve (12) months provided the em loyee has a clear disciplinary record during that period:	I
12
9.05	No employee shall he n:<|liiu'd lo <<;tii■■ solely on account of age.
ARTICLK X Seniority
10.01	The Company shall maintain it plant wide, seniority list showing each employee's scnioiity rating.
10.02	The Company shall maintain a departmental seniority list showing cadi employee’s senioiity rating in their department.
10.03	The Company shall post the plant scnioiity list on the bulletin board every three (3) mouths.
10.04	The Company shall post the departmental seniority list in each department every three (.1) months.
10.05	lunployccs shall be allowed fourteen (14) days to dispute any seniority listing posted on the quarterly reports but only on the first seniority listing ait which their name appears unless the employee’s .scnioiity date has changed from the previous listing. Employees who are absent from work on the date the seniority listing is posted, shall have fourteen (14) days after returning to work to dispute airy seniority listing on the quarterly reports but only on the first seniority listing on which their name appears unless the employee's seniority date has changed from the previous listing.
10.06	New employees shall in: probationary for die first 324 regular hours worked in at least twenty-seven (27) ..WP/king days and their layoff or discharge shaif not be the subjectofa grievance. After 324 regular hours worked they
I 7
shall become regulai employees and receive credit for seniority twenty-seven (27) working days prior to attaining regular employee status.
Probationary employees, if laid off and later rehired, will be given credit for past service as probationary employees, if they complete their probationary period within one( 1) year from the datethey become probationary employees. The union will be advised when such employees are rehired.
10,08 Foremen and those above the rank of foremen shall not perform bargaining unit work to the extent that such work would replace a bargaining unit employee.
An employee loses seniority when:
a)	An employee resigns.
b)	The employee is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure.
c)	The employee reports to work after a medical absence of more than three working days without producing a medical certificate. The employee shall advise personnel the day before returning to work.
d)	After a layoff which will exceed three weeks the employee refuses recall to work which is reasonably anticipated to last in excess of two (2) weeks. From the time of recall the employee will have a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours to report back to work. If the layoff has exceeded six (6) months and the employee is gainfully employed elsewhere they, will have one week to report.
e)	Fails to report to work within five (5) days from the date of mailing of a notice of reemployment by
14
registered mail and of notice to the Union of the failure of the recalled employee to report to work.
f)	Is not recalled to work within 24 months of being laid
Off.
10.10A If, during pea processing, fillingof Island Holdings and other special processing, overtime is required, employees normally working in those areas shall be given first preference to any overtime. A second list will be drawn up of other employees in the plant who are interested in working any overtime and who will be available whenever their services are needed if there are not suitable numbers available from employees normally working in those areas. Employees in these temporary jobs do not have bumping rights.
10.10 B With respect to Island Holdings, the following special rules will apply.
1.	People working on regularjobs in the plant will not be used for the filling of Island Holdings unless specifically required by the Company. This will not apply to those individuals who transferred from the plant in 1988 to work at the graders rate at Island Holdings.
2.	For the positions of bin piler operator and collector operator the Company can fill thesejobs in whatever manner it deems necessary. Other positions will be first filled by available employees on layoff.
3.	Overtime, when available, will be awarded:
a)	Tocmployecs ofthe Potato Receiving Department, by Departmental seniority;
b)	To employees normally working on the filling of Island Holdings by Plant Seniority;
15
c)	‘To any other plant employees by plant seniority and
d)	In any other manner the Company can find.
ARTICLE XI
Vacancies, Job Postings and Promotions
Vacancies within the Bargaining Unit shall be filled on the basis of the employee’s Plant Seniority, physical ability to do the job, successfully passing appropriate Eligibility Tests and the ability to dothejob with normal training. This will be accomplished by.posting vacancies on a relief basis within each department. Employees shall not be permitted to hold more than one (I) posted position.
Should a permanent vacancy become available it will be awarded to the senior relief person trained. Postings will be posted for seven (7) working days and to cover at least one (1) working day in each of two (2) consecutive weeks. If Provincial or Federal Government regulations require that the holder of a job to be filled hold a licence or certificate, the job will be filled by the regular employee having the greatest seniority amongst the holders cf such licences or certificates.
Tests to be implemented: Depth Perception, Eye Exam, Manual Dexterity, Mechanical Aptitude, Reading, Writing and/or Math. The Company will discuss with the Union which tests shall be required for which jobs. The Company agrees that additional new tests will only be implemented after mutual agreement with the union.
Vacancies in the bottomjob in a Department will be filled first by employees with the greatest Plant Seniority in
16
the bottojn job in any other Department who has applied for thejob posting assuming the senior employee has the ability to perform thejob with normal training.
11.03	Promotions within a Department shall be as follows:
1.	For permanent vaca ti euis, the position will be awarded to the senior relief person trained.
2.	For temporary vacancies (those which are anticipated to be vacant less than 120 days) the trained relief person on the sanie shift will till thejob.
3.	Trained employees who fill higherjobs, on either a temporary or permanent basis shall be deemed to have greater Departmental seniority than those employees they bypass for promotional purposes only.
4.	Non Promotional transfers will he limited to one (1) per year per employee unless agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
The original vacancy posted for may be filled on a temporary basis by it non Bargaining Unit employee until such time as thejob posting sequence has been completed. At this time the employee from outside the Bargaining Unit will go to whichever department lias the unfilled vacancy in the bottomjob. The non bargaining unit employee will not accumulate departmental seniority until such time as he is established in a home department,
11.04	An employee will be allowed a training period of a minimum of one (1) to a maximum of six (6) consecutive weeks on a ncwjob. During this period, tie may, of his own initiative, return to his previousjob or be returned by the company if he fails to satisfactorily perform the new job
n
duties. His return to his previousj ob will be made without loss of seniority in that formerjob.
The one (1) to six (6) weeks shall exclude time absent for sickness, accidents os leave of absence.
11.05	An employee who is permanently transferred as a result cf successfully applying for a posted j ob vacancy shall not be eligible for another posted vacancy for a period of nine (9) months unless approved by the company.
11.06	Employees shall receive the rate for their classification when qualified and doing thejob. Except by agreement with the union the qualifying period shall not exceed two (2) weeks. Qualified means being able to perform thejob without instructionor assistance.No person shall qualify until the completion of the training.
If no employee with seniority and ability to do the job is available, the company may hire from outside the bargaining unit.
11,08 When malting appointments to jobs outside the bargaining unit, the company shall give full consideration to the qualifications of members of the bargaining unit and when possible notification will be put on the bulletin board.
An employee promoted or appointed by the company to a position or job within the company but not within the Bargaining Unit shall have a one time opportunity of up to twelve (12) calendar months lo qualify for said job or to return to the bargaining unit withouf loss of seniority. However, during the qualifying period the said employee will have no right!; under the Collective Agreement. Upon
IK
completion of the probationary period the employee will lose all seniority rights.
Should the employee return to the bargaining unit and at a lata date wish to take au appointment outside the bargaining unit he shall lose his seniority rights immediately upon taking that appointmeni.
ARTICLE XII Transfers
12.01	The Company has the right to transfer and assign work outside the employee's home department on a temporary basis of not more than one (1) clays duration at a lime without the employees having recourse to the grievance procedure.
The Company lias the right to transfer and assign work outside the employee's home department on a temporary basis without the employees having recourse to the grievance procedure if that employee is junior in his department.
The junior employee will continue to accumulate departmental seniority in his home department while so transferred.
12.02	When an employee is transferred for the purpose of gainingjob experience or to qualify fora higher rate, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he is qualified. Qualified means being able to perform the job without instruction or assistance. No person will qualify until the completion of the training. Except by agreement with the union the qualifying period shall not exceed two (2) weeks.
19
12.03	When an employee, at his own request arid subject to Company approval in writing, is transferred or assigned to work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own he shall be paid the lower rate for such work immediately.
12.04	Employees transferred by the Company will be paid the rate for thejobthey are filling if thejob pays more than their present rate. If the transfer would mean a lower rate, then the employee would maintain their regular rate while on thejob. Employees bumping or transferred to a lesser paying position to avert a layoff will be paid the rate of the job he goes to.
12.05	No employee will be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his consent.
12.06	An employee within the bargaining unit transferred onatemporary basis to any other of the company’splants or operations will not lose any of his rights or benefits under this agreement. The union will be notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, whenever possible, of such transfer taking place.
12.07	The company will pay all reasonable additional expenses incurred on any temporary transfer to any of the company’s plant or operations.
ARTICLE XIII Layoff
13.01	Layoffs shall be made in the reverse order of seniority within each department. Employees with the lowest Departmental Seniority will be able to bump into the General Labor Pool if their Plant Seniority allows it. In the
20
event of unscheduled shutdowns (i.e. electrical outages, storms, equipment breakdowns) the company shall have three (3) full shifts following the shift in which the shutdown occurred before employee bumping by plant seniority is permitted.
In the event of scheduled shutdowns (full weeks or partial weeks) bumping by plant seniority will be permitted provided the company is given notice by the employee of his intention to exercise his bumping privilege within twenty-four (24) hours of the notice of layoff to that shift, The employees intending to exercise their bumping privilege must commit to working the full layoff in the position in which they arecrewed, The company and union agree to review that list of employees affected prior to bumping taking place. Employees who are on recall will be given preference according to Plant Seniority for anyjob which may arise and subject to all the terms and conditions of Article 11.01. If an employee wishes to exercise bumping privileges into an unclassified job (assuming he has the ability to do thejob) he must inform the company within twenty-four (24) hours of the posted notice of layoff to that shift. Start up will be manned by employees normally scheduled on that shift.
13.02	When there is a reduction of production that results in the demotion of employees, it shall be done in accordance with Article 13,01 except with the understanding that posted positions and trainees will have more seniority than those they have by-passed for the purposes of rehire only.
21
ARTICLE XIV Health and Safely
14.01	The employer agrees to make reasonable and proper provisions for the maintenance of high standards of health and safety in the work place. . (,( j
14.02	Any medical examination requested by the employer shall be promptly complied with by all employees provided, however, that the employer bear the expense cf such examination. The employer reserves the right to select their own medical examiner or physician for group examinations. If an employee elects not to use the medical examiner or physician for group exams he shall be responsible for the above examination at his own expense and he shall provide the company with the results of that examination, hi the case <£ individual examinations a family physician may be used; however, the company reserves the right to request the opinion of a Specialist in that area.
Hearing tests do not require a Medical Specialist for testing purposes.
A joint Health and Safety Committee shall be constituted consisting of an equal number of representatives of Management and of the Union which shall identify potential dangers, institute means of improving the health and safety of employees, including health and safety programs and obtain information from the employer or other persons respecting the identification of hazards and health and safety experience and work practices and standards elsewhere. Thecommittee shall meet at least once a month. Time spent in such meetings is to be considered
22
time worked, Minutes shall be taken of all meetings. The unanimous recommendations of the committee will be carried out within 30 days or on an agreed upon schedule.
14.04	The members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall have access to accident reports and other health and safety records in the possession of the employer including reports, records, and data provided to and by the Worker’s Compensation Board.
14.05	The Company will ensure that there are adequate first aid supplies available.
It is mutually agreed that safety is of prime importance and is in the best interests of all employees. Attendance at scheduled safety meetings is required. Advance notice of five (5) working days will be given and overtime, if applicable, will be paid for time spent at scheduled safety meetings. Employees will be required to notify their respective supervisors, a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours in advance, if they cannot attend the scheduled safety meetings.
14,07	It is recognized that the Employer and its Employees are obligated to observe the Occupational Health and Safety Act of the Province of P.E.I, and the regulations under the Act.
Protective devices provided by the employer, or where partial monetary compensation is made to employees, shall be worn or used by employees.
The Company agrees to provide to all full-time Computer Operators an eye exam once every two (2) years.
a
ARTICLE XV
Hours of Work and Overtime Five Shift Week - Eight Hour Shift
A The eight hour shift schedule, lor other than Straight Day Maintenance and Electrical employees, shall be five (5) shifts of eight (8) hours worked from Monday to Friday.
15.01	B The normal daily schedule for production will
be:
1st Shift	12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m,
2nd Shift 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
3rd Shift 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
15.01	C Because of the flow of products this schedule may vary up to a maximum of sixty (60) minutes. Overtime will not be paid under any rearranged schedule prior to eight (8) hours worked.
15.01	D Overtime in excess of eight (8) hours worked ina day will be paid at time and one half.
15.01	E Saturday work will be at time and one'half. Sunday work will be at double time for employees not scheduled for a continuous operating schedule.
When a sixth shift is scheduled in a week, employees will be paid at time and one half for those hours worked.
An employee will also be paid time and one half if an employee is required to work on his scheduled days off, except for his second day off which will be paid at double the rate for the job.
24
Casual arid or part time employees will not be eligible for overtime until having completed eight (8) hours in a day and/or forty (40) hours in a week. Overtime rates will be paid for all Hours outside those scheduled. .■
15.01	l1' Employees will be allowed a twenty (20)minute lunch period with pay. Lunch periods shall be taken between the third and sixth hours cf the employee's shift.
15.01	G Rest periods from the time of leaving the work station to returning to the work station shall be fifteen (15) minutes. There will be one break in the first half and one break in the second half of a shift. The company has the right to schedule break rotation.
H Employees who are required to work more than two (2) hours overtime after eight (8) scheduled hours worked shall be granted a fifteen (1 5) minute rest period and a Meal Allowance of five (5) dollars towards the purchase of a meal in the plant cafeteria.	'/■ .
15.01	1 An employee sent home due io any accident incurred ns a result of his employment shall receive a maximum of eight (8) hours pay for that day on which the accident occurred.
if-on an overtime rate, the employee will receive a maximum of eight (8) hours pay at the applicable rate if the accident qualifies for loss of Wage Benefits through Worker's Compensation.
15.01	J Any shift overtime will first be offered to the senior posted or relief on the previous shift, if there is a previous shift. If unable to fill tlic overtime vacancy, theseniorposted or relief employee on the following shift will be called.
25
15.01	K Straight Day Shift Maintenance and Electrical employees may be scheduled for Saturday and/or Sunday work, in which event such employee shall be scheduled for two (2) consecutive days off.
15.01	L Onjobs not normally requiring shift rotation, overtime will first be offered io senior qualified people within the department. If overtime requirements cannot be filled by utilizing the people within the department, the overtime vacancy will be posted and offered to the employee, posted and qualified, with the greatest plant seniority indicating the desire to work.
15.01	M Any overtime associated with staitup will be first offered to the senior posted or relief employees on that scheduled shift. If no senior posted 01 relief employee is available such overtime shall be first offered to the senioi posted or relief employee on days off.
15.01	N Weekend overtime will be distributed among willing employees within the depaitment who noimally perform the work on the basis of Departmental Seniority. If the overtime vacancy cannot be tilled within the department, then Plant Seniority will apply.
15.01	O If the Company cannot fill the overtime vacancy in accordance with Article 15,01 I, to 15,01 N, then the Company will utilize whatever resources aie available to it.
Continuous Operating Twelve Hour Schedule 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
15,02	A For a continuous operation some departments 26
may operate on a schedule that varies from the rest of the operating schedules in the plant. Employees shall be scheduled to work four (4) shifts on and four (4) shifts off and this schedule shall average 336 hours over a period of eight (8) weeks. This schedule shall be known as a twelve (12) hour schedule and shall not be interpreted or construed as a guarantee of work. This schedule shall not affect those employees on eight (8) hour shift except when they are transferred onto the twelve (12) hour schedule for crewing purposes.
15.02	B A twelve (12) hour shift means the normal consecutive working hours scheduled for each employee which occurs in any twenty-four (24) hour period. In each twenty-four (24) hour period there will normally be two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts paid at regular rates.
Employees shall be scheduled in such a way as to provide for coverage twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. The work week shall commence with the first shift on Sunday and end with the completion of the last shift on Saturday.
15.02	C Because of the flow of products this schedule may vary up to a maximum of sixty (60) minutes. Overtime will not be paid under any rearranged schedule prior to twelve (12) hours worked.
15.02	D Employees will be allowed a twenty (20) minute lunch period with pay. Lunch periods will be taken between the fourth (4th) and eighth (8th) hours of the employee’s shift.
27
15.02	E Rest periods from the time of leaving the work station to returning to the work station shall be fifteen (15) minutes. There will be one break in the first quarter, second quarter, third quarter and one break in the last quarter of a sniff The company lias the right to rotate employees for breaks and lunch periods.
15.02	F Employees who are required to work more than two (2)hours overtime after twelve (12) hours worked shall be granted a fifteen (15J minute rest period and a Meal allowance of five (5) dollars towards the purchase of a meal in the plant cafeteria.
15.02	G An employee shall receive one and one half times his basic rate for work he is required to perform after having completed his regular twelve (12) hour shift. An employee will also be paid time and one half if he is required to work on any of his scheduled days off except for his second day off which will bo paid at double the rate. A day off shall commence at the completion of the last scheduled shift and shall end twenty-four (24) hours later.
Under normal conditions no employee shall be entitled to overtime unless there has been a twelve (12) hours break between the completion of the last scheduled shift and the overtime requirement or between the overtime requirement and the next first scheduled shift.
Casual and or part time employees will not be eligible for overtime until having completed twelve (12) hours in a day and/or those thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) hours as scheduled in a week. Overtime rates will be paid for all hours outside those scheduled.
28
15.02	H Employees shall notify their supervisor immediately of any accident or injury sustained during working hours. Any employee who is injured during working hours arid is required to leave for treatment but is able to return to work during said shift shall be paid for the lost time. Any employee who is injured and unable to return to work and complete said shift shall receive a maximum of twelve (12) hours pay for that day on which the accident occurred at the applicable rate.
15.02	I Should any employee on this schedule suffer the lossofa family member as covered in Article 16,01 the time off with pay shall be that twelve (12) hour scheduled shift or shifts that would entitle the employee to one or three days off as covered in Article 16.
(5.02 J Holidays and birthdays shall be eight (8) paid hours if on scheduled days off or if time off is approved for any reason. Fol. the purpose of working on a holiday or birthday the employee shall be entitled to eight (8) hours holiday pay and double rate for any hours worked on that calendar holiday.
Effective 1 January, 1993 the holiday shall commence at 8:00 p.m. the night before the holiday and end at 7:59 p.m. the night of that holiday. Twelve (12) hours holiday pay shall be paid to those employees whose scheduled days of work include that day on which the holiday falls. Eight (8) hours holiday pay shall be paid for those employees on scheduled days off.
15.02	K Due to shift scheduling where an employee works forty-eight (48) hours in one week and thirty-six (36) the next the Company agrees to contribute the negotiated
29
pension amount for all regular hours worked in that week.
15.02	L Tobetter understand hourly rates forthisschedule the following method of calculation shall be used:
(a) hourly rate per wage appendix plus (b) total shift premium per Schedule A divided by three (3) shifts plus (c) those monies lost as the result of losing the sixth scheduled shift, at overtime rates, once every four week schedule (4hours x rate of pay/12 hour shift x 14 shifts).
Article 15.03 to 15.14 Applicable to 8 Hour and Continuous Operation Schedule
All employees will have a departmental work schedule which will be posted.
The Company reserves the right to remove an employee's name from the extra work list for failure to report after having agreed when duly called for extra work for a period of three (3) months. in the event that there are insufficient employees to call for extra work, the company will hire outside the bargaining unit.
An employee called into work outside their regularly scheduled hours shall be paid the applicable overtime rate for hours worked outside their regularly scheduledhours or a maximum of four (4) hours at straight time whichever is greater unless the call in is within one(l) hour cf the start of the regular shift.
15,06	If after work has commenced there is an electrical or mechanical breakdown, or shortage of material, all waiting
30
time for employees who are required to be retained will be at the normal rate of pay.
15.07	A If an employee is requested io change shifts the employee shall not lose any scheduled hours due to the changeover.
15.07	B Employees may make friendly agreements to exchange shifts one with the other subject to the approval from supervisors in charge of the shifts. The request must be presented in writing. In no instance will an employee be permitted to work more than sixteen (16)consecutivehours under this agreement nor will such arrangement result in the payment cf overtime.
An hours of work schedule, be it departmental or individual, shall be maintained and posted on a bulletin board.	'
15.09	There will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice for any layoff or adjustment in a shift schedule, whenever possible.
15.10	An employee is deemed to he al work when the employee is dressed, as required, and at his work station.
15.lt An employee is required to remain at the employee's work station until lie is either properly relieved or released by a supervisor.
15.12	The Pay week shall be deemed to start with the commencement of the first shift on Sunday and shall end with the conclusion of the Saturday night shift.
15.13	Except as provided overtime will he distributed among willing employees within the department who
31
normally perform the work on the basis of Departmental seniority.
The above procedure will not apply to Post Production Clean-up. However, when there is a vacancy on Post Production Clean-up thejob will be awarded by Plant Seniority.
ARTICLE XVI Leave of Absence
The company shall grant leave of absence with pay for the purpose of arranging and attending funerals in the, case of bereavement as follows: three days of absence with pay in the case of the death of a father, mother, brother, sister, wife, husband, children, step children, mother-in-law/fathcr-in-law (includes common law spouse as defined by the laws of the province of P.E.I.), grandparents, step-parents and grandchildren of an employee. The day of the funeral for sister-in-law and brother-in-law (includes common law).
Leave cf absence granted above shall not exceed three working days and in any case shall end on the day of the funeral of the relative concerned. Additional leave of absence without pay may be granted as required upon request, hi the event of the plant closing because of a death, no employee shall suffer any loss f earnings on that day.
Bereavement pay will not be granted if claimant is on a leave of absence, compensation, scheduled days off or a layoff at the time of loss.
Proof of loss in writing will be required for deaths occurring off P.E.I.
a
16.02	A An employee shall be entitled ' without pay and without loss of senioi;
it for good and sufficientreason.	,
16.02	B The company reserves the i.^ number of employees on leave of absences time.
16.02	C The company reservesllic right Io limit the lini%. period of leave of absences which may extend beyond 2 weeks.
16.02	D Leave of absence will be granted whenever possible by the Manager ofHuntart Resources to up to five (5) employees for the purpose of attending union functions. No more than one employee will conic from any onejob, occupation or department at one time unless the company deems it possible. Two weeks notice for leave of absence will be given the Company whenever possible.
16.03	A A pregnant employee shall apply for and take a leave of absence, ten (10) weeks prior to the expected date of delivery. She shall repot t her intention to return io work in the fifth (5th) week after delivery and must return by the end of the seventh (7th) week after delivery. If she intends to take advantage of the Parental Provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations and any Provincial government regulations in effect she must make application for an additional leave of absence the fifth (5th) week after delivery and the leave must be approved by the Company. If she has a medical certificate exempting her from work any leave cf absence cari be extended, subject to Article 16.05 of this agreement. "
33
Employees on maternity leave for a period in jf one hundred and twenty (120) daysshall return to in their formerjob which shall remain classified as a porary opening until their return.
j.04 When a regular employee (one who has completed .lis probationary period) is summoned tojury service, he w}lLb&_paidJus normal daily hours work multiplied by his regular hourly rate provided he turns over to the company the anjpunt received for eachjury service.
The e'rnplbjd’e wjll be required to notify the company immediately upon receiving notice of jury duty and to report for work on any day he is not required to serveas a juror.
16.05	A A non probationary or regular employee who presents a medical certificate from a doctor showing that he has been ill or disabled by accident and is not self or otherwise employed shall maintain his seniority rights during a period of illness or disability for a period cf up to two (2) years. This period can be extended by mutual agreement.
The company has the right to request another medical opinion. Such medical opinion will be from a Medical doctor specializing in the illness or disability concerned and will be at the company’s expense.
C In the case of disability caused by an accident in the course of fulfillinghis duty an employee’s seniority will continue until he returns to work. In no circumstance will seniority continue if Worker’s Compensation payments are terminated and/or a permanent or partial disability payment is made and the employee does not return to work.
34
If a claim is under appeal with the Worker's Compensation Board, and no appeal is made to the courts, seniority shall continue. All of the above is agreed to provided it conforms with applicable legislation or decision of the courts.
In no event shall seniority continue if that employee is engaged in any type of employment other than with the
employer.	' '
16.06	Leave of absence without pay shall be granted for a period not to exceed the term of this agreement to one employee who is engaged full time in union activity. During such period of absence seniority shall continue to accumulate.
The employer and the Union agree that absentee abuse is a mutual concern and that attempts must be made to correct problems as they arise. The Supervisor together with the Departmental Steward agree to counsel that employee.
16.08	In the interest of Departmental scheduling the employee, who has prior knowledge of needed time off(i,c. medical or dental appointments), shall give notice to the Company that a shift or part of a shift will be missed. Whenever possible at least forty-eight (48) hours notice will be given.
ARTICLE XVII Vacation Pay
17.01	Employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay, based on continuous service from January I, 1968.
Departmental seniority will be applied in determining preferences for vacations.
35
Upon completion of
Over 1 Years Plant Seniority: 2 Weeks Vacation 4% Gross Earnings Over 5 Years Plant Seniority: 3 Weeks Vacation 6% Gross Earnings Over 10 Years Plant Seniority: 4 Weeks Vacation
8% Gross Earnings
Vacation in excess of two (2) weeks will be taken at a time mutually agreed by both the company and the employee.
17.03	In the event of short term plant shutdown resulting in layoff (i.e. less than three (3) weeks in any one instance or less than fifteen (15J weeks in any calendar year) employees shall receive vacation pay credits accumulated based on the formula:
regular hours times the regular hourly rate of pay times the number of days layofftimes the applicable percent per Article 17,02,
When	Plant Seniority date advances
them to a greater vacation pay entitlement that increase in percentage shall commence to accumulate the next full pay week after that anniversary date.
17.05	In those circumstances where employees do not lake vacation with pay the money that has accumulate^ shall be paid in the last pay period for that year.
Any employee who terminates during a year shall receive only those credits they have accumulated.
36
ARTICLE XVIII
Statutory Holidays
The following shall be observed as statutory holidays.
New Year's Day	Dominion Day	Armistice Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
The employee’s birthday is considered a holiday for that employee in lieu of any future holiday declared by a Provincial or Federal Government. The employee must supply notice to his supervisor five (5) working days prior to his birthday or forfeit the holiday.
18.02	To be eligible for a statutory holiday or the employee’s birthday: an employee with seniority but under one year’s service must have worked the last scheduled shift, which must be within three working days of the holiday.
Any employee with over one year’s service must have worked the last scheduled shift which must be within five (5) working days of the holiday.
If an employee is absent on the next scheduled shift, after a holiday, and that shift is within three (3) calendar days of the holiday, the Company shall require a medical certificate before paying for the holiday.
18.03	For all hours work done on a ftatulory holiday, regularly scheduled employees shall be pftid double time, in addition to holiday pay. Any holidays falling an days off will be paid at regular rate.
n
In the case of an employee's birthday:
1.	If the birthday falls on a weekend or day off, the employee has the option of taking the last scheduled day before or the first scheduled day after his birthday off with pay.
2.	If the employee requests his birthday off, and the company requests the employee to work his birthday because he cannot be replaced, for all hours work done on the day requested off, he shall be paid double time, in addition to the holiday pay.
18.04	If a holiday as specified in Article XVIII occurs during an employee’s vacation the employee shall be paid for the actual day of the holiday.
18.05	There shall be no doubling or adding together of premiums such as the premiums for working the sixth shift, working on a holiday, or working on a birthday that happens to fall on a holiday. For any shift worked, an employee shall receive only the highest premium applicable to that shift on that particular day.
ARTICLE XIX
Clothing and Supply Provisions
The company will provide free of charge the following clothing:
EMPLOYEE
Sanitation
Peeler
Production
Fryer
Fryer
Operators
ITEM
Rubber suit& boots
Rubber gloves
Hairnets
Apron
Gloves
Helmets
MAXIMUM 2 per year I per month 1 per month 1 per month As required 1 per year
38
Cold Storage Maintenance Electrical Boiler
Mitts
Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
1 per month As required As required As required
Potato Warehouse Rubber boots
2 per year ifrequired
No new issue will be provided unless the old issue is returned.
19.02	The company will make available for use, as required, the following clothing: welding mitts, protective sleeves, cutting goggles, welding helmets, rain jackets, hip rubber boots, rubber suits, freezer suits for non permanent cold storage employees.
19.03	Freezer suits shall be issued ioemployees designated by the company as follows:
Permanently assigned suits -
Forkiift highstacker and relief Grader room operator and relief Bulk dumper station Loader/checker
Casual suits assigned by season -
Plant Service working outside One person per Potato Receiving shift taking samples off of tracks
Casual suits assigned to department forusoby a department as required -
Maintenance working outside or other cold areas Q.A, going into the freezer Boiler and Refrigeration Forklift Dry Storage
All freezer suits are the pro pet ty of the company and shall remain on company premises unless for company business.
Freezer suits shall be cleaned and repaired by the company as required on the advice of the employee.
Those persons assigned suits on a permanent basis shall have the old replaced for the new no more than once per year upon advice to their respective Department Manager. Abuse of suits shall result in the employee paying for the replacement suit.
19.04	The company will provide ai. 50% c£ cost and administration: smocks, uniforms and work clothing up to two (2) sets per year. Such clothing will be from a company approved source. 'The Company agrees to take clothing orders from employees once per month (this notice period shall be posted). After ninety (90) days from the signing of the contract the company may require the wearing of an approved uniform and/or smock arid head covering.
Maintenance employees and painters shall receive one (I) pair of coveralls at no cost and one (1) pair of coveralls at 50% of cost once per year.
Clothing accessoriesorequipmenl damaged beyond normal wear and tear or lost must bo replaced at cost by the employee.
19.06	Clothing accessories or equipment will be charged to the employee's account. His or her account will be credited when the clothing accessories or equipment is returned in good condition, normal wear and tear excepted.
19.07	The Company agrees to pay all Maintenance and Electrical personnel $150.00 per calendar year prorated
40
monthly and payable December 31 each year, based upon submitted receipts for Company required tools.
Effective I January, 1993 the Company agrees to pay all Maintenance and Electrical personnel $175.00 per calendar year, prorated monthly and payable December 31 each year, based upon submitted receipts for Company required tools. This allowance is considered to be a ’ToolAllowance.
The Company agrees to pay, employees with seniority, thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per calendar year towards the cost of approved safety footwear upon presentation c£ a Proof of Purchase. This allowance shall increase to forty-five ($45.00)effective I January, 1994.
ARTICLE XX
Classifications and Wages : . ' •'
20.01	Wages and classifications forming part of this agreement shall be as set out in Schedule A attached to and forming part of this agreement.
20.02	A complete and itemized computation of each employee's pay including the employee hourly rale shall be shown on his pay cheque.
20.03	The company agrees that when it is necessary to vary the day upon which cheques arc normally distributed the employee shall be given as much advance notice as possible by posting the change on the bulletin board.
20.04	In the event an employee's) oh becomes redundant,
because of a technological change, he shall, be offered alternative work'and no change in h is pay shall be effected until he has been given twelve (12) weeks notice in writing and the twelve (12) weeks have elapsed.	f
41
20.05	When a newjob is created during the term of this agreement which requires different skills than existing classifications, the wage rate for the newjob will be set by the company after discussion with the union. If the rate set by the company is not acceptable with the union, the union may submit the matter to arbitration.
Employees shall receive the rate for their classification when qualified and doing thejob. Except by agreement with the union the qualifying period shall not exceed two (2) weeks.
20.07	Employees shall receive their pay cheques weekly in a sealed envelope with the understanding that cheques will be delayed until later in the afternoon of pay day. Employees shall have their pay deposited in their bank account on request.
ARTICLE XXI Duration of Agreement
21,01	This agreement shall be in full force and effect as cf the 1st day of January, 1992 and shall continue until the 31st day of December, 1994.
If either party wishes to terminate this agreement, they shall give the other party, not more than ninety (90) days oi less than sixty (60) days notice in writing, prior to the date of expiration.
21.03	When notice has been served to either party by the other, negotiations shall begin no later than 21 days after the receipt of notice has been received or such longer period of time as may be agreed upon by both parties. During negotiations if an agreement is not reached by expiry date,
42
the agreement shall continue in full force until a new agreement is signed between the paitics or until the Labour Relations Act procedures required by law are completed whichever dates should occur first.
21.04	All prior agreements, both written arid verbal are considered null and void effective the date of signing of this agreement.
ARTICLE XXII No Strike Provision
22.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide to all terms and conditions of this agreement and during its terms will not permit its members to engage in any walk out, sit down, slow down, or any other interference or interruption of work, and it will not call or countenance or otherwise encourage any walk outs or strikes. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the company. The company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this agreement and during its term will not lock the employees out.
22.02	It is agreed that employees, save and except those designated as Union Officers, required to maintain essential services for the protection of machinery and equipment shall report for work as usual in the event of a strike or lockout. Essential services shall be deemed to be: Boiler and Refrigeration twenty-four (24) hour daily manning and operation. Electrical and maintenancc in emergency situations.
43
ARTICLE XXIII Pension and Life Insurance
23.01	The company will contribute 1.5% of hourly earnings for each hour worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week to an individual employee RRSP. The employee shall also contribute 1.5% of hourly earning for each hour worked to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week..
23.02	The Company agrees to pay SO% of the cost and administration of a compulsory employee Life Insurance Plan. The value of the Life Insurance shall be twenty thousand dollars ($20,000)per employee.
ARTICLE XXIV Labour Management
24.01	The Company believes that the Labour Management Committee has a valid purpose. The Company will schedule Labour Management meetings regularly. Attendance will be voluntary.
24.02	The Company and Union agree, in principal, to the need to identify and develop an Employee Assistance Program (i.e. AlcohoUmd E>rug'abuse, Illiteracy, financial Planning, etc.). This program shall be co-ordinated through the Labour Management Committee. Those persons involved in the preparation shall consist of employees both Staff and Bargaining Unit interested in developing such programs.
44
SHIFT PREMIUM
For an eight hour shift, a premium of 30 cents per hour will he paid for all scheduled first shifts and 20 cents per hour shall he paid for all scheduled third shifts.
BLOCK RELEASE TRAINING
With the introduction of a Block Release Program the Company agrees lo maintain the existing Maintenance Departmental Seniority list for those employees presently under those Departmental Seniority lists. Future employees, either posting into or hired from outside the Bargaining Unit shall accumulate Departmental Seniority under a new Maintenance Department comprising ail existing Maintenance sub-departmenls. (i.e. Processing, Packaging, etc.)
To accommodate future Departmental planning employees presently holding Maintenance Departmental Seniority shall have their existing seniority transferred to this new “Master Maintenance Department Seniority List”.
Effective the date of ratification the Company intends to introduce a Block Release Training program for Maintenance employees. Employees presently in the Maintenance Department who commence Block Release Training shall maintain their posted position and rate until such time as they successfully complete that block to increase their hourly rate.
i
45
i Company approved educational leave for Boiler, Xefrigeration, Maintenance Block Release the Company will pay the difference between Unemployment Insurance Benefitsandthe employee’s regular straight time rate for his regular weekly hours upon successful completion of that education received during that period. Employees failing any one block shall forfeit the Employer top up and employees failing any two Blocks shall be removed from the program. The Company agrees to pay those employees taking Industrial Mechanic Block Release out of province mileage expenses (individual or group) not covered by Canada Employment.
Rates for Industrial Mechanic Block Release shall be as follows:
Block I	62% of Journeyman Rate
Block II	70% of Journeyman Rate
Block III	80% of Journeyman Rate
Block IV	90% of Journeyman Rate
Completion of program	Journeyman Rate
SCHEDULE A
Probationary Rates shall be 50 cents per hour below the Employee Rate.
POST PRODUCTION CLEAN UP RATES
Post Production Clean-Up rates are to be increased using the following formula:
Relief Operator Utility rate differential for each anniversary increase times eight hours at time and one half.
46
LEAD HAND RATE
Lend Hand to receive 25 cents per hour over the group rate with the exception of Maintenance and Electrical Department whose rates include pay for Lead Hand.
RATE INCREASE
Kate increases shall be as follows:
Effective date of ratification - $300.00 lump sum January I, 1993 - 3%
January 1, 1994 • 4%
30 January, 1992
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT Hours of Work and Overtime
Pursuant to Article 15.02 the Union and the Company recognize the need for essential services in the Boiler and Refrigeration Department to ensure the continuous operation of this equipment. In the event the operator scheduled to report for shift is not able to do so the Company shall require thejunior employee, not scheduled to work that next scheduled shift after the shift of absence, to report foi work.
For the Company
For the Union
47
Letter of Understanding Re: Group Health and Dental Premiums
The Company agrees to pay that portion of Group Health and Dental premium cost asoutlined below for the duration of the Collective Agreement dated 1 January, 1992 to 31 December, 1994:
Health and Dental Single coverage contribution
Health and Dental Family coverage contribution
$2.42 per month Company $7.74 per month Company
For Cavendish Farms
Dan Hughes
Human Resources Manager
48
WAGE APPENDIX Eight Hour Shifts
Potato Receiving Dept.
Grader
Potato Receiving Operator Potato Receiving Employee
Processing Department
Process Fryer Operator Peeler Operator Cutter Operator Relief Operator (Utility Person)
Process Employee
Packaging Department
Packaging Equipment Operator Repack Packaging Equipment Operator Pallet Ticket Clerk Forklift (Utility/Dry Storage)
1 Jan/92	1 Jan/93	1 Jan/94
9.22	_1L5CL	__9J18
8.59	8.85	9.20
8.27	8.52	8.86
9.34	9.62	10.00
9.22	9.50	9.88
9.34	9.62	10.00
8.59	8.85	9.88
8.27	8.52	10.00
9.63	9.92	10.32
9.22	9.50	9.88
8.96	9.23	9.60
8.59	8.85	9.20
Grader Room Operator	9.22	9.50	9.88
Case Inspector	8.27	8.52	8.86
Packaging Employee	8.27	8.52	8.86
Cold Storage and ShippingDepartment			
Shipping Clerk	9.32	9.bU	9.98
Shipping Inventory Clerk	9.32	9.60	9.98
Forklift High Stacker	9.05	9.32	9.69
Forklift	8.59	8.85	9.20
Loader/Checker	8.50	8.76	9.11
Shipping Employee	8.27	8.52	8.86
Quality Assurance Department			
QA Employee	8.95	9.22	
Cafeteria			
Cafeteria Attendant	8.38	8.63	8.98
Stores Department			
Stores Co-ordinator/Receiver	9.22	y.DU	
Storesman	8.59	8.85	9.20
Boiler Department
Class 1 1st Class Licence Class2 2nd ClassLicence Class3 3rd ClassLicence Class4 4th ClassLicence
Refrigeration Department
Refrigeration “A”
Refrigeration “B”
General Plant Services Department
Plant ServicesEmployee Painter
Electrical Department
Journeyman -----------:----------
Bloch 4 Bloch 3 Bloch 2 Bloch 1
Electronics Technician
13.85	14.27	14.84
12.95	13.34	13.87
12.07	12.43	12.93
11.59	11.94	12.42
12.07	12.43	12.93
11.59	11.94	12.42
8.59	8.85	9.20
8.38	8.63	8.98
-12.96	13.35	13.88
10.52	10.84	11.27
10.10	10.40	10.82
9.86	10.16	10.57
9.70	9.99	10.39
11.34	11.68	12.15
Industrial Electronics Technician
Journeyman	13.37	13.77	14.32
Block IV	12.02	12.38	12.88
Block III	10.70	11.02	11.46
Block II	9.36	9.64	10.03
Block I	8.29	8.54	8.88
Maintenance Department			
License (Trade)	11.97	12.33	12.82
Class I	10.80	11.12	11.56
Class 11	10.10	10.40	10.82
Class III	9.86	10.16	10.57
Class IV	9.70	9.99	10.39
Industrial Mechanic Journeyman	13.39	13.79	14.34
Block IV	12.05	12.41	12.91
Block III	10.71	11.03	11.47
Block II	9.37	9.65	10.04
Block I	8.29	8.54	8.88
WAGE APPENDIX Twelve Hour Shifts
Potato Receiving Dept.
Grader
Potato Receiving Operator Potato Receiving Employee
Processing Department
Process Fryer Operator Peeler Operator Cutter Operator Relief Operator (Utility Person)
Process Employee
Packaging Department
Packaging Equipment Operator Repack Packaging Equipment Operator Pallet Ticket Clerk Forklift (Utility/Dry Storage)
Grader Room Operator
1 Jan/92	1 Jan/93	1 Jan/94
9.61	9.90	10.29
8.96	9.23	9.59
8.64	8.89	9.24
9.73	10.02	10.41
9.61	9.90	10.29
9.73	10.02	10.41
8.96	9.23	9.59
8.64	8.89	9.24
10.03	10.33	10.74
9.61	9.90	10.29
9.34	9.62	10.00
8.96	9.23	9.59
9.61	9.90	10.29
Case Inspector	8.64	8.89	9.24
Packaging Employee	8.64	8.89	9.24
Cold Storage and Shipping Department			
Shipping Clerk	9.71	10.00	10.39
Shippinglnventory Clerk	9.71	10.00	10.39
Forklift High Stacker	9.44	9.71	10.09
Forklift	8.96	9.23	9.59
Loader/Checker	8.87	9.14	9.50
ShippingEmployee	8.64	8.89	9.24
Quality Assurance Department			
Q A Employee	9.33	9.61	9.99
Cafeteria			
Cafeteria Attendant	8.75	9.01	9.36
Sto res Department			
StoresCo-ordinator/Receiver	9.61	9.90	10.29
Storesman	8.96	9.23	9.59
Boiler Department
Class 1 1st Class Licence Class 2 2nd Class Licence Class 3 3rd Class Licence Class4 4th ClassLicence
Refrigeration Department
Refrigeration“A”
Refrigeration“B”
General Plant Services Department
Plant ServicesEmployee Painter
Electrical Department
Journeyman Block 4 Block 3 Block 2 Block 1
ElectronicsTechnician
14.35	14.78	15.36
13.43	13.83	14.37
12.53	12.90	13.41
12.04	12.39	12.89
12.53	12.90	13.41
12.04	12.39	12.89
8.96	9.23	9.59
8.75	9.01	9.36
13.44	13.84	14.38
10.94	11.27	11.71
10.51	10.82	11.25
10.26	10.57	10.99
10.10	10.40	10.81
11.78	12.13	12.61
Industrial Electronics Technician
Journeyman	13.86	14.27	14.83
Block iff	12.48	12.84	13.36
Block III	11.12	11.45	11.90
Block II	9.75	10.04	10.44
Block I	8.66	8.91	9.26
Maintenance Department			
License (Trade)	12.43	12.79	13.30
QassI	11.23	11.55	12.01
Class II	10.51	10.82	11.25
Class III	10.26	10.57	10.99
Class IV	10.10	10.40	10.81
Industrial Mechanic Journeyman	13.88	14.29	14.85
Block IV	12.51	12.88	13.39
Block III	11.14	11.46	11.91
Block II	9.76	10.05	10.45
Block I	8.66	8.91	9.26
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed this agreement this 11th day of June, 1992,
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UKION LOCAL 064	A

57