BETWEEN
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS. LOCAL 459
• ■ ■■■	»■» ■	• i
PLANT UNIT
Expires April 30,1994
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into at Leamington, Ontario as of the _______________________day of August, 1992.
BETWEEN
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTDts (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERC WORKERS - LOCAL 459 chartered by i Amalga	Meatcutters and
Butcher Workmen of North America, affiliated with A.F.L. - C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of its Local 4S9
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	It is tho purpose of this Agreement to maintain and
promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment and to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
2
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for all its employees at its Leamington Operations, save and except permanent assistant Department Heads, permanent assistant foreladies, and persons above those ranks, persons solely and permanently employed as office staff, quality control (laboratory) staff and those covered by other Collective Agreements.
2.02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article and who have acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.03	The term "probationary employee” when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out in SubArticle 9.02.
2.04	The term "seasonal employee® when used in this Agrement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article, but who are hired by the Company between July 1st and November 1st of any year.
2.05	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and seasonal employees and such provisions shall only apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.06	Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed an meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
3
article rrr
UNION SSCURITY
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
All employees who are now members of the Union or who may later become members shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
All employees, including seasonal employees, who may hereafter become employees in the bargaining unit,	i
shall immediately upon expiration of sixty-five (65)	I
consecutive vorxirtg1 days with the Company, or after	^
sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a	/
period of five (5; consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
The Company will furnish to the Union, every two weeks, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company.
The Company will deduct Union dues from the pay of each member of the Union when so authorized by such members in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. Such deduction shall be made monthly on the employee's first pay day of each calendar month and the amounts so deducted shall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of Local 459 within twelve (12) days following each deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which may be levied from time to time.
2-
;
WAGES
4.01
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
4
ARTICLE IV
(a)	The minimum hourly rates of pay shall be as follows:
after 65 days of actual work	$8.00
Anyone that has obtained sixty-five (65) days of actual work as of July 11, 1992 will receive the former rate of $10.50 but any new employee obtaining sixty-five (65) days of actual work after that date will receive the new rate of $8.00.
(b)	The rates for all jobs under the job grading plan are applicable for all employees after 130 days of actual work with the Company.
Highway Transport Drivers shall be paid a weekly wage determined by the rate applicable under the job grading plan.
The rules and regulations and rates under the job grading plan appear as Appendix "A" hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
Job titles and grades applicable to each department shall be posted in the respective departments.
0 "5, C?
A 11 employees required to serve on a jury shall, for------—
the period of such service be compensated for the	/
difference between the daily amount received by them as jurors and eight hours pay at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
It is agreed that any employee, seasonal or otherwise, who have been in the employ of the Company for a period of sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a period of one year and who have been laid off and rehired within one year from the date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rate of pay which was being received by them at the time of lay-off, together with any increases agreed to during the period of lay-off.
Provided that, in any case, the rate of pay to be received by such an employee, upon rehiring, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed 65 day5 of actual work.
5
4.07
4.08
4.09
Employees working on the afternoon (second) shift and on the night (third) shift shall receive their pay Thursday evening.
An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-inlaw, and grandchild. Such employee will be paid eight (8) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each work day (Monday through Friday) that falls within the immediate three (3) calendar day period following the death of the employee's relative as specified above. In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3) work days nor will an employee be paid for Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. If the employee cannot attend tho funeral, only one work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished the Company. An employee will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of one day in the case of absence due to the death of the employee's daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
A cost of living allowance will be paid with Appendix MCH.
in accordance
/
ARTICLE V
SHIFT PREMIUMS
5.01 (a)
A shift premium equal to 3 percent of the base rate (Grade!) shall be paid for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m. on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium equal to 4.5 percent of the base rate (Grade 1) for all hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m. on a regular night (third) shift. (The shift premium to be rounded to the closest cent). To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard eight hours on that shift, prior to 8:00 a.m. To qualify for a full shift premium on the aftornoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work 50 percent or more of his standard eight hours on his respective shift.
(b)	Notwithstanding the above, the language will be
inoperative until May 1st, 1994. Present amounts will remain until then with no increase in premiums.
5.02
HOURS
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
- 6 -
Where an employee has less than eight (8) hours off between shifts, a premium of time and one-half will be paid for such time as is worked by him during such an eight hour period, except where employees with the consent of supervision trade shifts for the employees' convenience.
ARTICLE VI
OF WORK
Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
(a)	Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked	—
in excess of eight (6) hours per day or forty (40)
hours per week, Monday through Friday, axeapt to Highway Transport Drivers who are paid at a weekly rate. For the purposes of this paragraph, a shift shall be deemed to fall on the day on which it commences.
(b)	During the period that tomatoes are being processed, probationary and seasonal employees shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week. The Company shall post notices prior to any work week when this period shall begin.
Double time shall be paid for work performed on Sunday	1
except to probationary and seasonal employees during the tomato season.
(a)	When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary, throughout the period of Monday to Friday, inclusive, it will be first assigned to araployaas on tha same shift who are performing the work required, and then by shift seniority, provided they are ready and available for such work.
(b)	When overtime work is required on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis, provided the employees concerned have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work required. Shifts will be determined by the following guidelines:
(i) The employees shall be deemed to be working on the shift on which he has spent the majority of his time during the week, Monday to Friday, preceding the Saturday and Sunday overtime.
Example:	an employee who works 3 days on days
and 2 on nights would be considered for the
7
day shift overtime on Saturday and Sunday, even though he was not on days on the Friday preceding the overtime.
In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, the holiday shall be considered as a day shift, provided the employee does not work a different shift on the holiday.
If an employee is absent due to illness, he shall be considered as working on the shift he was scheduled for the day he took sick.
Employees trading an individual day or night shift or by the week, shall be conaidered as working on their original scheduled shift.
(c)	It is understood that when skilled maintenance work is required by the Company on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be distributed as equally as practicable among the skilled maintenance employees within the respective skilled classifications concerned. An employee who declines such an overtime assignment will be credited therewith in the administration of this understanding.
(d)	When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary on Sunday, during the tomato season and pickle season, it will be allocated as outlined in 6.04(a) above provided the assignment of overtime does not interfere with normal shift rotation.
6.05	In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this
Agrement falls, the Company shall pay time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of eight (0) hours per day or thirty-two (32) hours per week except to Highway Transport Drivers as aforesaid. Highway Transport Drivers will be paid overtime after thirty-five decimal two (35.2) hours per week in any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agrement falls or in the week in which either the Friday preceding or the Monday following the employees' vacation period is taken as an additional day off in lieu of the holiday.
ARTICLE VII
HOLIDAYS
7.01	(a) Employees other than probationary or seasonal employees who work on the day upon which any of the following holidays is observed, namely:
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
a
New Year’s Day Easter Monday Canada Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance of eight (8) hours as provided in paragraph 7.02. These payments shall be computed on the basis of the rate applicable to the job performed.
(b)	An additional day as determined by the Company will be granted as a recognized holiday during the Christmas season.
A
(c)	A holiday allowance of eight (8) hours will be paid for tho last working day prior to Christmas Day and tho last working day prior to New Year's Day subject to the conditions set forth in paragraphs 7.02 and 7,03.
(d)	Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
7.02	Employees other than probationary or seasonal employees not required to work on such recognized holidays shall receive a holiday allowance of eight (8) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works his full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full schedule working day immediately following such holiday unless absent
I for any of tho following reasons:
(i) Personal illness (proven by a Doctor's certificate acceptable to the Company);
(±i) quarantined by order of a qualified health authority;
(iii)	death in the immediate family;
(iv)	compulsory Court attendance as a witness or on jury duty:
(v)	if absent up to five (5) working days when written leave-of-absence therefor has been granted by the employee’s Department Head;
(vi)	absent on bona fide Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
9
7.0 3	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays as above,
the employee's scheduled working day herein before referred to must fall within three working days before and within three working days after the said holiday (or within six working days before and within six working days after the said holiday where paragraph 7.02(i) applies) and must be worked.
ARTICLE VIII
REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL-IN PAY
8.01
8.02
An employee who is scheduled or notified to report for work and who does report for work on time shall be entitled to a minimum of four hours—straight-time pay, unless previously notifiedli>y"“:the Company not to report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be paid for any period of time worked by an employee within his regularly scheduled shift. Provided further, that if requested by the Company, the employee shall perform a minimum of four hours of such available work as the Company may assign, and, further provided that the Company's obligation to grant minimum reporting pay as above provided shall not apply where failure to furnish work is due to causes beyond the Company's control.
An employee who is called and returns to work after he has completed his schedule shift and has left the premises of the Company shall be paid, regardless of the amount of time worked, not less than four (4) hours straight-time pay.
ARTICLE IX
SENIORITY
9.01
9.02
Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force.
An employee, other than a seasonal employee, acquires seniority after completing the probationary period of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company or after sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, but when so acquired, the employee's seniority dates from the date first hired.
- 10
9.03	A "seasonal employee” acquires seniority when retained in the Company's service after November 1st of any year and after completing the established sixty-five (65) days' probationary period, but when an employee's seniority is so acquired, his seniority dates from the date first hired if the sixty-five (65) working days are accumulated within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months.
9.04	An employee loses seniority when the employee: quits or resigns: is discharged for cause:
in case of an employee with less than two year’s seniority. is laid off for lack of work €or a continuous period in excess of the length of his seniority with the Company. In the case of employees with seniority of two years or more, is laid off for lack of work, for a continuous period in excess of two years;
fails to report for work when called without a valid reason;
fails to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after being sent a written notice by registered mail addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate if the employee fails to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice.
9.05	"Temporary lay-offs" shall in this Agreement mean layoffs of not longer than five (5) working days. In the case of temporary lay-offs, seniority shall bo applied by departments which means that the employees of a department have the first right to the work available in that department which they are competent to perform and that employees of another department with even more seniority even though competent to perform that work, cannot replace them by reason of greater seniority. However, if a temporary lay-off occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the Company, departmental seniority will not apply for a period of within two working days.
9.06	A new employee's seniority applies in the department to which he is assigned at the end of his probationary period, and continues in that department until the employee is transferred to another department.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
11
9.07	(a) The term "vacancy" for the purpose of this Article,
shall be defined as an opening in the departmental seniority list where the number of persons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due to an employee’s transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department, and the duration of which is expected to exceed 65 working days. The vacancy will be posted for three working days throughout the factory. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees throughout the factory who have more than two years' seniority.
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where
skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal, it
being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.

(c)	The job vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therefrom, will not be subject to posting.
(d)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the department he worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that department except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other department. Such employee may not apply for the same posted vacancy for a period of twelve months.
(e)	In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
9.08	(a) An employee who is transferred from one department to
another department as a result of his own raquest acquires no departmental seniority in that new department for a period of one year excapt over employees brought into the department after the date of his transfer but if retained in that department after a period of one yaar, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in that new department only.
12
(b)	An employee who is transferred from one department to another department by the Company acquires no departmental seniority in the new department for a period of three months except over employees brought into the department after the date of his transfer but if retained in that department after a period of three months, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in such new department. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Company to a new department as a result of a reduction in the number of employees in his former department due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new department as of date of transfer.
(c)	Where tho transfer of a person in the employ of the Company from outside the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of one year except over employees brought into the bar gaining unit after the date of his/her transfar, but if retained in the bargaining unit after a period of one year, the employee's bargaining unit seniority will bo based upon his/her total service with the Company.
(d)	In the application of (c) above, an employee who fails to fill the requirements of the position within one year from transfer into the bargaining unit, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the department he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that department except for his/her transfer, or to some other department within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(«) In the application of (c) above, for the purpose of layoffs within the period of one year following the employee's transfer into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the department he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that department except for his/her transfer, or to some other department within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
13
9.09
9.10
(f)	The Company and Union agree that, where practical, the Company will try and place employees absent on sick leave or compensation, on jobs which they are capable of performing. If necessary, in the assignment of this work, the employees must agree to waive their seniority rights. This procedure will be implemented on a trial basis for the term of the agreement.
(g)	Notwithstanding the above displacement procedures, the Employer and the Union, at any time, can formulate special measures to modify the above displacement procedures to take into account the desire of the parties to minimize the impact of displacement or to deal with particular operational considerations.
When an employee after being transferred is laid off for any reason other than those specified in Article 11,02 of this Agreement, such lay-off shall not interfere with the accumulation of seniority in the new department. When so recalled, such an employee will have preference over employees with less departmental seniority to come back into the department he was working in at the time of layoff. When so reinstated, the accumulation of seniority will continue until one year after the date of the first transfer, or three months, whichever is applicable.
Seniority for the purpose of temporary lay-offs will be applied separately in the following departments, subject to such changes in the future as the interest of the business may require and as agreed to by the union;
1.	Pickle Manufacturing Department
2.	Vinegar Manufacturing Department
3.	Can Filling Department
4.	Can and Baby Food Production
Maintenance Department
5.	Cookroom Department
6.	Glass Production Maintenance Department
7.	General Filling, Labelling and Packing Department
8.	Building Service Department
9.	Mechanical Maintenance Department
10.	Construction Maintenance Department
11.	Warehousing Department
12.	Sauce Department
13.	Supply and Storage Department
14.	Garage Equipment Department
15.	Production Preparation and Strained Food Kitchens Department and Rig Room, including Bean Picking
16.	Cereal Department
17.	Production Equipment Clean-up Department
18.	Can Labelling Department
19.	Paste Storage Department
20.	General Labour Department
21.	Central Stores Department
22.	Warehouse Maintenance Department
23.	Vegetable Maintenance Department
24.	Instrument, Electronics and Electrical Department
9.11
9.12
9.13
9.14
- 14 -
Seniority lists will be posted in each department semiannually. Position on the seniority list shall be determined by chronological order of hiring.
Leave of absence if granted in writing by the Company will not affect an employee’s seniority rating. An employee may under special circumstances receive a maximum of three weeks’ leave of absence through his Department Head.
In the event of a Shortage of work in any department, the senior employees shall have preference for the work available providing that there is no bumping within the day.	________
In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or more departments, plant-wide seniority will not apply to the employees involved with respect to lay-offs of two weeks, duration or leas provided that this may only be applied once per calendar year to the same employees.
If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 7.01 occur during such a shut-down employees who are laid off under this provision shall receive holiday allowance in accordance with paragraph 7.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three working days immediately preceding and within three working days immediately following the shut-down. Employees who continue to work during a shut-down shall qualify for holiday allowance in accordance with paragraphs 7.02 and 7.03.
(a)	In any department where the rotating system is now in effect, the present method of rotation shall remain in effect, with the following provisions:
(i)	employees shall be treated equally with regard to being assigned higher paid work, providing they can perform such work:
# (y
no employee shall be compelled to rotate on jobs Jzl—■ which he is not physically capable of perform-	&
ing.
(iii) employees who normally do not rotate will not be compelled to do so, so long as it is practicable.
(b)	In any department where the rotating system is not now in effect, the department shall continue to operate on this basis so long as it is practicable, and the senior employee in the department shall be given preference for the higher rated jobs.
(c)	The employees subject to the above provisions must have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work.
15
9.15	In the case of lay-offs other than temporary, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	Probationary employees shall be laid off first; s\
(b)	Thereafter employees shall be laid off according to plant-wide seniority, provided that the employee entitled by seniority to the work available has the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform that work. Position on the seniority list shall be determined by chronological order of hiring.
9.16	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit under this contract and subsequently transferred back to the bargaining unit within a period of one year, shall retain his full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein. Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit only over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his transfer.
9.17	An employee who presents a medical certificate showing that he has been ill or disabled by accident shall maintain his seniority rights during the period of such illness or disability.
9.18	(a) In connection with promotions, other than appointments 3^-— to supervisory positions, upgradings. demotions; lay- fir +• ^ offs and rehirings, seniority will govern vhere skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal. Promotion shall be on a departmental basis and the Company shall give written notice to the Steward of the Department of any promotion.
(b)	Upon making a promotion to a job having a classified rate, the Company will take into consideration employees' special qualifications as on file with the Human Resources Department.
(c)	In the application of paragraph 9.18(a), time spent in filling a temporary or seasonal vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employees who normally perform the job.
9,19	Wherever practicable the Company will give preference
in hiring as seasonal employees, to those who were employed during the previous seasonal operations.
- 16 -
9.20	Wherever practicable the Company will give the
opportunity for permanent employment to senior seasonal employees who are competent to do the work required of them. For the purposes of this section, a "senior seasonal employee" shall be deemed to be an employee who has accumulated a total of twelve months employment as a seasonal employee over a period of three consecutive seasonal operations as defined in Article 2 hereof.
9.21	The Company will forward to the Union ten (10) copies
of all departmental and plant seniority lists semiannually.
9.22 (a)
A pregnant employee may apply for and take a leave of absence at the end of five months of pregnancy and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights provided she reports for work within two months after the birth, unless she produces a medical certificate satisfactory to the Company showing
that she is unable to do so.
(b) In the case of adoption of a pro-school child, the mother or father may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effective the date of receipt of the ^ child and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights at the termination of such leave.
9.23
The Company will endeavour to place an employee having long and faithful service who has become unable to handle his job in another job which he is competent to perform.
9.24 (a) The local Union president and Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working on the day shift.
(b)	The First Vice-President and Assistant Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working on the day shift if the President or Chief Steward is respectively absent for extended periods of time such as vacations, conventions , etc.
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
ARTICLE X
VACATIONS
10.01	Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation,
its length to be determined as follows:
- 17 -
(a)	If employed less than ten (10) months during the previous calendar year, one (1) day of vacation in the second calendar year for each full calendar month of service in the previous calendar year;
(b)	If employed ten (10) months or more but less than one (1) full calendar year during the previous calendar year; two (2) weeks of vacation in the second calendar year ;
(c)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;



l sr
- a
^ s'-oC
10.02
10.03
(d)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay;
(e)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his tenth (10th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay;
(f)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebr-
— ates his eighteenth (18th) and each subsequent
anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;
(g)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive six (6) weeks of vacation with pay.
Five (5) working days shall constitute one wask.
Vacation with pay shall be calculated as follows:
(a)	Employees entitled to two (2) weeks or loss vacation -4 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(b)	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks vacation - 6 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(c)	Employees entitled to four (4) weeks vacation - 8 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(d)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks vacation - 10 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(e)	Employees entitled to six (6) weeks vacation -	12
percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
- 18 -
(£) Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
|(i)	if the employee has worked 500 or more hours
during the preceding calendar year, 2 percent of earnings for such preceding calendar year for each week of vacation entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee's regular hourly wage rate for a forty-hour week, which ever is greater,
(ii)	if the employee has worked less than 500 hours during the preceding year, 2 percent of the employee’s earnings for such preceding calendar year each week of vacation entitlement,
(iii)	in calculating time worked, absence while receiving Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, or casual union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as time worked on the basis of eight (8) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such preceding calendar year,
(iv)	in the case of employees who move from job to
job, their job grade rate for vacation pay will be determined by the job grade rate they receive for the third week prior to the week of their vacation. If the employee did not receive 40 hours of pay for that week, the determining week would then be the fourth weak. You would continue to substitute the next prior week until a regular week of work was found.
10.04	(a) When a "paid" holiday occurs while an employee
is on vacation, he will be paid "holiday" pay in addition to regular vacation pay.
1(b) (i) Employees will have the option of taking an
additional day off on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation if a paid holiday occurs during their regular vacation period. The employees must notify supervision of their intention prior to the commencement of their vacation.
(ii)	Employees whose vacation monies are considerably reduced because of absence the preceding year, may elect to take a reduced vacation time during the current year equivalent to the amount of their vacation monies. The amount of vacation time to be taken is to be reviewed by the Human Resources Department, subject to legal requirements.
19
10.05	Vacations must be taken in periods of not less than one week at a time unless an employee’s service entitles him to less than one week, in which case, he must take all of his vacation at one time. Employees entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient to the Company. Exceptions to this policy will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by the VicePresident - Manufacturing.
10.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requestad by the employees in employee seniority order except that efficient operations of the plant shall be the first consideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07	An eligible employee upon being laid off indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the end of the previous calendar year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of lay-off that he prefers to postpone such paid vacations until later in the calendar year in which he is laid off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08	Upon termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulated to his credit.
ARTICLE XI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive
function of the Company to:
(1) Maintain order, discipline, efficiency;
(ii)	Hire, classify, direct and lay-off;
(iii)	Discharge, transfer, promote, demote, suspend, or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
(iv)	Make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees provided they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement;
20
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise
in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and location of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
11.02	It is understood that the cause for which the Company may summarily suspend employees (provided that the suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
(i)	intoxication;
(ii)	disorderly conduct;
(iii)	insubordination;
(iv)	unauthorized absenteeism;
(v)	neglect of duty;
(vi)	carelessness endangering the safety of others:
(vii)	theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be for any reason as determined by the Company.
11.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII
NON-STRIKE PROVISION
12.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide by all the terms
and conditions of this contract and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walk-out, sit-down, slow-down or other interference with or interruption of work, and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this contract and during the term will not lock out the employees.
21
ARTICLE XIII
SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
13.01	The Union will select Departmental Stewards and a Chief Steward for the plant. The Company will be advised by the Union of the names of its stewards and will recognize such representatives of the Union in processing grievances as hereinafter set forth.
13.02	All grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss of time or pay to the parties involved.
13.03	It is understood that Stewards, including the Chief Steward, have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company and will spend only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided under the grievance procedure. If it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regular work without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of the Department in which they are respectively omployad. It is also understood that a Steward shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of tho Department Head of such department and notifying him as to the nature of the grievance and the personnel involved. The Steward, upon leaving a Department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, and upon resuming his regular work, after servicing a grievance in his own or another department will report to his own Department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head may decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time. Tho term "Department Head" shall moan the person supervising tho work force.
13.04	It is understood that an employee has no grievance until ha has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee who shall be accompanied by his Departmental Steward to his Department Head within three full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have originated or occurred.
If an employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three full working days after receiving the Department Head's decision in the following manner and sequence:
- 22 -
Step No. 1:
Between the employee, who may be accompanied by his Departmental Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be rendered in writing within two full working days following the presentation of the grievance.
Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 2:
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Human Resources Department at which time the written record of the grievance shall be submitted and the Human Resources Department's written decision given within not more than three working days following receipt of the written grievance at this step.
Failing settlement, then: step no. 3:
Within five full working days following the decision under Step 2:	the grievance shall be submitted as part
of the agenda for a meeting between the Company's representatives and members of the Plant Grievance Committee, not exceeding six in number. An International Representative of the Union may be present at such meeting. The decision of the Company’s representatives shall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
13.05	Failing settlement of any difference between the parties under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure, arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 14. If no written request for arbitration is received within ten working days after the final decision under the Grievance Procedure is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
13.06	Any difference arising directly between the Company and Union may be submitted by either party at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
13.07	The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitration. When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall first be taken up under Step No. 2 and they may be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two employees.
23
13.08	Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board shall not be made retroactive prior to the date the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure, except as to improper classification or bookkeeping error involving an employee's earnings.
13.09	All decisions arrived at, between representatives of the Company and the representatives of Union, at any step of the written grievance procedure, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned. The Company shall submit a written reply to each written grievance.
13.10	Failure of the Union or employees to comply with the time limits in Step 1, 2 and 3 above, shall be considered as acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Failure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1, 2 and
3 above shall be considered a refusal of the request involved in the grievance and immediate appeal to the next step in the procedure may be taken. When either party desires additional time within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable limits shall be granted by the other party upon written request.
13.11	The Company will supply the Union with a list of the Department Heads and Assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the Union of any changes thereto.
13.12	At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
24
13,13	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
ARTICLE XIV
ARBITRATION
14.01	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein before provided it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an Arbitrator. Within five days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein requested, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall have power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The two arbitrators shall, within five days of the appointment of the latter of them, attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such a period of five days, they shall then request the Ontario Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them in selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective bargaining agreements and his familiarity with industrial relations,
14.02	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
25
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority, or failing that, the Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned.
14.06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator representing it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be
granted for a period of two years to two employees ■ (only one per department) at any time accepting a fulltime position with the Union subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
V
For the interpretation of this clause for leave of absence for union representatives means that the time spent on leave of absence is accumulated for seniority purposes only but not for fringe benefits, e.g. pension service, etc., unless specifically agreed upon.
(b) Reasonable time off with seniority maintained shall be
granted to Union representatives to attend bona fide ~ ( Union business, provided competent replacements are ^	'
available for those employees desiring to be away from 7 work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make it possible for him to attend Union meetings.
ARTICLE XVI
SICK AND WELFARE PLAN
16.01	The Company agrees to assume the cost of the following
Sick and Welfare Plans with respect to each employee while in the active employment of the Company who is eligible for benefits thereunder:
Ontario Health Insurance Plan;
The Weekly indemnity Plan providing a maximum coverage of fifty-two (S2) weeks shall provide a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sixty-six and two-thirds (66 2/3) percent Unemployment Insurance Commission Plan for employees who qualify thereunder;
(a)
(b)	(i)
‘ /on
"7 V
7
26 -
(ii) For employees with less than one year’s
service with the Company, benefits provided will be the length of Company Service;
(iii) Weekly indemnity payments will continue only while employees are on the active payroll;
(c)
(d)
(e)
All regular employees shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity benefits immediately upon reinstatement on the payroll following a lay-off ;
Supplementary Hospitalization Plan to be continued;	'
The Thirty-Five (35) Cent Deductible Drucr
Plan shall be continued;
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
The present supplementary Health Care' Benefit Plan will remain in effect;
2^
G?
The Company will provide a Dental Plan;..
The present Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain in effect-	^ ^ ._
Out-o £-Province/Country emergency treatment;
✓a-*-
7L*
The Company will provide a basic vision care plan;
(k>
Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed clinics.
16.02	The Plan documents for all sick and welfare benefits
provided under this agreement are an integral part of the collective agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into it.
ARTICLE XVII
UNIFORMS
17.01	The Company shall furnish and employees shall be
required to wear uniforms of a type, design and colour as determined by the Company. The rules and regulations and conditions attached to the supplying of uniforms are contained in Appendix "B" hereto.
27
ARTICLE XVIII
BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company agrees to maintain eight (8) bulletin
boards on which the Union may post notices of the time and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and names of officers or accredited representatives and such other notices as may be approved by the Company. The Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice to the Human Resources Department one-half hour prior to posting.
ARTICLE XIX
REST PERIODS
19,01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest periods of
tan (10) minutes each per eight (8) hour shift and in the event of employees being required to work overtime, they shall be given a ten (10) minute rest period for each two (2) hours of overtime worked.
ARTICLE XX
SAFETY AND HEALTH
20.01
20.02
Tho Company will make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees in the Plant during their working hours.
A Union representative will bo appointed by the Union {J/-to the Company's Safety Committee to attend safety	"y
meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20,03	The Company will pay fifty ($50) dollars per contract
year to provide safety shoes to all employees who are required to wear them.
ARTICLE XXI
GENERAL
21.01	No work shall be performed by employees outside the
bargaining unit except in cases of emergency, experimental work, instruction of employees or for relief work.
21.02	The Chief Steward will be furnished with a copy of any Employee Report given to an employee.
21.03	It is the Company’s intention to provide the Union with an office on Company premises and locators for the term of the contract.
ARTICLE ;C<II
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL
22.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect until April 30th,
1994 and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either party shall have given sixty (60) days written notice to the other of its desire to terminate the same. In the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, each party shall submit to the other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if any, to this agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not later than a further period of fifteen (15) days.
EXECUTED at LEAMINGTON, Ontario this

day
1992.
FOR
UNITED FOOD AND CCKXSSCI^ WORKERS -A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C. LOCAL 459
29
APPENDIX "A"
The Rules and Regulations of the Job Grading Plan as hereinafter written shall be deemed to be part of this Agreement.
The rates under the Job Grading Plan shall be as follows :
~T”
JOB GRADE
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
MAY 1, 1992	MAY 1, 1993
15.52 15.66
15.79 15.97 16.09 16.18 16.32 16.47
16.79
17.53 17.84
16.35 16.49 16.62 16.80 16.92 17.01 17.15 17.30 17.62
18.36 18.67
- 30 -
1
2
RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE OPERATION OF JOB GRADING AND JOB GRADING RATES
As of February 1, 1986, all jobs have been correctly described and assigned to job grades, and wage inequities thereby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed. Subsequent jobs whose job descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, will be considered as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed.
(a)	A "change" in a job as referred to herein is one which materially affects its content or requirements. Changes in a job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existing job;
(b)	When a new job is established or an old job is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs in the Plant;
(c)	A copy of the job description of the new or changed job will be sent to the Union for approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been created, or the changes to the existing job have been made, together with a notation of the job grade:
(d)	Upon commencing an experimental job, changed job, or a new job a production employee will remain at the job rate which he regularly received prior to this job, until a job grade rate is assigned to tho job. The job will be graded within a three (3) month period where possible;
(e)	If tho Union believes that an existing job has changed to an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade, it shall notify tho Company in writing of its contention and of the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Company within fifteen (15) working days after the change in the job is alleged to have occurred;
(f)	Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint is filed by the Union within fifteen (15) working days after such job description and grade is submitted to the Union;
31 -
3
4
(g)	Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union Job Grading Committee at the earliest convenient date to discuss the differences and attempt to make a settlement of these differences.
The Company will advise the Union in writing of their decision regarding the said Job Description or Job Grade;
(h)	If the Company and the Union are unable to reach
agreement on the job description or job grading of ^ a job within a reasonable period of time, the	1—
difference will be submitted to an impartial	Z-
arbitrator whose decision will be final and binding on both parties.
The description and grading of jobs will be in compliance with the following rules:
(a)	The description and grading shall be of the job, not of the person performing it;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by management shall not be considered;
(c)	The grading shall be based upon average requirements to perform the job satisfactorily, rather than upon exceptions to the average. Performance by specific individuals who are above or below average will not be considered except where classified rates, as in the maintenance departments, apply:
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day's work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The job doscriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to reveal those features of the job that dotermine its classification. At the same time they are not intended to provide a complete listing of every individual feature of the job.
If new duties which may be assigned at any time, become a permanent feature of the work, the job shall be reconsidered as provided in Section 2.
Jobs of lead personnel may be graded in accordance with the following procedure:
- 32 -
5.
(a)	A Lead Person is one who:
1.	Instructs,
2.	sees that directions of the supervisor are executed,
3.	co-ordinates,
4.	checks work,
5.	reports necessary information, and
6.	performs necessary manual duties, in a department or major subdivision thereof.
Jobs requiring the incumbent to direct a small crew working with him are not classified as lead jobs, but such direction is included in the regular job description and evaluation.
(b)	Lead personnel will receive the established rate for the classification of Lead in which they fall, as outlined by the job grading programme, with the provision that they will receive a rate at least one grade higher than the highest grade job which they supervise.
(a)	An employee who has 130 days of actual work with the Company within one period of employment is eligible for job grading rates;
(b)	An employee with less than 130 days of actual work with the Company who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for job grading when he has accumulated 130 days of actual work with the Company, provided that the employee has a minimum of 65 working days since his reinstatement;
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire semi skilled and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the collective agrement provided these rates are not inconsistent with the rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	Any employee on job grading, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off, shall, on rehiring, be treated as a new employee, and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5(a) hereof in order to again become eligible for job grading.
33 -
6
7
(a)	Each employee, respectively, shall be paid for all hours worked each day, the rate of the highest job grade at which he works if he spends fifty per centum (50%) or more of his daily working hours, including overtime in that job grade;
(b)	In the event an employee performs work in more than one job grade and therefore works less than half of his daily working hours at any single rate, he shall be paid an average rate based on the hours worked and the applicable job grade rates:
(c)	Employees who enter the employ of the Company and become eligible for job grading, after job grading is in effect will be paid the rate established for the job grade to which they are assigned, or when applicable, in accordance with the arrangements set forth in 6(a)and (b) above.
(a)	All employees, except those employees receiving classified rates, shall receive the appropriate job grade for each job which they perform, with the stipulation that a minimum period of time of 15 minutes must be spent on the job before credit is given. Where less than 15 minutes is spent on the job, the job grade rate of the previous job performed shall apply, or where less than 15 minutes is spent on the first job upon commencing the shift the employee shall receive the job grade rate of the job following. This clause is subject to the qualifications of Clause 6(a) and
(b);
(b)	(i) Employees regularly engaged on maintenance
work shall be classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted.
Maintenance employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job grade rates for each job they perform, as defined in Clause 6(a) and (b);
(ii) Notwithstanding the above, high-pressure
welders will maintain their "A" rate after 15 years nAM welders service with the H. J.
Heinz Company and 40 years of age, irrespective of the results of their high-pressure examination.
- 34 -
<c)	(i) Employees regularly engaged in sterilizing in
the Can Filling Department shall be classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed in the Can Filling Department.
This rule will not apply if the sterilizer is promoted to a job grade higher than the sterilizer rate.
(ii) Employees regularly engaged in sterilizing in this Department will have special seniority status similar to the Maintenance Department regarding lay-offs. As long as they are sterilizing, they cannot be bumped off their job by higher seniority employees from other departments who are being laid off due to a plant wide lay-off.
(d)	Employees in the Production Equipment Cleanup Department will have a special seniority status similar to the maintenance department regarding layoffs. As long as they are working in the Production Equipment Cleanup Department, they cannot be bumped off their job by higher seniority employees from other departments who are being laid off due to a plant-wide layoff. This special status will be reviewed in approximately one year by both parties.
(e)	An employee being trained for a skilled production ^ or maintenance job shall receive the job grade
rate below the rate of the job for which he is being trained until he is fully qualified to	/
perform the skilled job after which time he shall receive the job grade rate of the job. It is understood that should the employee fail to qualify for the skilled job within 130 working days of being trained he shall be returned to his former job.
Employees being trained for skilled maintenance jobs will be required to complete maintenance controls cards for this period of time. It shall be the exclusive function of Management to determine if an employee is fully qualified to perform the job for which he is trained, subject to the right of appeal by the employee through the grievance procedure.
35
8
9
10.
1 1
12
(a)	Employees who are sent to the First Aid Department or to the doctor because of illness shall be paid the job grade rate they are earning at the time they left their job for the first hour or less away, but shall not be paid for such time in excess of one hour;
(b)	Employees required to go to the First Aid Department or to the doctor for treatment of an injury received while working shall receive the rate of the job they were performing for time so spent. If an employee, due to injury on the job is unable to return to the job, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift at the rate of the job he was performing when the injury occurred;
(c)	Employees who work on jobs graded on the basis of the employee being required to wear goggles, respirators, or other safety appliances, will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which required such protection.
Employees will be paid at the grade rate of the job they left, or if commencing a shift for the job they are to perform, for the time spent during working hours attending safety meetings, union meetings, and any meetings required by Management.
An employee who is ordered to report for work and cannot be given work at the time he is told to report, shall be paid for such waiting time at the job grade rate at which he last worked on the preceding working day. When such an employee is sent home because work is not available, he shall be paid a minimum of four hour8 straight time at the job grade rate at which he last worked the preceding working day. An employee who did not work the preceding working day shall be paid the job grade rate for the job which he was scheduled to perform. If the employee works for a short period of time before he is sent home, he shall receive the job grade rate for this job performed for the remainder of hi8 call-in pay, or if the employee performs two or more jobs before he is sent home, he shall receive the job grade rate of the last job performed for the remainder of his call-in pay. This call-in pay shall not apply in the event work is not available because of conditions beyond the control of the Company.
Eligible employees shall receive eight (8) hours holiday allowance for paid holidays not worked, as outlined in the Collective Agreement in effect, at the rate paid those employees that last working day before the holiday.
Highway transport drivers shall be paid a weekly rate.
- 36 -
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR HIGHWAY TRANSPORT DRIVERS
Highway Transport Drivers shall receive straight time pay for all hours worked in excess of 10 consecutive hours or 48 hours in any one week period. For the purposes of this section, the hourly rate shall be determined by dividing the weekly rate by 48;
Highway Transport Drivers' driving time, including all breaks, tire checks, meals, etc., shall be paid on an hourly basis with the hours for each trip determined by the formula of 45 miles ■ 1 hour. Mileage distances are to be determined by the Ontario Truckers' Association mileage schedule;
Time required for unloading, loading and approved delays will be paid at the regular, hourly, highway rate;
Highway drivers will be paid the total of three quarters of an hour at the highway rate for checking equipment at the start of the shift and securing equipment at the finish of the shift. Drivers will be issued a check list which must be completed prior to departure and at finish of shift.
The daily pay will be adjusted by deducting any time absent from work during the normal scheduled working hours for personal reasons such as permission for medical and dental appointments and other leaves of absence.
(b)	Highway Transport Drivers shall receive time and one-half pay for all hours worked in excess of 44 hours in any one week period:
(c)	If a night's layover becomes necessary due to a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will not receive consideration for payment as stipulated in Section (a) beyond the time required to assure the safety of the truck and its contents;
(d)	If a night's layover occurs because of a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will be sent to a hotel at the Company's expense;
Ce) In all cases proof of the cause of the delay may be required, and if the delay is caused by the driver's negligence no extra ecompensation will be paid.
1.	(a) (i)
(ii)
(ill) Civ)
(v)
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
37 -
{a) A Highway Transport Driver who loses time through an injury, sickness, or disease, where Workers’ Compensation benefits are not payable and on producing a medical certificate shall be paid his regular wages until he is eligible for his welfare indemnity;
(b) Where Workers’ Compensation Benefits accrue on
account of injury this will be in lieu of payment of wages by the Company.
(a)	Room and bed is furnished by the Company for Highway Transport Drivers spending overnight on a trip;
(b)	An allowance of not over $7.00 will be paid for each meal as authorized per trip. Effective May 1, 1991, the meal allowance will be $8.00,
(a)	When a Highway Transport Driver is taken off the highway (to work in the Transportation Department for a period of up to a week, for medical reasons family sickness, etc., he will receive his regula weekly wages;
(b)	When a Highway Transport Driver is temporarily taken off the highway (to work in the Transportation Department) for a period of longer than a week’s duration, for medical reasons and family sickness, he will receive the hourly rate of the job he performs.
A Highway Transport Driver will qualify for holiday pay as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
(a)	It shall be the duty of the Company to maintain all vehicles in safe operating condition in accordance with the Department of Highway Regulations;
(b)	No Highway Transport Driver is authorized to move his truck unless he knows it to be in good operating condition.
Highway Transport Drivers are not permitted to allow anyone other than employees of the employer who are on duty to ride on trucks except by written authorization of the employer.
Highway Transport Drivers are responsible for the protection of their cargo at all times.
38 -
9.	Highway Transport Drivers shall receive a maximum of
two uniforms per year, the said uniforms to be designed by the Company. Replacements for Highway Transport Driver's uniforms will be made upon return and surrender of a vornout uniform. A uniform under this clause shall consist of one jacket and two pairs of trousers.
10.	Highway Transport Drivers shall be allowed two summer uniforms.
11.	Highway Transport Drivers shall be provided with a winter coat only as required.
12.	Highway Transport Drivers are to be neat and courteous at a11 times.
13.	Any infringements by Highway Transport Drivers of the above regulations will be subject to disciplinary action.
14.	Highway Transport Drivers will be responsible for any infractions of Municipal and Provincial Traffic Laws.
15.	Local drivers shall receive the highway transport rate when they are on highway runs, for example to Windsor and Chatham.
16.	The present practice of allocating the local Saturday, Sunday and Holiday overtime to the local drivers will continue.
39
APPENDIX 11B"
1.	The Company shall furnish all garments necessary up to a maximum of six garments per employee per year.
2.	A garment for an employee shall consist of an overall, trousers and/or jacket. Cookroom employees shall be provided with T-shirts as the Company may determine. Employees will be provided with a perraa press uniform. Welders will be provided with shirts on the basis of two shirts for one other garment. A woman’s cut of pants will be provided.
3.	All male and female employees shall receive caps and hats, as required.
4.	(a) Employees shall receive the uniforms above
mentioned upon obtaining seniority.
(b) Upon obtaining seniority an employee shall be entitled to two complete uniforms and shall receive the third complete uniform within six months thereafter.
5.	Employees who have qualified for uniforms but who are scheduled to be laid off within ten days of qualifying shall not, at that time, receive a uniform but shall be entitled to receive uniforms as above specified immediately upon rehiring.
6.	New uniforms will only be issued upon appraisal of the
appropriate worn-out garments. The Company will post notices when new uniforms are available.
- 40 -
APPENDIX "C”
COST OF LIVING FORMULA
Employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided with a cost of living allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
The cost of living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by the Statistics Canada (1971 * 100) and hereafter referred to as the C.P.I.
The April 1990 C.P.I. published May 1990 will be used as the base index for the period May 1st, 1990 to April 30th, 1992. Adjustments in the cost of living allowance will be made quarterly at the following times:
Effective Date
of Adjustment	Index	Published
July 31, 1590 October 31, 1990 January 31, 1991 April 30, 1991 July 31, 1991 October 31, 1991 January 31, 1992 April 30, 1992
July 1990 October 1990 January 1991 April 1991 July 1991 October 1991 January 1992 April 1992
August 1990 November 1990 February 1991 May 1991 August 1991 November 1991 February 1992 May 1992
The cost of living allowance shall be adjusted at the rate of one cent (1) for each .325 increase or decrease in the C.P.I. for the period May 1, 1990 to April 30, 1992.
Payment of the allowance will be made quarterly to each employee calculated on the basis of the applicable cost of living allowance for the total number of hours worked by the employee during the quarterly period in respect of which the allowance is payable.
No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision that may later be made in the published figures for the C.P.I. on the basis of which the allowance has been determined.
Notwithstanding the above, the Cost of Living (C.O.L.A.) provision will remain in this contract but shall be inoperative during the term of this agreement.
41
(g) The existing $1.66 in C.O.L.A "Float" will be paid as follows:	'
(i)	The first $.83 payment will be folded into the base wages as of May 1, 1992.
(ii)	The final $.83 payout will be made quarterly, beginning with the May - July quarter of 1992. This payout will be made in accordance with past practice and rolled into the base wages as of May 1, 1993.
t
- 42
APPENDIX 11DM
PRODUCT CONTINUATION GUARANTEE
The Company commits that it will maintain production of the following products at its Leamington Factory during the term of this collective bargaining agreement.
Heinz Canada makes this commitment with the proviso that it will not remove production but that the possibility exists for reduced production in the event of sales declines.
PRODUCTS COVERED
Tomato Juice
Bottled and Tin Ketchup
Wet Baby Foods
Beans
Pasta
Vegetable Cocktail Tomato Soup BBQ Sauce Chili Sauce
Dry Baby Cereal (Canada)
57 Sauce
Pizza Sauce
Tomato Sauce
Tomato Paste (Tin)
Salad Dressing
Vol-Pac
Mustard
Spreads/Tartar Sauce Vinegar
43
APPENDIX "E"
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT GUARANTEE
The individuals whose name appears on the bottom of the departmental seniority list in the following departments will be guaranteed employment in the maintenance group for the duration of the collective agreement unless there is a significant volume loss due to the decline in sales.
1. 2.
3.
4.
5.
6. 7.
Mechanical Maintenance I.E.E.
Glass Production Maintenance
(Richard St. John) (Randy Hevey) (James Quick)
Can & Baby Food Production Maintenance (Stanley Krivak) Construction Maintenance Department	(Ottavio Moracci)
Vegetable Preparation Maintenance	(David Hiebert)
Battery (Warehouse Maintenance)	(Posting)
Openings in the above departments created by retirements, resignations, terminations, etc., will not necessarily be filled.