ARTICLE
I2B2KX 22 ARTICLES
SOIWCM . LlWYltf.		
TER* . i T?> tn		n_
No. Of (MFlomS	n'n	
NOMERf	_£	C
1	PURPOSE	1
2	RECOGNITION	1-2
3	RELATIONSHIP	2
4	CHECK-OFF	2-3
5	UNION ACTIVITIES	3
6	STRIKES	3
7	RESERVATIONS OF COMPANY RIGHTS	4
8	LABOUR/MANAGEMENT MEETING	4-5
9	STEWARDS	5-6
10	WARNINGS OR REPRIMANDS	6
11	PERSONNEL FILE	6
12	NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE	7
13	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE	7-8
14	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	8-9
15	COMPANY AND UNION GRIEVANCE	9.-10
16	ARBITRATION	10-11
17	SENIORITY	11
18	NOTICE OF LAYOFF	11-12
19	RECALL	12-13
20	POSTING OF VACANCIES	13-14
21	POSTING OF TEMPORARY VACANCIES	14-15
22	BULLETIN BOARDS	15
23	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES	15-16
24	PLANT CLOSURE/SEVERANCE PAY	16-17
25	HOURS, WAGES AND WORKING CONDITIONS	J^==*T"
26	TERMINATION AND AMENDMENTS	^17-18
SCHEDULE JUM - £LMT BMPMIKSS
27	HOURS OF WORK	19-20
28	REPORTING FOR WORK	20-21
29	CALL-IN	21-22
30	OVERTIME PREMIUM	22-23
31	SHIFT PREMIUM	23
32	MAINTENANCE OF PAY ON TRANSFER	24
33	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	24-25
34	VACATION SCHEDULE	25-26
35	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
36	JURY DUTY
37	PREGNANCY LEAVE
38	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
39	PAY PERIOD
40	LUNCH PERIOD
41	REST PERIOD
42	SAFETY SHOES AND TOOL ALLOWANCE
43	SAFETY AND HEALTH
44	DEPARTMENT SAFETY INSPECTION
45	HAZARD IMPROVEMENT
26-27-28
28
29
29-30
30
30
31
31-	32
32-	33 33
33

PAGE NO.
2
ARTICLE
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60 61 62 63
NEW EMPLOYEES JOINT TRAINING FIRST AID TRAINING OUTSIDE TRAINING JOB RELATED COURSES PAYCHEQUES CONTRACTING OUT
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS TRAINING PROGRAM SICKNESS INSURANCE LIFE INSURANCE MAJOR MEDICAL
PROVISION FOR EYE GLASSES OR CONTACT LENSES
O.H.I.P.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE FEES BENEFIT PREMIUMS PENSION PLAN LONG TERM DISABILITY DENTAL PLAN
33
33
34 34 34 34
34
35
35-	36
36
36
36-	37
37 37 37
38-	39
39-	40 40
WAGE RATES
JOB CATEGORIES
GENERAL LABOUR SCHEDULING
41
42-43
43
SCHEDULE «B» - OFFICE EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE
PAGE NO.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18 19
HOURS OF WORK LUNCH PERIOD REST PERIOD CALL-IN
OVERTIME PREMIUM SHIFT PREMIUM
MAINTENANCE OF PAY ON TRANSFER
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
VACATION SCHEDULE
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
PREGNANCY LEAVE
COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
JURY DUTY
SICKNESS INSURANCE
LIFE INSURANCE
MAJOR MEDICAL
PROVISION OF EYE GLASSES OR CONTACT LENSES O.H.I.P.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE FEES
44
44
44
44-	45
45
45-	46
46
46-	47
47-	48
48
49
49-	50
50
50-	51
51
51
52 52 52
ARTICLE
PAGE NO
3
20	BENEFIT PREMIUMS
21	PENSION PLAN
22	LONG TERM DISABILITY
2 3	DENTAL PLAN
24	JOB RELATED COURSES
25	MEMBERSHIP FEES
52-	53
53-	54
54-	55 55
55
55-	56
SCHEDULE OF SALARIES	57
CATEGORIES	58
LETTERS
EMPLOYEES AT NIAGARA REGIONAL WAREHOUSE 59 POSTING OF LIFT TRUCK OPERATOR POSITIONS 60 V.D.T. SCREENS 61 OFFICE SUMMER HOURS 62
LETTERS OE INTENT
4
CURRENT PRACTICE-PAID LUNCH PERIODS (DAYS)	63
GRAPE PRESSING	64
INTRODUCTION OF WEEKLY MIDNIGHT SHIFT	65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PLANT SHUTDOWN & VACATION SCHEDULE	66-67
SUNDAY NIGHT START-UP	68
GENERAL DISCUSSION DOCUMENT (ATTACH. A) 69 MEMO - SHARON SECORD 70 MEMO - LARRY FISHER 71
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT between
MOTT'S, A DIVISION OF CADBURY BEVERAGES CANADA INC.
YALE CRESCENT ST. CATHARINES, ONTARIO L2R 6Y4
(hereinafter referred to as "The Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
and
LOCAL 55OA
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
(hereinafter referred to as "The Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS THE Company' s employees (hereinafter referred to as "the employees11) have selected the Union as a collective bargaining agency and
.WHEREAS the employees have requested the Company to enter into a collective bargaining agreement with the Union.
NOW, THEREFORE, this agreement witnesseth that in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows.
ARTICLE 1
.PURPOSE
1.01
That the purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees
by establishing formal procedure for the determination of wages, hours and working conditions and for the settlement of grievances. Both parties agree that their mutual interest and welfare lies in friendly co-operation to promote the interest of both the Company and such employees.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
2.01
That the Company acknowledges the Union to be the sole bargaining agent for all employees, save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisors, Graduate Professional Chemist, Stationary Engineers and seasonal employees. This, however, is not to be construed as preventing an individual employee from taking up their own problem directly with representatives of the Company.
2
2.02
An excluded employee will not perform the duties of employees in the bargaining unit except in the case of training or to cover the temporary (two (2) hours or as mutually agreed) absence of an employee or in the case of start-up of new equipment. In addition to the exceptions noted in the preceding sentence, an excluded employee may also perform the duties of employees in the bargaining unit in the case of mechanical failure, testing of equipment, or actions required to prevent detrimental effect on product quality where the bargaining unit employees could not perform the work without the assistance of excluded employees; in those cases, the excluded employee must be assisting a bargaining unit
employee who is primarily responsible for the work.
2.03
In this agreement, the use of a masculine shall be construed .as if the feminine pronoun had been used where the context so requires.
ARTICLE 3
RELATIONSHIP
3.01	•
That as a condition of continued employment, all employees shall become members of the Union in good standing after sixty (60) days worked and shall remain so for the duration of this contract.
3.02
The Chief Steward will be notified in writing of new employees on their first day'work,
ARTICLE 4
CHECK-OFF
4.01
That a check-off system of dues shall be instituted and made operative for the lifetime of this agreement. The Company will transmit the monies so collected to the designated officials of the Union by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following collection. A list of the names of the employees concerned shall accompany the monies.
4.02
The Company agrees to deduct initiation fees from employees who have completed the probationary period.
3
.03
The Company shall list the employees on the check-off list who have left the employment of the Company since the last payment.
4.04
The Company agrees to deduct union dues from all employees after forty (40) days worked.
ARTICLE 5
UNION ACTIVITIES
5.01
The Union will not engage in Union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without permission of management.
5.02
The Union recognizes the responsibilities imposed upon it as the exclusive bargaining agent of the unit, and realizes that, in order to provide the maximum opportunities for continuing employment, good working conditions and better than average wages, the Company must be in a strong market position, which means it must produce at the lowest possible costs consistent with fair labour standards. The Union, through its bargaining position, assumes a joint responsibility in attainment of these goals. The Union therefore agrees that it will cooperate with the Company and support its efforts to assure a full day’s work on the part of its members, and it will actively combat absenteeism and any other practices which restrict production. It further agrees that it will support the Company in its effort to eliminate waste in production, conserve materials and supplies, improve the quality of workmanship, prevent accidents and strengthen goodwill between the Employer, the Employee, the Customer and the Public.
ARTICLE 6
STRIKES
6.01
That there shall be no resort to strike or lockouts for the duration of this Agreement.
4
ARTICLE 1
RESERVATIONS OF COMPANY RIGHTS
7.01
That is the exclusive function of the Company to maintain order, discipline and efficiency. To manage the workers and direct the working force including the right to hire, discharge, suspend, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim that an employee who had attained seniority and has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance, and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
7.02
To operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities; to determine the location of the plant, the products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, methods, machinery and equipment; to exercise jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery tools at the plant in St. Catharines, Ontario; to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employee. The Company agrees that these functions shall not be in an unfair or discriminatory manner or that the rules and/or regulations will not be inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement.
7.03
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreed that breach of any of the plant rules, or any of the provisions of this agreement, shall conclusively be deemed to be sufficient cause to disciplinary action (up to and including dismissal) of an employee subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 1
LAB OUR/MANAGEMENT MEETING
8.01
That the Company and a Union committee will hold jointly monthly meetings to discuss and resolve issues.
A written agenda will be supplied one week before the meeting. Any additions to the agenda will be submitted in writing prior to the meeting. Written minutes of the meeting will be issued by the company within one week of the meeting. The agenda would include the following:
a) Current issues and problems (outside of grievance meetings).
-5-
j) Future ideas, opportunities or possible concerns.
Our objective is to improve the communications process within our facility.
8.02
The Office will hold meetings bimonthly and the President of the Local will be present.
ARTICLE 9
STEWARDS
9.01
That the plant employees shall elect or appoint from amongst their own members eight (8) departmental stewards including a chief steward to cover the following departments:
Warehouse
Packaging (2)
Processing (2)
Maintenance
Laboratory
9.02
The Chief Steward works on the day shift; however, provided that no meetings are scheduled, the Chief Steward will have the option of changing shifts provided that the change of shift is approved by the Company,
9.03
That the office shall elect or appoint from amongst their own members, one (1) steward and one (1) alternate steward who will serve in cases where the steward is absent.
9.04
V
That all representations to os by the Company on matters covered by this agreement shall be made initially by or to a steward.
9.05
That employees shall not be eligible to serve as a steward until they have been in continuous employment with the Company for a period not less than six (6) months.
9.06
That the Union shall supply the Company with the names of the stewards as soon as they are elected or appointed, and shall inform the Company promptly of any change.
-6-
9.07
Stewards shall have the right to investigate complaints or grievances on Company time without loss of basic pay provided:
9.07(1)
Employee who initiates complaint or grievance has discussed same with their supervisor and has been unable to resolve within a reasonable time.
9.07(2)
Employee requests steward's assistance.
9.07(3)
Time off is arranged by employee's supervisor and steward’s supervisor.
9.07(4)
If an employee is called into the office to be given a verbal or written warning, suspension or discharge, a steward or chief steward will be present.
ARTICLE 10
WARNINGS OR REPRIMANDS
10.01	•
Warnings or reprimands on an employee'srecord will be withdrawn after 2 years.
ARTICLE 11
PERSONNEL FILE
11.01
Upon the written request within 3 workinq days, an employee will be given the opportunity to review their personnel file in the presence of the Human Resources Manager or designated supervisor and a union steward (at employee's request). Such opportunity for review will only be granted for sufficient reasons and only four times in a twelve month period.
7
ARTICLE 11
NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE
12.01
The Company agrees to recognize a Negotiating Committee of up to 6 people including the Business Agent and a minimum of 1 Office employee for the purpose of negotiating amendments to this collective agreement.
TIME SPENT IN NEGOTIATIONS
12.02
The privilege of the Negotiating Committee members to leave their work without loss of basic pay will be granted on the following conditions:
(a)	That such absence involves business between the Union and the Management.
(b)	The time shall be devoted to the prompt handling of necessary Union business.
{c) The time away from productive work shall be reported in accordance with timekeeping methods of the department or departments in which the Negotiating Committee member is employed.
(d) This article ceases to apply once a strike or lockout commences.
ARTICLE 1A
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
13.01
That the employees and the Union shall appoint or otherwise select Grievance Committee consisting of three <3) employees, one of whom shall be a steward, chief steward and one executive of the local union.
13.02
That employees shall not be eligible to serve as Grievance Committee members until they have been in continuous employment: with the Company for a period not less than six (6) months.
8
.3.03
That the Company and the Grievance Committee will deal with all matters which properly arise from time to time during the term of this agreement, and which must be mutually resolved.
13.04
That the Union shall supply the Company with the names of the members of the Grievance Committee, and shall inform the Company promptly of any change that may occur in the personnel of the said committee.
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
14.01
That it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible, but no grievance shall be considered which usurps the function of management. A grievance shall not be considered by the Company if the circumstances involved occurred or originated more than ten (10) work days prior to its presentation.
14.02
That should an employee who has attained seniority believe they have been dealt with unjustly or should they or the Union contend that there has been a violation of the provisions of the Agreement on the part of, the Company, the employee shall have the right to have the contention (hereinafter referred to as "the grievance") investigated and adjusted in accordance with the Grievance Procedure.
However, unless they have received prior approval from their supervisor, employees having complaint's or grievances cannot discuss these with the stewards on Company time except in the case of a discharged employee.
STEP 1
The grievance shall be presented verbally to the immediate supervisor by a steward, provided the employee who initiates the grievance has discussed same with the immediate supervisor and has been unable to resolve within a reasonable time. The immediate supervisor is to render a verbal decision within twenty-four (24) hours (excluding Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holidays) of the receipt by the supervisor of the grievance. If the Union is not satisfied with the verbal decision, the grievance will be submitted in writing by the steward to the supervisor who, in turn, will render a decision in writing within twenty-four (24) hours (excluding Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holidays).
9
■>TEP 2
If the grievance is not settled under Step #1, it shall be delivered to the department head within forty-eight (48) hours of the Company’s written decision.
The steward, the chief steward and the griever will meet with the department head within a further forty-eight (48) hours or at a later date, if mutually agreed upon, for the purpose of resolving the grievance. The department head shall give its written decision within three (3) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holidays) after such meeting.
STEP 3
(a) Failing settlement at Step 2 the grievance shall be discussed within five (5) days at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and Plant Manager or Office Manager (or their designate).
(b)	At any meeting with the Company under Step 3 the Grievance Committee may have present any employee affected in the grievance and any duly accredited representative of the International Union.
(c)	The Company may have present at any such meeting with the Grievance Committee any employee affected in the grievance under consideration.
(d)	In any case of a grievance involving suspension, discharge or layoff involving seniority, the employee or employees concerned may present such a grievance in writing through a steward to the Company. The said grievance must be presented within two (2) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and statutory holidays) of notice of suspension, discharge or layoff; and shall be dealt with in a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the company within four (4) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and statutory holidays) of receipt of such grievance by the Company. The Company shall give its written decision
' within five (5) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and statutory holidays) after such meeting.
ARTICLE 15
COMPANY AND UNION GRIEVANCES
15.01
That the Company or the Union may initiate a complaint or grievance with respect to interpretation and/or alleged violations of terms of this Agreement, and such complaints or grievances shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure as
10
herein provided in the same manner and subject to the same limitations as a grievance of employees. Company or Union grievances will commence at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure and may follow all subsequent steps, including arbitration.
ARTICLE IS
ARBITRATION
16.01
That within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company from the Grievance Committee of a written demand for arbitration, the two parties shall meet and attempt to agree upon a single arbitrator. Should, after ten (10) working days (or an extended period agreed to by both parties) , the parties fail in their attempt to agree on a single arbitrator, the griever party requests the Ministry of Labour to appoint a single arbitrator.
16.02
That no person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
16.03
That no matter which has not been carried properly through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure may be submitted to arbitration.
16.04
That the arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement, nor to deal with any matter not covered by this agreement.
16.05
That the proceedings of arbitration will be expedited by the parties hereto and the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
16.06
That each of the parties hereto will jointly bear the expenses of the arbitrator, if any.
16.07
That at any stage of the Grievance Procedure including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses or relevant records, and all reasonable
11
arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties and the arbitrator to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with necessary witnesses.
16.08
The arbitrator shall be requested to give his award within a period of thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing.
ARTICLE 17
SENIORITY
17.01
That the employee shall accrue seniority from the date of their employment in the period in which they acquire seniority and in the event of there being a layoff, the senior in service shall have preference in employment, provided that they can do the work.
17.02
That an employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed on the seniority list until after they have worked sixty (60) days for the Company. Seniority will then run from the first of the sixty (60) days service with the Company.
17.03
A separate list of plant employees (Schedule "A") and office employees (Schedule "B") shall be posted every three (3) months and three (3) copies shall be given to the President of the local Union.
ARTICLE 18
NOTICE OF LAYOFF
18.01
In the case of layoff, the following notice will be given:
Up to 2 years service 2-4 years service 4-7 years service 7 years service or more
2 days notice
1	week's notice
2	weeks notice 2 weeks notice
In the event that the above notice is not given, employees will receive the appropriate pay in lieu thereof.
The Company will give a copy of the posted work schedule to the chief steward indicating those employees laid off for more than three (3) consecutive work days. Notice of layoff
-12-
§hall remain in effect until such time as the laid off employee returns to work for five (5) consecutive work days.
18.02
The first day of layoff will be the day as indicated on the last layoff notice received by. the employee according to the above section.
18.03
Written notice will be given to all employees affected who have more than three years seniority. Layoff notice will include estimated recall date and time. Unless advised otherwise, employees will be expected to return to work at that date and time.
18.04
In the event an employee returns 'from sick leave after the schedule is posted, the most junior employee will be’ considered to be on layoff for the balance of the week.
ARTICLE 19
RECALL
19.01
Employees with up to one (1) year's seniority will have recall rights up to six (6) months from date of layoff. Employees with one (1) or more years seniority will have recall up to two (2) years from date of layoff.
19.02
An employee who is notified by registered mail to return to work will notify the Company of their intention to return to work within three (3) working days from receipt of notice. Failure of an employee to return to work within a further three (3) working days, or such further period as may be agreed upon, shall be deemed voluntary termination of employment.
19.03
If time does not permit a registered letter, notice will be given by telephone. There will be three (3) attempts made. These calls will be made on the Thursday once between 3:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. and on the Friday once between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m, preceding the scheduled week. For recall during the current week's schedule for unscheduled absenteeism, one attempt will be made to contact the laid off employee.
13
Calls will be made to the last phone number shown on our personnel records. If the number has changed and the employee has not advised the Personnel Department in writing of this change, notice will be considered as given.
19.04
If an employee fails to return to work immediately upon notice of recall, the Company may fill the job with the most senior qualified employee on the same shift for the balance of the posted schedules, but not to exceed six (6) work days. Upon the return of the employee, they will perform the job of the original schedule.
ARTICLE 20
POSTING OF VACANCIES
20.01
That in the event of a vacancy, efficiency, ability,
reliability and seniority shall be considered in that order in filling a vacancy.
20.02
When a vacancy occurs for a posted job, such vacancy shall be posted for seven (7) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and Statutory holidays) . Selection for the two (2) top jobs in each category shall be initially on a departmental-basis with the exception of the Process and Packaging Departments; selection will be for the three (3) top jobs.
20.03
The Company will notify the employee as to the status of the posting not later than ten (10) working days after the posting period has expired.
20:04
A plant employee selected on this basis will be given an opportunity of fulfilling the duties of the new position during a reasonable training period of up to thirty (30) working days, except the Lead Hand which will be sixty (60) working days. If the employee fails to meet the requirements of the job at any time during their training period, he/she will be returned to their former job.
20.05
If the employee wishes to relinquish the position within 10 working days, he may do so and return to his former job.
-14
-0 . O6
Wage rates for new jobs that are created during the lifetime of this agreement are to be mutually agreed between Management and the Union.
20.07
An employee being trained for a plant posted job shall receive a rate of thirty (30 cents) per hour below the rate
of the job for which they are being trained, or their current
job rate whichever is greater. They shall remain at the training rate (or their current rate) until the expiry of the training period or until they are able to perform the posted job.
20.08
An employee being trained for a higher rated office job shall receive a rate equal to one-half; (1/2) the differential between the employee's former job rate and the rate of the job for which they are being trained. Should they successfully perform all the job duties/responsibilities, they will receive full rate not later than six (6) months from the date they commenced work in that position.
20.09
A probationary employee being trained for an office posted job shall receive the minimum rate for the particular category of the posted job and will progress through to the maximum rate providing they successfully perform all the job duties/responsibilities based on the following:
Category 1 to 3 - 6 months Category 4 and 5-9 months Category 6 and 7-12 months
20.10
All members covered by this collective agreement who apply for a posted office job will be considered for the vacancy before any other candidate is hired.
20.11
The Union President will be given a copy of all job postings dnd be notified in writing of the successful bidder.
ARTICLE 21
POSTING OF TEMPORARY VACANCIES
21.01
l. In areas of Warehouse, Lab and Janitorial.
15
2.	Temporary positions are to cover vacations, leaves of absence and sickness only.
3.	The Company and the Unipn. will evaluate the number of temporary positions needed in each department at the time of vacation approval.
4.	These positions will be posted and will not exceed one year in duration.
5.	An employee holding a posted job will not be eligible to apply for a temporary position.
6.	Full rate of pay will be paid for all hours worked in the temporary position.
ARTICLE 22
BULLETIN BOARDS
22.01
That the Company will provide a bulletin board in the plant for the convenience of the employees in posting of Union activities. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local union and submitted to the Personnel Department or its authorized representative for approval before being posted.
22.02
The Union agrees to maintain a filing cabinet on Company premises (i,e., Manufacturing Office) and will have access to the cabinet during office hours. Only the following Union members will be issued keys and have access to the cabinet:
President Vice-president Chief Steward Financial Secretary
The Union further agrees that the area around the cabinet will not be used for Union activity.
ARTICLE 22.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
23.01
When technological changes are introduced or made, appropriate classifications and wage rates shall be matters for negotiations between the Company and the Union. If the parties fail to agree on such classifications and wage rates, the matters may be referred to arbitration by either party.
-16-
yending the arbitration decision, an employee may be awarded the new or revised position, any adjustment to the wage rate resulting from the arbitrator's decision will be made retroactive to the date the employee first assumed their new responsibilities. In no case will an employee's wage rate be reduced by reason solely of the application of this clause regardless of their classification. If the new classification carries a higher rate, employees will receive the new rate. If the new classification carries a lower rate, the
employee's current rate at the time of change will remain at their personal rate and they will receive it until they accept another position, at which time the personal rate will permanently be discontinued.
23.02
In the event of new jobs being established, or where existing jobs may change significantly resulting in a new job description, the Company will communicate these changes to the Union prior to implementing.
23.03
To advise the Union of planned job and method changes that will affect the employees covered by this contract.
23.04
That prior to any permanent demotion or permanent elimination of posted jobs, the Company and the Grievance Committee will meet to discuss the procedure to be followed.
ARTICLE 24	,
PLAN" CLOSURE/SEVERANCE PAY
24.01
In the event of a full or partial closure, the Company agrees to meet with the Union promptly, but no less than three (3) months prior t o the announced date of closure to discuss any alternative schemes to closure or strategies required to maintain employment.
In the event that a full or partial closure cannot be
avoided, the Company and the Union agree to meet to discuss in good faith the alternatives available (for example, early retirement/transfer, etc.) . In the event that the parties are unable to reach an agreement on these alternatives, the minimum amount of severance provided will be as follows:
One and one-half (m weeks of severance per year of service to a maximum of 3 6 weeks.
17
Continued participation in all applicable benefit plans up until such time as the end of the severance period or benefits coverage with an alternative employer, whichever comes first.
24.02
Employees terminated under the provisions of this article (Plant Closure/Severance Pay) shall lose all seniority.
24.03
In order to qualify for the severance pay benefit, employees' shall continue to work as long as required at this location.
24.04
This article does not apply if the plant closing is caused by an act of God.
ARTICLE 25
HOURS. WAGES AND WORKING CONDITIONS
25.01
That the attached Schedules "A" and "B" fully 'setout the hours, wages and other conditions under which the employees of the Company covered by this agreement will work during the lifetime of this agreement.
ARTICLE 26
TERMINATION AND AMENDMENTS
26.01
The effective date of this Agreement shall be as of the 18th dav of July. 1995 and shall remain in effect until the TTirh-day of July, 1998 and thereafter shall be automatically renewed from year to year unless in any year at not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the anniversary date of this Agreement, either party shall furnish the other notice by registered mail of the termination of or proposed revision or addition to any provisions thereof. In such event, any negotiation of such proposals, revisions or additions shall take place within thirty (30) days of such notice.
26.02
If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement and agreement on the renewal of
18
amendment on this Agreement is not reached prior to the normal termination date hereof, the term of this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act of the province of Ontario, as amended.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this agreement on the ______15th________day of _____February________1996.
19
SCHEDULE "A" PLANT EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 27 HOURS OE WORK
27.01
The hours of work per day and week shall be eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday, and forty (40) hours per week.
27.02
The shift starting times for the warehouse, processing and packaging operations will occur between the hours of 7:00 A.M. - 8:00 A.M.,	3:00 P.M. - 5:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M, -12:00
midnight. The necessary mechanics, line operators, laboratory and process personnel will be assigned their starting times as close as possible to the hours outlined above. The necessary line personnel and line supplier will start not later than 8:30 A.M.
27.03
The hours of work for the following week shall be posted each Thursday by 3:00 P.M. and shall not be altered by the employer or the employee without forty-eight (48) hours notice (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays) except for causes beyond the control of the Company or the employees concerned. Causes beyond Company control are defined as Acts of God and loss of utilities.
27.04
It is understood that where operations require it, the practice of the Company will be to schedule full shifts during the regular workweek Monday to Friday.
27.05
However, operations may not require employees to work Monday through Friday but may only require a lesser schedule with fewer days of work. In these circumstances, it is understood that when an employee is once scheduled in any workweek this same employee will be further schedule for each day of the balance of that regular workweek, i.e, Tuesday to Friday, Wednesday to Friday, etc.
27.06
When an employee is scheduled by the Company to work the third shift the following week, the third shift will be the only shift they will be asked to work for a period of a
20
minimum of five shifts (or if mutually agreed between the Company and the individual employee). This practice will not apply to employees working in the grape pressing operation.
ARTICLE 28
REPORTING FOR WORK
28.01
If work is cancelled without forty-eight (48) hours notice, the employees concerned shall receive four (4) hours of work or pay in lieu thereof.
28.02
If an employee's shift is changed for reasons other than causes beyond company control, without forty-eight (48) hours notice, a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour to a maximum of eight dollars ($8.00) shall be paid for the first revised shift only.
28.03
If an employee fails to give forty-eight (4 3) hours notice that they will not be available as scheduled, the Company may
fill the position with the most senior qualified employee on
the same shift for the balance of the posted schedule, but not to exceed six (6) work days. Upon the return of the employee, they will perform the job of the original schedule.
28.04
For the purpose of absenteeism (unscheduled absence, compassionate leave), an employee called in to replace a scheduled employee or their alternate will not be considered as a regularly scheduled employee and therefore, there is no obligation on the part of the Company to provide work for the balance of the week as stated above. However, if the unscheduled employee is assigned other duties not related to the absenteeism, then that employee will be scheduled to work each day of the balance of that regular workweek.
28.05
For the purpose of employees replacing for vacation, jury duty, leave of absence and employees not capable of performing the job functions in Group (14/ the last layoff notice given to the employee will remain in effect.
It is also understood that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to provide work for the balance of the week.
21-
Furthermore, a copy of Notice of Replacement will be given to. the Chief Steward and posted.
28.06
When employees are called upon to work less than a full shift, the following procedure will apply:
a)	SHIFT LESS THAN FOUR HOURS
As per contract, employees involved will be provided work for four hours- or receive four hours of pay,
b)	SHIFT FOUR TO SIX HOURS LONG
The employees affected may, upon request to their supervisor, elect to "bump" some less senior employee for the balance of the shift provided they can do the work without training.
c)	After six hours, no bumping is permitted.
d)	The Union acknowledges that in the case of overtime at the end of a shift, that the individual employee has the responsibility to complete their shift even though it may run past the normal length. To this end; they agree to use their influence on the individual.
ARTICLE 29
CAUI - IN
29.01
Employees will be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay in lieu thereof when reporting for work and an employee called in to work on a Saturday shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at time and one-half. Employees called in to work on Sunday or statutory holidays shall be paid for four (4) hours at double time. Exceptions to the above include the following situations:
1)	Employee was given forty-eight (48) hours notice not to report to work.
2)	Causes are beyond Company control.
3)	Employees returning to work after an extended absence without notifying the Company by 1:00 P,M, of the previous working day.
4)	Employee has not left the Company property;
22
^9.02
Where an employee is asked to report to work on the day called and is not given sufficient notice to enable them to be present at the start of the shift, then such employee shall be deemed to have commenced work one (1) hour before reporting, or at the time the shift began, whichever period is the lesser.
29,03
When an employee is called in outside of their regular shift because of an emergency, they shall be paid a minimum of four (4)hours at time and one-half and shall be free to leave the premises as soon as the emergency is over provided, however, that should the employee be called back within the four (4) hours because of the same emergency, such time shall be counted as part of the first four (4) hours.
ARTICLE 3H
OVERTIME PREM
30.01
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the regular hourly rate will be paid for all hours worked in excess of the daily or weekly hours of work as outlined above, whichever is the greater.
30.02
One and one-half regular hourly rates shall be paid for all hours worked on a Saturday.
30.03
Double hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked on a Sunday or Statutory Holiday.
30 ; 04
Double time will be paid for all hours worked in excess of eleven (11) continuous hours, or for more than eleven (11) hours per day.
30.05
1,	All overtime worked in all departments will be charged.
2.	Employees given forty-eight (48) hours notice of overtime and declined to work will be charged for all hours scheduled.
-23-
3.	Employees not given forty-eight (48) hours notice and cannot work will not be charged.
4.	Any scheduled weekend overtime will be offered to employees based on seniority and starting with the employee with the lowest accumulated hours.
5.	Forty-eight (48) hours is not later than Thursday noon, except for employees working the 3rd shift (based upon Sunday night start-up) which will be 11:00 p,m, Wednesday.
30.06
The Union recognizes the need to work overtime on packaging lines from time to time. The Union will encourage employees to make themselves available when required. Whenever and as soon as possible, employees will advise their supervisor of their inability to work the overtime requirement. Employees will be advised by the supervisor when overtime is required.
ARTICLE 31
SHIFT PREMIUM
31.01
Effective July 18, 1992, shift premium for the afternoon shift will be fifty-five cents (55$) per hour and for the evening shift seventy cents (70C) per hour.
31.02
An afternoon shift is any shift starting at 12:00 Noon or later. A night shift is any shift starting at 8': 00 P.M, or later.
31.03
There will be a shift premium at one-half times the basic hourly rate for any hours of a day shift worked before 7:00 A.M.
-24-
ARTICLE 32
MAINTENANCE OF PAY ON TRANSFER
32.01
Employees who are temporarily transferred for the convenience of the Company to do a job carrying a lower wage rate shall, for the duration of such temporary transfer, continue to receive their regular rate of pay, regardless of the rate for the job to which they are so transferred.
32.02
Employees who are temporarily transferred for the convenience of the Company to a job carrying a higher wage rate shall, for the duration of such temporary transfer, receive the rate for the job to which they are so transferred, but the rate for the job from which they were transferred shall continue to be their regular rate.
ARTICLE 33
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
33.01
In addition to their regular wages for actual hours worked, each employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay for each of the following holidays and four (4) hours pay for half days.
33.02
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day or an alternate day agreed to by the Company and individual employee, the day before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and the day before New Year’s.
3 3 ’.03
In addition to the above, each employee who is required to work on these statutory holidays shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times their basic rate.
33.04
If an employee is being paid sick benefits on a statutory holiday, the Company agrees to pay the difference between sick benefits pay and the regular eight (8) hours earnings for that day.
-25. 05
If a statutory holiday falls during the three (3) day waiting period, the Company agrees to pay the employee the full eight (8) hours pay for that day when a medical proof of illness is submitted.
33.06
In the case of an employee on leave of absence, the employee must work either their scheduled day before or their scheduled day after the statutory holiday to be paid for the statutory holiday.
33.07	~
All employees shall receive pay for the above mentioned holidays .if they work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day following the statutory holiday and one of these days must fall in the period of the week before and/or after the statutory holiday.
33.08
Providing the employee has worked one shift in the month of December, they shall be entitled to pay for the five (5) above mentioned Christmas/New Year's statutory holidays.
33.09
Statutory holiday pay shall be calculated at the highest straight time rate earned in the week prior to the statutory holiday provided that a minimum of eight (3) hours has been worked at the higher rate.
33.10
The following dates will be taken as recognized statutory holidays:
See separate sheet (Statutory Holiday Calendar)
ARTICLE 34 VACATION SCHEDULE
34.01
See separate sheet for schedule.
34.02
One week's pay shall be considered as forty (40) hours of pay. One week's vacation shall be according to the normal work schedule.
26
34.03
Total earnings referred to above is defined as total earnings for the previous year and will include overtime, statutory holidays pay and vacation pay.
34.04
Employees who have less than a total of 1,500 hours worked as of December 31st in any year will be paid according to the percentage as outlined above. The calculation of hours worked shall include credit for time lost that is paid by Workers’ compensation or Sickness Insurance.
34.05
Vacations have been earned and are due as of the first (1st) of January of any year and may be taken any time after that’ date as arranged between the employee and the Company.
34.06
The employee vacation schedule will be posted each year from January 1st to February 1st during which time employees shall indicate the period desired. The Company will approve the vacation schedule by February 15th after which time it shall be considered to be in effect. Those employees who fail to indicate the period desired for vacation shall have their vacation assigned at Company discretion.
34.07
Prior to going on vacation, employees will be given a form by their supervisor which will indicate their starting shift upon their return from vacation.
34.08
Employees whose vacations are approved as outlined on the Schedule will have to take their vacation as indicated unless
mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 35 LEAVE OE ABSENCE
Leave of absence will be granted to an employee at the Company’s discretion.
27
35.01
If an employee leaves the Bargaining Unit to become a supervisor with the Company or to take a position with the Union, they may, after a period of up to one (1) year, return to the Bargaining Unit without loss of seniority and shall be given the same or a similar position to the one that they left.
A Company supervisor, who has previously been a member of the Bargaining Unit, for reasons of health, may return to the Bargaining Unit at any time with no loss of Company seniority and will be given the same or similar position to the one which they left. However, their departmental seniority shall recommence at the same point as when they left the Bargaining Unit.
35.02
with adequate notice, a leave of absence with maintenance of seniority will be granted for a period of two (2) years to one (1) employee accepting a full time position with the Union. Such leave of absence shall be subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
35.03
In the event that an employee, who is on a leave of absence wishes to return to the Bargaining Unit, written notice of this intention shall be given to the Company at least three (3) months prior to expiration of the leave of absence.
35.04
If an employee leaves the Bargaining Unit to take up a position with the Union, the Company shall not be responsible for any payments to group insurance, medical, hospital, pension or any other plans to which the Company contributed on their behalf during the time they were absent.
When such employee returns to the Bargaining Unit, the Company will immediately recommence payment of all applicable benefit plan premiums and such employee shall not be required to submit to any waiting periods.
35.05
Leave of absence for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions or conferences shall be granted upon written request of the Local Union subject to the following conditions:
28
1.	Not more than two (2) employees at any given time and not more than one (1) employee from any one (1) department.
2.	Requests for leave of absence be given at least one (1) week prior to commencement of such leave of absence.
3.	Such leave of absence not to exceed forty (40) work days in total, in any given year.
4.	Such leave of absence shall not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company.
35.06
Temporary leave of absence shall be granted whenever possible to Union Officers to attend Union meetings provided a written request is submitted to the Company at least one (1) week prior to such meetings.
35.07
Leave of absence for one (1) day up to a total of five (5) days per year shall be granted whenever possible for personal reasons provided a written request is submitted to the Company at least one (1) week prior to the posting of the work schedule for the week in which such leave is requested.
35.08
Leave of absence for personal reasons in excess of one (1) day shall be granted whenever possible provided a written request stating the reasons is submitted to the Company at least one (1) week prior to commencement of such leave of absence.
35.09
All leaves of absence shall be without pay.
ARTICLE 36 JURY DUTY
An employee serving as a juror or crown witness will be paid
the difference between fees received, less any mileage or meal allowance and their base rate of pay.
29
ARTICLE 37 PREGNANCY LEAVE
37.01
The Company may, upon request, grant a female employee leave of absence of not more than six (6) months (at the employee's discretion this leave may be taken three (3) months before the estimated date of birth and three (3) months after or two (2) months before estimated date of birth and four (4) months after, or one (1) month before the estimated date of birth and five (5) months after) providing the employee has attained or would have attained had she continued to work, twelve (12) months seniority at the time of birth. When an employee wishes to work during the period of pregnancy, a medical certificate may be requested by the Company.
Under no circumstances will pregnancy, parental or adoption leave be less than as provided for under Government legislation.
37.02
Any additional leave of absence will be mutually agreed upon. ARTICLE 38 COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
38.01
Compassionate leave for four (4) working days with four (4) days pay at the regular rate shall be granted an employee in the case of death in the immediate family, such as son, daughter, wife or common-law wife, husband or common-law husband, mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, or grandchildren.
38.02
Compassionate leave for two (2) working days with two (2) days pay at the regular rate shall be given an employee in the case of death of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandmother-in-law, or grandfather-in-law.
38.03
Such leave must be arranged within seven (7) days of the time of the death not including the day of the death.
30-
38.04
If death occurs during an employee's scheduled vacation, normal return to work date will be extended by two (2) or four (4) days as outlined above.
ARTICLE 39
PAY PERIOD
39.01
During weeks in which no statutory holidays occur, payday will be Wednesday for the afternoon and night shifts and Thursday for the day shift.
39.02
During weeks in which statutory holidays occur, payday will be Thursday for afternoon and night shifts and Friday for the day shift.
ARTICLE 40
LUNCH PERIOD
40.01
A thirty (30) minute paid lunch period shall be given to any employee working a second or third shift.
40.02
A thirty (30) minute paid Lunch period shall be given to any employee working the day shift of a twenty-four (24) hour operation.
40.03
The timing of the lunch period will be fifteen minutes on
either side of the lunch time period (e.g.,middle of the shift) except where special circumstances dictate otherwise. In this case, all those involved will be informed.
40.04
Company products will be provided as available to the lunchroom.
31
ARTICLE 41 REST PERIOD
41.01
Employees shall be granted two fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods per shift. The timing of these rest periods will be within fifteen minutes (either side) of the normal start time (e.g., middle of the first half and the middle of the second half of their shift). In special circumstances which alter this arrangement, all of those employees affected will be informed.
41.02
An employee working nine (9) hours or more shall be granted an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period. The timing is to be at the eighth (3th) hour if one (1) hour or more overtime is to be worked.
ARTICLE 42
SAFETY SHOES AND TOOL ALLOWANCE
42.01
Employees required to wear safety shoes as directed by the Company will be paid for safety shoes upon presentation of receipt for the purchase of Company approved safety shoes up
to a maximum of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per year.
42.02
Effective January 1, 1991, tool allowance for mechanics is one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) and line operators seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
42103
The Company will supply all hourly rated employees with uniforms. The uniforms will be laundered at the expense of the Company and shall remain Company property.
42.04
Where required, shop coats and cooler coats shall be supplied by the Company and kept repaired and laundered.
. os
-32-
The Company agrees to reimburse an employee for tools lost through a legitimate theft. The onus will be on the employee to ensure that the tool box is locked when unattended.
Forced entry must be shown before reimbursement will be made.
ARTICLE 43
SAFETY AND HEALTH
43.01
The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Such protective devices as the Company requires to be worn and other equipment which, in the opinion of the Company is necessary to protect the employees from injury, shall be provided by the Company. The Union may make recommendations concerning protective devices for the Company's consideration.
43.02
The Union recognizes that employees must properly use the protective devices provided and the Union also recognizes its responsibility in ensuring employee co-operation in this regard.
43.03
The Company will undertake to provide adequate ventilation throughout the plant.
43.04
The plant joint health and safety committee shall consist of four (4) Union members elected by the Union, one (1) from each department, and no more than four (4) members of
management, and the office joint health and safety committee shall consist of one (1) Union member elected by the Union and one (1) member of management.
43.05
The Safety Committee' s objective is to assist in maintaining a safe workplace by participating in identifying unsafe conditions and unsafe acts and developing a high level of safety consciousness among employees. In order to accomplish these objectives, the committee will review accident statistics and appropriate individual accident investigation reports, consider problems with respect to unsafe conditions and unsafe acts, examine possible training requirements and safety meeting agenda. Minutes of the meetings will be posted on the appropriate bulletin boards in the plant.
33
3.06
All members of the Safety Committee shall be provided with an appropriate means of identification to enable all employees to recognize them.
43.07
Upon a recommendation from the Safety Committee, meetings with employees may be held to convey any message prepared by the Safety Committee.
ARTICLE 44
DEPARTMENT SAFETY INSPECTION
44.01
Regular safety inspections (not to exceed one per month) will be conducted jointly by a Supervisor and the appropriate Safety Committee member, the result of which shall be forwarded to the Safety Committee and Safety Coordinator.
ARTICLE 45
HAZARD IMPROVEMENT
45.01
The Company will provide any information requested by the Safety Committee regarding hazardous chemicals (as defined by the Act) used in the plant.
ARTICLE 46
NEW EMPLOYEES
46.01
A Company safety handbook will be provided to all new employees. Their Supervisor will ensure that safety items are reviewed with new employees when they report for work.
ARTICLE 47
JOINT TRAINING
47.01
Safety training is also needed to ensure that supervisors and members of the Safety Committee know and understand their
rules with respect to safety. Joint training sessions may be
held as recommended by the Safety Committee and approved by the Company.
34
.RTICLE 48 I IRS4 AID TRAINING
48.01
The Company will continue to encourage employees to take first aid training.
ARTICLE 49
OUTSIDE TRAINING
49.01
The Company may select safety seminars as needed to which it will send members of the Safety Committee. Suggestion for such seminars will be put forward by the Safety Committee. Employees attending such seminars will do so without loss of basic pay.
ARTICLE 50
JOB RELATED COURSES
50.01
Upon successful completion of Company approved, job related courses, the Company agrees to pay to the employee the registration fee and required books for that course.
Written approval must be obtained in advance.
ARTICLE SI
PAYCHEQUES
51.01
The paycheque stubs will show the rate of pay the beginning of-each year and whenever there is a change of the rate of pay to any particular employee.
ARTICLE 52
CONTRACTING OUT
52.01
The Company shall advise the Union President when outside contractors are to work in the plant. All work requiring overtime, except that work assigned to outside contractors, shall be performed by the available and qualified Company employee(a).
-35
ARTTCLF. 53
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS TRAINING PROGRAM
53.01
An Industrial Mechanic (Millwright) training program will be introduced effective July 18, 1980,
Rates will be those listed on Ontario Regulation 685-79 or the present rate of the employee going into the program whichever is greater. Normal rate changes will apply in both cases.
To qualify, the applicant must meet Company and Government standards.
A person involved in this program must pass each level to remain in the program and to move to the next highest wage level.
ARTICLE 54
SICKNESS INSURANCE
54.01
After sixty (60) days of service with the Company, each employee shall be covered by the Company’s group insurance policy with the full cost borne by the Company. The plan is a 1/4/52 plan and shall provide for a weekly indemnity at 66 2/3% of the employee's earnings, based on best four (4) week average of previous twelve (12) weeks average straight time earnings, with a minimum of sixty dollars ($60.00) per week.
54.02
In the event of an illness of over fourteen (14) calendar days, the waiting period of three (3) days will be waived provided the employee sees the doctor within three (3) days.
54.03
After the normal two (2) week processing period, the Company agrees to advance indemnity entitlement on a weekly basis to the employee provided medical proof of illness has been submitted.
36
j4,04
When an employee is drawing sick and accident pay or compensation up to fifty-two (52) weeks, they may submit to the Company an amount of money equal to not more than five percent (5%) of forty (40) hours earnings to be paid into the Company Pension Plan along with an equal amount of money from the Company.
ARTICLE 55
LIFE INSURANCE
55.01
Effective July 18, 1990, basic life insurance will increase to twenty-five thousand ($25,000) and to include A,D,& D., clause with the full cost borne by the Company.
55.02
Upon retirement, the Company agrees to provide the employee, effective July 18, 1990, with a six thousand dollar ($6,000) paid up life insurance policy with the cost borne by the Company.
ARTICLE 56
MAJOR MEDICAL
56.01
After sixty (60) days service with the Company, each employee shall be covered by the Company’s major medical plan including prescription drugs; the cost of which shall be borne by the Company.
The Major Medical Plan is covered by Prudential Drug Plan #7 with a thirty-five cent (35<S:) deductible.
In the event of a change in carriers, there will not be less coverage than currently in place.
ARTTCLF, 57
PROVISION FOR EYE GLASSES OR. CONTACT T.F.NSF.S
57.01
Upon presentation of a prescription and receipt for eye glasses or contact lenses from a qualified optometrist or ophthalmologist, the plan will pay, effective July 18, 1995,
37-
up to a maximum, amount of one hundred and seventy-five
dollars ($175.00) in any two year period.
This benefit is available to each eligible employee and their spouse and/or dependents as covered under the present Major Medical Plan.
Insurance premiums are to be paid one hundred percent (100%) by the Company.
ARTICLE 58
O.H.I.P.
58.01
The Company agrees to pay the full cost of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan including the cost of private coverage as included in the Company's Major Medical Plan.
ARTICLE 59
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE FEES
59.01
If the Company requests a doctor's certificate after an absence due to sicjcness or accident, the Company will pay the full cost of such a certificate upon proof of payment to the doctor.
ARTICLE 60
BENEFIT PREMIUMS
60.01
In the case of an employee not being able to work due to illness or disability the Company will continue to pay benefit premiums for a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks provided such premiums are not payable by another agency.
60.02
In case of layoff for employees with less than one year's seniority, the Company will pay premiums up to three months from the day of layoff. Employees with more than one year's seniority will be provided with six (6) months coverage from date of layoff.
38
ARTICLE 61
PENSION PLAN
61.01
The pension plan that the Company instituted in 19 61 will continue on the sane contributory basis, namely, five percent (5%) of the participating employees wages to forty (40) hours per week matched by a like amount of five percent (5%) contributed by the Company.
61.02
A supplementary retirement benefit is payable for each year of participation in Pension Plan 970N and will be provided with the full cost borne by the Company as follows;
61.03
Two dollars ($2.00) per month for each year of participation up to June 30, 1980; three dollars ($3.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1980 to June 30, 1981; four dollars ($4.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984; five dollars ($5.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1,.1984 to June 30, 1987; six dollars ($6.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1993; eight dollars ($8.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994 and ten dollars ($10.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1994 to June 30, 1996; twelve dollars ($12.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997; fourteen ($14.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1997 i This benefit is not actuarially reduced for employees retiring at age 62; however, actuarially reduced for any employee retiring prior to age 62 (early retirement option).
61.04
To be eligible an employee must be eighteen (18) years of age and have had two (2) years service with the Company.
61.05
For pension earned before January 1, 1987, fifty percent (50%) of the Company's portion shall vest after the employee is three (3) years in the plan with total vesting after eight (8) years in the plan. For pension earned after December 31, 1986 total vesting shall occur after two (2) years of membership in the plan.
39
61.06
In the event of the death of an employee prior to retirement, the employee's beneficiary shall receive all the employee's as well as the Company's contribution plus interest (whether vested or not).
61.07
The maximum annual amount of regular retirement annuity (including any annuity arising from any previous pension plan of the employee) to be provided under the plan for any employee covered hereunder, shall not exceed the maximum as currently or hereafter specified in accordance with any law, rule or regulation of the Department of National Revenue.
61.08
The Company will maintain O.H.I.P. coverage and drug plan ' coverage up to age sixty-five (65) for employees electing early retirement.
61.09
Early Retirement Allowance of $350.00 per month and effective July 18, 1994 $400.00 per month from age 60 up to age 55. In order to qualify for this payment, employees must have a minimum of ten (10) years service with the Company (early retirement option).
61.10
Effective immediately, it will be compulsory for new employees to join the pension plan when eligible as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE 62
LONG TERM DISABILITY
62.01	,
A long term disability plan will be provided which, after fifty-two (52) weeks of disability, will pay the employee sixty percent (60%) of gross income to, effective July 18, 1988, a maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per month, both including Canada Pension Plan benefits. To be eligible, an employee must be eighteen (18) years of age and have two (2) years of service with the Company. The cost of this benefit plan will be borne by the Company.
40
z . 02
Employees who qualify for long term disability will be provided with Company paid O.H.I.P. and Semi-Private Hospital Room, Dental and Major Medical Plan Benefits and Supplementary Pension Benefits as outlined in Clause 61.02.
ARTICLE 63
DENTAL PLAN
63.01
The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the Prudential Dental Plan No. 7 and Rider No. 1.
Effective July 18, 1987, full denture coverage on a 50/50 Company/Insurance basis for all qualifying employees and their dependents.
63.02
Effective July 18, 1990, the Company will provide Prudential Rider #3 orthodontics (children) coverage on a 50/50 Company/Insurance basis to a maximum of $1,500.00.
41
department
Maintenance
Lead Hand 1st Class 2nd Class Helper
Processing
Lead Hand 1st Class 2nd Class 3rd Class 4th Class
WAGE RATES
July 18, 1995
20.30 19.62 18.94 17.91
19.01 18.31 17.64
17.01 16.69
July 18/ 1996
20.50
19.82
19.13
18.09
19,20 18.49 17.82 17,18 16.86
July 18, 1997
20.81
20.12
19.42
18.36
19,49
18.77
18.09
17.44
17.11
Shipping
Lead Hand Receiver and Stock Senior Checker
Checker a Lift Truck Operator Spare Lift Truck Operator
19.01 18 .29 18 .08 17.53 16.75
19.20
18.47
18.26
17.71
16.92
19.49 18 . 75 18 . 53 17.98 17.17
Laboratory
Lead Hand 1st Class 2nd Class
19.09	19.28 19.57 18.43 18.61 18,89 17.62 17.80 18.07
Packaging
Lead Hand 1st Class
2nd Class
3rd Class
Janitor
Sanitation
Berry Dumping Repack Group Leader General Labour Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4
19.01
18.31 17.64 17 , 19
17.19
17.19
17.01
17.01 16.77 16.60 16.60 16.42
July 18, 1995 - $500.00 Lump Sum.
19.20 18 .49 17.82
17.36
17.36
17.36
17.18
17.18 16.94
16.77
16.77 16.58
19,49 18.77 18.09
17.62
17.62
17.62
17.44
17.44 17.19
17.02
17.02 16.83
Probationary employees and students will be paid two dollars ($2.00) per hour below the appropriate rates.
Job descriptions to be given to the Union each year on the contract anniversary date.
42
_UB CATEGORIES Group I
Filler Seamer Operator
Filler Capper Operator
Labeller Operator
No. 1 and No. 2 Sauce Line Cooks
Vacuum Pan Operator
Pasteurizing Kettles Operator
Pectin Tank
Group 2
Inspection and Dud Detectors Case Packers Sauce/Spread Carton Making Hand and Machine Pasteurizer Discharge Filler Operator Capper Operator
Group 3
Hand Dumping Empty Containers Jam/Jelly
Misc, Packing and Repacking of Finished Product and Reworking Can Depalletizer 48oz./Frozen Line Clean-up Helper
Group 4
Depalletizer Juice Line
Hand Stacking and Depalletizer (Sauce)	,
Sauce and Spread Cookroom Helper
1.	Groups 1, 2 and 3 will be posted consistent with the Collective Labour Agreement. Employees that accept the above postings will be assigned to the jobs within the group.
2.	In the event that work is not available within their respective group, employees will be assigned work in a
■ lower group according to seniority.
*Lower means on a descending scale of Groups 1, 2, 3 and 4.
3.	In the event of unscheduled absenteeism within Groups 1, 2 or 3, the senior qualified employee in Group 4 will be assigned the vacant position. The senior employee on layoff will fill in the vacant position in Group 4.
43
4.	When an employee is not capable of performing the job
functions in Group No. 4 due to medical reasons as supported by a medical certificate if requested by the Company, the employee will be laid off and Clauses 18.01 and 27.05 of the Collective Labour Agreement will not apply.
5.	In the event that an employee is scheduled/called in to replace an employee unable to perform the jobs in Group 4, that employee shall be given the opportunity to work the remainder of the week. The employee unable to perform the job functions in Group 4 shall be on layoff for the remainder of the week, unless otherwise required.
6.	Any jobs that become available and are not included in
Group 4, to the jo^,
Group 4 will be assigned
-44-
SCHEDULE "B" OFFICE EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 1 HOURS OF WORK
1.01
The hours of work per day and week shall be seven (7) hours per day, Monday to Friday, and thirty-five (35) hours per week.
ARTICLE 2
LUNCH PERIOD
2.01
There will be a one (1) hour unpaid lunch period.
ARTICLE 3 REST PERIOD
3.01
Employees shall be granted a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period in the morning and afternoon. These rest periods will be staggered by the Company in such a manner as to maintain maximum service and efficiency in all departments.
3.02
An employee working eight (8) hours or more shall be granted an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period, The timing is to be at the seventh (7th) hour if one (1) hour or more overtime is worked.
ARTICLE 4
CALL-IN
4.01
Employees will be guaranteed three and one-half (3^) hours work or three and one-half (3M) hours pay in lieu thereof when reporting for work and an employee called in to work on a Saturday shall be paid a minimum of three and one-half (3^) hours at time and one-half. Employees called in to work on Sunday or statutory holidays shall be paid three and one-half (3M) hours at double time. Exception6 to the above include the following situations:
-45-
Employee was given forty-eight (48) hours notice not to report to work.
2.	Causes are beyond Company control.
3.	Employees returning to work after an extended absence without notifying the Company by 1; 00 P.M, of the previous working day.
4.	Employee has not left the Company property.
5.	When an employee is called in outside of their regular shift because of an emergency, they shall be paid a minimum of three and one-half hours (31/2) at time and one-half and shall be free to leave the premises as soon as the emergency is over provided, however, that should the employee be called back within the three and one-half (31/2) hours because of the same emergency, such time shall be counted as part of the first three and one-half (31/2) hours.
ARTICLE 5
OVERTIME PREMIUM
5.01
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the regular hourly rate will be paid for all hours worked in excess of the daily or weekly hours of work as outlined above, whichever is
the greater.
5.02
Overtime will be distributed as evenly as possible. Overtime at the rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate will be paid fox all hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours in any one day and for work performed on Sunday.
ARTICLE 6
SHIFT PREMIUM
6.01
Effective July 18, 1932, shift premium for the afternoon shift will be fifty-five cents (55£) per hour and for the evening shift seventy cents (700)per hour.
6.02
An afternoon shift is any shift starting at 12:00 Noon or later. A night shift is any shift starting at 8:00 P.M. or later.
46
j . 03
There will be a shift premium at one-half times the basic hourly rate for any hours of a day shift worked before 7:00 A.M.
ARTICLE 7
MAINTENANCE OF PAY ON TRANSFER 7'.01
Employees who are temporarily transferred for the convenience of the Company to do a job carrying a lower wage rate shall, for the duration of such temporary transfer, continue to receive their regular rate of pay, regardless of the rate for the job to which they are so transferred.
7.02
Employees who are temporarily transferred for the convenience of the Company to a job carrying a higher wage rate shall, for the duration of such temporary transfer, receive the rate for the job to which they are so transferred, but the rate for the job from which they were transferred shall continue to be their regular rate.
ARTICLE 8
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01
In addition to their regular wages for actual hours worked, each employee shall receive seven (7) hours pay for each of the following days and three and one-half (31/2) hours pay for half days.
8.02
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day or an alternate day agreed to by the Company and individual employee, the day before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and the day before New Year's.
8.03
In addition to the above, each employee who is required to work on these statutory holidays shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times their basic rate.
47
. 04
If an employee is being paid sick benefit6 on a statutory holiday, the Company agrees to pay the difference between sick benefits pay and the regular seven (7) hours earnings for that day.
8.05
If a statutory holiday falls during the three (3) days waiting period, the Company agrees to pay the employee the full seven (7) hours pay for that day when a medical proof of illness is submitted.
8.06
In the case of an employee on leave of absence, the employee must work either their scheduled day before or their scheduled day after the statutory holiday to be paid for the statutory holiday.
8.07
All employees shall receive pay for the above mentioned holidays if they work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day following the statutory holiday and one of these days must fall in the period of the week before and/or after the statutory holiday.
8.08
Providing the employee has worked one shift in the month of December, they shall be entitled to pay for the five (5) above mentioned Christmas/New Year's,statutory holidays.
8.09
Statutory holiday pay shall be calculated at the highest straight time rate earned in the week prior to the statutory holiday provided that a minimum of seven (7) hours has been worked at the higher rate.
The following dates will be taken as the recognized statutory holidays :
See Statutory Holiday Calendar.
ARTICLE I
VACATION SCHEDULE
See separate sheet for schedule.
48
.01
One week’s pay shall be considered as thirty-five (35) hours of pay. One week’s vacation shall be according to the normal work schedule.
9.02
Total earnings referred to above is defined as total earnings for the previous year and will include overtime, statutory holiday pay and vacation pay.
9.03
Employees who have less than a total of 1,300 hours worked as of December 31st in any year will be paid according to the percentage as outlined above. The calculation of hours worked shall include credit for time lost that is paid by Worker’s Compensation or Sickness Insurance.
9.04
Vacations have been earned and are due as of the first (1st) of January of any year and may be taken any time after that date as arranged between the employee and the Company.
9.05
The employee vacation schedule will be posted each year from January 1st to February 1st during which time employees shall indicate the period desired. The Company will approve the vacation schedule by February 15th after which time it shall be considered to be in effect. Those employees who fail to indicate the period desired for vacation shall have their vacation assigned at Company discretion.
ARTICLE 10
LEAVE OE ABSENCE
10.01
Leave of absence without pay, to a maximum total of five (5) days per year may be taken by any employee provided one (1) week's notice is given to the Company by the employee.
10.02
Any additional leave of absence will be granted to an employee at the Company’s discretion.
49
ARTICLE 11 PREGNANCY LEAVE
11.01
The Company may, upon request, grant a female employee leave of absence of not more than six (6) months (at the employee's discretion, this leave may be taken three (3) months before the estimated date of birth and three (3) months after or two (2) months before estimated date of birth and four (4) months after, or one (1) month before the estimated date of birth and five (5) months after) providing the employee has attained or would have attained had she continued to work, twelve (12) months seniority at the time of birth. When an employee wishes to work during the period of pregnancy, a medical certificate may be requested by the Company.
Under no circumstances will pregnancy, parental or adoption leave be less than as provided for under Government legislation.
11.02
Any additional leave of absence will be mutually agreed upon. ARTICLE 12 COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
12.01
Compassionate leave for four (4) working days with four (4) days pay at the regular rate shall be granted an employee in the case of death in the immediate family, such as son, daughter, wife or common-law wife, husband or common-law husband, mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, or grandchildren.
12.02
Compassionate leave for two (2) working days with two (2) days pay at the regular rate shall be given an employee in the case of death of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandmother-in-law, or grandfather-in-law.
12.03
Such leave must be arranged within seven (7) days of the time of the death not including the day of the death.
50
12.04
If the death occurs during an employee's scheduled vacation, normal return to work date will be extended by two (2) or four (4) days as outlined above.
ARTICLE 13
JURY DUTY
13.01
An employee serving as a juror or crown witness will be paid the difference between fees received, less any mileage or
meal allowance and their base rate of pay.
ARTICLE 14 SICKNESS_________SI
14.01
After sixty (60) days of service with the Company in a twelve (12) month period, each employee shall be covered by the Company' s group insurance policy with the full cost borne by the Company. The plan is a 1/4/52 plan and shall provide for a weekly indemnity at 66-2/3% of the employee's earnings, based on best four (4) week average of previous twelve (12) weeks average straight time earnings, with a minimum of sixty dollars ($60.00)per week.
14.02	(a)
In the event of an illness of over fourteen (14) calendar days, the waiting period of three (3) days will be waived provided the employee sees the doctor within three (3) days.
14.03	(b)
After the normal two (2) week processing period, the Company agrees to advance indemnity entitlement on a weekly basis to the employee provided medical proof of illness has been submitted.
14.04	(c)
When an employee is drawing sick and accident pay or compensation up to fifty-two (52) weeks, they may submit to the Company an amount of money equal to not more than five percent (5%) of forty (40) hours earnings to be paid into the Company Pension Plan along with an equal amount of money from the Company.
-51
14,05 (d)
The Company further agrees to supplement the above plan by crediting each new employee with two (2) weeks sick benefit on attaining regular status with the Company and an additional two (2) weeks on each anniversary date to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks. This sick benefit will be paid at the employee's regular rate and will only be paid for absence due to sickness. In the case of sickness, an employee should immediately notify their supervisor and for extended sickness it will be necessary to present medical evidence of the disability. Medical certificate may be requested after 5 days in a calendar year. In the event medical evidence is not provided upon request, no payment will be made under this clause. At the year end, the Company agrees to advise each employee of their sick leave status.
ARTICLE 15
LIFE INSURANCE
15.01
Effective July 18, 1990, basic life insurance will increase to twenty-five thousand ($25,000) and to include A.D.& D. clause with the full cost borne by the Company.
15.02
Upon retirement, the Company agrees to provide the employee, effective July 18, 1990, with a six thousand dollar ($6,000) paid up life insurance policy with the cost borne by the, Company.
ARTICLE 16
MAJOR MEDICAL
16.01
After sixty (60) days service with the Company, each employee shall be covered by the Company's major medical plan including prescription drugs, the cost of which shall be
borne by the Company.
16.02
The Major Medical Plan is covered by Prudential Drug Plan #7 with a thirty-five cent (35$) deductible.
In the event of a change in carriers, there will not be less coverage than currently in place.
52
ARTICLE 17
PROVISION OF EYE GLASSES OR CONTACT LENSES
17.01
Upon presentation of a prescription and receipt for eye glasses or contact lenses from a qualified optometrist or ophthalmologist, the plan will pay, effective July 18, 1995, up to a maximum amount of one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00) in any two year period.
This benefit is available to each eligible employee and their spouse and/or dependents as covered under the present Major Medical Plan.
Insurance premiums are to be paid one hundred percent (100%) by the Company.
ARTICLE 18
O.H.I.P.
18.01
The Company agrees to pay the full cost of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan including the cost of private coverage as included in the Company’s Major Medical Plan.
ARTT C.T .F. 19
MEDICAL_________:ATE FEES
19.01
If the Company requests a doctor's certificate after an absence due to sickness or accident, the Company will pay the full cost of such a certificate upon proof of payment to the doctor.
ARTICLE 20 BENEFIT PREMIUMS
20.01
In the case of an employee not being able to work due to illness or disability, the Company will continue to pay benefit premiums for a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks provided such premiums are not payable by another agency.
53
10.02
In case of layoff for employees with less than 1 year's seniority, the Company will pay premium up to 3 months from the day of layoff. Employees with more than 1 year's seniority will be provided with six (6) months coverage from date of layoff.
ARTICLE 21
PENSION PLAN
21.01
The pension plan that the Company instituted in 1961 will continue on the same contributory basis, namely, five percent (5%) of the participating employees wages to thirty-five (35) hours per week matched by a like amount of five percent (5%) contributed by the Company.
21.02
A supplementary retirement benefit is payable for each year of participation in Pension Plan 970N and will be provided with the full cost borne by the Company as follows:
21.03
Two dollars ($2.00) per month for each year of participation up to June 30,	1980; three dollars ($3.00) per month for each
year of participation from July 1, 1980 to June 30, 1981; four dollars ($4.00) per month for each year of. participation from July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984; five dollars ($5.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1984 to June 30, 1987; six dollars ($6,00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1993; eight dollars ($8.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994 and ten dollars ($10.00) per month for each year of participation from July 1, 1994 June 30,	1996; twelve ($12.00) per month for each year of
participation from July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997; fourteen ($14.00) per month for each year of participation from July l, 1997. This benefit is not actuarially reduced for employees retiring at age 62; however, actuarially reduced for any employee retiring prior to age 6 2 (early retirement option).
21.04
To be eligible, an employee must be eighteen (18) years of age and have had two (2) years service with the Company,
54
1.05
For pension earned before January 1, 1987, fifty percent (50%) of the Company' s portion shall vest after the employee is three (3) years in the plan with total vesting after eight (8) years in the plan. For pension earned after December 31, 1986, total vesting shall occur after two (2) years of membership in the plan.
21.06
In the event of the death of an employee prior to retirement, the employee' s beneficiary shall receive all the employee's as well as the Company's contribution plus interest (whether vested or not) .
21.07
The maximum annual amount of regular retirement annuity (including any annuity arising from any previous pension plan of the employee) to be provided under the plan'for any employee covered hereunder, shall not exceed the maximum as currently or hereafter specified in accordance with any law, rule or regulation of the Department of National Revenue.
21.08
The Company will maintain 0,H.X.P. coverage and drug plan coverage up to age sixty-five (65) for employees electing early retirement.
21.09
Early Retirement Allowance of $350.00 per month and effective July 18, 1994 $400,00 per month from age 60 up to age 65, In order to qualify for this payment employees must have a minimum of ten (10) years service with the Company (early retirement option).
21.10
Effective immediately, it will be compulsory for new employees to join the pension plan when eligible as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE 22
LONG TERM DISABILITY
22.01
A long term disability plan will be provided which, after fifty-two (52) weeks of disability, will pay the employee
55
sixty percent (60%) of gross income to, effective July 18, 1983, a maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000)per month, both including Canada Pension Plan benefits. To be eligible, an employee must be eighteen (18) years of age and have two (2) years of service with the Company. The cost of this benefit plan will be borne by the Company.
22.02
Employees who gualify for long term disability will be provided with Company paid O.H.I.P. and Semi-Private Hospital Room, Dental and Major Medical Plan Benefits and Supplementary Pension Benefits as outlined in Clause 21.02.
ARTICLE 23
DENTAL PLAN
23.01
The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the Prudential Dental Plan No. 7 and Rider No. 1.' Effective July 18, 1987, full denture coverage on a 50/50 Company/lnsurance basis for all gualifying employees and their dependents.
23.02
Effective July 18, 1990, the Company will provide Prudential Rider #3 orthodontics (children) coverage on a 50/50 Company/lnsurance basis to a maximum of $1,500.00.
ARTICLE 24
JOB RELATED COURSES
24.01
Upon successful completion of Company approved, job related
courses, the Company agrees to pay to the employee the registration fee and required books for that course.
Written approval must be obtained in advance.
ARTICLE 25
MEMBERSHIP FEES
25.01
Full time permanent office employees requested and authorized by the Company to join a professional organization related to
56
their job will be reimbursed the full amount of the membership fees provided proper receipts are submitted and the employee maintains their "good standing" in the organization or association.
57-
SCHEDULE OF SALARIES
Effective July 18. 1995
Job descriptions to be given to the Union each year on the contract anniversary date.
MIN. /WEEK
JULY 18, 1995
JULY 18. 1996 JULY 18. 19 7
Category
1
2
3
4
5
543.63 551.29 569.60 591.51 613.99
549.07
556.80
575.30
597.43
620.13
557.31 565.15 583.93 606.39 629.43
MAX./WEEK
Category
1
2 .
3
4
5
594.75
603.51
625.01 649.46
675.52
600.70
609.55
631.26
655.95
682.28
609.71 618.69 640.73 665.79 692.51
-58-
-iabeqorv Titles - Office Positions Category I
Receptionist/Inventory Control General Accounts Payable Accounting/Material Management Clerk Distribution Analyst
Category II
Inventory Payables
Inventory Replenishment Coordinator Accounts Receivable Administrator Customer Service Representatives Information Services/Credit Analyst
Category III
Traffic Administrator
Senior Accounts Receivable Administrator Payroll Administrator operations Cost Analyst
Category IV
Trade Control Analyst Inventory Control Accountant
Category V
Production Planner Schedule of Salaries
Rates to reflect new category titles.
59
Local Union 550A,
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,
A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.,
1129 Main Street East,
Hamilton, Ontario.
L8M 1P2.
Gentlemen:
Employees at Niagara Regional Warehouse
This will confirm our understanding reached during these present negotiations with regard to the above matter.
Those employees of the Company working at the Niagara Regional Warehouse, or its alternate, shall continue their present functions and in the same capacity handling finished products, excepting packing and raw materials sent to the warehouse on behalf of the Company. The Company will make every effort to store packing or raw materials at the present warehouse.
Should changes to any of the above existing situations occur, the Company agrees to advise the Union as soon as possible.
Yours truly,
Ken Jarvis, Plant Manager.
July 15, 1980
60
Local Union 550A,
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union,
A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.,
1129 Main Street East,
Hamilton, Ontario.
L8M 1P2.
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm to you our policy regarding posting of "Lift Truck Operator" positions.
Our policy in the future will be to keep the required number of full time drivers on our payroll as well as one spare operator. When there is a vacancy in the full time staff, the spare driver will take the full time position.
This being the case, there will, in future, be no posting for lift truck operators but instead, when there is a need for a spare driver, this job will be posted and the person filling the position will be training to meet all the qualifications of a full time driver. This spare driver must have the first opportunity to work in the Shipping and/or Receiving Department. If no work is available in the Shipping and/or Receiving Department, they will perform any other work in the plant on a steady day shift. They will not stack cases on the end of the line at any time, providing
their seniority is greater than other labourers scheduled on that shift.
18, 1986
July
61
Local Union 550A,
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,
A.F.L.,	C.I.O., C.L.C.,
1129 Main Street East,
Hamilton, Ontario.
L8M 1P2.
Gentlemen:
no • V.D.T. Screens
This letter will confirm the Company's intent to monitor the effects of V.D.T. screens on personnel and will, where possible, continue to adopt proven safety measures.
Yours truly,
Gene Clancy, Controller.
August 12, 1988
62
Mr. Gerry Doucette,
United Food and Commercial Workers,
Local Union 550A,
Be:	Office Summer Hours
Dear Gerry:
This letter will confirm the Company's intention to continue with Summer hours for the Office Staff provided the level of service will be maintained in each department.
Beginning in 1989, the Summer hour program will be from My 15th to September 22nd. Also, beginning in 1989, the hours will be as follows:
Monday - Thursday 8:00 A.M. - 12:00 Noon
12:30 P.M. - 4:15 P.M.
Friday 8:00 A.M. - 12:00 Noon
Where there is a statutory holiday, Friday hours will be 8:00 A.M. to 12:45 P.M. If the holiday falls on a Friday, the Office will revert to regular hours for that week.
Yours truly,
Gene Clancy, Controller.
63-
LETTER OF INTENT
Sept. 1995
CURRENT PRACTICE - PA TP T TTNCH PERIODS (DAYS)
Current practice includes payment for the following positions on a 3 shift operation:
a)	Equal number of Lab Technicians, Mechanics and 3rd Class Packaging on days as there are on midnights.
b)	Processing Lead Hands, 1st Class, 2nd Class, 3rd Class and 4th Class Processing.
c)	Helpers on 3 shift tank bottom processing and cranberry pressing.
d)	Only General Labourers who are on a (3) three shift paste pumping operation.
FOR THE COMPANY
Grant Gilker Hank Borsato Ken Jarvis Gene Clancy David Hoad
FOR THE UNION
Gerry Doucette Robert Librock David Brown Pam Johnson Sharon Secord Larry Fisher
64
LETTER OF INTENT	July 1990
GRAPE PRESSING
1.	The Company will notify the Union two weeks before the start of pressing season.
2.	The Company will notify the Union of the amount of people required for pressing season and classifications.
3 . The Company will notify the Union of the approximate length and different shifts.
4.	Employees selected for pressing will be by seniority in their classification if the employee so desires. However, employees required in the plant during Grape Pressing Season who would otherwise have been entitled to work in Grape Pressing, will be given the first opportunity to work the overtime requirement on the weekends.
5.	Employees who are off sick during the pressing season will only be replaced while sick. The Company will require a medical certificate.
6.	Overtime accumulated during pressing season will not be calculated in the weekly overtime in the plant.
7.	After returning from pressing season back in the production area, employees will be credited with all hours of overtime worked during pressing season in the production area.
8.	During pressing season, the Maintenance and Lab Depts, will be scheduled the same as normal operations.
9.	This procedure will be reviewed at the end of the 1990 pressing season.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
David Hoad Gene Clancy Hank Borsato Grant Gilker Ken Jarvis
Gerry Doucette Robert Librock David Brown Pam Johnson Sharon Secord Larry Fisher
July 1990
-65-
LETTER OP INTENT
As agreed during our recent negotiations, the Union and the Company have agreed to develop a procedure for the introduction of a weekly midnight shift (which will start on Sunday night and end on Friday morning). The actual details will be worked out by September 1, 1990.
FOR mi COMPANY	EQR THE UNION
Hank Borsato Ken Jarvis Grant Gilker Gene Clancy
Bill Ernest Gerry Doucette David Brown Julius Hoebink Sharon Secord Norman Turcotte
66
PLANT SHUTDOWN AND VACATION SCHEDULE
Plant shutdown will be the last week of July and the first
week of August or as mutually agreed to by both parties.
1.	Each employee who has qualified under the vacation entitlement requirements of the Collective Labour Agreement will be entitled to two (2) consecutive weeks during the Plant Vacation Shutdown.
2.	Third, fourth, fifth and sixth weeks of vacation will be scheduled throughout the balance of the year on a seniority basis so as to maintain normal production requirements.
3.	Employees who so desire, may apply to take their entire vacation at one time.
4.	Vacation scheduling lists will be posted each year from January 1st to February 1st during which time the employees will indicate the time desired. The Company will approve the vacation schedule by February 15th for the next 12 months after which time it will be considered to be in effect. Those employees who fail to indicate the period desired for vacation shall have their vacation Assigned at the Company’s discretion.
5.	In the Maintenance Department, two (2) employees per week will be allowed vacation time during the Plant Vacation Shutdown with the balance of the employees required to work. The remaining employees will be entitled to a two
(2) week consecutive vacation period between June 15th and September 15th. Where feasible, three employees may be scheduled on vacation at any one time.
6.	The two (2) week Plant Vacation Shutdown will not apply to the Shipping Department which will be required for shipping requirements. These employees will be scheduled vacation as per past practice.
7.	In the event work is available during the Plant Vacation Shutdown, senior employees in the classification will have first opportunity to work.
a. This program is not applicable to salaried employees (Office).
67
9. Employees with only two (2) weeks entitlement may be
granted, under special circumstances, two (2) weeks leave of absence i.e., wedding.
FOR THE COMPANY
David Hoad Ken Jarvis Gene Clancy Hank Borsato Grant Gilker
FOR THE UNION
Gerry Doucette Robert Librock David Brown Sharon Secord Pam Johnson Larry Fisher
SUNDAY NIGHT START-UP
68-
Processing, Maintenance, Laboratory
The hours of work per day and week sh 11 be eight (8) h urs per day Monday to Friday and forty (40) hours per week.
The Monday shift in Process, Maintenance and Lab will begin 11:00 p.m, Sunday night.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the regular hourly rate will be paid for all hours worked in excess of the daily or weekly hours of work as outlined above whichever is greater.
One and one-half regular hourly rate will be paid for all hours worked after Friday 7:00 a.m. until Saturday 3:00 p.m.
Double hourly rate will be paid for all hours worked Saturday 3:00 p.m. until Sunday 11:00 p.m.
FOR THE COMPANY
Grant Gilkar Gene Clancy Ken Jarvis David Hoad Hank Borsato
FOR THE UNION
Gerry Doucette Robert Librock Sharon Secord Pam Johnson David Brown Larry Fisher
■69
Mr. Gerry Doucette,
President, Local 550A,
United Food 8s Commercial Workers.
Letter of Intent
General Discussion Document (AttachmentA)
The following will confirm statements made during the recent set of negotiations that the Company will discuss the items on the General Discussion Document (AttachmentA) through the Labour/Management Process to mutually determine the best method of implementation.
Human Resources,
Cadbury Beverages Canada Inc.
September 6, 1995
70
To: Sharon Secord
The Company agrees to communicate to the Union when existingjobs change significantly.
Changed positions will be subjectto reevaluation by Management and Union personnel and should the parties fail to agree, the matters will be subjectto procedures outlined in Clause 23.01 of the Collective Agreement.
September 13,1995,
71
To: Larry Fisher
This is to confirm discussions made during the recent set of negotiations that bath parties will agree to an independent third (3rd) party to review and make recommendations to the Pension Plan Agreement. Both parties will agree on the 3rd party within three (3)months from the signing of this agreement and the cost of the study will be borne by the Company.
Hoad
September13,1995
ATTACHMENT “A” GENERAL DISCUSSION ITEMS
. The development of a steady Sanitation team. Positions to be posted as 3rd Class and two (2)General Labour.
•	Extend Sanitation Classification to include Janitor Classification.
•	Discontinue the practice of having to notify employees when replacing ft sickness, vacation, etc.
•	Discuss the practice of split shifts during the week.
| Introduction of Statistical Process Control and Restructuring of On-Line Quality.
■ The changing of shift starting times in various departments depending u production requirements.
September 6, 1995
STATUTORY HOLIDAY CALENDAR 1995-1998
1995
iQQfi	1997
1.	New Year's Day
2.	Good Friday
3.	Easter Monday
4.	Victoria Day
5.	Dominion (Canada) Day
6. Civic Holiday	Mon. Aug. 7
7. Labour Day	Mon. Sept. 4
8. Thanksgiving*	Mon. Oct. 9
9. Day Before Christmas	See Schedule
10. Christmas Day	See Schedule
11. Boxing Day	See Schedule
12. Day Before New Year’s	See Schedule
See Schedule	See Schedule
Fri. April 5	Fri. March 28
Mon. April 8	Mon. March 31
Mon. May 20	Mon. May 19
Mon. July 1	Mon. June30
Mon. Aug. 5	Mon. Aug. 4
Mon. Sept. 2	Mon. Sept. 1
Mon. Oct. 14	Mon. Oct. 13
See Schedule	See Schedule
See Schedule	See Schedule
See Schedule	See Schedule
See Schedule	See Schedule
1995
See Schedule Fri. April I O Mon. April 13 Mon. May 18 To Be Advised
Mon. Aug. 3 Mon. Sept. 7 Mon. Oct. 12
See Schedule See Schedule See Schedule
See Schedule
‘Thanksgiving or alternate day - only one ds to be taken as agreed to by the Company and individual employee.
1995	CHRISTMAS STATUTORY HOLIDAYS (X-CLOSEP)
1995 MANUFACTURING (PLANT AND SHIPPING)
MONDAY	TUESDAY	WEDNESDAY	THURSDAY	FRIDAY	MONDAY	TUESDAY
DEC. 25	DEC. 26	DEC. 27	DEC. 28	DEC. 29	JAN. 1/96	JAN. 2/96
		LIEU DAY				LIEU DAY
		DEC. 24				DEC. 31/95
X	X	X			X	X
1995 OFFICE
FRIDAY	MONDAY	TUESDAY	WEDNESDAY	THURSDAY	FRIDAY	MONDAY
DEC. 22	DEC. 25	DEC. 26	DEC. 27	DEC. 28	DEC. 29	JAN. 1/96
LIEU DAY			LIEU DAY			
DEC. 24			DEC. 31			
X	X	X	X			X
1996	CHRISTMAS STATUTORY HOLIDAYS (X-CLOSED)
1996 MANUFACTURING (PLANT. SHIPPING AND OFFICE!
MONDAY	TUESDAY	WEDNESDAY	THURSDAY	FRIDAY	MONDAY	TUESDAY	WEDNESDAY
DEC. 23	DEC. 24	DEC. 25	DEC. 26	DEC. 27	DEC. 30	DEC. 31	JAN. 1/97
	X	X	X			X	X
1997	CHRISTMAS STATUTORY HOLIDAYS (X-CLOSEP)
1997 MANUFACTURING (PLANT. SHIPPING AND OFFICE!
MON.	—TUES.		WED.	THURS.		FRI.			MON		—TUES.			WED.		THURS.	FRI.
DEC. 22	DEC. 23	DEC. 24	DEC. 25	DEC. 26	DEC. 29	DEC. 30	DEC. 31	JAN. 1/98	JAN. 2/98
		X	X	X			X	X	
VACATION SCHED ULE
COMMENCING IN 1991, EACH EMPLOYEE SHALL RECEIVE VACATION PAY AND PRIVILEGES AS FOLLOWS:
TERM O F SER VICE	CONSIDERATION
LESS THAN TWO YEARS	VACATION ALLOWANCE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS
OF THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO APPLICABLE THERETO.
MORE THAN TWO YEARS BUT LESS THAN	TWO WEEKS VACATION WITH TWO WEEKS PAY OR 4% OF
FIVE YEARS AS OF THE INDIVIDUAL	TOTAL EARNINGS WHICHEVER IS GREATER.
EMPLOYEE’S ANNIVERSARY DATE, IN ANY YEAR.
FIVE YEARS OR MORE BUT LESS THAN	THREE WEEKS VACATION WITH THREE WEEKS PAY OR 6%
TEN YEARS AS OF THE INDIVIDUAL	OF TOTAL EARNINGS WHICHEVER IS GREATER.
EMPLOYEE'S ANNIVERSARY RATE, IN ANY YEAR.
TEN YEARS OR MORE BUT LESS THAN	FOUR WEEKS VACATION WITH FOUR WEEKS PAY OR 8%
NINETEEN YEARS AS OF THE INDIVIDUAL	OF TOTAL EARNINGS WHICHEVER 1S GREATER.
EMPLOYEE'S ANNIVERSARY DATE, IN ANY YEAR.
NINETEEN YEARS OR MORE BUT LESS THAN THIRTY YEARS AS OF THE INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEE'S ANNIVERSARY DATE, IN ANY YEAR.
THIRTY YEARS OR MORE AS OF THE INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEE'S ANNIVERSARY DATE, IN ANY YEAR. _____________
FIVE WEEKS VACATION WITH FIVE WEEKS PAY OR 10% OF TOTAL EARNINGS WHICHEVER IS GREATER.
SIX WEEKS VACATION WITH SIX WEEKS PAY OR 12% OF TOTAL EARNINGS WHICHEVER IS GREATER.