		 SOURCE nerr—»—■ ■—-			
ctfiFpr	HC\	<J5	CM
TERM.	^5j		
		lew	20
No. OF "** EMHOYEtS 10			3
■ NOMftRE 		 D'#M|tOYfs L.l,\			
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
H.J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WOBXEBS, LOCAL 459
OFFICE & TECHNICAL UNIT
Expires April 30, 1992
THIS AGREEMENT
Cuwaii iO aa <jl
...
WiiW
made and entered into day of August, i99U.
at Leamington.
BETWEEN:
H,J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company11)
OF THE FIRST PART
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 459 A* U L* C tli01	C.L.C.
(hereinafter referred to an tho "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain
and promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment and to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
- 2 -
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclu-
sive collective bargaining representative for all office, clerical and technical employees at its Leamington operations, save and except Assistant Department Heads, those above the rank of Assistant Department Head, Buyers, secretaries to each of the General Manager, Leamington Factory Operations, Manager Leamington Financial Operations and the Manager of Quality Control, persons employed in the personnel department, the medical department, the salary payroll department and the agricultural department, the senior labour analyst, food chemist, recipe procedures technologist, research nutritionist, programmers and systems analysts, persons employed in the factory, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four hours per week and students employed during the school vacation period.
2.02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this article and who have acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.03	The term "probationary employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.04	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and such provisions shall only apply
to probationary employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine &re used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
UNION SECURITY
3.01	All employees who are now members of the Union or
who may later become members, shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.02	All employees, who may hereafter become employees
in the bargaining unit, shall immediately, upon expiration of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company, or after sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, become and remain members in goad standing of the Union during the . lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.03	Tho Company will furnish to the Union, every month, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with tho Company.
3.04	The Company will deduct union duos from the pay of each member of the Union when so authorized by such members in writing on a form acceptable to tho Company* 71x9 Company will also deduct tho equivalent of union dues from the pay of each employee upon the completion of the probationary period. Such doduction shall bo made monthly from the employee' s first pay each calendar month and the amounts so dsductsd shall be transmitted to tho Financial Secretary of tho Union within twelve (12) daye following aach deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial Secretary of tho Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which may ba levied from time to time.
AETICLE IV
WAGES
4.01	Wagee will be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule of Appendix "A".
4
4.02 Promotions:	When an employee is promoted to a class!
ffication in a higher grade, he will move to the next higher rate within his new grade with a minimum increase of $13.00 per week, effective at the time of his promotion. However, this rata cannot exceed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
4.03 A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with Appendix "C".
4.04	(a) When an employee temporarily replaces another employee
in a higher grade during absence for vacations, illness, etc., no adjustment is made unless the replacement period extends for a period of one week in which case, after completing such week, the employee's rate will be adjusted to the next higher rate to his present rate within his new job grade with a minimum increase of _ $15.00 per week, retroactive to the commencement of such job: however, this rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule. For weeks in which there is only one paid holiday during the replacement, the said holiday will count as a day worked in regard to rate adjustment. On completion of their replacement period, the employee reverts to his regular rate.
(b) When an employee has once qualified for the job rate by progressing through the salary progression schedule he/she does not have to requalify if placed on the same job within a two year period.
4.05	The rule8 and regulations under the Job Grading
Plan appear as Appendix "A” hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
4.06	Job title8 and grades applicable to each group
shall bar available in the respective groups.
4.07	All employees required to serve on a jury shall
> for the period of such service* be compensated for tho difference between the daily amount received by them as jurors and seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day befort serving jury duty.
- 5 -
An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three days in the case
of absence due £o death of the employee's spouse,
{TsiT^fi^x sdchsr, sister, orother, mother-in-iaw,
father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, and grandchild. Such employee will be paid seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each work day (Monday through Friday) that falls within the immediate three (3) calendar day period following death of the employee's relative as specified above. In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3) work days nor will an employee be paid for Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances, if the employee cannot attend the funeral, only one work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished the Company.
An employee will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of one day in case of absence due to death of the employee's daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
4.09	Employees shall receive their pay Thursdays.
4.10	It is agreed that any employee who has been in the employ of tho Company for a period of sixty-five
(65) days of actual work within a period of one year and who has been laid off and rehired within one year from tho date of lay-off will receive , on rehiring, tho rate of pay which was baing received by him at tho time of lay-off, together with any increases agreed to during tho period of lay-off. Provided that, in any case, the rate of pay to bo received by such an employee, upon rehiring, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed 65 days of actual work.
ARTICLE V
SHIFT PREMIUMS
5*01	A shift premium equal to 3 percent of the base rate
(Factory Grade I) shall be paid for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m* on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium equal to 4.5 percent of the base rite (Factory Grad. I) for all hours worked prior to 9:00 a.m* on a regular night (third) shift. (The shift premium to bo rounded to tho closest cent) . To qualify for a shift premium on tho night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard seven and ono-half (7-1/2) hours on that shift, prior to 8:00 a.m.
HOURS
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.03
6 -
To qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work fifty percent or more of his standard seven and one-half (7-1/2 hours on his respective shift.
ARTICLE VI
OF WORK
Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day or thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week, Monday through Friday. Only overtime authorized by supervision will be paid. The overtime rate will be determined by dividing the weekly salary by thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours. Overtime will be calculated and paid to the closest quarter (1/4) of an hour.
Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
When th« Company decides that overtime work is necessary/ throughout the period of Monday to Friday/ inclusive, it will bo first assigned to employees on the Sana shift who are performing tho work required and than by shift seniority within th# existing overtime group arrangement, provided they are ready and available for such work. when overtime work is required on Saturday, Sunday or a paid holidayr it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis within the existing overtime group arrangenent/ provided the employees concerned have the necessary Skill/ merit and ability to perform the work required.
In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement falls, the Company shall pay time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day or thirty (30) hours per week.
7
6.06	If not enough employees have agreed to come
into work from the existing overtime group then the unit seniority list will be used, in descending order of seniority until enough people are found, subject to skill, merit and ability.
ARTICLE VII
HOLIDAYS
7.01	(a) Employees other than probationary employees
who work on the day tpon which any of the following holidays i s observed, namely:
New Year 1s Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Reraemberance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours as provided in paragraph 7.02. These payments shall be computed on the basis of the rate applicable to the job performed.
(b) An additional day as determined by the Company will be granted as a recognized holiday during tho Christmas reason.
(c)	A holiday allowance of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours will be paid for the last working day prior to Christmas Day and the last working day prior
to New Year's Day subject to the conditions set out in paragraph 7.02 and 7.03.
(d)	Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
7.02
7.03
8
Employees other than probationary employees not required to work on such recognized holiday shall receive a holiday allowance of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works his full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full scheduled working day immediately following such holiday unless absent for any of the following reasons:
(i)	personal illness (proven by a Doctor’s certificate acceptable to the Company);
(11) quarantined by order of a qualified health authority;
(iii) death in the immediate family-
f iv) compulsory Court attendance as a witness or on jury duty;
(v) if absent up to five (5) working days when written leave of absence therefor has been granted by the employee's Department Haad/
(vi) absent on bona fide Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
In order to qualify for pay for the holidays as
atpr*'-, the employee's scheduled working day h«r«h( befoir*- - referred to must fall within thxe* working day* before and within three working days aft t-t the raid holiday (or within six working days
and within six working days after the said holiday where paragraph 1 <02(1) appliil) and most worked.
9
ARTICLE VIII REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL-IN PAY
8.01	An employee who is scheduled or notified to
report for work and who does report for work on time shall be entitled to a minimum of four hours straight-time pay, unless previously notified by the Company not to report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be paid for any period of time worked by an employee within his regularly scheduled shift. Provided further, that if requested by the Company, the employee shall perform a minimum of four hours of such available work as the Company may assign, and, further
provided, that the Company's obligation to grant minimum reporting pay es above provided shall not apply where failure to furnish work " is due to causes beyond the Company’s control.
8.02	ha employee who is called and returns to work
after he has completed hi8 scheduled shift and has left the premises of the Company shall be paid regardless of the amount of time worked, not less than four (4) hour8 straight-time pay.
ARTICLE IX
SENIORITY
9*0£	Seniority means length of coatinuour service
with the. Company. It entitles.the employee * to preference in-cases of decrease or increase of the working force.
9.02	An employee shall acquire seniority after
completing tho probationary period of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company or after sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked * n each of such months and when so acquired, trie employee's seniority commences from the date first hired.
9.03
9,04
9.05
9.06
10
Seniority will ba applied separately in the following .groups, subject to such change in the future as the interests of the business may require and as agreed to by the Union:
1.	Food Research
2.	Engineering
3.	Purchasing
4.	Tragic
5.	Production Planning, Scheduling and Supply
6.	Information Services
7.	Factory Controtlar
8.	Administration
(a)	A now amployaa's sanioriPy applies in the group to which he i* asii<pnad at the end of his probationary period and continual in that group until tho amploya* is traniftrred to another group.
(b)	An aopioyte who has completed his probationary paric-d aay file a <?riavanca claiming he has baan Laproparly classified.
Tht Company w i 11 post in suitable locations, a itniority Hat for each group, showing the name and laniority of each aaplcyta and will revise tho lilt every six (6) months as required. The Local will b* providtd with copia* of the seniority lists.
(a) The Company is a factor ability and of transfer layoff* and •aeb tapari raguirtaant between top m:ad as th a selection
recognizes th* importance of seniority to bo considartd along with skill/ requirement* of tho job, ii re spect
i; demotions, promotion*/ temporary recalls to work thereafter within te group and whan skill, ability and * of the job art relatively equal loyaa*/ than group seniority is raco-?-e prevailing Factor in tho making of
9.07
9.08
11
to> in the application os paragraph 9.06(a;, one time
spent in filling a temporary vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employees who normally perform the job.
(a)	In the case of layoffs other than temporary or tor a 'temporary shutdown, the following procedure shall apply :
(i) Probationary employees shall be laid off first;
(ii)	Thereafter, employees shall be laid off
on the basis of the employee's chronological time of hiring, provided that the employee has the necessary skill, ability and requirements of the job to perform the required work. However, this paragraph does not apply to the technical employees of the Food Research, Engineering Groups and Computer Operator8 which shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs
9.03	and 9.06;
(iii)	In the application of Section (ii) above, the redundant employee shall exercise their departmental and group seniority, and then office-wide seniority above the job of mail person, provided he/she is able to perform the work. If said employee has lowest officewide seniority he/she will then replace a mail person subject to seniority and being able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employes, will follow the regular bumping procedure,
(b)	Employees shall be reeelled in the inverse
order of being laid Off# provided that the employee has the necessary skill# ability and requirements of the job to perform the required work.
In case of temporary layoffs of not longer than five (S) workina days, seniority shall be applied by group seniority, subject to the provisions of paragraph 9.06. However# if a temporary layoff occurs due to an emtrgency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the Company, seniority will not apply on any basis for a period Of within two working days.
9.09
9.10
- 12 -
(a)	The term "vacancy" for the purposes of this Article shall be defined as an opening in the group seniority list where the number of persons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due to an employee’s transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening
of a new department or a new group, and the duration of which is expected to exceed 65 working days. The vacancy will be posted for three working days throughout the office. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees throughout the office who have more than two years’ seniority.
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant
if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.
(c)	The job vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therefrom will not
be subject to posting.
(d)	An employee who is successful on a posted vacancy may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve months unless otherwise agreed between the Company, the Union and the employee.
(e)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that group except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other group. Such employee may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period
of twelve months.
<f) In the case of arbitration, not more than one
employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
(a) An employee who is transferred from one group
to another group as a result of hi8 own request, acquires no group seniority in that new group Cor a period of one year except over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer, but if retained in that group after a period of one year, the employee’s total seniority shall be transferred to the new group.
9.11
- 13 -
(k) Where the transfer of a person in the employ of
the Company from outside the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is niuLually agreeu upon between the Company and the Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of one year except over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but if retained in the bargaining unit after a period of one year, the employee's bargaining unit seniority will be based upon his/her total service with the Company.
(c)	In the application of (b) above, an employee who fails to fill the requirements of the position within one year from transfer into the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for * placement, if any or the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(d)	In the application of (b) above, for the purpose of lay offs within the period of one year following the employee's transfer into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer, or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on
the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(a) Ai employee who is transferred from one group to another group by the Company acquirer no seniority in the new group for a period of three months, except over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer but if retained in that group after a period of three months, his group seniority, based upon his total service with the Company, applies in such new group. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Coepany to a new group as a result of a reduction in the number of employees in his former group due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new group as of date of transfer.
9.12
9.13
9.14
- 14 -
(b)	In the application of the above, an employee
who is rendered redundant or displaced from his/her job as a result of technological change shall exercise their department and group seniority and O £ f. i	(5*5	i.OTl,t“.V :?foQV£ii!	— -* 4 1
person, provided he/she is able to perform the work. If said employee has lowest office-wide seniority, he/she will then replace a mail person subject to seniority and being able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee, will follow the regular bumping procedure.
When an employee after being transferred is laid off, such layoff shall not interfere with, the accumulation of seniority in the new group. When recalled .such an employee will have preference over employees with less group seniority to come back into the group he was working at the time of layoff. When recalled, the accumulation of seniority will continue until one year after the date of the first transfer, or three months, whichever is applicable.
(a)	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and subsequently transferred back to a position in the bargaining
unit within a period of one year, shall retain his full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein. Any other employe8 transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit to a position covered by this Agreement, shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit as of the date of his transfer.
(b)	In the application of paragraph 9.13	(a) the
limitation of one year is not applicable where it is mutually agreed upon between the Company
and the Union to waive this restriction. In such case the employee shall retain his/her full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein less any time spent out of the bargaining unit.
In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or more groups, group seniority will apply to the employees involved with respect to layoffs of two weeks duration or less, provided that this may only bo applied once per calendar year to the same employees. If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 7.01 occur during SUCh a shut-down, employees who are laid off under this provision shall receive holiday allowance in accordance with parsgraph 7.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three working days immediately preceding and within three working days immediately following the shut-down period. Employees who continue to work during a shut-down shall qualify for holiday allowance in accordance
. . -	.	I _ n A A	» *e A A
9 ,15
9.16
9.17
9.18
- 15 -
Leave of absence, if granted in writing by the Company, will not affect an employee's seniority rating, An employee may, under special circumstances, receive a maximum of three weeks leave of absence through his Department Head.
An employee loses seniority when the employee:
(a)	Quits or resigns;
tb)	Is discharged for cause;
(c)	In case of an employee with less than two year’s seniority is laid off for lack of work for a continuous period in excess of the length of his seniority with the Company. In the case of employees with seniority of two years or more is laid off for
'	lack of work, for a continuous period in
excess of two years;
(d)	Fails to report for work when called without a valid reason; or
(e)	Fails to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after being sent a written notice by registered mail addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate
if the employee fails to report within seventy -two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy -two (72) hours of such notice.
(a) A pregnant employee may apply for and take a leave of absence at the end of five months of pregnancy and shall be re-employed with full seniority rights provided she reports to work within two months after the birth, unless she produces a medical certificate satisfactory to the Company showing that she is unable to do so.
<b) In the case of adoption of a pre-school child,
' the mother may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effective the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights at termination of such leave.
(a)	The local union president, chief steward, and chairperson shall have the privilege of working on the day shift.
(b)	The first vice-president, assistant chief steward and person replacing the chairperson shall have the privilege of working on the day shift it* the president, chief steward or chairperson is respectively absent for extended periods of time such as vacations, conventions, etc.
16
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
ARTICLE X
VACATIONS
10.01 Each regular employee shall be entitled to a
vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
(a)	If employed loss than ton (10) months during the previous fiscal year, ono (1) day of vacation during tho second fiscal year for each full calendar month of service in tho previous fiscal you;
(b)	If employed ten (10) months or more but loss than one full fiscal year during tho previous fiscal year, two (2) weeks of vacation in tho second fiscal you;
(c)	During the fiscal year in which tho employee celebrates his socond.(2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date
o£ service, each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
(4) During the fiscal year in which tho
employee celebrates his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date of ser-v i a , each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay;
(•) During the fiscal year in Which the
employee celebrates his tenth (10th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service each regular employee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay;
(f)	During the fiscal year in which tho employee celebrates his eighteenth (18th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;
(g)	During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive six (6) weeks of vacation with pay;
10.02 lo.oi
17
Five 5) working days shall constitute one week.
vacations witn pay shall be calculated as follow: (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
<f)
Employees entitled to two weeks or less vacation - 4 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
Employees entitled to three weeks vacation
-	6 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
Employees entitled to four weeks vacation
-	8 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
Employees entitled to five weeks vacation
-	10 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
Employees entitled to six weeks vacation - 12 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year:
Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
1.	If the employee has worked 500 or more hours during the preceding fiscal year,
2 percent of earnings for such preceding fiscal year for each week of vacation entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee's regular hourly wage rate for a 37-1/2 hour week, whichever is greater;
2.	If the employee has worked less than 500 hours during the preceding fiscal year,
2 percent of the employee's earnings for such preceding fiscal year for each week of vacation entitlement;
3.	In calculating the time worked, absence while receiving Workers' Compensation, week indemnity or casual Union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as time worked
on the basis of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such preceding fiscal year.
18
10.04	When a paid holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, he will be paid holiday pay in addition to regular vacation pay.
10.05	Employees entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient to the Company. Exceptions to this policy will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by the VicePresident concerned.
10.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requested by the employees in the employee seniority order except that efficient operation of the Company shall be first consideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07	An eligible employee upon being laid off indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the
end of the previous fiscal year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of layoff that he prefers to postpone such paid vacation until later in the fiscal year in which he is laid
off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08	Upon termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulated to his credit.
ARTICLE X I
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
11 >01	Tho Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive
function of the Company to*
(i) Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
Cii) Hire, classify, direct and lay-off;
(ill)Discharge* transfer, promote, demote, suspend or otherwise discipline employees
19
subject to the right of the employee con-eimed to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
(iv)	Make and alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees provided they are not inconsistent with the provision. of this Agreement;
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the right to plan operations, to determine services to be performed and the methods/ procedures and equipment in connection therewith, the engineering and designing of ita products/ the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension/ limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations.
11.02 It is understood that the causes for which the
Company may summarily suspend employees (provided
that the suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
(i)	intoxication;
(ii)	disorderly conduct;
(ii i)insubordination;
(iv)	unauthorized absenteeism;
(v)	neglect of duty;
(vi)	carelessness endangering the safety
of others:
(vii)	theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be for any reason as determined by the Company.
11.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
- 20
ARTICLE XII
NO STRIKE PROVISION
12,01	The Union agrees to accept and abide by all the
terms and conditions of this Agreement and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walk-out, sit-down, slow-down or other interference with or interruption of work and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall bo subject to disciplinary action as determined by tho Company. Tho Company agrees to accept and abide by all tho terms and conditions of this Agreement and during its term will not lock out tho employees.
ARTICLE XIII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13*01 The Union will appoint, from amon<? employees who have completed their probationary period/ and the company will recognise ei^ht (8) Stewards and a Committee comprised of not more than three (3)# one of wkm shall be tho Cheirmen of tho Committee,
13,02	£*ch Steward or Committeeman shall be permitted to function as such only u provided herein, It is understood that the Stewards end Committeemen
havs their regular work to perform on behalf of tho Company end will spend only such time during working hours as is necessery to service ■?rievences as provided under the -grievmce procedure, If it is necessary to service e grievance as authorized by tills Agreement, they will not leave their rsTUlur work without first obtaining tho permission of their Department Seed* It is also understood that a Steward
- 21
shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such Department and notifying him as to the nature of the grievance and the personnel involved. The Steward, upon leaving a Department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, and upon resuming his regular work, after servicing a grievance in his own or another department will report to his own Department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head may decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time.
13.03	When an employee is being disciplined, for any
reason, he may elect at his discretion to have a Union representative present during any interview.
13.04	The Local shall notify the Company in writing from time to time of the names of the Committeemen and Stewards.
13.05 The Company will supply the Chairman Of the Committee with a list of the Department Heads
and ks sis tint Cepartment Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the chairman of my changes thereto.
13.06
It is understood that an employee ha8 no grievance until he has given hi8 Departmant Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall oe presented by the employee, who shall Jc accompanied by the Group Steward, to his Department Head within three full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have originated or occurred. If th employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three full working days after receiving the Cepartment Head's decision in the following manner and saquencs:
22
Step NO. 1
Between the employee, who may be accompanied by the Group Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be given in writing within two full working days following the presentation of the grievance;
Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 2
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Personnel Department and the Personnel Department's written decision given within not mora than three working days following receipt of the written grievance at this step;
Failing settlement/ than:
Step No, 3
Within five full working days following the decision under step 2, the grievance shall be submitted as part of the agenda for a meeting between the industrial relations manager and members of the Union Committee, not exceeding five in number. An International Representative of the Union may be present at such meeting.
The decision of the industrial relations manager shall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting,
13.07 Failing settlement of any difference between the parties under step ISb. 3 of the Grievance Procedure arising from the interpretation, application# administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable/ such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article XIV. If no written request tor arbitration i s received within ten- working days after the final dacision under tho Grievance Procedure is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled o r abandoned.
13,03
13,09
13,10
13,11
13,12
13.13
23
Ary difference arising directly between the Company and tha Union my be submitted by either party at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at kr'oItration,
Whan a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall firs* be taken up under Step No. 2 and they my be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two employees.
Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board shall not be made retroactive prior to the data the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure, except as' to improper classification or book-kMpin? error involving an employee's earnings.
All decisions arrived at, between representatives of the Company and the representatives of tho Union, at any step of the written Grievance Procedure/ shall b-a final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employ a a or employees oonoamad, The Company shall summit a written reply to each written grievance,
Failure of tho Onion or employees to comply with the time limit* in Step 1, 2 and 3 above, shall be oonsidarad as acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of tho grievance. Failure o£ the Company to comply with tho time limits provided in Steps 1, 2 and 3 above Shall be oonsidarad a raiusal of the reguest involved in the grievance and immediate appeal to tho next step in tho grievance procedure may be taktn, When either party desires additional time within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable Limits shall be granted by the other party upon written reguast,
- 24 -
13.14
13.15
At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall
V

:o XJ-.
aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV ' of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee.
ARTICLE XIV
14,01
When either party reguests that any matter bo submitted to arbitration as hereinbefore provided, it shall make such request in writing eddressed to tho obtr party to this Agreement, and at tho lias time noainete an arbitrator. Within.fiva deys thereafter tho other party shill nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate in arbitrator as herein retired tho Minister of Labour for tho Provinca of Ontario shall hava powar to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure, Tho v*o arbitrators shall, within fiva days of the appointment of tho latter of than, attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they ara unabla to agree upon each a Chairman within such a period of five days, they shall then request tho Caitario Labour Arbitration Cosaissloa to assist them in selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that tha Chairman shall bo salactad from other than tho Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective and his fa m i 1 i a ri tv with industrial
- 25 -
14.02 No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which
has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority, or failing that, the Chairman of such Board, will be Final and binding upon the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned.
14.06 Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator representing it# and the
parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of tne Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE 07 ABSENCE FOR ONION REPRESENTATIVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be granted €or a period of two years to two employees (only one per department) at any time accepting a full-time position with the Union subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
(b) Rearonable time off with seniority maintained shall be granted to Union representatives to attend bona fide Union business# provided competent replacements are available for those employees desiring to be away from work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make it possible for him to attend Union meetings.
SICK AND WELFARE PLAN
- 26 -ARTICLE.XVI
16,01
The Company agrees to assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare Plan s with respect to each employee while in tho active employment of the Company and who is eligible for benefits thoreunder:
(a) Ontario Health Insurance Plan;
(b) A Weekly Indemnity Plan providing for a maximum -coverage of fifty-two weeks at a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to tho sixty-six and two-thirds (66-2/3) percent anemployment Insurance Commission Plea for employees who qualify thereunder;
(c)	(i) a regular employee who loses time
through an injury, sickness or disease, whom Workers' Compensation benefits are not payable and on producing a medics 1 certificate, shell be paid his regular wages 'until ha is eligible for his welfare indemnity;
(ii) whom Workers' Compensation Benefits accrue oa account of injury this will be in lieu of payment of wages by tho Company;
(d) All regular employees shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity benefits immediately upon reinstatement on the payroll following a
lay-off*
Supplementary Hospitalization Plan to be
continued;
(f)	Tho Thirty-five (35) Cent Dsductiblo Drug
Plan shall be continued;
(g)	Tho present Supplementary Health Care Benefit
Plan will remain in effect;
(h) The Company will provide a Cental Plan;
(1) The present Long Tom Total Diaability Plan
will remain in effect;
- 27 -
(j)	Out-of-Province/country emergency treatment;
(k)	The Company will provide a basic vision care plan:
(l)	Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed clinics.
ARTICLE XVII
UNIFORMS
17.01	The Company shall furnish to those employees who are presently eligible and such employees shall bo required to wear uniforms of a type, design and colour as determined fcy the Company. Tho rules and regulations and conditions attached to tho supplying of uniforms are contained in Appendix "B" hereto.
ARTICLE XVIII	-
BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	Tho Company agrees to maintain bulletin boards on which tho Union may post notices of tho time and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and names of officers or accredited representatives and such other notices as may bo approved fcy tho Company. Tho Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice to tho Personnel Department ono—half hour prior to porting.
ARTICLE XIX
REST PERIODS
19.01 Employees shall bo entitled to two (2) rest periods of ten (10) minutes each for each
seven and ono-half (7-1/2) hour day.
ARTICLE XX
SAFETY AND HEALTH
20.01 Tho Company will mako reasonable provisions for
7T
28 -
the safety and health of the employees in the Office daring tneir wording hours.
20.02	The Company agrees to notify the Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in-the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE XXI
GENERAL
21.01 The chief steward will be furnished with a copy of any employee report given to an employee.
ARTICLE XXII
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL
22.01 This Agreement shall remain in effect.Mill April 30, 1992 and shall continue in force thereafter f?Om year to year unless either party shall have given sixty (60) day8 written notice to the other of its desire to terminate the same. In the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, each party shall submit to the other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if any, to this Agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not later than a further period of fifteen (15) days.
EXECUTED AT LEAMINGTON, Ontario this	day of
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL LOCAL 459 WORKERS A.F.L. C.I.O.-C.l.C._____________
APPENDIX "A"
SALARY PROGRESSION SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 1990 OFFICE & TECHNICAL GROUP
Grade 1 Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V Grade VI Grade VII
After 65
uinrVinq Havs
$393.75
$404.00
$413.00
$425.00
$440.00
$447.00
$455.00
$551.04
$562.37
$575.09
$501.41
$588.51
$596.51
$604.51
9 mos
$589.25
$604.82
$613.51
$623.51
Lead - $.31

$624.63
$648.14
APPENDIX "A"
RULES AND REGULATIONS COVSSMZSg TIIE CPSRATICN Of THE JOB GRADING AND JOB CLASSIFICATION PROGRAM
1,	All job grades and classifications effective April
30 , 1932 have been correctly described and assigned to job grades and wage Lna-quitias thereby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed. Subsequent jobs, whose job descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, will be oonsldarad as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed.
2.	(a) A 'change' in a job as rafarrad to herein is
one which materially affects its contents or ra^uiraments , Chan^as in a job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existing job:
<b) When a new job is astablishad or an old job is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate job grade, based on comparison with tna other jobs m the raspectiva wage schedule which applias;
(c) A copy of the job description of the nav or chan^ad job will b-a rent to the Union for approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been era a tad, or the changes to tha existing job have been mada, together with a notation of the job grade;
(d) bp-on ooffsrencin<? an axparlmantal job, changed job., or a new job, an tmpioyaa will remain at th* $ob classification rate which ha regularly raoaivad prior to this job, until a job grade rata is assured to the job. Tha job will be <?radad within a three (3) month period where poeeible;
(e) If the Union believes that an existing job ha* chtnpad to an axtant sufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade, it shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and of the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as posslbla, shall be given to the Company within fifteen (15) working days after the change in bha job
- 2 -
(£) Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint is filed by the Union within fifteen (15) working days after such job description and grade is submitted to the Union;
(g) Upon receipt of notice that a difference
exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union Job Grading Committee to discuss the difference and attempt to make a settlement of these differences. The Company will advise the Union, in writing, of _ their decision regarding the raid Job Description or Job Grade;
<h)~	(i)
(ii) (iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
If the Company and tho Union are unable to roach Agreement on the job description or job grading of a job classification within a reasonable p-eriod of tiff#, the difference'w i 11 be submitted by either party to in Impartial Arbitrator:
The Arbitrator shall be chosen by agree-tnant of the partier within ten (10) working days following their disagreement iiiling which the Arbitrator w i 11 be	1
appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario upon the written application of either party;
No person may be appointed as the Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the matters to bo decided by the Arbitrator;
The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of these Rules and Papulations, nor to alter, modify or amend any of them;
The proceedings of the Arbitrator will be expedited by the parties and the decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding on the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned;
The parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Arbitrator.
- 3 -
3.	The description and grading of jobs will be in
compli-nnoe with the following rules:
(a)	The description and grading shall be of the job, not the parson performing it;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by Management shall not be considered:
(c)	The grading shall be based upon average requirements to perform the job satisfactorily rather than upon exceptions to the average:
(d)	The grading shall be baaed upon the performance of a fair day's work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The job descriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to reveaL those features of the job that determine its classification. At the sum ’ time, they are not intended to provide a complete listing of every individual feature of the job. If new duties, which may be assigned at any time, become a permanent feature of the work, tho job shall bo reconsidered as provided in Section 2*
4,	The factors used to determine Job Classifications
are as follows:
i. Job Knowledge] ii, Sducetion and Training;
iii.	Con^lexity;
iv.	Responsibility for Judgment/
v.	Responsibility for Accuracy; vi. Responsibility for Confidential Matters: vil. Responsibility for Interpersonal Skills; viii* Working Conditions: ix* Physical Effort.
5.	(a) An eaployee will be classified and assigned to
the 6 5 working-day rate in the appropriate job Trade upon obtaining seniority;
(b) An employee, v\ho maintains seniority privileges after beinp laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for Job Cradinp. He will be placed on the salary schedule according to his length of service on the job in the appropriate job grade and classification subject to Clause 6:
ic) The Company maintains the prerogative to hire technical 'and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the salary grid in the collective agreement, provided these rates are not inccnsistent with rates paid to employees in the sam job classification;
(d) An employee, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off shall, on rehiring, be treated as a new employee and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5(a) hereof in order to again become eligible for job grading.
6.	Each employee respectively shall be classified and
paid for all hours worked each day the appropriate rate of the wage schedule for the job grade in which he is classified.
7.	Employees should be classified and receive their
classification rate at all times for all work pericnaed unless p-erminentiy promoted, transferred or demoted. Employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job classification rate as defined in Clause 5.
9,	Employees who work on jobs graded on the basis of
the employee being required to wear safety equips*at will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which requires such protection.
9.	£aploy*ee w i 11 In paid at their job classification
rate for the tiaa spent during working hours attending j&eetiaq* epprcved by Miaeqeasent,
10.	(*) The weqe rata of an employee whose job grade
has b-een Lowered as a result of the introduction of the job grading prcqraa will b-e considered "red-circled* and will not be reduced as long as he remelaj on the sum job;
(b) A 'red-circled' employee who moves to another job will receive the grade and wag:	rata of
the new job classification ha perform*.
APPENDIX "B"
1.	The Company shall furnish to those employees who are presently eligible all garments necessary up to a maximum of eleven (11) garments per employee per year. This provision only applies to those employees who are entitled to a full uniform issue. Employees entitled to partial issues will receive the same consideration as in previous years.
2,	A garment for an employee shall consist of a jacket, trousers and/or shirt. The quantities issued of each garment to be determined by the Company. Employees entitled to wear
lab coats will have them provided on a one-for-one garment basis. A woman’s cut of pants will be provided.
3.	All male and female employees shall receive caps
and hate as required.
4.	(a) Employees shall receive the uniforms as above
mentioned upon obtaining seniority.
(b) Upon obtaining seniority, an eligible employee shall be entitled to six (6) units of clothing and shall receive the other five (5) units within six (6) months thereafter,
5.	Employees, who have qualified for uniforms who are scheduled to be laid off within ten (10) days of qualifying, shall not, at that time, receive a uniform but shall be entitled to receive uriiforms as above specified immediately upon rehiring.
6.	New uniforms will only be issued upon appraisal of th» appropriate worn-out garments. The Company will post notices when new uniforms are available.
APPENDIX "Ch
Employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided a cost of living allowance in accordance with the following provisions;
(a) The cost of living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by the Statistics Canada (1971 = 100) and hereafter referred to as the C.P.I.
(b) The April 1990 C.P.I. published May 1990 will be used as the base index for the period of May 1, 1990 to April 30, 1992. Adjustments in the cost of living allowance will be made quarterly at the following times:
Effective Date
of Adjustment	Index	Published
July 31, 1990 October 31, 1990 January 31, 1991 April 30, 1991 July 31 1991 October 31, 1991 January 31, 1992 April 30, 1992
July 1990 October 1990 January 1991 April 1991 July 1991 October 1991 January 1992 April 1992
August 1990 November 1990 February 1991 May 1991 August 1991 November 1991 February 1992 May 1992
(c)	The cost of living allowance shall be adjusted at the rate of one cent (1$) for each .325 increase or decrease- in C.P.I. for the period of May 1, 1990 to April 30, 1992.
(d)	Payment of the allowance will be made quarterly to each employee calculated on the basis of the applicable cost of living allowance for the total number of hours worked by the employee during the quarterly period in respect of which the allowance is payable.
(e)	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision that may later be made in the published figures for the C.P.I. on the basis of which the allowance has been determined.