SOURCE.
EFF;
x?m. <mq/
&
OS'
d/
•so
CO tLEGTIVEliKfeEEl 1ENTSW
ISOM . Re DCIfTBCN1
H. liiH EINZr'GOMllAN YiQ FCANADA LTD
.flERGIAL
s> ■
./\*f?ir.L?\ :CijtPi GLtC
FACTQRYQFFICEAND QUALITY CONTROL UNIT
Expires April 30,2001
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered Into at Leamington, Ontario as of the 27 th day of July, 1998. BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD (hereinafter referred io as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL459 A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C.
(hereinafter referredio as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
INDEX
Article
Page#
1
2
3
4
4.07
4.08
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Purpose......................
Recognition..................
Union Security...............
Wages........................
Jury Duty.....................
Bereavement Pay..............
Shift Premiums...............
Hours of Work................
Holiday......................
Reporting Alo/vance and Call-In Psy...
Seniority.....................
Vacations.....................
Management Rights...........
Non-Strike Provision.........
Grievances Procedure.........
Arbitration..................
Leaveof Absence lor (Union Rep.) — Sick and Welfare Pian.........
Uniforms........
Bulletin Boards.
1
1
2
4
5 5 7 7 11
13
14 25 30 32 32 38
40
41 43 43
INDEX
Article
19
20 21 22
Page#
Rest Periods................... 44
Safety and Health.............. 44
General......................... 4£L
Termination and Renewal........^'46^
Appendix" A (Rates)............
Job Grading ...................50
Appendix "B" (C.O.L.A.)........ 56
Appendix "C" (Pension)............ 56
Letters........................59
' ARTICLE-1
PURPOSE
1.01	It i s the purpose of this Agreement to maintain and promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating io conditions of employment
1.02	The parties agree to ensure the betterment of the Leamington Plant (employmentlevels and year round operations), A joint unlon/management committeewill be established to review all aspects of the operation.
2,01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for all employees, inthe factory ofthe Company at Leamington, save and except assistant department heads, foreladles, those above the rank of assistant department head and forelady, persons employed In the Medical Department and Human Resources Department, senior labour analyst, maintenance planners, pereons employed regularly for twenty-four hours a week or less, and students employed for the school vacation period.
1
2.02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only io persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unitdescribed in this article and who have acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article9,02,
2.03	The term "probationary employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement end who have not acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.04	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees are those provisions which are specifically applicableto probationary employees and such provisions shall only apply to probationary employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine are used In this Agreement, the same shall be construedas meaningthe plural or the feminine where the context or the parlies hereto so require.
3,01	All employees who are now members of the union or who may later become members, shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this agreement as a condition of employment.
2
3.02	All employees, who may hereafter become employees in the bargj^ining unit, shall immediately,
' upon expiration of sixty (60) consecutive working days with the Company, or after sixty (60) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months, but without necessarily having worked in each of si ch months, become and remain members in good standing of the union during the lifetime of this agreement as a condition of employment.
3.03	The Company will furnish to the Union, every month, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company.
3,04	The Company will deduct union dues from the pay of each member of the Union when so authorized by such members in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. The Company will also deduct the equivalent of union dues from the pay of each employee upon the completion of the probationary period. Such deduction shall be made monthly from the employee's first pay each calendar month and the amounts so deducted shall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union within twelve (12) days following each deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which may be levied from time to time.
3.05	(a) Six months advance notice of permanent plant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee.
(b) The Company will provide the Union three (3) months advance notice of partial plant closure in orderto set up an adjustmentcommittee. This shall apply only to a permanent layoff of fifty (50) or more seniority employees. This section shall not apply to seasonal operations.
WAGES
4.01	Wages will be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule of Appendix "A".
4.02	Promotions: When an employee Is promotedto a classification in a higher grade, he will moveto the next higher rate within his new grade with e minimum increaseof$15.00 perweek, effective at the time of his promotion. However. this rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
4.03	A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with Appendix "C".
4.04	(a) When an employee temporarily replaces
another employee In a higher grade during absence for vacations, Illness, etc., no adjustment is made unless the replacement period extends for a period of one (1) day in which case, after completing such day. the employee's rate will be adjusted to the next higher rate to his present rate within his new job grade with a minimum Increase of $15,00 perweek, retroactive to the commencement of such job; however, this rate cannot exceed the
4
„ maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
(b} When an employee has once qualified for the job rate by progressingthroughthe salary progression schedule he/she does not have to re qualify if placed on the same job within a two year period.
4,05	The rules and regulations under the Job Grading Plan appear as Appendix "A" hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
4 06 Job titles and grades applicable to each group shall be available i n the respective groups.
JURY DUTY
4.07	All employees required to serve on a jury shall, for the period of such service, be compensated for the difference betweenthe dally amount received by them as jurors and eight (8) hours pay at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
BEREAVEMENT PAY
4.08	An employeewill be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-in-lawand grandchild. Such employeewill be paid eight (8) hours pay per day at the rate he received on the last day worked
5
before such leave for each work day (Monday thr igh Frid ly) tl rt f ill itl ii	tl	i	dii its	three
(3) calendar day J foil	le	oftne
emploj e '( i I it v as spe	be	In no	case
III an i| Ii > If ild ft	more tl	three (3)
work days nor will an employes be paid for Saturday or S 1y i inde r >nj oil t ;«	II
the Employee cannot attend the funerai it ie work di w I granted i	I led sa
eviden >1 de	Is ii	d the Company. An
employee will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of or a di in the case if at iue to death of tt	pit
ii r-	son-in-law.	law, or
-1 -It
4.09 Employ
i receive ill pay Thursdays.
1	It Is gr it any empl	o has been in the
ei >y' tl i i n; any f a p	>d >f I: t (60)
days of actual work within a ie	I of oney aarant
whi ii	« laid off and renlrec within one year
from t	t of r will receive, on ihlrina. tl
rate sf pay which t being received by nlm at tne time if I. ly ig ji er any increases a; to during the period of lay-off. Provided that, In any case, be rate of pay tc b received by :h employee. uf rehiriig, hall not eve th te then being paid to employees who have completed sixty (60) Ii of actual work.
4.11 Quality rf: current job 1c respective units.
I will be given copl fc Jobs I nthi
of the
6
ARTICLE V SHIFT PREMIUMS
5,01	A shift premium of forty-four (44) cents shall
be paid for ail hours worked after 3:00 p.m, on a regularafternoon (second)shift and a shift premiumof sixty-six (66) cents for all hours worked priorto 8:00 a.m, on a regular night (third) shift. To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift. an employee must work the majority of his standard eight hours on that shift, priorto 8:00 a.m, to qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work 50 percent or more of his standard eight hours on his respective shift.
ARTICLE VI
6.01	(a) Hours of work shall be scheduled by the
Company in accordance with its requirements.
(b)	it is agreed and understoodthat Monday commencesat 12:00 a,m, (Sunday midnight).
6.02	Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, Mondaythrough Friday. Only overtime authorized by supervisionwill be paid.
The overtime rate will be determined by dividingthe weekly salary by forty. Overtime will be calculated and paid to the closest quarter (174) of an hour.
7
6 03 Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and doubletime for ail hours worked on Sunday.
6.04(a)(1) When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary, throughoutthe period of Mondayto Friday, inclusive, it will be first assignedto employees on the same shift, who are performingthe work required end then by shift seniority within the existing overtime group arrangement. provided they are ready and available for such work.
(il) When overtime work is required on Saturday. Sunday or a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis within the existing overtime group arrangement, provided the employees concerned have the necessary skill, merit and ability to performthe work required. Shifts will be determined bythe following guidelines:
6.04(b)(1) The employee shall be deemed to be working on the shift on which he has spent the majority of his time during the week, Monday to Friday, precedingthe Saturday and Sunday overtime. Example: An employee who works 3 days on days and 2 on nights would be considered for the day shift overtime on Saturday and Sunday, even though he was not on days on the Friday preceding the overtime.
8
(ii) In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, the holiday shell be considered as a day shift, provided the employee does not work a different shift on the holiday.
(iih If an employee is absent due to Illness, he shall be considered as working on the shift he was scheduled for the day he took sick.
(!v) Employees trading an individual day or night shift or by the weak, shall be considered as working on their original scheduled shift.

6 week duration (only)
All departments (all units)
5x8 hour shifts starting any day of the week/5 days on, 2 days off.
Ail hours in excess of 8 hours per shift (40 hours per week) will be paid at one and one-half times the regular rate.
Employees required to work on the 6th or 7th day will be paid at a rate of one and one-half times for all hoursworked.
The number of times the affected employees will be expected to work Saturday/Sunday at regular rate will be limited to 5 times out of the 8 week period. This is unlikely to impact more than 200 employees.
9
During the season, it Is agi d that the 6th ana 7tn cons a it! v ork day shal De rested i i Saturday and Sunday itl act to th he jrs of work and overtime ir< in the Collective Agi t with tt ex f be paid at the rate of time
I
worked, (rather th£ double time).
h at thi 17tl d< ill h If foi all hours
The Union/Managemenf Committee will meet to develop a detailed schedule for the affected employees.
Applies to seasonal and probatlonary employees only.
6.04(c) When the Company decides that Overtime work is necessary on Sunday, during the tomato season and pickle season, it will be allocated as outlined in 6.04 (a) above providedthe assignment of overtime does not interfere with normalshift rotation.
6.05	In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by t reement falls a i ny shall pay time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight
(0)	hours pet aay or thirty-two (32) hours pet	jek.
6 06 Ifnot enough employees have agreed to come In to work from the existing overtime group then the unit
10
seniority list will be used, in descending order of seniority, until enough people are found, subject to skM,merit and ability.
ARTICLE. Yll HOLIDAYS
7,01	(a) Employees other than probationary employe® who work on the day upon which any of the following hot * >s lh d, e
New Year's Day Good Fridai Easter Monday
Victoria Dt y Canada Day
Civic Holiday Labo >
Thanksgiving Day Christr Dj Boxii
ehei! be peirl ?t *b* ite of tlm and t for all hours worked in addition io the holiday allowance of eight (8)
I as ri 1 d ir 3 i| (■ 7.02 Tf >e payments s t computed on the basis of the rate applicable to
tt it performed.
(t Ti (2) dditlonal days 13 determined *5 Ih Company 'III t >t< as a re	holiday during the Christmas
season.
(c)	A holiday allowance of eight (8) hours will
I _____1 J	I _ _i ....J/.AA	AWIJk. U
L |jaiu iui uio look nviniiiy	>wi iv
u Day i last working day prior to h	Year's	y ibjecttctf
conditions set ;li ar '£ it 7.02 and 7.03.
(d)	E t ft!e holidayswil 1 t
\	11 jugh Friday,
11
7.02	Employees other than probationary employees not required to work on such recognized holidays shall receive a holiday allowance of eight {8} hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works his full Scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full scheduledworking day Immediately following such holiday unless absentfor any of the following reasons:
(i)	personal lllness(proven by a Doctor's certificate acceptable to the Company);
(II)	quarantined by order of a qualified health authority;
(III)	death In the Immediate family;
(Iv) compulsory Court attendance as a witness or on Juryduty;
(v) If absent up I o five (S) working days when written leave-of-absence therefore has been granted by the employee's Department Head;
(vl) absent on bona fide Union business up to ten (10)working days.
12
7.03	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day herein before referred to mustfall within three working days before and within three working days after the said holiday (or within six working days before and within six working days after the said holiday where paragraph 7.02 (i) applies) and must be worked.
8,01	An employee who is scheduled or notified to report for work and who does reportfor work on time shall be entitled to a minimum of four hours straight-lime pay, unless previously notified by the Company not to reportfor work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be paidfor any period of time worked by an employee within his regularly scheduled shift. Provided further, that If requested by the Company, the employee shall perform a minimum of four hours of such available work as the Company may assign, and further, provided, that the Company's obligationto grant minimum reporting pay as above providedshall not apply where failure to furnish work is due to causes beyond the Company's control,
fi.02 An emolovee whc != ool’.oo and returns to work after ) t plated hi f 1 il d shift id ht left the Dremises of the ComDanv. shal11 id gi rdless of tl unt of tin e wt rl i< less than four (4) hours straight tir pay.
13
ABJICLE IX
SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference incases of decrease or increase of the working force.
9.02	An employee shall acquire seniority after completingthe probationary period cf sixty(60) consecutive working days with the Company or afterslxty(60) Intermittent working days within a period offive (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months and when so acquired, the employee's seniority commences from the datefirst hired.
9.03	Seniority will be applied separately in the following groups, subjectto such change i n the future as the interests of the business may require and as agreed to by the Union:
1.	Quality Control
2,	Factory Offices
04(a) J re rployee s a it irlty applies in the
group to which he is assigned at the end of his probationary period and continues In that group i mil the employee I® transferred to another group;
(t>) An emp se who f ;omple d his probationary period	y file a 1 rva ce
claimlna he has bei	r	:1a slfn
9.05	The Company will postln suitable locations, a seniority list for each group, showing the name and seniority of each employee and will revise the list every six (6) monthsas required. The Local will beprovidedwith copies of the seniority lists.
9.06	(a) The Company recognizes the Importance of
seniority as a factor to be considered along with skill, ability andrequirementsofthejobin respect of transfers, demotions, promotions, temporary layoffs and recalls to work thereafter within each separate group and when skill, ability and requirementsofthejob are relatively equal between employees, then group seniority is recognized as the prevailingfactorln the making of a selection;
(b)	Inthe application of paragraph9,06 (a) the time spent infilling a temporary vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preferenceover employees who normally perform the job.
9.07	(a) Inthe case of layoffs otherthan temporary or
for a temporary shutdown, the following procedure shall apply;
(I)	Probationaryemployees shall be laid offflrst; 15
(li) Thereafter, employeesshail be laid off on the basis of the employee's chronological time of hiring. provided that the employee has the necessary skill, ability and requirementsof the job to perform the requiredwork. However, this paragraph does not apply to the technical employees of the groups which shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs?).03 and 9.06:
(iii)	Inthe applicationof Section(ii) above, the redundant employee shall exercise his departmental and group seniority and then unit-wide seniority, provided he is able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee, wilf follow the regular bumping process.
(b)	Employeesshail be recalled in the Inverse order of being laid off, provided that the employee has the necessary skill. ability and requirementsof the job to perform the required work.
2 weeks in July
2 weeks in December
Statutory Holidays will be Included Inthe 2
week shutdown in December.
Posted by February 1st indicating what departments will be shutdown.
16
If after February 1 st changes are required that necessitate departments working, volunteers will be sought by Department seniority andthen by Plant seniority.
One (1 )week mandatory vacation must be taken during the July shutdown.
9.08	In the case of temporary layoffs of not longer than five (5) working days, seniority shall be applied by group seniority, subject to the provisions of paragraph?),06, However, if a temporary layoff occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the Company, seniority will not apply on any basis for a period of within two working days.
9.09(a) The term "vacancy" for the purposes of this Article shall be defined as an opening In the group seniority listwherethe number of persons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due to an employee's transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment or an opening of a new group, and the duration of which is expected to exceed 65 working days. The vacancy will be posted for three working days throughout the factory. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees throughout the factory who have more than two years' seniority.
In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are comparatively
17
equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirementsofthe lob. Nothing herein contained will preventthe Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.
(C) The Job vacated by an employee transferred underthese provisionswill be posted but any subsequent vacancy resultingtherein, will not be subject to posting.
(ctt An employeewho falls lo fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he worked In immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that group except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other group. Such employee may not apply for the same posted vacancy for a period of twelve months.
(e) In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
9,10	(a) An employeewho Is transferredfrom one
group to another group as a result of his own request, acquires no group seniority in that new group for a period of six months except over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer, but if retained in that
18
v group after a period of six months, the employee's total seniority shall be transferred to the new group.
(b)	Where the transfer of a person in the employ of the Company from outside the bargaining unit into the bargainingunit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unitfor a period of six (6) months except over employees broughtlnto the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but if retained in the bargainingunit after a period of six (6)months, the employee's bargaining unitsenioritywill be based upon his/her total service with the Company
(c)	Inthe applicationof (b) above, an employee who fails to fill the requirements of the position within six (6) months from transferlnto the bargainingunit, at the optionofthe Company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked in immediately precedingthe transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group exceptfor his/her transfer, Q to some other group within his/her original bargaining unitfor placement, if any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(d)	Inthe applicationof (b) above, for the purpose of layoffs within the period of one year following the employee's transfer into the bargaining unitfrom outside the bargaining unit, at the option ofthe Company, wilt be
19
transferred back to the group he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer, or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(e)	The Company and the Union agree, where practical, the Company will try and place employees absent on sick leave or compensation, on jobs which they are capable of performing. If necessary, in the assignment of this work, the employees must agree to waive their seniority rights. This procedure will b e i mplemented on a trial basis for the term of the agreement.
9,11(a) An employee who Is transferredfrom one group to another group by the Company acquires no seniority in the new group for a period of three months, except over employees brought into the group afterthe date of his transfer but if retained In that group after a periodofthree months, hisgroup seniority, based upon his total service with the Company, applies in such new group. However, an employee,who istransferred bythe Company to a new group as a result of a reductionin the number of employees in his former group due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new group as of date of transfer.
20
(b). In the application of the above, an employee who is rendered redundant or displacedform his job as a result of technologicalchange shall exercise hisdepartmental and group seniority and then unit-wide seniority, provided he is able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee will follow the regular bumping procedure.
(o) Notwithstanding the above displacement procedures, the Employer and the Union, at anytime, can formulate special measures to modify the above displacement proceduresto take Into account the desire of the parties to minimize the I mpactof displacement or to deal with particular operational considerations.
9.12	When an employee, after being transferred Is laid off, such layoff shall not interferewlth the accumulationof seniority In the new group. When recalled, such an employee will have preference over employees with less group seniority to come back Into the group he was working at the time of the layoff. When recalled, the accumulation of seniority will continue until six (6) months after the date of the first transfer, or three months, whichever is applicable.
9.13	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and subsequently transferred backto a position in the bargaining unit within a period of one year, shall retain his full seniority within the
21
bargaining unit and shall be consideredto-have beencontinuouslyemployed therein. Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit to a positioncovered by this Agreement. shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit as of the date of his transfer.
9.14	In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or more groups, group seniority will apply to the employees involved with respect to layoffs of two weeks duration or less, providedthat this may only be applied once per calendar year to the same employees. If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 7,01 occur during such a shutdown, employees who are laid off underthis provisionshatl receive holiday allowance in accordance with paragraph 7.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three working days immediately preceding and within three working days immediately following the shutdown period. Employees who continue to work during a shutdown shall qualify for holiday allowance in accordance with paragraphs7.02 and 7,03.
9.15 Leave of absence, if granted inwritingbythe Company will not affect an employee's seniority rating. An employee may, under special circumstances, receive a maximum of three weeks leave of absence through his Department Head.
22
9.16.
9.17(a)
An employee loses seniority when the
employee:
(a)	quits or resigns;
(b)	is discharged for just cause;
(c)	in case of an employee with less than two
(2)	years seniority, is laid off for lack of workfor a continuous period in excess of the length of his seniority with the Company. I n case of employees with seniority of two (2) years or more is laid off for lack ofwork, for a continuous periodin excessofflve (5)years;
(d)	fails to report for work when called without a valid reason; or
(e)	falls to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after baing sent e written notice by registered mall addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate if the employee falls to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to reportwithin seventv-two (72) hours of such notice.
A pregnant employee may apply for and lake e leave of absence at the end of fve months of pregnancy and shall be entitled to be re-employedwith full seniority rights provided she reports for workwithintwo
23
months after the birth, unless she produces a medical certificate satisfactory to the Company showing that she is unable to do so.
(b} In the case of adoption of a pre-school child, the mother or father may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effectivethe date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights at the termination of such leave,
9.18(a) The local union president, chief steward and chairpersonshail have the privilege of working on the day shift,
(b)	The first vice-president, assistant chief steward and person replacing the chairpersonshall have the privilege of working on the day shift if the president, chief steward, or chairperson is respectively absent for extended periods of time such as vacations, conventions. etc.
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacementwill be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service
9.19	An employee who presents a medical certificate showing that he has been III or displaced by accident shall maintain his seniority rights during the period of such illness.
9.20	The Company will endeavorto placean employee having long and faithful service who
24
has become unable to handle hisjob in another job which he is competent to perform.
9.21The Company will forward to the Union six (6) copies of all departmental and group seniority lists semi-annually.
ARTICLE X
VACATIONS
10.01 Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
(a)	If employed less than ten (10) months during the previousfiscal year, one (1) day of vacation during the second fiscal year for each full calender month of service in the previous fiscal year;
(b)	If employed ten (10) months or more but less than one full fiscal year during the previousfiscal year, two (2) weeks of vacation in the second fiscalyear;
(c)	Duringthe fiscal year In which the employee celebrates his second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
(d)	Duringthe fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date of
25
service. each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with
pay;
(e)	During the fiscal year in which the
employee celebrates his tenth (10th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay;
(9 Duringthe fiscal year in which the
employee celebrateshis eighteenth(18th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shalt receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;
(g) Duringthe fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receivesix (6)weeks of vacation with pay:
10.02	Five (5) working days shalt constitute one
week.
10.03	Vacation with pay shall be calculated a5 follows:
(a) Employeesentitledto two weeks or less vacation-4 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
26
(b)	Employees entitledto three weeks vacation. 6 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(c)	Employeesentitledto fourweeks vacation
•	8 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(d)	Employeesentitledto five weeks vacation -10 percentof earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(e)	Employees entitled to six weeks vacation
*	12 percent of earnings for the preceding fiscal year:
(f)	Vacation pay shell be calculated as follows:
1.	If the employee has worked 500 or more hours during the preceding fiscal year, 2 percentof earnings for such preceding fiscal year for each week of vacation entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee's regular hourly wage rate for the 40-hour week, whichever is greater:
2.	If the employee has worked less than 500 hours during the preceding fiscal year. 2 percentofthe employee's earnings for such precedingfiscal year for each week of vacation entitlement;
27
3.	I n calculatingthe time worked absence while receiving Workers' Compensation, weekly indemnity or casual union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as time worked on the basis of eight (8) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such preceding fiscal year.
10.04(a) When a paid holiday occurs while an
employee is on vacation, he will be paid holiday pay in addition to regular vacation pay.
(b)(i) Employeeswill have the optton of taking an additional day off on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation if a paid holiday occurs during their regular vacation period. The Employees must notify supervision of their intention no later than one (1)week prior to the commencement of their vacation.
(II)	Employeeswhose vacation monies are considerably reduced because of absence the precedingyear. may elect to take a reduced vacallon time during the current year equivalentto the amount of their vacation monies. The amount of vacation time to be taken Is to be reviewed by the Human Resources Department. subject to legal requirements.
28
10.05' Employeesentitled to a vacation will take it
when convenient to the Company. Exceptions to this policy will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by the Vice-President concerned.
10.06 When | r icticable, vacations will be s hedula 1 as requested by the employees in the if It v io tty 1 pt tt t ffici( of sration c t ie Company shall be the first consideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07 An eligible employee upon being laid off
indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the end of the previous fiscal year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of layoffthat he prefers to postpone such paid vacation until later in the fiscal year in which he is laid off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08	Upon termination of employment. an employee will receive vacation pay accumulated to his credit.
29
ARTICLE XI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the
exclusive function of the Company to:
(i)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(li) Hire, classify. direct and lay-off
(iil) Discharge, transfer. promote, demote, suspend or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right ofthe employeeconcemed to lodge a grievance as herein provided:
(iv)	Make and alter from time to time rules and regulationsto be observed by the employees provided they are not inconsistentwlth the provisions ofthis Agreement:
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restrictingthe generalityofthe foregoing, the rightto pian operations, to determine services to be performed and the methods, procedures and equipment in connection therewith, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and palls to be incorporated In the products produced, and the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations.
30
11.02	it is understood that the causes for which the Company may summarily suspend employees (provided thatthe suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
(i) intoxication:
(U) Disorderly conduct:
(III)	insubordination;
(iv)	Unauthorizedabsenteeism:
(v)	Neglect of duty;
(vi)	Carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(vii)	Theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be for any reason as determined by the Company.
11.04	The Company agreesthatthese functions will be exercised in e manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
11.05	(a) No employee shall be discharged or disciplined except forj ust cause.
(b)	The Company agrees that where meetings are held with employees concerning their work or conduct, which implements any
31
form of official reprimand, discipline or discharge, a Shop Steward or Union Representativeshall leave the meeting If requested to do so by the employee.
(c) The Union agrees that It will upholdthe rules and regulations of the Company I n regard Io punctual and steady attendance, proper notification in case of absence and conduct on the job.
12.01	The Union agreesto accept and abide by all
the terms and conditions of this Agreement and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walk-out, sit-down, slow-down or other interference with or interruptionofwork and that It will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike.
Any employee violating this provision shall be subjectto disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement end during its term will not lock out the employees.
1 C Th Union will appoint, from among employee! who have completed their probationary period, 111 C Tips III c	ii 5 St	ds
I a mittt	omp Is	of not me re than
32
three (3), one of whom shall be the Chairman ofthe Committee.
13.02(a) Each Steward or Committeemanshall be
permitted to function as such only as provided herein. It is understood that the Stewards and Committeemen have their regular work to Perform on behalf of the Company and will spend only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided underthe grievance procedure. If it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regularwork without first obtainingthe permission of their Department Head. It is also understood that a Steward shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such Departmentand notifying himas to the nature Of the grievance and the personnel involved. The Steward upon leaving a Department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, end upon resuming his regularwork, after servicing a grievance in his own or another Departmentwlll report to his own Department Head.
Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned. more than a reasonable periodoftimehasbeentakenby a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head may decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time.
33
(b> All grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss of lime or pay to the parties involved,
13.03	When an employee is being disciplined for any reason, he may elect, at his discretion to have a Union representative presentduring any interview.
13.04	The Local shall notify the Company In writing from time to time of the names of the Committeemen and Stewards.
13.05	The Companywill supplythe Chairman ofthe Committee with a list ofthe Department Heads and Assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisionsof this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the chairman of anv changes thereto.
13.06	it is understood that an employee has no
grievance until he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee, who shall be accompanied by the Group Steward, to his DepartmentHeadwIthin three full working days after the circumstancesgiving rise to the complaint have originated or occurred, if an employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as e grievance within three full working days after receiving the Department Head's decision In the following manner and sequence;
34
Step. No Jl;
Between the employee, who may be accompanied by the Group Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance Shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be given in writing within two full working days following presentation of the grievance;
Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 2:
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Human Resources Department and the Human Resources Department's written decision given within not more than three working days following receipt of the written grievance at this step:
Failing settlement, then:
Step Nn. 3-
Within five full working days following the decision under Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted as part of the agenda for a meeting between the Company's representativesand membersof the Union Committee, not exceeding five in number. An International Representatives of the Union may be present at such meeting. The decision of the Company's representative shall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
35
1 3.07 F ailing settlement of any lifference between tl li deri pNc.3ofth 3ri F	ina m th s inti f ati .
application, s a1 >n or alleged vioiation if thi Ag	. including any question as ti
whether a matter is arbitrable st c difference or question may be taker tc r bi ri as provided in Article XIV, II no it q ji arbitration is received within ter working days after the final declsi > ler the Grit Procedure is given, It shall be deemed to have been settled or idoned.
13.08	Any difference arising directly between the C pany d the Uni y t t itt d t either party at Step No. 3 at t s Grievance P ic t id tin lii lit | r id thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
13.09	Th gg t i i| li >y< ly be | resent during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitrati
1310 When a group of employees has a :omplair or grievance It shell first be 11 up nder Str
No. 2 and they may be representea by tne app; f	ward an not more than two
em >'
13.11	A1 adjustment arising under a	a
th >i igii tt 3 G it i Pr > li	or d a
decision of an Arbitration Board shall not be m di it :tf p 1c ’ to tf s da the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure,
36
except as to improper classificationor bookkeeping error involving an employee's earnings.
13.12	Ail decisions arrived at, between
representatives of the Company and the representatives of the Union, at any step of the written Grievance Procedureshall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned. The Company shall submit a written reply to each written grievance.
13.13	Failure of the Union or employees to comply with the time limits in Steps 1,2 and 3 above, shall be considered as acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Failure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1,2 and 3 above shall be considered a refusal of the request Involved in the grievance and Immediate appeal to the next step in the procedure may be taken.
When either party desires additional time within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable limits shall be granted by the other party upon written request
13.14	At any step in this grievance procedure, the ExecutiveBoardofthe Local Union shall have the final authority in respectto any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or
37
dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board.
Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their Steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is beingdropped because of lack of merit, the aggrievedemployee has fifteen calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
13.15	Notwithstandinganything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisionsof Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probatlonaryemployees. nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions ofArticleXIV ofthis Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee.
14.01
When either party requests that any m itt t si ihmitteri In arbitration as herein before
f tlr writing rty to this Agr tin;	a arbit r
rtt	tl	|	ii h II
nnminma an aronraiDr: uroviueu. nGwSVSi"
if such party fails t 'Inat an bitral as
pn rii< t, It t II !<
Iks
i t tl same Hr :hln five da> th 11
38
herein required the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall have power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The twoarbitratorsshall, within five days <£ the appointment of the latter of them, attemptto select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such a period of five days, they shall then request the Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them in selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualificationsin interpretingcoltectlve bargaining agreements and his familiarity with industrial relations.
14.02	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorizedto make any decision inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement. nor to altar, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority, or failing that, the Chairman of such Board, will be final and
39
binding upon the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned.
14,06	Each of the parties heretowili bearthe
expense of the arbitrator representing it. and the parties will jointly bearthe expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION
15.01(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be granted for a period of two years to two employees (only one perdepartment) at any lime accepting a full-time position with the Union subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company andthe Union.
Forthe Interpretation of this clause for leave of absence for union representatives means that the time spent on leave of absence is accumulated for seniority purposes only, but not for fringe benefits, e.g. pension service, etc., unlessspeclflcally agreed upon.
(b)	Reasonabletime offwith seniority maintained shall be granted to Union representatives to attend bona fide Union business, provided competent replacements are available for those employees desiringto be away from work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make It possible for himto attend Union meetings.
40
ARTICLE XVI
16.01	The Company agrees to assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare Plans with respect to each employee while in the active employment ofthe Companywho is eligible for benefits thereunder:
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan;
(b)	(I) The Weekly indemnity Plan providing a
maximum coverage of fifty-two (52) weeks shall provide a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sixty-six and two-thirds (66 213) percent Unemployment Insurance Commission Pian for employees who qualify thereunder;
(ii)	Foremployeeswith less than one year's service with the Company, benefits provided will be the length of Company Service;
(iii)	Weekly indemnity payments will continue only while employees ai on the active payroll;
(«
(I) A regular employee who loses time through an injury ickn 3: < di . t We rk r '
:< n| msat o ie s me ( a le, and
nnulunlnn n mnrlinnl nnrTirinnta fikall kn nnU
Ul| ^IVUUVIliy Cl T I ICJUIbOl UCIIllllliaiW SCI IUII CISJ kOW
his regular wages until he is eligible for his weekly indemnity;
41
(li) Where Workers' Compensation Benefits accrue on account of Injury. this will be in lieu of payment of wages by the Company;
(d)	All regular employees shall be entitledto Weekly IndemnitybenefUs immediatelyupon reinstatement on the payroll followinga lay-off;
(e)	SupplementaryHospltalJzatlon Plan to be continued;
(9 The Company will pay the first $6.50 for dispensing fees on prescriptions.
(g)	The presentsupplemenfary Health Care Benefit Plan will remain in effect;
(h)	The Company will provide a Dental Plan; 9 month check-ups;
Year 1998=1997 O.D.A.
Year 2000=1998 O.D.A.
(i)	The present Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain in effect;
(j)	Out-of-Provlnce/Country emergency treatment;
(k)	The Company will provide a basic vision care plan:
1 pair every two (2) years; $200 every two (2) years.
(l)	Physiotherapytreatment covering visits to licensed clinics.
(m)	Chiropractor coverage $250 per year:
42
(n)	Benefit maximum per life time for retirees or their dependents
Year 2000=^25,000 Year 2001=$30,000
(o)	Option to continue Life Insurance after retlremen at same cost (after 05/01/98) up to age 65;
16,02	The Pian documents for all sick and welfare benefits provided under the agreement are an integral part of the Collective Agreement and are hereby incorporatedby reference Info It,
The Company will provide the Union with complete and current documents of all benefit plans.
(b) The Company will ensure and agree If Benefits Carrier Is changed the same coverages will apply.
ARTICLE-XV.H
17.01	■ Will be issued according to
Company/Governmenf regulations.
18.01	The Company agrees to maintain bulletin
boards on which the Union may post notices of the time and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and names cf officersor accredited representatives and such
43
other notices as may be approved by the . Company. The Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice to the Human Resources Department one-hail hour prior to posting.
19.01	Employeesshall be entitledtotwo (2)rest
periods of ten i 10) minutes each for each eight (8) hour day.
20.01 The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees in the plant during their working hours.
20.02	A Union representativewill be appointed by the Union to the Company's Safety Committee to attend safety meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safely Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20,03	The Companywill provide safety shoes to all employees who are requiredto wear them.
Safely Shoes Allowance to be:
1st year of collective agreement-$75 2nd year 0f collective agreement«$75 3fd year of collective agreementB$10O
44
GEMEBAL
21.01	The Chief Steward and Chairperson will be furnished with a copy of any employee report given to an employee.
21.02	(a) The Company agrees that no employee shall be discharged or disciplined except for Justcause.
(b)	The Company agrees that where meetings are held with employees concerning their work or conduct, which Implementsany form of official reprimand, discipline or discharge, a Shop Steward or Union Representative will be present. The Shop Steward or Union Representative shall leave the meeting if requested to do so by the employee.
(c)	The Union understands the Importancethe Company places on its Rules and Regulations In regardsto punctual and steady attendance, proper notification in case of absence and conduct on the Job.
21.03	The Company will endeavorto discuss with the Union, work that is being consideredto be contracted out, that is not of an emergency nature. The purpose of the discussion will be for the Company to outline the work to be done, the reason for contracting it out and obtaining the Union's feedback and possible options.
45
22.01 Thi Ag
amain in effect until
April 30, 2001 and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either party shal' i' .i Ay (60) ji i) tic ti ft ift ir of iti oesire to terminate the same. Int mt of such notice of s mdne 1t r terminate yeitterp ty, :i p 1y Ml bmitt th< >tt f y, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, i‘ any t this Agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not at lh a firtt i J iffift■ sr (15) ii
EXECUTED t LEAMINGTON ONTARIO
this 27 th day of July 1998
FOR:
I.	HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD JimWhlttal Ross Craig BobC.ifford Ken Campbell
IIIITEDFCDD A ID 1.	. C.L.C.
3MMERCIAL WORKERS' DCAL 45S
Paul McGe John Unrau Lorraine Cowan	id Badi
Katherine Epp Rul Rebelo
46
'nJ
JOB GRADE	AFTER 60 WORKING DATS	6 nos.	9 MGS.	12 nos.
1	448*80	685.20		
2	456.00	£92.40		i
3	462.ao	699.20		!
4	470,00	706.40		
5				
6	486.00	710.00	727.60	
7	498.80	714.00	726.SO	742.00
3	512.00	720.00	734.00	766.40
LEAD RATE - 31 CENTS/HOUR
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 1999
JOB GRADE	AFTER 60 WORKING DAYS	i MOS.	[9 nos.	12 nos.
1	468.30	705.20		
z	476.00	712.40		
3	482.30	719.20		
4	Ado .on	7 1	1	
5	496.30	734.80	1	
6	506 .00	730.00	747,60	
7	518 - SO	734.00	746.80	762.00
a	532-00	740.00	754.00	786.40
LEAD RATE - 31 CENTS/HOUR
****NOTE THESE RATES DO NOT REFLECT FUTURE C.O.L.A. FOID-INS”**
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2000
JOB GRADE 1 2
3
4
5
6 7 6
AFTER 60 WORKING DAYS	6 HOS.	9 HOS.	12 HOS.
468.80	725.20		
496.00	732.40		
502.80	739.20		
510.00	746.40		
516*80	754.80		
526.00	750,00	767.60	
538.80	754.00	766.80	782.00
552.00	760.00	774.00	306.40
LEAD RATE - 31 CENTS/HOUR
****NOTE THESE RATES DO NOT REFLECT FUTURE C.O.L.A. FOLD-INS****
IE OPERATION OF THE JOB GRADING Ah JOB CLASSIFICATION PROGRAM
1.	All job grades and classifications effective June 1, 1998 have been correctly described and assigned to job grades and wage inequities thereby eliminated, Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed. Subsequent job, whose job descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, will be considered as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed.
2.	(a) A "change" in a job as referred to herein is one
which materially affects its contents or requirements. Changes in a job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existingjob;
(b) When a new job is established or an old Job is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate Job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs In the respective wage schedule which applies:
(c)	A copy of the job description of the new or changed job will be sent to the Union for
50
approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been created, or the changes to the existing job have been made, together with a notation of the job grade:
(d)	Upon commencing an experimental job, changed job, or a new job, an employee will remain at the job classification rate which he regularly received prior to this job, until a job grade rate Is assigned to the job. The job will be graded within a three (3) month period where possible;
(e)	If the Union believes that en existing job has changed to an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment In job grade, It shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and of the adjustment In job grade It contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Company within fifteen (15) working days afterthe change in the job is alleged to have occurred;
(9 Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint Is filed by the Union within fifteen (15) working days after such job description and grade Is submitted to the Union:
(g) Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerningthejob description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union Job Grading Committee to discuss the difference and attempt to make a settlement of
51
these differences. The Company will advise the Union, in wrttfng, of their decision regarding the said Job Descriptionor Job Grade:
(h)(1) If the Company and Union are unable to reach agreement on the job description or job grading of a job classification within a reasonable period oftime. the difference will be submitted by either party to an Impartial Arbitrator;
(ii) The Arbitrator shall be chosen by agreement of the parties within ten (10) working days following their disagreement falling which the Arbitrator will be appointed by the Minister of labour of the Province of Ontario upon the written application of either party;
(III) No person may be appointed as the Arbitrator who has been Involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the matters to be decided by the Arbitrator;
(Iv) The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistentwith the provisions of these Rules and Regulations. nor to alter, modify or amend any of them:
(v) The proceedings of the Arbitrator will be expedited by the parties and the decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding on the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned:
52
(vi)	'The parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Arbitrator.
3,	The description and grading of jobs wilt be in
compliance with the following rules;
(a)	The description and grading shall be of the job. notthe person performing It;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by Management shall not be considered:
(c)	The grading shall be based upon average requirements to perform the job satisfactorily rather than upon exceptions to the average;
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day's work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The job descriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to reveal those features of the job that determine its classification. At the same time, they are not intendedto provideacompletelistingofevery individualfeature of the job. If new duties, which may be assigned at any time, become a permanentfeature of the work, the job shall be reconsidered as provided in Section2,
4.	The factors used to determine Job Classifications
are as follows:
i, Job Knowledge:
II.	Education and Training;
III.	Complexity;
“Iv, “Responsibility for Judgment;
53
v,	Responsibility for Accuracy;
vi.	Responsibility for Confidential Matters; vil, Responsibility for Interpersonal Skills; vill, Working Conditions;
lx. Physical Effort.
5.	(a) An employee will be classified end assigned to
the 60 working-day rate in the appropriate job grade upon obtaining seniority:
(b)	An employee who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for Job Grading. He will be placed on the salary schedule according to his length of service on the job In the appropriate job grade and classificationsubject to Clause 6;
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire technical and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the salary grid In the collective agreement, provided these rates are not inconsistent with rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	An employee, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off shall, on rehiring, be treated as a new employee and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5 (a) hereof in order to again become eligible for job grading.
6.	Each employee respectively shall be classified and paid for all hours worked each day the
54
appropriate rate of the wage schedule for the job grade in which he la classified.
7,	Each employees should be classified and receive their classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted. Employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job classification rate as defined in clause 6.
a. Employees who work on jobs graded on the basis of the employee being required to wear safety equipment wilt be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which requires such protection,
9.	Employees will be paid at their job classification rate for the time spent during working hours attending meetings approved by Management.
10.	(a) The wage rate of an employee whose job
grade has been lowered as a result of the introduction of the job grading program will be considered '"rad-circled" and will not be reduced as long as he remains on the same job;
lb) A "red-circled" employee who moves to another job will receive the grade and wage rate of the new job classification he performs.
55
APPENDIX "B"
cost of living formula modified to one (1)cent for each 3/10% rise (n the CPI for the period May 1st lo April 30th.
Amount of payout will be folded into wages effective May 1 st of each year.
Retroactive COLA will be paid by separate cheque for all hours worked between May 1st to April 30th, to be paid In June of each year.
PENSION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY_QF_CAbJADA LTD
Leamington, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company")
-and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
Affiliated With A.F.L, - C.I.O, and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of its Local 459
56
(hereinafter called the "Union")
(a) "Plan" or ''Pension Plan" means the 'Hourly-rated Employees' Pension Plan" set forth in Plan "AT hereto or such amended or substitute pian as the parties may agree upon pursuant to the provisions ofthis Agreement, with the following amendments:
ARTICLE XX
THE PLAN
The first paragraph of Section 2 Is amended to read as follows:
For retirements on or after January 1, 1991, the minimum Retirement Allowance payable to a Member shall be equal to $29,00 per month multiplied by the number of years cf his Creditable Service (within the meaning of the Old Plan or this Plan, as applicable).
The Pian will incorporatethefollowingfeatures:
aj 1-1/2 per cent of the average of the best five years of the last ten years.
bj 50 per cent spouse benefit - surviving spouse of pensioner to receive 50 per cent of the basic pension.
c)	Contribution-4 per cent of Gross Earnings,
57
d)	Supplement of $19.00 per month per year of pension service, with a maximum service of 30 years,
e)	COLA on pensionen receiving this pension • 75 per cent of consumer price Index to a maximumof6 percent.
f)	Pensioners will receive either the minimum guarantee or the percentage formula, which Is greater.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed to this Agreement by their respective duly authorized representative this
FOR THE COMPANY:
Jim Whfttai Ross Craig Bob Clifford Ken Campbell
FOR THE UNION:
Paul McGee Linda Wilding JohnUnrau Katherine Epp Lorraine Cowan Robert Adams Nino Aluto Assaad Badaoul Las Bachmeier LoisCharette Larry Moynahan Joyce Williamson Rul Rebelo
58
June 1,1998
Mr. Rui Rebelo
President. Local 459
United Food& Commercial Workers
261 Erie St, S.
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr, Rebelo:
The following is In confirmation of the terms of the
Company's long term total disability Insurance plan.
1.	A benefit of $850 per month less a deduction of 4% as the employee's annual maximum contribution to the pension fund for as long as the employee is totally disabled but not after the normal retirement at age 65
2.	The employee's annual maximum pension contribution will increase as the monthly benefit under the plan increases.
3.	The premiums for the employee's continuing life insurance coverage will be paid by the company during the period of long term total disability insurance benefit payments.
4 The employee must submit medical evidence satisfactory to the insurance company for acceptance of his claim and as required during the period of total disability insurance payments.
59
5,	The long term total disability insurance plan Is effective after the completion of 52 weeks of weekly indemnity payments.
6,	The employee may also qualify for Canada Pension Plan disability payments. The total benefit of the long term total disability insurance plan plus the Canada Pension Pian disability payments, etc. cannot exceed the 66 2/3% 6.1.
7,	Eligibility for benefitsis one year seniority priorto the claim for weekly indemnity which qualifies the employee to apply for the longterm total disability Insurance pian.
6. Employees receiving long term total disability insurance benefits will have normal pension benefits accumulated during the period of long term total disability.
9,	Ifthe employee ceases lo be totally disabled, the long term total disability insurance will terminate.
10,	Ifthe employee continues to be disabled to the extent he is unable to perform any of the Jobs available at the H, J, Heinz Company of Canada Lid, his long term disability insurance will continue provided he does not accept employment elsewhere.
11,	The Company agrees to qualify employees, whose compensation payments are discontinued and they are unable to work under the long term total disability plan, with the following provisions.
60
(a)	This will be on a trial basis for the term of the
Agreement.
(b)	Any compensation pension received from Workers' Compensation will be deducted from the long term total disability payments.
(c)	The employee must agree to perform any work that is available in order to qualify for the long term total disability provisions
Yours truly,
T, JamesWhitta Human Resources Manager
61
June 1,1998
Mr, Rul Rebelo President. Local 459 United Food& Commercial Workers 261 Erie St, S,
Leamington, Ontario NSH 3C4
Dear Mr, Rebelo:
As discussed during negotiations when the day before Christmas and the day before New Year's Day fells on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will have the option of observing these days on some other day during the Christmas holiday period.
This will be implemented on a trial basis for the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
T. James Whlttal Human Resources Manager
62
June '1,1998
Mr. Rul Rebelo President, Local 459 United Foods Commercial Workers 261 ErieSt, S,
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
RE: Training Trust Fund
Concerning the recent Memorandum of Settlement between the Company and the Union as agreed upon, the Company wishes to confirm by letter, the following matter concerning the training trust fund.
1.	A fund of $200,000 per contract year will be spent by the Company for training.
2.	The Company will have the option of not spending the committed monies if the government passes legislation requiring the Company to contribute to a governmentfund.
The Company agrees to renew the July 16, 1992, letter of Understanding. As an alternative, the Union/Management Committee will review the option of setting up a joint education training and trust fund with the condition of securing additional funds from the Federaland/or Provincialgovernments.
Yours truly,
T. James Whlttal Human Resources Manager
63
Letter of intent
Mr. Rul Rebelo
President, Local 459
United Food& Commercial Workers
261 Erie SI. South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Rebelo:
Re: Provlnce/Natlonwide protest day.
As discussed during negotiations, In the event of a provlnce/natlonwlde protest day, the Company agrees to meet with the Union and discuss the ramifications of any such action as It pertains to the Union members and the Company.
Yours truly,
James Whlttal
Human Resources Manager
64