COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
H.J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 459 A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.r*
PLANT UNIT
Expires April 30, 1993
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into at 7 Ontario as of the	day of August, 1990.
BE T W E EN:
H,J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the @@Company)@@
OF THE FIRST PART - and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 459
chartered by the Amalgamated Meat-cutters and" Butcher Workmen of North America, affiliated with A.F.L. -C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congrats, on behalf of its Local 459
(hereinafter referred to am the "Union")
or THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
l.Ol	it is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain
and promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to met forth hours of work, rates of pay and other oonditione of employment and to provide an emiceble method of nettling any diffarenoe or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
- 2 -
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclu-
sive bargaining representative for all its employees at its Leamington Operations, save and except permanent assistant Department Heads, permanent assistant foreladies, and persons above those ranks, persons solely and permanently employed as office staff, quality control (laboratory) staff and those covered by other Collective Agreements.
2.02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article and who have acquired seniority as
set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.03	The term "probationary employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.04	The term "seasonal employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article, but who are hired by the Company between July 1st and November 1st of any year. _
2.05	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and seasonal employees and such provisions shall only apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.06
UNION
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3 -
Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
ARTICLE III
SECURITY
A 11 employees who are n_£L& members of the Union or who may later become members shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
All employees, including seasonal employees, who may hereafter become employees in the bargaining unit, shall LmmediaCalv upon expiration of sixty-five (66) consecutive working days with the Company, or after sixty-five (65) intermittent t working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having "Z> worked in each of such months, become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
The Company will furnish to the Union, every two weeks, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company.
The Company will deduct Union dues from the pay of each member of the Union when so authorised iby such members in writing on a form acceptable to tho Company. Such deduction shall be made monthly on the employee's firet pay day of each ^ calendar month and the amount* so deducted shall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of	|
Local 459 within twelve (12) day8 following ; each deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which may be levied frca time to time.
4
ARTICLE XV
WAGES
4,01	(a) The minimum hourly rates of pay shall be
as follows:
after 65 days of actual work
$10.50
(b) The rates for all jobs under the job grading plan are applicable for all employees after 130 days of actual work with the Company.
4.02	Highway Transport Drivers shall be paid a weekly
wage determined by the rate applicable under the job grading plan.
4.03	The rules and regulations and rates under the
job grading plan appear as Appendix “A” hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
4.04	Job titles ana grades applicable to each depart-
ment shall be posted in the respective departments.
4.05
All employees required to sarva on a jury shall, for the period of such service bs compensated for the difference between the daily amount received by thea as jurors and eight hours pay at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
4,06	It it agreed that any employee, seasonal or other-
wise, who have been in the employ of the Company for a period of sixty-five (651 days of actual work within a period of one yt*£ and who Hava been la4dr"diff and rehired within one year from the date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rate of pay which was being received by them at the tiae of lay-off, together with any increases agreed to during the period of lay-off. Provided that, in any case, the rate of pay to be received by such an employee, upon rehiring, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed 6 5 days of actual work.
5
4.C7	Employees working on the afternoon (second)
shift and on the night (third) shift shall receive their pay Thursday evening.
4.08
An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, and grandchild.
Such employee will be paid eight (8) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each work day (Monday through Friday) that falls within the immediate three (3) calendar day period following the death of the employee's relative as specified above. In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3) work days nor will an employee be paid tor Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. If the employee cannot attend the funeral, only one work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished the company. An employe8 will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of one day in the case of absence due to the death of the employee's daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with Appendix "C*.
ARTICLE V
SHIFT PREMIUMS
5.01
A shift premium equal to 3 percent of the base rate (Grade l) shall se paid for all hours worked after 3*00 p.a. on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium equal to 4.5 percent of the base rate (Grad* l) for all hours worked prior to 3:00 a.a. on a regular night (third)
O
cn
6
shift. (The shift premium to be rounded to the closest cent). To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard eight hours on that shift, prior to 3 i00 am To qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work 50 percent or more his standard eight hours on his respective shift.
5.02	where an employee has less than eight (8) hours
off between shifts, a premium of time and one-half will be paid for such time as is worked by him during such an eight hour period, except where employees with the consent of supervision trade shifts for the employees' convenience.
ARTICLE VI
HOURS CF WORK
.01	Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company
in accordance with its requirements.
6. 02
(a)
Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excel* "Ojf eight (8) hours per day or forty( 140) hpurs per week, Monday through Friday? except to Highway Transport Drivers who are paid at a weekly rate. For, the purpose* of this paragraph, a shift shall be deemed to fall on the day on which it commence*.
(b) During the period that tomatoes are being processed, probationary and seasonal employees shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in exces* of forty (40) hours per week. The Company shall post notices prior to any work week when this period shall begin.
6.03
Double time shall be paid for work performed on Sunday except to probationary and seasonal employees during the tomato season.
6.04	(a) When the Company decides that overtime
work is necessary, throughout the period of Monday to Friday, inclusive, it will be first assigned to employees on the same shift who are performing the work required, and	Hy
shirt seniority, provided they are ready and available for such work. When overtime work is required on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis, provided the employees concerned have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work required.
(b) It is understood that when skilled maintenance work is required by the Company on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be distributed as equally as practicable among the skilled maintenance employees within the respective skilled classifications concerned. An employee who declines such an overtime assignment will be credited therewith in the administration of this understanding.
When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary on Sunday, during the tomato season and pickle season, it will be allocated as
outlined in 6*04(a) above provided the assignment of overtime does not interfere with normal shift rotation.
6.05	In any week in which a paid holiday as provided
by this Agreement falls, the Company shall pay time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or thirty-two (32) hours per week except to Highway Transport Drivers as aforesaid. Highway Transport Drivers will be paid overtime after thirty-five decimal two (35.2) hours per week in any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement falls or in the week in which either the Friday preceding or the Monday following tho employs**"' vacation period is taken as an additional day off in lieu of the holiday.
ARTICLE VII
HOLIDAYS
7.01	(a) Employees other than probationary, or-seasonal
employees who work on the day upon which any of the following holidays is observed, namely:
New Year's nay Easter Monday" Canada Day ^ Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Good Friday, Victoria Day H Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day-
8
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance of eight (8) hours as provided in paragraph 7.02, These payments shall be computed on the basis of the rate applicable to the job performed.
An additional day as determined by the Company will be granted as a recognized holiday during the Christmas season.
(c)
A holiday allowance of eight (8) hours will be paid Cor the last working day prior to Christmas Day and the last working day prior to New Year's Day subject to the conditions set forth in paragraphs 7.02 and 7,03.
Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
7.02	Employees other than probationary or seasonal
employees not required to work on such recognized holidays shall receive a holiday allowance of eight (8) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works hi8 full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full scheduled working day immediately following such holiday unless absent for any of the following reasons:
(i) personal illness (proven by a Doctor’s certificate acceptable to the Company);
(ii) quarantined by order OS a qualified health authority:
(iii) death in the immediate family?
(iv) compulsory Court attendance a8 a witness or on jury duty:
(v) if absent up to five (5) working days when written leave-of-absence therefor ha8 been granted by the employee's Department Head;
9
(vi) absent on bona fide Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
7.03	In order to qualify for pay €or the holidays as
above, the employee's scheduled working day herein before referred to must fall within three working days before and within three working days after the said holiday (or within six working days before and within six working days after the said holiday where paragraph 7,02 (i) applies) and must be worked.
ARTICLE VIII REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL-IN PAY
8.01
An employee who is scheduled or notified to report for work and who does report for work on time shall bo entitled to a minimum of four hours straight-time pay, unless previously notifed by the Company not to report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall bo paid for any period of time worked by an employee within his regularly scheduled shift. Jrovided further, that if requested by the Company, the employee 9halT~p:erform a minimum of four hours of such available work as tho Company may assign, and, further provided that the Company’s obligation to grant minimum reporting pay as above provided shall not apply where failure to furnish work is duo to causes beyond the Company's control.
8.02
An employee who is called and returns to work after he has completed his soheduled shift and has loft the preaisei of the Company shall be paid, rtgardleee of the amount of time worked, not less than tour (4) hours straight-time pay.
- 10 -
AKXICL2 IX
SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority means length of continuous service
with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force.
9.02
An employee, other than a seasonal employee, acquires seniority after completing the probationary period of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company or after sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five f5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, but when so acquired, the employee's seniority dates from the date first hired.
9.03	A "seasonal employee" acquires seniority when
retained in the Company's service after November 1st of any year and after completing the established sixty-five (65) days' probationary period, but when an employee's seniority is so acquired, his seniority dates from tho date first hired if tho sixty-five (65) working days are accumulated within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in
each of such months.
9.04	An employee loses seniority when the employee:
(a)	quits or resigns;
(b)	is discharged for causer
<c) in case of an employee with less than two year's seniority, is laid off for lack of work for a continuous period in excess of the length of his seniority with the Company. In the case of employees with seniority of two years or more, is laid off for lack of work, for a continuous period in excess of tw&jfjtA&si
fails to report for work when called without a valid reason;
fails to report for work within seventy*two (72) hours after being sent a written notice
9.05
9.06
9.07
- U
by icyiaueied mail addressed to tne employee's last address known to the Ctm-pany, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate if the employee fails to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice.
"Temporary lay-offs" shall in this Agreement mean lay-offs of not longer than five (5) working days. In the case of temporary lay-offs, seniority shall be applied by departments which means that the employees of a department have the first right to the work available in that department which they are competent to perform and that employees of another department with even mote seniority even though competent to perform that work, cannot replace them by reason of greater seniority. However, if a temporary lay-off occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the Company, departmental seniority will not apply for a period of within two working days.
A ^new employee's seniority applies in the department to which he is assigned at the end of his probationary period, and continues in that department until the employee is transferred to another department.
(a)
The term "vacancy* for the purposes of this Article, shall be defined as an opening in the departmental seniority list where the number of parsons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due to an employee's transfer/ death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department, and the duration of which is expected to exceed 6 5 working days, 'The vacancy will be posted for three working days throughout tK5 factory, aop lie at ions for trangff to a posted vacancy may be made In writing by employees throughout the factory who have more than two years1 seniority.
c.
J
- 12 -
(h) In making a transfer,- seniority, will
- Ak govern where ,‘h>'->-!6oinp ar a t i ve ly
skill equal, that the Company wil select an applicant not able to-meet the of the job. Nothing
merit and ability are it being understood ll not be obligated to if the applicant is normal requirements herein contained wil
prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.
1(c) The job vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therefrom, will not be subject to posting.
(d) An employee who is successful on a posted vacancy may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve months unless otherwise agreed between the Company, the Union and the employee.
(e) An employee who fails to fill the require-menta of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the department he worked in Immediately preceding the transfer i f he would have continued to work in that department except for his selection to the ported vacancy, or to seme other department* Such employee may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve months.
(f) In the case of arbitration, not more than
one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy,
9.08	(a) An employee who is transferred from one depart-
ment to another department it a result of his own request acquires no departmental seniority in that new department for a period of one year
- 13 -
9.09
except over employees brought into the department after the date of his transfer but if retained in that department after a period of one year, h1s departmental seniority based upon h1$ total service as set forth above, applies in that new department only.
(b)	An employee who Is tranferred from one department to another department by the Company acquires no departmental seniority in the rav department for a period of three months except over employees brought into the department after the date of nis transfer but
if retained in that department after a period of three months, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in such rav department. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Company to a new department as a result of a reduction 1n the number of employees in his former department due to a technological changer shall acquire seniority 1n tht rav department as of date of transfer.
(c)	Where the transfer of a person in the employ of the Company from outside the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, such person (employer) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of one year except over employees brought Into the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but if retained In the bargaining unit after a period of one year, the errployee's bargaining unit seniority will be based upon his/her total service with the Company.
(d)	In the application of (c) above, an employee who falls to fill the requirements of the position within ate year from transfer Into the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred bade to the department he/she worked in immediataly preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to wak In that depertment except for his/her transfer, or to so»o other department within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority,
(e) In tho appl (cation of (c) above> for tho purpose of lay offs
within the period of one year following the employee's transfer Into the bargaining unit fro* outside tho bargaining unit, at tt option of the Ccmpany, will k transferred back to the departmei ho/sht worked in iffwwdlately preceding the transfer 1f he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that department exesj for his/her transfer, or to sc*e other department within his/hei origin*) bargaining unit for placement, If any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority,
Mhfft an employe# after king transferred is laid off for any reason other than those specified 1n Article 11.02 of this Agreement, such lay-off shall not Interfere with the accu«ul*t1on of seniority in the new department. When so recalled, such an employee will have preferenoe over employees with jess departmental seniority to ooese back into the department ne WBS working in at the time of
9.10
14 -
layoff. When so reinstated, the accumulation of seniority will continue until one year after the date of the first transfer, or three months, whichever is applicable.
Seniority for the purpose of temporary lay-offs will be applied separately in the following departments, subject to such changes in the future as the interest of the business may require and as agreed to by the Union;
1.	Pickle Manufacturing Department
2.	Vinegar Manufacturing Department
3.	Can Filling Department
4.	Can and Baby Food Production Maintenance Department
5.	Cookroom Department
6.	Glass Production Maintenance Department
7.	General Filling, Labelling and Packing Department
8.	Building Service Department
9.	Mechanical Maintenance Department
10.	Construction Maintenance Department
H. Warehousing Department
12.	Sauce Department
13.	Supply and Storage Department
14.	Garage Equipment Department
15.	Production Preparation and Strained Food Kitchens Department and Rig1 Room, including Bean Picking
16.	Cereal Department
17.	Production Equipment Clean-up Department
18.	Can Labelling Department
19.	Paste Storage Department
20.	General Labour Department
21.	Central Stores Department
22.	Warehouse Maintenance Department
23.	Vegetable Maintenance Department
24.	Instrument, Electronics and Electrical Department
- 15
Seniucity lists will be posted in each department semi-annually. Position on the senio rity list shall be determined by chronological order of hiring.
9.11	Leave of absence if granted in writing by the
Company will not affect an employee's seniority rating. An employee may under special circura-v stances receive a maximum of three weeks' leave of absence through his Department Head.
9.12
In the event of a shortage of work in any department, the senior employees shall have preference for the work, available providing that there is no dthin the day.
bumping
9.13	In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or
mote departments, plant-wide seniority w i 11 not apply to the employees involved with respect to lay-offs of two weeks' duration or less provided that this may only be applied once per calendar year to the same employees. If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 7.01 occur during such a shut-down employees who are laid off under this provision 'shall receive holiday allowance in accordance with paragraph 7.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three working days iamediately preceding and Within three working days Immediately following the shutdown. Employees who continue to work during a shutdown shall qualify for holiday allowance in accordance with paragraphs 7.02 and 7.03.
9.14
(a) £a any department where the rotating system is now in affect, the present method of rotation shall remain in effect, with the following provisions:
(t)
(ii)
employees shall be treated equally
with regard to being assigned higher paid work, providing they can perform such work;
no employee shall be compelled to rotate on jobs which he, ia not physically capable of performing..
9.15
9.16
9.17
- 16 -
(iii)	employees who normally do not rotate will not be compelled to do so, so long as it is practicable.
(b)	In any department where the rotating system is not now in effect, the department shall continue to operate on this basis so long
as it is practicable, and the senior employee in the department shall be given preference for the higher rated jobs.
(c)	The employees subject to the above provisions must have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work.
In the case of lay-offs other than temporary, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	Probationary employees shall be laid off first;
(b)	Thereafter employees shall be laid off
according to plant-wide^guenlorltv^-provided c-T-' that the em^Ioyee'"'entitl‘ed by seniority to	1
the work available has the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform that work.
Position on the seniority list shall be determined by chronological order of hiring.
(a)	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit undar this contract and subsequently transferred back to the bargaining unit within a parted of one year, shall retain his full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed bharaln, Any nthar employaa transferred	a position within
the Company outside the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit only over employees brought into the bargaining unit after th* date of his transfer.
(b> In the application of paragraph 9.16(a) the limitation of one year is not applicable where it i s mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union to waive this restriction, in such casa, the employee shall retain his/har full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall ba considered to have been continuously employed therein less any tima spent out of the bargaining unit.
Ai employee who presents a medical certificate showing that he has been ill or disabled by accident shall maintain his seniority rights during the period of such illness or disability.
17
9.18
(*•) In connect ion with promotions, other than appointments to supervisory positions, upgradings,. demotions; lay-offs and rehirings,
lonty will govern where skill,	^	^
and ability are comparatively equal. Promotion shall be on a departmental basis and the Company shall give written notice to	)
the Steward of the Department of any promotion.
(b) Upon making a promotion to a job having a
classified rate, the Company will take into consideration employees' special qualifications as on file with the Personnel Department.
(c) In the application of paragraph 9.18(a),
time spent in filling a temporary or seasonal vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employees who normally perform the job.
9.19	Wherever practicable the Company will give pre-
ference in hiring as seasonal employees, to those who ware employed during the previous seasonal operations.
9.20	Wherever practicable the Company will give the
opportunity for permanent employment to senior seasonal employees who are competent to do the work required of them. For the purposes of this section, a "senior seasonal employee" shall be deemed to be an employee who has accumulated a total of twelve months employment as a seasonal employee over a period of throe consecutive seasonal operations as defined in Article 2 hereof.
9.21	The Company will forward to the Union ten (10)
copies of all departmental and plant seniority lists semi-annually.
9.22	(a)
A pregnant employee may apply for and take a leave of absence at the end of rive months of pregnancy and shall be entitled to be re-employment with ull seniority rights provided she reports for work within (two months after the birth, unless she produces '"a medical certificate
K \
18
satisfactory to the Company showing that she is unable to do so.
In the case of adoption of a pre-school child, the mother may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effective the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be reemployed with gull senior.i.ty.^xirqfefe-&~ at the termination ofstRJft“""Teave.

9,23 j^f^The Company will endeavour to place an employee ^having long and faithful service who has become unable to handle his job in another job which he is competent to perform.
&
9.24
'V
(a)	The local Union President and Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working on the day shift.
(b)	The First Vice-president and Assistant Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working on the day shift if the President or Chief Steward is respectively absent for extended periods of time such as vacations, conventions, etc.
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
ARTICLE X
VACATIONS
10.01 Each regular employee shall be entitled to a
vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
(a)	If employed less than ten (10) months during the previous calendar year, one (1) day of vacation in the second calendar year for each full calendar month of service in the previous calendar year;
(b)	If employed ten (10) months or mora but less than one (1) full calendar yeas during the previous calendar year; two (2) weeks Of vacation in the second calendar year;
(c)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
19
(a)
During *-be calendar ysar in which the employee celebrates his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay,
During the calendar year in *'bich the employee celebrates his tenth (10th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay*
During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his eighteenth (18th) and each Subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive five (5) Weeks of vacation with pay*
During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive six (6) weeks of vacation with pay,
10*02' Five (5) working days shall constitute ono week*
10.03	Vacation with pay shall bo calculated as follows:
- 20 -
(a)	Employees entitled to two (2} weeks
or less vacation - 4 percent of warnings for the preceding calendar year:
(b)	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks vacation - 6 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year:
(c)	Employees entitled to four (4) weeks vacation - 3 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(d)	Employees entitled to five (5} weeks vacation - 10 percent of earnings for the
.	preceding calendar year;
(e) Employees entitled to six (6) weeks vacation - 12 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(£) Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
(i) if the employee has worked 500 or more hours during the pra-. ceding calendar year, 2 percent of earnings for such preceding calendar year for each week of vacation entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee's regular hourly wage rate for a forty-hour week, which ever Is greater,
(li) if the employee has worked less
than 500 hours during the preceding year, 2 percent of the employee's earnings for such preceding calendar year each week of vacation entitlement,
Uii) in calculating time worked, absence while receiving
21 -
Workers’ Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, or casual union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as time worked on the basis of eight (8) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such preceding calendar year.
10.04	When a "paid" holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, he will be paid "holiday" pay in addition to regular vacation pay.
10.05	Vacations must be taken in periods of not less than one week at a time unless an employee’s service entitles him to less than one week, in which case, he must take all of his vacation at one time. Employees entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient
to the Company. Exceptions to this policy will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by the Vice-President - Manufacturing.
10.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requested by the employees in employee seniority order except that efficient operations of the plant shall be the first conaideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07	An eligible employee upon being laid off indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the end of the previous calendar year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of lay-off that he prefers to postpone such paid vacations ’until later in the calendar year
- 22
in which he is laid off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08 Upon termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulated to his credit.
ARTICLE XI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive
function of the Company to:
(i) Maintain order, discipline, efficiency;
di) Hire./ classify, direct and lay-off;
(ill) Discharge , transfer, promote, demote,
suspend, or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
(iv)	Make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees provided they are not inconsistent with the provision* of this Aqr^ement;
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, method.* of manufacture; schedules of production, kind* and location of machines and tools to bo ustd, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in tho products produced and the extension/ limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
23 -
11.02	It in understood that the cause for which the Company may summarily suspend employees (provided that the suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
(i)	intoxication;
(i i)	disorderly conduct;
(iii)	insubordination;
(iv)	unauthorized absenteeism:
(v)	neglect of duty;
(vi)	carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(vii)	theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be for any reason as determined by the Company.
11.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII
NO-STRIKE PROVISION
12.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide by all the term and conditions of this contract and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walk-out, sit-down, slowdown or other interference with or interruption of work, and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and condition, of this contract and during the term will not lock out the employees.
- 24 -
ARTICLE XIXI
SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
The Union will select Departmental Stewards and a Chief Steward for the plant. The Company will be advised by the Union of the names of its stewards and will recognize such representatives of the Union in processing grievances as hereinafter set forth.
All grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss of time or pay to the parties involved.
It is understood that Stewards, including the Chief Steward, have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company ana will spend only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided under the grievance procedure. If it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regular work without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of the Department in which they are respectively employed. It is also understood that a Steward shall not enter another department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such department and notifying him a« to the nature of the grievance and the personnel involved. The Steward, upon leaving a department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof/ and upon remains his regular work/ after servicing a grievance in his own or another department will report to his own Department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned/ more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance/ the Steward's Department Read may decline to approve payment to such Steward tor such excess time. The term "Department Head * shall mean the person supervising the week force,
13.01
13.02
13.03
- 25
13.04	It is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee who shall be accompanied by his Departmental Steward to his Department Head within three full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the
complaint have originated or occurred. If an
employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three full working days after receiving the Department Head's decision in the following manner and sequence:
Step NIP.	1:
Between the employee, who may be accompanied by his Departmental Steward, and his Department Head. Tho grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be rendered in writing within two full working days following the presentation of the grievance.
Failing settlement/ then:
Step NQ. 2:
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Personnel Department at which time the written record of the grievance shall be submitted and the Personnel Department's written decision given within not more than three working days following receipt of the written grievance at this step.
Failing settlement, then:
SH-op TJr>	,
Within five full working day6 following the decision under Step 2:	the grievance shall be
submitted as part of the agenda for a meeting between the Company's industrial relations manager and members of the Plant Grievance Committee, not exceeding six in number. An International Representative of the Union may be present at such meeting. The decision of the Company's industrial relations manager shall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
13.OS
13.06
13.07
13.08
13.09
13.10
26 -
Failing settlement of any difference between the parties under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure, arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable/ such difference or question rm/ be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 14, Ic' no written request for arbitration is received within ten working days after the final decision under the Grievance Procedure is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
Ary difference arising directly between the Company and the Union may b-e submitted by either party at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitration. When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall first be taken up under Step No. 2 and they may be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two amployaes.
Ary adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance ?roce4ure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board shall not be made retroactive prior to the date the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure, except as to improper classification or bookkeeping error involving an employee's earnings.
All decisions arrived at/ between representatives of the Company and the representatives of the Union, at any step of the written grievance procedure, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned. The Company shall submit a written reply to each written grievance.
Failure o£ the Union or employees to comply with the time limits in Step 1/ 2 and 3 above, shall
- 27
considered as acceptance of the lest answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Failure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1, 2 and 3 above shall be considered a refusal of the request involved in the grievance and immediate appeal to the next step in the procedure may be taken. When either party desires additional time within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable limits shall be granted by the other party upon written request.
13.11	The Company will supply the Union with a list of the Department Heads and Assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the Union of any changes thereto.
13.12	At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty
or dispute.further if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or __	justified under the terms of this Agreement to the
'	satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the
aggrieved employee has been notified either by their steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union Presideat requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
13.13	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisions
of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agrement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
- 28 -
ARTICLE XIV
ARBITRATION
14,01	When either party requests that any matter be
submitted to arbitration as herein before provided it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an Arbitrator. Within five days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator: provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein requested, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall have power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The two arbitrators shall, within five days of the appointment of the latter of tham, attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such a
Beriod of five days, they shall then request the mtario Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them in selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having ■	regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in
interpreting collective bargaining agreements and his familiarity with industrial relations.
14,02	No person m^ be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14,03	No nutter may be submitted to arbitration which
hat not ken properly carried through all previous Stapt of the Grievance ?ro«*dur*.
14.04	The Arbittation Board shall not be authorized to m*k* any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to altar, modify or amend any part off this Agraeatat,
14.05	Th* proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be axpaditad by the parties h*r*to, and th* decision of th* majority, or failing that, th* Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parti** h*r*to and the amploye* or anployaas Concerned.
14,06	Each of the parties hereto w,ill bear the expense
of the arbitrator representing it, and the parti** will jointly bear the exp*ns* of the Chairman off th* Arbitration Board.
- 29 -
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained
will be granted for a period of two years to two employees (only one per department) at any time accepting a full-time position with the Union subject to refteWSlr upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
(b) Reasonable time off with seniority maintained
shall be granted to Union representatives to attend bona fide Union business, provided competent replacements are laVcritatrte for those employees de- ./V+-M-siring to be away from work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make it possible' for him to attend Union meetings.
ARTICLE XVI SICX AND WELFARE PLAN
16,01 The Company agrees to assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare PlanawISh respect to etch employee while in the active employment of the Cctnpeny who is eligible for benefits thereunder t
Ontario Health Insurance Plan;
The Weakly Indemnity Plan providing a maximum coverage of fifty-two (52) weeks shall provide a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sixty-six and two-thirds (66 2/31 percent Unemployment Insurance Ccasaissiot Plan for employees who qualify thereunder j
(e)
All regular employees shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity benefits immediately upon reinstatement on the payroll following a lay-off;
Supplementary Hospitalization Plan to be continuadf
The Thirty-Five (35) Cant Deductible Drug Plan shall be continued;
- 30
The present supplementary Health Care Benefit Plait will remain in effect;
The Company will provide a Dental Plan;
The present Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain in effect;
Out-of-Province/Country emergency treatment,
The Company will provide a basic vision care plan;
Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed clinics.
ARTICLE XVII
UNIFORMS
17.01- The Company shall furnish and employees shall be required to wear uniforms of a type, design and colour as determined by the Company. The rules and regulations and conditions attached to the supplying of uniforms are contained in Appendix hereto.
ARTICLE XVIII
BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01 The Company agrees to maintain eight (8) bulletin board* on which the Union may post notices of the tin* and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and name* of officer* or accredited representative* and such ether notices as may be approved by tho Company. Tho UrUon :*heil deliver one copy of each such notice to the Personnel Department one-half hour prior to postir,-4 ,
- 31 -
ARTICLE XIX
REST PERIODS
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest
oeriods of ten (10) minutes each per eight (8) lour shift and in the event of employees being required to work overtimer they shall be given a ten (10) minute rest period for each two (2) hours of overtime worked.
ARTICLE XX
SAFETY AND HEALTH
20.01	The Company will make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees in the Plant during their working hours.
20.02	The Company agrees to notify the Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE XXI
GENERAL
'■V,
21.01 No work shall be performed by employees outside
the bargaining unit except in carer of emergency, f experimental work, instruction of employees or for relief work.
21.02 The Chief Steward will be furnished with a copy of any Employee Report given to an employee.
- 32 -
ARTICLE XXII
22.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect until A p r i 1 30th/ 1992 and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either par ty shall have given sixty (60) days written notice to the other of its desire to terminate the same. In the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, each party shall submit to the other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if* any, to this agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not later than a further period of fifteen (15) days.
EXECUTED at LEAMINGTON,
Ontario this
?^day of
FOR:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS A.F.L. C.I'.O. C.L.C. LOCAL 459
- 33 -
APPENDIX "A"
The Rules and Regulations of the Job Grading Plan as hereinafter written shall be deemed to be part of this Agreement.
The rates under the Job Grading Plan shall be as follows:
Job Grade
Effective May 1, 1990
14.69 fb
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11
14.83
14.96
15.14 15.26 15.35 15.49 15.64
15.96 16.70
17.01
- 34 -
APPENDIX “B"
1.	The Company shall furnish all garments necessary up-to a maximum of six garments per employee per year.
2.	A garment for an employee shall consist of an overall, trousers and/or jacket. Cookroom employees shall be provided with T-shirts as the Company may determine. Employees will be provided with a perma press uniform. Welders will be provided with shirts on the basis of two shirts for one other garment. A woman's cut of pants will be provided.
3.	All male and female employees shall receive caps and hats, as required.
4.	(a) Employees shall receive the uniforms
above mentioned upon obtaining seniority.
(b) Upon obtaining seniority an employee shall be entitled to two complete uniforms and shall receive the third complete uniform within six months thereafter.
5.	Employees who have qualified for uniforms but who are scheduled to be laid off within ten days of qualifying shall not, at that time, receive a uniform but shall be entitled to receive uniforms as above specified immediately upon rehiring.
6.	New uniforms will only be issued upon appraisal of the appropriate worn-out garments. The Company will post notices when new uniforms are available.
35 -
KUL2S AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE OPERATION OF JOB GRADING AND JOB GRADING RATES
1.	As of February 1, 1986, all jobs have be n correct y
described and assigned to job grades, aL 1 wage inequities thereby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed. Subsequent jobs whose job descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, will be considered as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed.
2
(a)	A "change"in a job as referred to herein is one which materially affects its content or requirements. Changes in a job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existing job;
(b)	When a new job is established or an old job is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs in the Plant;
(c)	A copy of the job description of the new or changed job will be sent to the Union for approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been Created, or the changes to the existing job have bean made, together with a notation of the job grade;
(<J) Upon commencing an experimental job, changed job, or a new job a production employee will remain at the job rate which he regularly . received prior to this job, until * job grade rate is assigned to the jcb. The job will be graded within a three (3) month period where possible;
(e)	If the Union believes that an existing job
has changed to an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade, it shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and
36 -
of the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Company within fifteen (15) working days after the change in the job is alleged to have occurred;
(£) Ary job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint is filed by the Union within fifteen (15) working days after such job description and grade is submitted to the Union;
(?)
(h)
Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union Job Grading Committee at the earLiest convenient date to discuss the differences and attempt to make a settlement of these differences. The Company will advise the Union in writing of their decision regarding the said Job Description or Job Grade;
If the Company and the Union are unable to reach agreement on the job description or job grading of a job within a rearonable period of time, the difference will be submitted to an impartial arbitrator whose decision w i 11 be final and binding on both parties.
k
3.
The description and grading of jobs will be in
compliance with the following ruless
(a)	The des cription and grading shall be of the job, not of the perron performing it>
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by management shall not be considered;
(c)	Tho grading shall be based upon average s*-quirements to perform the job satisfactorily, rather than upon exceptions tp the average, Performance by specific individuals who are above or below average will not be considered except where classified rates, a8 in the maintenance departments, apply:
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day's work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The job descriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to reveal those features of the job that determine its classification. At the same time they are not intended to provide
a complete listing of every individual feature of the jab. If new duties which may be assigned at any time, become a permanent feature of the work, the job shall be reconsidered as provided in Section 2.
4
5.
Jobs of lead personnel may be graded in accordance with the following procedure:
(a)	A Lead Person is one who:
1* Instructs;
2.	sees that directions of the supervisor are executed,
3.	co-ordinates,
4.	checks work,
5.	reports necessary information, and
6* performs necessary manual duties, in a department or major subdivision thereof. Jobs requiring the incumbent to direct a small crew working with him are not plassified as lead jobs, but such direction is included in the regular job description and evaluation.
(b)	Lead personnel will receive the established rate for the classification of Lead in which they fall, as outlined by the job grading programme, with the provision that they will receive a rate at least one grade higher than the highest grade job which they suparviaa.
(a) An employee who has 130 days of actual work with the Company within one period of
- 38
employment is eligible Far job grading rates:
(b)	An employee with less than 130 days of actual work with the Company who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for job grading when he has accumulated 130 days of actual work with the Company, provided that the employee has a minimum of 65 working days :since his reinstatement:
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire semi skilled and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the collective agreement provided these rates are not inconsistent with the rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	Any employee on job grading, Who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off, shall, on rehiring, be treated as a new employee, and must accumulate the necessary service undsr Clause 5(a) haraof in order to again become eligible for job grading.
6
(a)	Each employe*, respectively, shall be paid for all hours worked each day, the rate of the highest job grade at which he works if he spends fifty per centum (50%) or more of his daily working hours, including overtime in that job grader
(b)	In the event an employee performs work in more than one job grade and therefore works less than half of his daily working hours at any single rate, he shall be paid an average rate based on the hours worked and tho applicable job grade rates;
(c)	Employees who enter the employ of the Company and become eligible for job grading, after job grading is effect will be paid the rate established for the job grade to which they are assigned, or when applicable, in accordance with the arrangements set forth in 6(a) and (b) above.
- 39 -
7*	(a) All employees, except those employees receiv-
ing classified rates, shall receive the appropriate job grade €or each job which they perform, with the stipulation that a minimum period of time of IS minutes must be spent on the job before credit is given. Where less than 15 minutes is spent on the job, the job grade rate of the previous job performed shall apply, or where less than 15 minutes is spent on the first job upon commencing the shift the employee shall receive the job grade rate of the job following. This clause is subject to the qualifications of Clause 6(a) and (b) ?
(b) Employees regularly engaged on maintenance work shall be Classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted. Maintenance employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job grade rates for each job they perform, as defined in Clause 6(a) and (b) ?
Employees regularly engaged in sterilizing in the Can Filling Department shall be classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed unless promoted while working in the Can Filling Department.
(d) An employee being trained-for a skilled production or maintenance job shall receive the job grade rate below the rate of thp job nfyx for which he is being trained until he i* ^ fully qualified to perform thesXillad job < after which time he shall receive the iob l grade rate of the job. It i* understood
that should the employee fail to qualify for the skilled job within 13 0 working days of being trained he shall be returned to his former job. Employees being trained for skilled maintenance job* will be required to complete maintenance controls cards for thi# period of time. It shall be tho exclusive function of Management to determine if an employes is fully qualifed to perform the job for which ba is trained/ subject to the right of appeal by the employee through the grievance procedure.
8,	(a) Employees who are sent to the First Aid De-
partment or to the doctor because of illness shall be paid the job grade rate they are earning at th# time they left their job for
the £lr$t hour or less away, but shall not be paid for such time in excess of one hour?
(b)	Employees required to go to the First Aid Department or to the doctor for treatment of an injury received while working shall receive the rate of the job they were performing for time so spent. If an employee, due to injury on the job is unable to return to the job, he shall be paid for the balance ot the shift at the rate of the jab he was performing when the injury occurred:
(c)	Employees who work on jobs graded on the basis of the employee being required to wear goggles, respirators, or other safety appliances, will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which required such protection.
9.	Employees will be paid at the grade rate of the
job they left, or if commencing a shift for the job they are to perform, for the time spent during working hours attending safety meetings, union meetings, and any meetings required by Management.
10.	An employee who is ordered to report for work and
cannot be given work at the time he is told to report, shall be paid tor such waiting time at the job grade rate at which he last worked on the preceding working day. When such an eajployee is sent: how because work 1* not available, he shall be paid a minimum of four hour* straight time at the job grad* rate at which he last worked the preceding working day. An employee who did not work the preceding working day shall be paid the job grade rate for the job which he was scheduled to perform. If the employee works for a short period of time before he is sent home, he shall receive the job grade rate for this job performed for the remainder of his call-in pay, or if the employee
Eerforms two or mote jobs before he is sent home, e shall receive the job grade rate of the last job performed for the remainder of his call-in pay. This call-in pay shall not apply in the event work is not available because of conditions beyond the control of the Company.
- 41 -
11-
Eligible employees shall receive eight (3) hours holiday allowance for paid holidays not worked, as outlined in the Collective Agreement in effect, at the rate paid those employees that last working day before the holiday.
12.	Highway transport drivers shall be paid a weekly
rate.
- 42 -
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR HIGHWAY TRANSPORT DRIVERS
1
(a)	(i) Highway Transport Drivers shall receive
straight time pay for all hours worked in excess of 10 consecutive hours or 48 hours in any one week period. For the purposes of this section, the hourly rate shall be determined by dividing the weekly rate by 48;
(ii) Highway Transport Drivers' driving time, including all breaks, tire checks, meals, etc., shall be paid on an hourly basis with the hours for each trip determined by the formula of 45 miles a 1 hour. Mileage distances are to be determined by the Ontario Truckers’ Association mileage schedule;
(iii) Time required for unloading, loading and approved delays will be paid at the regular, hourly, highway rater
(iv> Highway drivers will be paid the total of three quarters of an hour at the highway rate for checking equipment at the start of the shift and securing equipment at the finish of the shift. Drivers will be issued a check list which must be completed prior to departure and at finish of shift.
(v) The daily pay will be adjusted by deducting any time absent from work during the normal scheduled working hours for personal reasons such as permission for medical and dental appointments and other leaves of absence.
(b)	Highway Transport Drivers shall receive time
and ono-half pay for all hours worked in excess of 44 hours in any one week period;
(c)	If a night's layover becomes necessary duo
to a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will not receive consideration for payment as stipulated in Section (a) beyond the time required to assure the safety of the truck and its contents;
- 43 -
(d)	If a night's layover occurs because of a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will be sent to a hotel at the Company's expense;
(e)	In all cases proof of the cause of the delay may be required, and if the delay is caused by the driver's negligence no extra compensation will be paid.
2.	(a) A Highway Transport Driver who loses time
through an injury, sickness, OS disease, where Workers' Compensation benefits are not payable and on producing a medical certificate shall be paid his regular wages until he is eligible for his welfare indemnity;
(b) Where Workers' Compensation Benefits accrue on account of injury this will be in lieu of payment of wages by the Company.
3.	(a) Room and bed is furnished by the Company for
Highway Transport Drivers spending overnight on a trip;
(b) An allowance of not over $7.00 will be paid for each meal as authorized per trip. Effective May 1, 1991, the meal allowance will be $8.00.
4.	(a) Whan a Highway Transport Driver is taken oft
the highway (towork in the Transportation Department) for a period of up to a week, for medical reasons* family sickness,etc. * ha will receive his regular weekly wages;
(b) When a Highway Transport Driver if temporarily taken off the highway (to work in the Transportation Department) for a period of longer than a week's duration* for medical .reasons and family sickness* he will receive tho hourly rate of the job he performs.
5.	A Highway Transport Driver will qualify for holiday
pay as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
6.	(e) It shall be the duty of the Company to main-
tain all vehicles in safe operating condition in accordance with the Department of Highway Regulations;
-	44	-
(b) No Highway Transport Driver it authorized to move his truck unless, he knows it to be in good operating condition.
7.	Highway Transport Drivers are not permitted to
allow anyone other than employees of the employer who are on duty to ride on trucks except by written authorization of the employer.
8.	Highway Transport Drivers are responsible for the
.protection of their cargo at all times.
9.	Highway Transport Drivers shall receive a maximum
of two uniforms per year, the said uniforms to be designed by the Company. Replacements for Highway Transport Driver's uniforms will be made upon return and surrender of a womout uniform, A uniform under this clause shall consist of one jacket and two pairs of trousers.
10.	Highway Transport Drivers shall be allowed two
summer uniforms.
n
Highway Transport Drivers shall b-e provided with a winter coat only as raquirad.
12,
Highway Transport Drivers are to be neat and courteous at all timee.
13.	Any Infringements by Highway Transport Drivers
of the abova regulation* will be subject to dis
cipiUary action.
14.	Highway Transport Drivers will ba responsible for
any inf notions of Municipal and Provincial v Traffic Law*.
IS,	Local drivers shall receive the highway transport
rate whan they are on highway runs, for example to Windsor and Chatham,
IS,	The present practice of allocating tho local
Saturday, Sunday and Holiday overtime to the local drivers will continue.
1
- 45 -
APPENDIX "C"
COST OF LIVING FORMULA
Employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided with a cost of living allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	The cost of living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by the Statistics Canada (1971« 100) and hereafter referred to -A4 the C. P ♦ I.
(b)	The April 1990 C.P.I. published May 1990 will be used as the. base index for the period
May 1st, 1990 to April 30th, 1992. Adjustments in the cost of living allowance will be made quarterly at the following times:
Effective Date
of Adjustment	Index	Published
July 31, 1990 October 31, 1990 January 31, 1991 April 30, 1991 July 31, 1991 October 31, 1991 January 31, 1992 April 30, 1992
July 1990 October 1990 January 1991 April 1991 July 1991 October 1991 January 1992 April 1992
August 1990 November 1990 February 1991 May 1991 August 1991 November 1991 February 1992 May 1992
‘Ttatticoat of living allowance shall be adjusted att tha rate of one'cent £1$) for sacti *325
increase or decrease in €Ki" OutT for the......~
period May 1, l?9Q to April 30, 1992.
(d)	Payment o£ the allowance will be made quarterly to each employee calculated on the basis of the applicable cost of living allowance for the total number of hours worked by the employee during the quarterly period in respect of which the allowance is payable.
(e)	N) adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision that may later be made in the published figures for the C.P.I. on the basis of which the allowance has been determined.