SOURCE
-P
Ot>
r
o
EFF.	HZ	A \
TERM.		ZZL


\
No. OF EMPLOYEES
N0M3RE
□ 'EMPLOYES
Soo,
JkJSL
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FRASER VALLEY FOODS J A Division of Pillsbury Canada Limited 44440 South Sumas Road,
Sardis, B.C..;
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL - CIO - CLC Local 1518
#700 - 4211 Kingsway,
BURNABY, B.C.
V5H 1Z6
January 1,1992 -December 31,1993
SEP
9 1992
oo-ss 3(^OLty
INDEX
PAGE
ARTICLE 1 BARGAINING AGENCY............................ 1
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITION .................................. 1
MANAGEMENT..................................  2
ARTICLE 4 UNIONSECURITY ............................... 2
ARTICLE 5 SENIORITY ................................... 3
ARTICLE 6 PROMOTIONS .................................. 6
ARTICLE 7 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.......................... 7
ARTICLE 8 SAFETY AND HEALTH........................... 10
ARTICLE 9 VACATIONS ................................   11
ARTICLE 10 WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS.................. 14
ARTICLE 11 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME................. 15
ARTICLE 12 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS......................... 18
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL.................................... 19
ARTICLE 14 PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE.................... 24
ARTICLE 15	  26
ARTICLE 16	  26
ARTICLE 17	  26
ARTICLE 18 NOTICE .................................... 26
ARTICLE 19 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27
-1 -
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Sardis, B.C., this 13th day of ttoria^j, A.jP. 1992.
BETWEEN
FRASER VALLEY FOODS A Division of Pillsbury Canada Limited 44440 South Sumas Road,
Sardis, B.C.
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL - CIO - CLC Local 1518
#700 - 4211 Kingsway,
BURNABY, B.C.
V5H 1Z6
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1
BARGAINING AGENCY
1.01	The Company hereby recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1518, as the sole collective bargaining agency for all the Company’s employees covered by the certification and for all purposes of the Labour Code of British Columbia and agrees to negotiate with the Union and any Committee thereof in any and all matters with the object of peacefully and amicably settling any differences which may arise.
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITION
2.01	The term “employee” as used and for the purposes of this Agreement only, shall include all persons ‘employed by the Company at the Sardis Plant, excepting only the foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, fieldmen, sales persons, office and clerical staff.
...a
-2-
ARTICLE 3 MANAGEMENT
3.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment; to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutual interests of the Company and its employees and to provide for the operation of the Company’s plant under methods which will serve the interest of the Company and its employees. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and all of its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively to maintain and improve the sound and efficient operation of the business.
Subject only to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business and the employment, direction, discipline, promotion, transfer, lay-off, suspension or discharge of employees for just cause and schedules of hours to be worked shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company.
ARTICLE 4 UNION SECURITY
4.01	Any employee to whom Article 1 applies who, at the date of this Agreement is a member of the Union, or, who hereafter during ihs life of this Agreement becomes a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment maintain membership in good standing.
4.02	All employees within the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union and maintain such membership in
1 good standing. New employees shall sign an application form for union
1 membership and become members after the completion of twenty-five (25) days worked.
4.03	The Company shall commence the deduction of union dues and initiation [ fees from new employees on the first payday after the new employees have \ completed twenty-five (25) days worked. Special Assessments, if levied in
' f	accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union, will be deducted from
'	the members of the Union upon proper notification by the Union.
4.04	All union dues, initiation fees and assessments so deducted shall be remitted
by the Company within ten (10) days after the date of said deductions, together with	names of vth? empky<ses from wtkaw JSfis deductions were made and
the amount of each deduction to the Financial Secretary of Local 1518, United Food and Commercial Workers, and a copy of the list to the Chief Shop Steward of the Plant.
,../3
-3 -
.05	Upon receipt of authorization signed by an employee, the Company agrees
to deduct the amount of union initiation fee from the earnings of the employee who has signed such authorization. The Company further agrees to submit the sum so deducted to the Union in the manner prescribed in Article 4, Section 4.04. All union dues and initiation fees and assessments to be collected by the Company through the office. Initiation cards to be left with the Company for new employees to sign.
4.06	Within one week of an employee attaining seniority the Company agrees to
provide fifteen (15) minutes on Company time to meet with a designated Union steward.
ARTICLE 5 SENIORITY
5.01	A seniority list shall be established forthwith by the Company for all employees who h&e accumulated twenty-five (25) days service with the Company, and whose services were terminated by a lay-off and who, when called to work complied with Section 5.05, subsection (c) of this Article. An employee’s seniority shall then date retroactively to the date he or she commenced the twenty-five (25) days accumulated period.
5.02	Seniority lists as of the date of ratification shall be frozen. New employees shall be listed showing employee number, name and date of hire. Seniority lists shall be adjusted every month by the Company in cooperation with the Shop Stewards and posted on the Union bulletin boards. The lists shall be subject to correction on representation from the Grievance Committee.
5.031	(a) Lay-offs -and re-employment shall be based on seniority, that is, the
| last hired shall be thelTfsHaid oTf and the last laid off shall be the first recalled, o ^ ' provided the senior employee is qualified to perform the work available, or can ^ ~ qualify within a reasonable period of time, not exceeding 25 days, The word	j
qualified shall be interpreted to mean, the ability to perform the job satisfactorily without assistance.
I
(b)	The Union and the Company agree to make eveiy effort to ensure the employees are informed of their responsibility to notify the Company and the Union of the expiration of any leave of absence or sick leave. An employee list will be made available to the Union on a semi-annual basis during the months of May and November of each year.
.../4
-4-
5.04	(a) In the case of temporary transfer the basis of transfer shall be made
by seniority, with the senior qualified employee being asked first and so on down the applicable seniority list, until by this process the temporary vacancy has been filled. Should the vacancy not be filled by this procedure then the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee available in the plant. When a temporary transfer is for a period of five (5) days or more, the Chief Shop Steward or his designee shall be informed within the five day period.
(b)	Classified employees shall not be required to perform work outside their posted classification when work is required within their classification in their shift or as otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. The most junior regular classified employees at work may be scheduled in their classifications without regard to shift preference.
5.05	Seniority shall be forfeited under the following circumstances:
(a)	If an employee is discharged for just cause and such discharge is not reversed by the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	If the employee voluntarily resigns.
(c)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report to work when recalled or cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The method of contact by telephone, followed by a double registered letter to the employee at his or her last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within three (3) working days of receipt of such notice the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he or she will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
(d)	When an employee has been laid off for a period in excess of 24
'	months.
5.06	(a) Leave of absence must be given in writing upon being granted by the
! Management and the employee shall have it initialled by a designated member of I ^ the Supervisory Staff and a designated Union officer in the plant. In no case shall / such leave be for over three months, but it may be extended upon agreement 1	^ Vr between the parties hereto.
(b) No more than three employees at one time who are appointed or elected to do business for the Union shall, upon written application, be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving "ine 'vLumpany one {Y) wteii'V notice in writing of uYcA“nri3ciTuOir to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay.
.../5
-5-
•07	(a) Time off on compensation for any accident or mishap incurred in the
Company’s employ shall be counted as days worked for all purposes of this Agreement.
(b) Any employee absent due to illness or leave of absence to attend to Union business, shall be given credit for days, as though he/she had not been absent up to an amount equal to 100% of their working days, per calendar year, for a maximum period of two years. The onus shall be on the employee to produce such proof as a Doctor’s certificate to substantiate any illnesses.
5.08	It is agreed that when a shortage of work occurs, employees with the greatest seniority shall be entitled to such work as is available, except in the case of breakdowns when the work available is already being performed by other employees and is of half (V£) hour or less duration. In such case, the employees performing the work shall be entitled to complete said work regardless of seniority for the half (V^ hour or less remaining of that work day. The employee shall advise the foreman/forelady of their desire to stay on the job. The Company has every intention to assign the employee within his or her classification but failing this will not result in a violation of the Collective Agreement.
5.09	Each employee will be given a seniority number to correspond with the seniority position. The most senior employee will be Number 1, the next senior employee will be Number 2 and so on down until the last employee hired will have the greatest number. Lay-off on the job and re-hiring shall then be made by seniority.
5.10	The Company agrees to grant any pregnant employee eight (8) months leave of absence during which time the- employee shall not forfeit any of her seniority rights. Such employee while on leave shall be credited for days as the employee vTOUlcI have worked if the employee was not on leave of absence. It is agreed that no female employee shall have the right to continue working during the sixth, seventh, eight and ninth months of her pregnancy, and upon return to work must present a medical certificate of fitness to perform the available work efficiently and , shall be returned to their regular job. Parental leave of twelve (121 weeks shall be granted upon request prior to the child attaining one (1) year of ageT"
During the first five months of pregnancy such employees, if medically unfit to perform their regular job, shall not have their rate reduced if required to transfer to a lower rated job.
5.11	It is agreed that the retirement age for all employees shall be age sixty-five (65).
.../6
-6-
5.12	A day shall mean any day in which an employee is called in to work by
authorization of the Company, and reports for work.
5.0/	(a) In the event of a lay-off in the operating season, the Company shall
give as much notice as is practical to all employees. In the event of a lay-off in the non-operating season, the Company shall give twelve (12) working hours notice or pay in lieu of notice.
(b)	The operating season shall be defined as when the Company is packing perishable goods excluding apples.
ARTICLE 6 PROMOTIONS
In the bargaining unit, the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed 25 days. Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage rate schedules for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they can regularly perform the . job without assistance. If it is obvious that a person cannot qualify and is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment, he or she may be removed, at any time.
6.02	All permanent vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the
bulletin board. The vacancy shall be posted for five (5) working days or as otherwise mutually agreed. An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident, vacation, leave of absence or lay-off when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the employee makes his or her request within seventy-two (72) hours after his or her return to work.
In the event that an employee returning from an.	due, to the above,
is a successful job bidder and displaces or bumps another employee,, rate protection as provided in Article 10, Section 10.08 shall not apply to the displaced employee.	’
Successful applicants’ names shall be posted within five (5) working days of the expiry date of the posting.
Upon the employee’s request the Company agrees to provide the employee with a list of jobs that were posted during his/her absence.
.../7
-7-
.03	In addition, seasonal postings will be made not later than May lrt, or as
otherwise agreed, where it is expected that a seasonal vacancy will not exceed seven (7) continuous weeks. Those applying within five (5) working days from the time of posting will receive consideration for such seasonal vacancies on the basis of ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail.
When an employee is assigned to such seasonal vacancy he or she will receive the applicable rate while performing these seasonal assignments. The Company will provide the Union with a copy of the applications for such advanced postings, and the jobs to be posted will be mutually agreed upon.
Successful applicants’ names shall be-posted within five (5) working days of the expiry date of the posting. The successful applicant shall be credited as though he or she had been assigned to the job commencing the third (3rd) day following the expiry date of the posting. For the purpose of this article a week is defined as sixteen (16) hours of work in a payroll week.
6.04	All job postings shall indicate the number of vacancies to be filled and only these vacancies shall be filled by the initial posting, if subsequent vacancies occur it shall require a new job posting.
6.05	The Chief Shop Steward will be notified no later that 5 working days after the expiry date of the job posting as to which applicant has been chosen to fill the vacancy.-
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot. It is agreed that consultation will take place; quietly, amicably and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
7.02	A Grievance Committee consisting of not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) employees of the Company shall be elected or appointed by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of the Committee.
.../8
g
7.03
7.04
7.05
Should there by any dispute arising out of the interpretation of thi|
Agreement or any Clause or Article thereof the xfiauci'jhrmrmnuchfauhy Y;c uciui
with as follows:
(a)	Between the Union Steward, the employee at his or her option, and the Foreman or Forelady of the department concerned.
(b)	If the question is not settled under Step (a) above (in the delay of one day) then the Union shall present the question in writing to the General Foreman and one other Company representative or in the absence of the General Foreman to the Plant Manager and another Company representative.
(c)	If the question is not settled under steps (a) or (b) above, then the Union may present the written grievance to a Committee comprised of three (3) members designated by the Company, three (3) members elected or appointed by the Union and the aggrieved employee. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired.
(d)	If the question is not settled under Steps (a), (b) or (c) above, then the dispute in question shall be referred to an Arbitration Board to consist of one (1) member appointed by the Company and one (1) member appointed by the Union, and a third member mutually agreed upon by the other two who shall act as Chairman. In the event of failure to agree upon a third member, he or she shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of British Columbia. If either party fails to appoint a member to the Arbitration Board within ten (10) working days, he or she shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of British Columbia. The parties may deviate from the aforementioned procedure as contained in Section 7.03 (d) by the appointment of a mutually agreed upon single arbitrator. The decision of the Board shall be rendered within thirty (30) days.
(e)	There shall be time limits of one (1) working day between steps (a) and (b) and three (3) working days between steps (b) and (c) of the above mentioned procedure. The time limits referred to in this clause may be extended by mutual agreement.
When a settlement is reached at any stage of this procedure, it shall be final and binding. Any settlement reached after Step (a) shall be in writing and signed by both parties and shall indicate whether the settlement is either with or without prejudice.
When in the opinion of the Grievance Committee, a grievance shall be deemed urgent, it shall be dealt with without delay. Each step with the exception of Step (d) shall be carried out the day it is initiated at times best suited to the operation of the plant. There shall be no undue or unreasonable delay in the taking of Step (d). All grievances shall be processed on Company time.
...19
-9-
7.06
k
7.07
7.08
7.09
7.10
7.11
7.12
7.13
AH grievances after Step (a) of the Grievance Procedure shall be presented in writing. The Company shall then reply in writing stating reasons.
If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he or she has been unjustly dealt with, he or she shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of notice of dismissal by the aggrieved employee (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory HoUdays) notify the Management that the dismissal in question shaU be deemed a grievance. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the established greivance procedure set out in this Article beginning at Step (c) of the Grievance Procedure.
If it is subsequently decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed he or she shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his or her regular rates of pay or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
Union Stewards, the number to be decided by the Union, shall be elected or appointed by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shaU be kept informed by the Union of the names of the Union Stewards.
If a Steward has to leave his or her job or department in connection with a grievance he or she shall first secure permission from the foreman or forelady before leaving the job or department. Such permission shall be granted as promptly as possible, but shall in no case exceed one (1) hour.
When the Company deems it necessary to discipUne an employee they shall have a Union Steward present. The Union Steward shall be one who is chosen by the employee and is available in the plant.
The Company must give the Local Union notice in writing of the discharge or suspension of any employee on the day such action is taken.
A Union Steward, or in his/her absence the Chief Steward, may discuss with his Foreman direct matters which may affect the welfare of employees under the Foreman’s supervision, even though at the time same may not constitute a grievance. Sinular discussions may take place between the Chief Steward and the General Foreman or in his/her absence the Plant Manager.
.../10
- 10 -
8.01
8.02
8.03
8.04
8.05
ARTICLE 8
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of all employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices, waterproof clothing and other equipment necessary to properly protect employees from injury or ill-health shall be provided by the Company, where necessary and not indiscriminately.
The Company, with the full cooperation of the employees, agrees to keep the plant clean, healthful, sufficiently well-ventilated and lighted at all times, and agrees to pay particular attention to the question of sanitation.
(a)	A Safety Committee shall be maintained comprising of three (3) members designated by the Company and three (3) members elected or appointed by the Union. This Committee shall meet regularly at least once a month. Any member of the Committee may call a special meeting when he or she feels a situation exists that endangers the health or safety of employees. All decisions made at the Safety Committee meetings shah be put into effect immediately. A recording secretary who has been mutually agree to by the members of the Committee shall keep formal minutes of these meetings and issue a copy to ail members of the Committee.
(b)	The Company agrees to hold departmental safety meetings once each month with the maintenance/engineers and warehouse departments.
(c)	At the commencement of major packs of asparagus, red fruit and corn, the Company agrees to hold a safety meeting wrdr those employees affected within one week of start-up.
To employees with seniority and upon proof of purchase, the Company shall contribute $45.00 towards the cost of C.S.A. approved Safety Boots or Shoes for on the job usage with a maximum of one pair per calendar year. Effective January 1,1993, the contribution is $50.00.
The Company agrees that when a W.C.B. inspector arrives at the Plant for the purposes of an inspection visit, or attending to the investigation of an accident, a Union Safety Committee member shall be informed and given the opportunity to meet with the inspector, for the duration of the plant tour.
...Ill
-11 -
"",06
8.07
8.08
9.01
Employees who successfully complete an Industrial First Aid Course shall be reimbursed 100% of the course fees upon proof of successful' compielntin. Application for reimbursement shall be made in advance of course enrolment, and limited to numbers of employees required to maintain First Aid coverage in the Plant. The Company will pay up to eight (8) hours per day to employees attending a First Aid Course up to a maximum of eighty (80) hours, once every two (2) years.
For new employees and employees who may be unfamiliar with a job, the supervisor shall arrange for instructions on how to perform the duties expected of him or her.
No employee shall be disciplined or discharged for refusal to work on a job or in any work place or to operate any equipment where he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that to do so would be unsafe or unhealthy. Where in such circumstances an employee does not work he or she shall not suffer a loss of pay. The application of this clause shall be as per-Section 8.24 of the B.C. Industrial Health and Safety Regulations.	—________^
>
■,.v
tJ'

*
*
\
ARTICLE 9 VACATIONS
(a)	All employees shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay \ after accumulating not less than 156 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to 4% of the total wages and salary earned 1 by him or her for the previous year. Employees who have worked less than 156 I days in the year in which vacations were earned shall have the option of taking vacation or receiving pay in lieu of vacation.
(b)	All employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay after completing four (4) years continuous service with the Company of not less than 624 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to six (6) percent of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the previous year.
- °3
(c)	All employees shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay
after completing nine (9) years continuous service with the Company of not less of -iy t-i than 1,404 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to 8% of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the previous year.
(d)	All employees shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay;
after completing fifteen (15) years continuous service with the Company of not less jys - o ^ than 2,340 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an ( amount equal to 10% of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the ( previous year.
...in
- 12-
9.01	cont’d
(e)	All employees shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay ^ after completing twenty (20) years continuous service with the Company of not
0 ^ 1 less than 3,120 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to 12% of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the ' previous year.
(f)	Vacation eligibility requirements are based on accumulated service.
(g)	Employees may choose to take as vacation only the number of days that the percentage of his/her previous year’s earnings will buy. However, employees shall receive credit as days worked for his/her full vacation entitlement.
9.02	In the event of an employee’s employment terminating before the completion of a working year, such employee shall be paid, in lieu of vacations, an amount equal to the vacation earned in accordance with the scale outlined within Section 9.01 of this Article.
9.03	Employees are entitled to receive their vacation pay up to two (2) weeks in advance if they so request four (4) weeks in advance.
9.04	Seniority shall be the determining factor for establishing employees’ vacation periods. Employees with the greatest seniority shall have the right of choice in the event all the employees desiring a certain period cannot be spared at one time.
9.05	(a) For the purpose of this Agreement, a week’s vacation shall be defined as a calendar week, consisting of 7 consecutive days. The calendar week for the purpose of vacation shall be deemed to commence on the first regular working day in which the employee is on vacation. Employees on vacation shall continue to accumulate seniority, and. thfi. ^rjind. vacation shall be considered as days worked for the purposes of this Agreement. The Company agrees that employees may continue to split their vacation as required.
(b) Notwithstanding (a) above, employees may choose to work the weekends before they commence their vacation, during their vacation and prior to their scheduled return to work. Such employees shall inform the Company’s shift scheduler on day shift of their intent to work on the weekend no later than Thursday prior to the weekend, at which time the employee will advise the shift scheduler where he or she can be reached.
.../13
- 13 -
$•06	(a) Carry over of vacations. An employee eligible for a third and
subsequent weelcs of vscstsuci entitlement nc<xy 'dairy such Vv'ccJcs oi^vksuufrovcf to the following vacation year. An accumulated vacation week shall be paid at the amount that it would have been paid had it been taken in the previous year.
(b) Accumulated vacation credit referred to herein shall be exercised between January 1 to April 30 inclusive in each year, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
(c)	Employees shall notify the Company in writing of their desire to defer vacation credits not later than December 31, in the year prior to their intention of accumulating vacation credits.
(d)	It is agreed that the provisions of this clause shall not conflict with the Employment Standard Act, Part 4, Section 36, Subsection 1(b).
/<•
9.07	An employee who returns to work following an absence covered by
Workers’ Compensation, or sick pay up to the time limits as outlined in the Collective Agreement, shall receive service credit for the period of absence, not to exceed 52 weeks, as if the employee had *been at work earning wages or Statutory Holiday pay at his or her-regular straight time rate of pay. No credit shall be received for any period in which the employee would otherwise have been laid off.
9.08	Vacation pay on the basis of two (2) percent for each week of earned
vacation or hours of pay at the employees regular rate, on a grid formula, whichever is the greater.
Employees with 135 days or more, 24 hours at regular rate.
Employees with 155 days or more, 26 hours at regular rate.
Employees with 175 days or more, 30 hours at regular rate.
Employees with 235 days or more, 40 hours at regular rate.
The regular hourly rate is the total straight time hourly rate earnings divided by the number or hours worked in the current year, or if no work has been performed the last rate of pay paid in the previous year.
9.09	An employee may use vacation in place of layoff; however, this will not by
itself, qualify employee for statutory holiday pay.
.../14
- 14-
ARTICLE 10
WAGES %^^V^ms?KLATIONS
10.01	Wages and classifications shall be in accordance with Schedule “A” which is attached. The Company agrees that any new classification or wage adjustment that may become necessary shall be covered by a supplement to this Agreement, which supplement shall include any adjustments to the present wage rates made necessary by such new classifications. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule, due to changes in plant operations or changes in work performed on a job, shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. A copy of the authorized rate schedule shall be made available to the Chief Steward in the General Foreman’s office for reference upon request.
10.02	An itemized computation of an employee’s pay shall be shown on the employee’s pay slip accompanying it, showing hours worked and rate of pay per hour and all deductions. When pay cheques are issued they shall be contained within an envelope. An itemized estimate of deductions from vacation pay shall be provided with the vacation pay cheque. The Company agrees to compute the amount of union dues deducted for each employee to December 31st in each year and shall transmit the same to the employee for Income Tax purposes. A list shall be posted each month showing the accumulated actual days worked by each seniority employee.
10.03	Pay cheques shall be available to employees by 12:00 noon every second Friday. Payday shall not be changed in the vent of a Statutory Holiday occurring earlier in the week or if a Statutory Holiday occurs on a Friday, payday shall be advanced to Thursday.
10.04	All time worked shall be paid for up to the nearest quarter of an hour and accumulated and embodied in the employee’s total hours at the end of each pay period for the purpose of computing the employee’s pay.
10.05	If an employee substitutes in any department or on any job during the temporary absence of another employee, he or she shall receive where the job pays less, his or her former rate of pay and where the job pays more, the rate applicable to the temporary job for all hours worked on the temporary job. If the employee spends 50% or more of his or her time on the job, he or she shall receive the rate for the full shift.
10.06	Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained in the Company’s employ shall not lose the credit for their days of experience in computing their pay rates and shall not have their pay rates reduced unless a break of one year occurs in their service.
.../15
- 15 -
[0.07	(a) When an employee receives a classified rate, he or she shall if
permanently transferred to a lower rated job, continue to receive ‘his or her classified rate for all hours paid on the thirty (30) days worked following such transfer, after which the lower rate shall be paid. When an employee is transferred to a lower rated job at his or her request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
(b) The word “permanent” as used above shall be interpreted to mean 52
weeks.
ARTICLE 11
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01	(a) The hours of work shall be eight (8) hours in any one day, forty (40)
hours in any one week. Employees shall be paid at a rate equal to time and one-half (1 Vi) their regular rates of pay for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours and up to and including ten (10) hours in any one day. When an employee works in excess of ten (10)Jio.urs-in any one day such employee shall be paid at a rate equal to double KIsforlier regular rates of pay.
(b) For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out an Hours of Work Schedule and negotiate with the Union. The Union recognizes the needs of the business in. negotiating changes in the Hours of Work Schedule. The schedule of hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty (40) hours of any payroll week and must not exceed more than eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Saturday, except Engineers and where otherwise mutually agreed upon.
5-
(c)	Full time-employees who are regularly scheduled to work on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays shall be paid one and one-half times their regular rates for all scheduled hours worked on such days. Such payment of time and one-half	1
will not be paid when the overtime rate of double jime for work on a public	.
holiday as set out in Article 12, Section 12.01 is applicaBfe.
1
0
(d)	Employees with sixty (60) days worked shall receive a premium of four dollars ($4.00) per hour for hours worked at regular rates on calendar Saturdays.^ Such premium shall not be considered a part of such employees’ basic rates. Saturday work shall be performed on a voluntary basis.
(e)	The working of overtime shall be a voluntary decision of the individual employee who, when asked to work overtime, shall not be penalized in any manner for declining to do so. If .overtime is necessary and of more ihan one-half (Vi) hour duration, employees with the greater seniority shall be asked to perform such jobs as necessary, providing they have the necessary qualifications. \	\

.../16
- 16-
11.01 cont’d
(f)	If an employee agrees to work overtime, the full overtime shift of up to eight (8) hours must be completed, or as otherwise agreed.
(g)	A posted Hours of Work Schedule shall be maintained by the Company and posted on the bulletin board. All employees shall be advised of what department they shall be required to work in and the starting time of their next shift prior to leaving the plant for the day. If subsequent changes are required the Company shall attempt to notify the employee immediately. Once the schedule of work is posted, absences will be filled by the most senior qualified employee on layoff. Should the absent employee not indicate his/her return for the subsequent scheduled shift, then the shift scheduler will create the new work schedule with the remaining qualified employees in order of seniority.
(h)	Employees working in a classified position for the duration of a seasonal pack, should not be given shift preference over permanent employees in the same classification, even if the seasonal assigned employee has more seniority.
11.02
The Company agrees to pay dojihle theemployees’ regular rates 0f pay for time worked mi days. Statutory Holidays and other days declareda TioIIday by the Government, except to employees whose schedule calls for work on Sunday. The employees’ normal day off in lieu of Sunday will be paid at the appropriate Sunday wartime	ir worked. The Company further agrees to give as much
notice as possible when it is necessary to ask employees to work on these days.
11.03	(a) Every employee shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute rest period
without deduction of pay, to commence between one and one-half (VA) and two and one-half (2V£ j hours after the commencement of both of his or her half shifts. The unpaid lunch period of one-half (Vi) hour duration shall commence between three and one-half (3lA) and four and one-half (4Vi) hours after the start of his or her shift.
(b) A further rest period of fifteen (15) minutes with pay will be granted by the Company at the completion of the employees’ regular shift if such employees are required to work more than one-half (Vi) hour or more of overtime.
%
$
P\n.
04 Any employee who reports for work and who by reason of a breakdown or
-----any other cause for which he or she is not responsible, is dismissed for the day,
shall receive at least four (4) hours’ pay at his or her applicable rate of pay.
cr
11.05	Any employee who reports for work and due to a breakdown or shortage of material or other reason he or she is required to put in a period of waiting time, such time will be paid to the employee at his or her applicable rate of pay.
...717
- 17-
1.06	When an employee is especially called back to work in case of an
emergency outside his or her normal working hours, he or she shall be through when the emergency is over but shall be paid for four (4) hours at his or her job rate or for the hours actually worked at overtime pay whichever is the greater. I The Chief Steward shall be informed of the personnel called in to perform such] emergency work.	'
11.07	When a scheduled night shift is cancelled, senior employees on the shift shall be called in for the following day shift if there is a day shift scheduled. Night shift employees desiring to work a day shift when their own shift is cancelled shall leave their names with the Company. The Company recognizes that it is the employees’ option to have eight (8) hours break between shifts. The employee may waive this option if he or she so chooses.
11.08	Shift premium shall be paid for all hours worked on a scheduled shift [ starting between two (2) p.m. and four (4) a.m. A premium of .43 cents per hour \ effective January 1,1992. The premium shall apply during overtime, but shall not 1 be subject to time and one-half provision.
Those employees scheduledonsanitation to start their shift subsequent to 10:00 PM and prior to 4:00 AM shall receive a paid lunch period of twenty (20) minutes.
11.09	(a) If employees are required to work overtime in excess of two (2)
hours beyond their normal quitting time, the Company will provide a meal or an overtime meal allowance of four dollars ($4.001 and allow thirty (30) minutes at regular rates for such meal period. Effective January 1,1993 amend to five dollars ($5.00).	—------ ~ -
(b)	A further rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted two (2) hours after return from the above meal period.
11.10 Employees may elect to bank hours of overtime. This decision must be communicated to the Company in writing, with the appropriate forms provided by the Company prior to December 31. Banked hours are earned during the calendar year beginning January 1 to December 31. Banked hours will be paid at the rate that the employee was receiving at the time he or she earned the banked hours. Up to forty (40) hours of banked hours will be paid an employee when on layoff for a minimum of four (4) regular working days in one week. Banked hours may be drawn foryacation supplement provided application is„made in the same manner as for vacation under Article 9.03. Hours banked but not taken in the current year will be paid by December 3 1 of the current year. Accumulated hours will be recorded and such recap shall be made available to employees upon request.
""T
?£/

o
l
.../18
- 18 -
ARTICLE 12
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all employees at their regular rates of pay for
the normal hours of work as set forth in the Hours of Work Schedule on each of the following public holidays:
B.C. Day	December 24th
Labour Day	Christmas Day
Thanksgiving	Day	Boxing Day
Remembrance Day
The Company and the Union agree that the employees eligible for these paid Statutory Holidays shall only be those employees who have accumulated sixty (60) days of actual work and have been called to work and worked on one of five (5) working days immediately preceding the holiday or five (5) days immediately following the holiday. Employees must work the day before and the day after the holiday if work is available unless absence has been previously authorized or substantiated because of personal illness.
Employees with 600 or more working days, but who were laid off subsequent to December 15th and called in the following year prior to January 15th, will be eligible for holiday pay for December 24th, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and New Year’s Day, provided they work up to the last shift prior to the discontinuance of operations for the Christmas season and report for work when recalled when operations resume.
12.02	The Company agrees to pay to an employee who would otherwise qualify for Statutory holiday gay under this Article but who is receiving sick pay or Workers’ Compensation, the difference between sick pay or Workers’ Compensation, as the case may be, and eight hours’ pay at his or her regular rate.
12.03	If a paid holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay, one day prior to vacation or one day after vacation.
12.04	If a paid holiday falls on a day outside an employee’s schedule, the employee indli receive'me^h'aay’oefore or me montray after me holiday In lieu of the holiday. The provisions of this clause will not apply to July 1st.
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
whether they work or not.
.../19
- 19 -
LT»	Employees shall receive one (1) holiday for each unit of twenty-two (22)
days worked between January 1 and December 31 of each year up to a maximum of eleven (11) holidays, any holidays actually paid for,-or one for which an employee has disqualified himself, in accordance with Article 12.01 during a calendar year, shall be deducted to determine the adjustment, if any, due an employee. Any adjustments due an employee shah be paid during the first pay period in January.
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL
13.01	The Company agrees that the Union shall have the right to use the Company notice boards or to erect bulletin boards of their own, (not to exceed five (5) in number), in an appropriate place in the plant to be used for the posting of notices of official Union business.
13.02	The Company agrees that employees elected or appointed to attend a convention to carry out Union business (not more than five (5) at any one time unless mutually agreed otherwise), shall be granted leave of absence without pay upon the proper notification, provided this does not seriously disrupt the operation of the business.
13.03	(a) All employees covered by this Agreement shall be supplied with aprons and hair nets when necessary. All such aprons and hair nets will be charged to the employee and replaced when damaged or worn out and the original charge shall be refunded when the employee terminates his or her employment with the Company. In order to have the aprons or hair nets replaced or to collect their refund, employees must turn in their aprons or hair nets. New gloves are to be provided by the Company when worn out Company gloves are turned in. Employees now being supplied with coveralls shall have the cost of cleaning paid by the Company.
(b)	Where an employee elects to be supplied with rainwear it shall be replaced when damaged or worn out and the original charge shall be refunded when the employee terminates his/her employment with the Company.
13.04	The Company to issue locks for existing lockers.
.../20
20-
13.05	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss ofi earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident" occurs, if, as a result of such injury he or she is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative.
13.06	Shop Stewards up to a maximum of four (4) shall have time off to attend Union meetings provided the Company has received notice four (4) days in advance and provided this does not seriously disrupt the operation of the business. When such notice is provided the Company shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate the leave.
13.07	Only those employees defined in Article 2, Section 2.01, Definition, will be permitted to perform bargaining unit work, except in the event of unforeseen lateness or temporary absenteeism, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes in any one day.
13.08	It is understood, that where the word “he” is used in this Agreement, it shall also cover female employees.
13.09	All privileges and benefits which are not negotiated by this Agreement, but which are now enjoyed by the employees, shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
13.10	Employees who are required to bring tools to work, shall upon presentation of required tools broken or worn out on the job, receive replacement tools on a brand name basis wherever possible. At the end of each calendar year, a tool allowance of $14.00 will be paid for each month worked during the calendar year to all classified maintenance employees, and two (2) classified engineers. The Company shall provide tool insurance for the tools belonging to employees who are required to bring tools to work. The insurance shall cover up to $5,000.00 per employee for each loss with a $100.00 deductible for each loss to be borne by the employee. The terms of this insurance shah be governed by the policy of insurance. For label machine operators and general utility maintenance a tool allowance of $4.00 will be paid for each month worked during the calendar year.
721
-21-
-13.11	When an employee with seniority is bereaved as a result of the death of an ^
immediate JamUv.memlterJwif^ husband, daughter,son.piother; father, sister:	! '" \
brother, grandmother and grandfather) he or she shall receive 24 hours pay at his	i
or her regular rate of pay provided payments are made only in respect to absence i from work on his or her regular work day. For other relatives (mother-in-law, \ father-in-law, brother-in-law and sister-in-law) entitlement shall be for 16 hours \ pay.	\
Time off due to the death of a member of an employee’s family must be taken at the time of bereavement.
13.12 Employees with seniority summoned to appear for jerry duly, or subpoenaed ( ^ c by the Court as a witness, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for such service and the amount they would have earned,	[
provided that they would have worked if they had not been on such duty.
13.13	(a) The Company will provide the Union with four (4) months’ written
notice of intention to introduce technological change which might result in the displacement or reduction of personnel. Said notice shall state the number of employees to be affected. The 'ZxmrpaUy 'agreei/armefcc wfuV the Union within 30 days of such notice to discuss the ramification of such change.
t
(b)	Employees who become redundant due to technological change, shall! be eligible for retraining if such training is consistent with the employees’ * capabilities, to equip them for the opercfuoh'rfr sucn^ew eqinpmem or procedures, j or to qualify for new positions. Such retraining will be provided by the Company \ without loss of pay to the affected employees.
(c)	In cases where the retraining of employees is not practicable, or where other positions with the Company are not available, the employees shall elect for termination of employment, or shall elect to be placed on the recall list. Employees on recall under the provisions of this clause shall report to work within
the stipulated period of time as outlined in Article 5, Section 5.05 (c) Seniority.
Employees who lose their employment as a result of technological change shall receive severance pay as per Article 14 of this Agreement.
i
\
1
...122
13.13 cont’d
13.14
13.15
I
I
(d)	A specified extension of the recall period, where recall is applied under subsection (c) above may be mutually agreed by the employee, the Company and the Union.
(e)	“Technological Change” means (i) The introduction by the Company of a change in its work, undertaking or business, or a change in his equipment or material from the equipment or material previously used by the Company in his work, undertaking or -business; or (ii) A change in the manner in which the Company carries on its work, undertaking, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
It is mutually agreed that no demand, shall be made by either party to this Agreement upon the other party, which in any way contravenes laws, orders, or regulations issued by, or under the authority of the Government of Canada, or that of the Province of British Columbia, or such agency as may be assigned by either of such Governments from time to time in regard to wages, bonuses, hours, conditions of labour or other related matters.
Employees who have accumulated 156 days worked will be eligible for benefits on the following sick pay and welfare plans, subject to the provisions of the Daybank System as provided by Section 13.16 of this Article.
(a)	Effective January 1,1990 the Sick Pay Plan will be amended as follows:
The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each employee who has accumulated one hundred and fifty-six (156) days worked, or more, one hundred percent (100%) of the premium-cost for the following coverage:
(1)	Employees with one hundred, and fifty-six (156) days to one thousand eight hundred and twenty (1,820) days worked a plan on the basis of 1-1-4-26.
(2)	Employees with one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one (1,821) days worked, or more, a plan on the basis of 1-1-4-52.
(3)	Weekly indemnity payments for each week payable shall be 60% of an employee’s straight-time classified wage rate.
-23-
13.15 cont’d
(b)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of B.C. Medical to cover all employees and their dependents subject to the terms of this Agreement.
I o (.3
(c)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of Major Medical ^ Expense Benefits as presently covered. The Company agrees to reimburse an j / employee up to a maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) towards the cost of 1 providing a medical certification form when same is required by the insurance \ / qO
carrier.
(d)	The Company will continue to pay Vision Care Expense Benefits to 1 a maximum of $75.00 during any two consecutive calendar years as presently \	°
covered.	' - 3 "
(e)	The Company will continue to pay Dental Benefits as presently \ covered based on a current fee schedule.
Effective January 1,1988, the Company agrees to provide the U.F.C.W. B.C. Industrial Council Dental Plan covering:
(i)	Basic Dentistry at 80%
(ii)	Crowns, bridges and dentures at 50%
-r.

\ )
o o
The premium costs shall be paid 100% by the Employer.
(f)	The Company will continue&pay for Life Insurance coverage in the amount of $15,000.00 and A.D. & D. Insurance in the amount of $15,000.00.

13.16	(a) The Company will provide Sick Pay and Welfare Plans to employees
who have accumulated one hundred fifty-six (156) days in their daybank at the end of the previous month. Each month of coverage paid for by the Company will subtract sixteen (16) days from the employee’s daybank, and one day will be added to the employee’s daybank for each day worked.
(b) Employees without the required days in their daybank at the end of the month will have the option to pay the total premiums on the benefit package, i.e. life, A.D. & D., B.C. Medical, major medical, vision care and dental care, for a period of si* (6) months. As	^lif^Aosi'iaocf A.D. & D. and
B.C. Medical may be maintained for a period of up to twelve (12) months. Employees are required to advise the Company of the benefits they wish to retain at lay-off time. All premiums to be paid in advance.
.../24
-24-
13.17	(a) The Company agrees to participate in and contribute to the “Canadian
Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan”.
\
\
(b)	The Company agrees to contribute to the trust fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan as of January 1,1990, the amount of .15 cents per hour paid for all employees in the bargaining unit. The amount of .20 cents per hour paid for all employees in the bargaining unit effective as of January 1,1991. The amount of .25 cents per hour paid for all employees in the bargaining unit effective as of January 1,1993.
(c)	For the purpose of paragraph (b) above, hours paid means all hours paid to all employees.
The maximum number of hours paid per week is the number of hours of the normal week of a full-time employee in the bargaining unit.
The said hours paid shall include hours worked, hours paid by the Company for the time not worked because of vacations, statutory holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty, or grievance meetings, etc.
ARTICLE 14
PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
AJ '
I
A
14.01	Employees who have completed seven hundred and eighty (780) days of actual work with the Company and who are thereafter permanently laid off due to lack of work caused by management action in initiating the permanent closing of the plant, or other permanent reduction in the plantworking force, shall be eligible for a severance pay. ~	'b's
* \	/ V
14.02
Employees shall not be eligible for severance pay:
(a)	if they are eligible for normal retirement under the provisions of the Pension Plan (age 65 years) provided in this collective agreement; or
(b)	in the event of discharge for just cause, or resignation; or
(c)	in the event of death; or
(d)	in the event an employee is offered and accepts employment elsewhere with the Company.
.../25
- 25-
14.03	“Permanently laid off1 as used in this Article is defined as a lay-off from active employment resulting from the application of Article 14.01 above and with the written notification mentioned in Article 14.05 below.
14.04	Severance allowance for eligible employees who are permanently laid off shall be based upon the number of actual days worked with the employer. An eligible employee who has completed seven hundred and eighty (780) days of actual work with the Company shall receive a severance allowance of five (5) weeks pay (200 hours) at the employee’s classified straight-time rate and one weeks’ pay (40 hours) at the employee’s straight-time hourly rate for each unit of one hundred and fifty-six (156) actual days worked over seven hundred and eighty nays,
14.05	The severance pay will be payable to eligible employees in one lump sum after it has been determined that a reduction of the work force is a permanent layoff of any employee. The amount of the severance pay will be based on the eligible employee’s actual days worked wriiV ufc*xCwvnpmy ■ ai* the time the employee is laid off from active work, provided the employee has been notified in writing by the Company that permanent lay-off would become effective on that day.
14.06	In the case of permanent closing of the plant, an eligible employee shall receive severance pay no later than thirty-one (31) calendar days after the last day the employee is actively at work with the employer.
14.07	Severance pay for which an employee is eligible will be payable to an employee’s dependants or estate in the event of an employee’s death after the employee becomes eligible and before the employee has been paid severance pay and before the employee has been recalled for active work.
14.08	It is understood that upon receipt of severance pay an employee relinquishes all recall, seniority, and employment rights with the employer.
14.09	Employees who are eligible for severance pay shall receive coverage under the Croup Life Insurance, dental, medical, surgical, major medical and hospitalization plans for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the employee is permanently laid off.
ARTICLE 15
15.01	(a) Employees covered by this Agreement shall have the right to refuse
to cross a legal picket line.
(b) The Company agrees to continue the policy of cooperation where an issue as determined by the Union to be “hot goods” is brought to their attention, and when deemed by the Company as practical.
.../26
-26-
ARTICLE 16
/
16.01	It shall be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate
because of race, sex, creed, colour, age, religion, national origin or union activities.
ARTICLE 17
17.01	The Company agrees it will not contract out work where it has the skills, necessary equipment and the facilities to complete the work without sacrificing production.
ARTICLE 18 • NOTICE
18.01	Any notice desired to be given to the Company must be given in writing,
deposited in the Post Office under registered cover, postage prepaid and addressed:
FRASER VALLEY FOODS Box 2000, 44440 South Sumas Road, Sardis, B.C. V2R 2R2
and any notice desired to be given the employees may be given by posting a copy thereof on the Company notice board at the Company’s premises at Sardis, B.C., and to the Union at such address as may be indicated by the Union in writing addressed to the Company as herein provided.
ARTICLE 19
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
19.01	The Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for a period of 24 months from the 1st day of January. 1992. until the 31st dav of December 1993. and shall automatically renew itself from year to year unless notice of termination or of amendment is given by either party to the other as hereafter provided.
19.02	If either party desires to terminate this Agreement or amend the provisions of this Agreement, either by additions thereto or deletions therefrom such party shall within the period of 120 days immediately preceding any subsequent anniversary date thereafter, give to the other party notice in writing to commence collective bargaining which shall be carried out in accordance with the Labour Code of British Columbia Act. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall remain in force during the period of negotiations,
.../27
- 27 -
igned at Sardis this 1st day of May, 1992, on behalf of the Union:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 1518
#700 - 4211 Kingsway,
Burnaby, B.C.
V5H 1Z6
Signed at Sardis this 30th day of April, 1992, on behalf of the Company:
FRASER VALLEY FOODS A Division of Pillsbury Canada Limited P. O. Box 2000,
44440 South Sumas Road,
Sardis, B.C.
V2R2R2
.../28
-27-
Signed at Sardis this 1st day of May, 1992, on behalf of the Union:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION
Local 1518
#700 - 4211 Kingsway,
Burnaby, B.C.
V5H 1Z6
Ross Bremner Bruce Temple Dale Dolman Wayne Backman
Signed at Sardis this 30th day of April, 1992, on behalf of the Company:
FRASER VALLEY FOODS A Division of Pillsbury Canada Limited P. O. Box 2000,
44440 South Sumas Road,
Sardis, B.C.
V2R2R2
Barry Kidd James Byrne
Louis LeBlanc
-28-
SCHEDULE “A”
- WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Jan. 1, Jan. 1, 1992	1993
LABOUR RATES:

start 	 After 60 days . . 			8.14 8.67	8.14__ j 8.67
‘After 90 days (each year) 		12.55	12.55
PART-TIME: (Once an employee has accumulated seniority days, he/she shall be classed as Part-time.		90' total
1-90 days (each year)		10.00	10.00
£1 days and more (each year) .... (See Note 6.) CLASSIFIED:	12.55	12.55
Category #1 		18.12	18.12
Chief Engineer
Category #2..........
Engineer 3rd Class Tradesman
Category #3	. . \ . . . .
Engineer 4th .Class Lineman x Maintenance
17.66
17.23
17,66'
17.23
i OA&s
Category #4 ...........................  15.71	15.71
Retort
Shipper/Receiver Sanitation Coordinator
Category #5 ...........................  15.46	15.46
Level #1, Jam Maker Level #2, Jam Maker Juice Maker Formulation Specialist Sanitation Level #1
Category #6............................  15.32	15.32
Assistant Jam Maker
Ldodlimg'iliuehine
Pakmaster Labeller/New Way Caser
...129
-29-
Category #7 ...................... 15.23
Checker, Forklift Syrup Maker
Category #8 ...................... 14.54
General Utility Maintenance
Damaged Goods Clerk Lagoon Attendant
Category #9........................ 13.90
Quality Control First Aid
Category #10..............*........ 13.45
Machine Operator Tender
Sanitation Level #2
Category #11....................... 13.03
Stitcher Machine Weigh Scaler Dock Grader
15.23
14.54
13.90
13.45
13.03
-30-
pchedule “A”
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4
$14.54 per hour $15.32 per hour $16.10 per hour J516.88 per hour

/
An apprentice employee will graduate to next highest level only upon successful completion of educational qualification and stipulated hours of applicable work as governed by the Program.
Upon certification as Tradesman - Category #2.
WAGES
1)	On October 15, 1992, or a mutually agreed subsequent date, all seniority employees will receive a lump sum payment of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
2)	On October 15, 1993, or a mutually agreed subsequent date, all seniority employees will receive a lump sum payment of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00).
3)	Employees with less than ninety-one (91) seniority days in 1991, part-time employees, shall be paib as follows:
Light and Heavy Labour
1 to 90 days	$10.00 per hour
91 days and more	$12.55 per hour
4)	Part-time employees who are on Classified Jobs or paid the 1991 top labour rate shall be paid a rate of $2.55 per hour less than the negotiated rates for the first ninety (90) days of work each year.
5)	All current Heavy Labour employees with more than ninety (90) seniority days in 1991 will be red circled at the rate of $13.22 per hour. All future increases shall be an add-on to the $13.22 rate.
6)	On any January 1st following the year in which a part-time employee attains 111 seniority days, the rate per hour will be as per the Schedule “A” rates.
7)	The Service Recognition letter provisions will apply on October 15,1992. The seniority list will be adjusted to include Sardis employees only upon ratification of the Agreement.
.../31
-31 -
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
The following Letters of Understanding between the parties to be printed with the Agreement are part of the collective Agreement and are binding upon the parties hereto during the term of this Agreement.
1.	TRAINING PROGRAM
The Company undertakes to continue discussions with respect to the desired development of a program of upgrading the training and skills of general utility and maintenance employees.
2.	AG. DEPT. JURISDICTION
SUBJECT - To define and clarify, and not to limit or expand jurisdiction except as defined below, forklift use and shipping responsibilities on any agricultural materials and items stored in various locations at the Sardis unit.
AGREED - That the following work is under the jurisdiction of the U.F.C.W. Bargaining Unit:
-	Movement of materials on skids or in bins in the peaked roof building when these activities are for general clean-up, inventory, or removal from building except as required for farm machinery repair and maintenance.-
-	Transfer of seed, fertilizer, chemicals, etc. from peaked roof building to flat roof building to clear overflow of such items to their normal place of storage.
-	Receiving, moving and shipping of all packaging materials used in any
production plant of the Company into, within or out of the peaked roof building.
AGREED - That the following work is under the jurisdiction of Agricultural Department Employees:
-	Movement within and shipping out of seed, fertilizer, chemicals and like
materials stored in the flat roof agricultural building.
-	Use of a forklift when required for the above, or in the process of repair, maintenance and movement of agricultural machinery.
-	All handling and storage of agricultural machinery.
.../32
- 32-
-3.	FREEZER BELT TENDER
The Company agrees that there will be two employees receiving the machine Tender rate on the freezer belts when there is a volume increase of twenty (20) percent over the 1988 capacity.
4.	GLUCOSE ATTENDANT
The Glucose Attendant will come within Category #5 as the responsibility of the Jam Maker. When this person is not available, it shall be performed by the senior qualified employee in this category who is available.
5.	THE PRODUCT FLOW MONITOR
(1)	The Company will not utilize a Product Flow Monitor in the following departments:
(a) Jam and Juice	(b) Coldstorage	(c) Shipping
(2)	The Company shall post for up to four (4) Product Flow Monitors (2 per shift) assigned to work in the Cannery. This job function shall be from April 1 to November 1 of each year. The Product Flow Monitor will instruct, coordinate, check work, report necessary information as well as perform necessary manual duties.
This position shall carry a rate of Category #6. The number of Product Flow Monitors and the April 1 to November 1 dates may be amended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(3)	In the event of mushroom processing at the Sardis plant the Company may use one (1) Product Flow Monitor per ‘shift.
6.	SERVICE RECOGNITION
After the closing of the Company's warehouse and labelling operations at Maple Ridge, employees exercising their seniority option at the Sardis plant as well as the employees already transferred from the Haney plant and working at the Sardis plant, shall be given three (3) years of service in addition to their 1987 seniority. Employees already at the Sardis plant shall be given days worked credit for a total of two times the days worked at the Sardis plant since April 1987. The employees exercising their seniority option at the time of closing the warehousing and labelling operations at Maple Ridge, will be given the same days worked credit as the next lower employee on the Sardis seniority list who was transferred in 1987. The above credits shall apply for vacation and severance pay only.
,../33
-33 -
7.	SCHEDULE "A”
r^ 'L All rates of pay, special rates, red circle rates, etc. to be identified and reduced §\ to written format.
8.	All letters of understanding to be printed in the back of the contract book.
9.	Employee benefit books shall be provided by the Company and upgraded as required.
10.	Understanding on the upgrading of Stationary Engineers.
11.	In the interest of promoting ergonomically improved working conditions and to provide funding for this purpose the Company agrees to an annual sum of $5,000.00 to be made available in each year of this Agreement. Use of these funds will be recommended by the Safety Committee and shall be approved by at least two levels of management according to standard Company procedure for the use of capital funds. The parties to the Agreement will cooperate in the use of these funds to ensure that any expense will have the potential to improve working conditions or promote safe work practices.
JCB/jeb
UFCWSARD.AGR
03/18/92
Fraser Valley Foods
Wages:
Lump-Sum Payments: Hours of Work:
Shift Premium: Saturday Premium: Overtime:
Paid Holidays:
Paid Vacation:
Pension Plan:
Allowances:
Bereavement Leave:
(Division of Pillsburv, Canada Limited), Sardis and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 1518 (AFL-CIO/CLC) (500 plant and maintenance employees):	A 24-month
renewal agreement effective from January 1,1992, to December 31,1993, settled in April at the bargaining stage. Duration of negotiations - 6 months.
Effective	Jan. 1/92
General Increase Hourly Rates Light Labourer Machine Tender Tradesman
Wage Freeze
$8.14-512. 55^ $13.45< $17.66^^
Effective October 15,1992, $300 to each employee; October 15,1993, $350.
40 per week (unchanged).
0-430-430 (0-380-380).
$4 ($3) per hour for employees with 60 days or more worked.
Meal - Effective January 1,1993, $5 ($4) when required to work more than 2 hours beyond normal quitting time.
11 (unchanged).
2 weeks after 1 year, 3 after 4,4 after 9,5 after 15, and 6 after 20 (unchanged).
Effective January 1,1993, employer contributes 250^ (200) per hour paid, maximum of 40 hours per employee per week.	”
9
Safety Boots - Effective January 1,1993, maximum of $50 ($45) per year. Mechanic’s Tools - $14 ($12) per .month.
Machine Operator’s Tools - $4 ($3) per month.
Maximum of 3 (2) days’ leave with pay upon death of employee’s grandparent.
I
/
iO'io!::.

V
3 . •»,.	i-	o \ :	: V.-	y..:
■'i				
\Uj ,, *,Jo-	....			
:.i. :
i...

ul .:-y ri.'OB'-	■ i
wO-rir.orc i. 1	=
i. u
;■	LOOGl r:::r	3333':
Ji./Rb	40 „ :>J
0:. V ..	fc:OOf;:. : \i \ ; ;; :J .. i 'i
Dv-vi	:oa:
?2ui'..‘i. a,. 40
"OO .)	!
■L
ijfr'iR? O.'LO.: ::lJj h""
v ; ..a
.v
v;: UjUO
00	0:r i. i.::v
1	■ - ... .. ; : :	;	. i
Ci4aR::-
3: -:	a a
4	U

. a. .:.j
i :i