COLLECT IVS AGRSSMENT
BEmEN:
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
St Si 8	- ;
-AND-
UNIrED GOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
ooM (i°)
March 31st, 2006, to March 30th, 2009
TABLE OF CONTENTS
NAME	PAGE
RECOGNITION OBJECTS BARGAINING UNIT UNION DUES
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP MANAGEMENT
SETTLEMENT OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES WAGES
NIGHT AND WEEK-END PREMIUMS HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME PUBLIC HOLIDAYS REST PERIODS SENIORITY JOB POSTING VACAT IONS SAFETY AND HEALTH SICK PAY, BENEFITS AND PENSION PLANS APPEARANCE IN COURT BEREAVEMENT PAY
RENEWAL OF LICENSES CLOTHING
GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS UNION NOTICES PLANT CLOSING DURATION OF AGREEMENT APPENDIX “D”
Job Category Classification System Schedule of Wage Categories New Hires After July 22, 2000 Classifying New or Changes Jobs LETTERS OF AGREEMENT #1	Re: Clothing Supplies
#2	Re: Recall Rights
#3	Re: Past Practice - Articles 1,7,10.07, 18
#4	Re: Overtime
#5	Re: Part-time Employees
#6	Re: Vacation Policy
#7	Re: Booklet Printing
#8	Re: UFCW Leukemia Fund
#9	Re: Production Levels
#10	Re: Mechanical Category 3 - Higher Rates
#11	Re: Back-Up Positions
#12	Re: Powerhouse
ARTICLE #
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 23
ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25
1
COCOCOK)N>!sJK>r\3f'ON>hO
OCOCOSOClW—^(DCONO)	^^0(0(9^010101^^.	CO—^0(0000)0—^
THIS AGREEMENT BETWEEN
Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
AND
United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
Recognizingthat the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship for goodwill and mutual respect between employers and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following Agreement:
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees of its Brantford plant and Brantford Airport Plants.
The Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting these employees.
ARTICLE 2 OBJECTS
2.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutual interests of the Company and it employees; and to provide for the operation for the Company’s plants under methods which will serve the interests of producers and consumers as well as those of the Company and its employees.
Since the maintenance for a good standard of wages and working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operation of the business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the company at all times.
a)	To maintain and improve quality of products.
b)	To avoid waste of products, materials or time.
2
c)	To assist in keeping the Company’s premises clean and tidy.
d)	To conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and of its employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 3 BARGAINING UNIT
3.01	The bargaining unit is composed of all employees below the rank of foreperson in the employ of the Company as hereunder defined:
The term “Employees” as used in this Agreement shall be considered to include production employees, trades persons, maintenance employees, stationary engineers, plant employees engaged in shipping, receiving and plant janitorial services below the rank of foreperson, except as set out below. The exceptions are; forepersons, assistant forepersons, security staff, plant clerical staff, nurses, scientific workers employed by the laboratory staff and confidential employees as listed in Appendix C.
3.02	Part-time workers, that is, employees regularly employed for twenty-four hours weekly or less, and students as defined in Article 13, are eligible for membership in the Union, but are not entitled to privileges in Articles 10 and 13 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 UNION DUES
4.01	The Company agrees to deduct weekly form each employee’s pay during the term of this Agreement and in the case of new employees beginning with the first weekly check-off after they have completed one working day in the calendar year, the regular weekly Union dues, and will transmit the total sum of the amounts so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union on or before the fifteenth day of each month. The Company shall inform new employees of the terms of this Article at the time they are hired. Twice the regular weekly Union dues shall be deducted in any one check-offwhere the employee did not have dues deducted in the check-off immediately preceding due to absence on vacation. Within six (6) months from the date of ratification, the dues and initiation reportwill be provided in the form of email (remit@ufcw175.com) or on computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque.
4.02	The amount of weekly dues to be deducted from employees may be increased by special assessment, provided such assessments are levied in accordance with the
3
Constitution and By-Laws of the Local 175.
4.03	The Company agrees that upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed Union Membership Card, it will deduct from the wages ofemployeesjoining the Union afterthe ratification of this Agreement, the initiationfee due from him/her to the Local Union on the first pay-day of the following calendar month and shall remit such deducted amounts to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union on or before the first day of calendar month next following.
ARTICLE 5 MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that nay employee who, at the date of this Agreement, was a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain such membershipduring the term of this Agreement. Employees shall be deemed members of the Union in good standing so long as they continue to pay their weekly Union dues.
5.02	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practicedto compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
ARTICLE 6 MANAGEMENT
6.01	Subject only to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, lay-off, and suspension, discharge, or other discipline of employees for just cause, shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company.
ARTICLE 7 SETTLEMENT OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
7.01	Purpose. Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly. It is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedurewill take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
7.02	Stewards. The Union agrees to appoint or elect and the Company to recognize stewards, who shall be regular employees of the Company, to deal with matters
4
affecting employees in departments or groups of departments in the Company's plants. A list of these stewards shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union in writing of any change in this list. A list of the names of the members of supervision shall be supplied to the Union and the company shall advise the Union immediately in writing of any permanent change in this list. The Company agrees that the Chief Steward or their designate may request to leave their workstation, after obtaining permission from his/her Supervisor, to investigate any grievance by his/her fellow steward or worker. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7.03	Grievance Committee. The Union also agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, notto exceed three, all regular employees of the Company, to dealwith questions which may not be decided in the 1st, or 2nd steps described in Section 4 below. The Grievance Committee shall include the Chief Steward of the Local Union. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately in writing of any change in this list.
Subsection 3 (a). If an employee so desires, he/she may be accompanied by his/her steward or chairperson when discipline is being given to that employee.
7.04	Grievance Steps: Alleged grievances shall be dealt with progressively in the following manner:
1st Step:	Between the aggrieved employee, or the Steward or both, and the
foreperson of the department which the employee works. If the complaint affects the rate of pay of an employee, the Department Steward shall be informed.
2nd Step:	Between the Steward and/or Chief Steward and/or the Unit
Chairperson and the Department Manager or his/her designated representative and other members of his/her staff as required by the Company. If requested, complaints presented at this stage shall be in writing. If they allege violation of the Agreement, they shell set out clearly the respects in which the Agreement has been violated.
3rd Step:	Between the Grievance committee and the Plant Management. A full-
time representative of the Union may be called in if desired by either party. Complaints presented at this stage shall be in writing.
The aggrieved employee or employees may be present during the three above steps, if so desired.
Grievance Committee Meetings: Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall be held at times suitable to the operation of the business, by arrangement between the Plant Manager and the Unit Chairperson of the Local Union. The Company will pay
5
the aggrieved employee concerned and the members of the Grievance Committee at their applicable rates for time spent at meetings of the Grievance Committee with management representatives.
7.05	Arbitration. If settlement is not reached by the above procedure, the matter in dispute shall be referred by the Union or by the Company to an Arbitration Committee of three members, one to be appointed by the Union, and one by the Company, and a third, who shall act as Chairperson, to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. Upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee. If it fails to do so within two weeks, its nominee will be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario upon request by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration. If agreement cannot be reached within one week as to the appointmentofathird member, he/she shall be appointed by the Ministerof Labour for the Province of Ontario.
Notwithstandingthe foregoing paragraph, the parties may agree to the appointment of a single Arbitrator with the same powers as an Arbitration Committee. In such cases, the party referring the grievance to arbitration shall, instead of submitting the name of its nominee, submit the name of the Arbitrator it wishes to suggest to the other party. If agreement cannot be reached on the appointment of a single Arbitrator within 5 working days, an Arbitration Committee will be appointed in accordance with the provisions of the above paragraph except that in the case of a grievance submitted under Article 7,9 the Union will name its nominee within five working days following the period provided for appointment of a single Arbitrator.
The time limits set out above may be extended by mutual consent between the parties.
A decision of a majority of the Arbitration Committee shall be deemed to be a decision of the Committee. In reaching its decision, the Committee or the single Arbitrator shall be governed by the provision of this Agreement and such decision shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
The Company and the union request that the Arbitration Committee meet within one month following appointment if possible and to render a decision within one month of that meeting if possible.
The cost of the Chairperson shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party shall pay its own costs including those of its nominee, representatives and witnesses.
7.06	Actions of Officials. If either the Company or the union alleges violation of the Agreement through action of the officials of either, the complaint may be dealt with through the Grievance Procedure established by this Article, beginning with the 2nd Step, and discussions between the Company and the Union apart for the Grievance
6
Procedure shall not preclude resort to the Grievance Procedure later, if so desired.
7.07	Wage Grievance. When a grievance which affects the rate of pay of an employee is settled and as a result of the settlement the employee receives an increase in his/her rate, the increase shall be paid retroactively to the date on which the complaint was first submitted to the Company in writing. A request for wage increase, if not answered within 72 hours, may be treated as a grievance and handled progressively as set forth in Section 4 of this Article.
7.08	Dismissal. If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, he/she shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall, if a grievance is to filed, notify the Operations Manager in writing within five (5) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal by the aggrieved employee stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure as set out above beginning with the 2nd step of Section 4 of this Article. If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his/her regular rate of pay, or granted such lesser compensation as may be deemed fair in the circumstances or by unanimous decision of an Arbitration Board. To ensure prompt handling of any such grievance, except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, not more than five (5) working days shall be allowed for consideration under each successive step until the matter is brought to arbitration.
The company will notify the Unit Chairperson or Chief Steward or his/her designated representativewithin one working day if an employee with seniority is dismissed or suspended. Where notification of dismissal or suspension is not given within one working day, and if a grievance is to be filed, it may be submitted within three (3) working days of the receipt of the notice by the Unit Chairperson or Chief Steward.
7.09	Continue Work During Grievance Investigation. If an employee feels he/she is suffering a grievance, he/she should report the complaint at once in the manner described in Section 4 above. Pending its investigation and settlement, he/she should meanwhile try faithfully to perform the duties assigned to him/her by his/her foreperson or by any supervisory officer of the company.
7.10	Discussion between Steward and Foreperson. A Union Steward, or in his/her absence the Chief Steward, may discuss with the foreperson of hi/her department, direct matters which may affect the welfare of his/her department as a whole, even though at the time same may not continue a grievance. Similar discussion may take place between the Unit Chairperson or Chief Steward and the Operations Manger or his/her designated representative.
7.11	Slowdowns and interruptions of production. It is agreed that the Union and its
7
members, individually and collectively, will not, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit or take part in any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plants or premises.
7.12	Strikes and Lockouts. It is agreed that there shall be no strike by or lockout of employees affected by this Agreement during the life of this Agreement or during negotiations for its renewal.
7.13	Labour/Management Committee. It is agreed that two Bargaining Unit members elected by the Union and two Management members will make up this committee. Unless otherwise agreed, this committee will meet every two months to discuss policies, procedures and matters of mutual concern.
ARTICLE 8 WAGES
8.01	Regular, probationary, part-timeand student employees shall be paid in accordance with the provisions set out in Appendix D, Job Category Classification System and Schedule of Wage Categories.
8.02	Within one (1) month following the signing of this Agreement, the Company will provide the Unit Chairperson or the Chief Steward with a list of the rates paid to all regularand probationary employees and will, thereafter advise him/her in writing of changes that occur.
ARTICLE 9 NIGHTAND WEEK-END PREMIUMS
9.01	The Company agrees to pay a premium of thirty-five (.350) cents per hour to all regularand probationary employeesworking on shifts beginning between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. Employeesworking on shifts beginning at 12:00 noon will receive the same premium from 2:00 p.m. until the completion of their shift or 6:00 a.m. Employeesworking on shifts beginning between2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. will receive the same premium until 6:00 a.m. This premium shall not be considered as part of such employees' basic rates.
Regular and probationary employees whose schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays shall be paid one and one-half times their regular rates for all scheduled hours worked on such days. Such premiums shall not be considered as part of such employees' basic rates.
a
Sanitation employees requiredto work a regularshift on Saturdays(5th Shift) will be paid at their regular rates.
ARTICLE 10 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.01	All hours worked by regular and probationary employees in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty 40 hours per week, on a basis of five (5) days per week, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1%) times their regular hourly rates. Overtime premiums will only be paid following forty (40) hours of work provided the time missed was not a result of being sent home or laid off.
10.02	Alternate schedules, considered to be more in keeping with the wishes of employees, may be submitted by the Union. Such schedules will be implemented by the Company provided Management agrees they satisfactorily meet the requirements of the business and, in this respect, Management'sdecision shall not be made arbitrarily or unreasonably. In the event a grievance is processed to arbitration and the Arbitration Committee determines that Management's decision was made arbitrarily or unreasonably and that the alternate schedule submitted by the Union is to be implemented, the arbitration award shall be made effective the week following receipt of the award.
The Company will continue to post the schedule by noon each day, however if it is not posted, the Company will call the employees. If the employee leaves early for their own reasons, it is their responsibility to call the plant to find out where and when they are working.
10.03	Weekend Overtime: The following shall apply for assignment of all overtime scheduled on a Saturday and Sunday. Once the Company has determined that overtime is required, they shall immediately post a notice for said overtime seeking volunteers. Such notice shall be posted for a reasonable period of time. The overtime shall be assigned from employees signing the notice as follows:
(j) Senior qualified employee on the same shift as the overtime required.
(jj) Senior qualified employee on an alternate shift.
Management will continue to apply the existing scheduling practice.
10.04	Double their regular hourly rates shall be paid to all regular and probationary employees for those hours worked on Sunday, except for those whose work regularly falls on Sunday.
10.05	Because, however, receipts of raw materials and the demand for the Company's products vary from season to season and from day to day, the Union agrees that it may at times be necessary to exceed or to reduce these basic hours of work.
10.06	Emergency Call-In. Regular hourly-rated employees, if specially called in at any time outside their regular working hours, shall be through when the emergency is over, and shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked, but with a minimum guarantee of four (4) hours at their regular rates.
10.07	Daily Guarantee. Any regular or probationary employee reporting for work as usual unless previously notified not to report, who is dismissed for that day by reason of some cause for which he/she is not responsible, shall receive for that day at least four (4) hours' pay at his/her regular rate. The above guarantee shall not apply if work is not available due to Acts of God. Employees will be notified two (2) hours prior to their shift start not to report, if not required for their shift.
10.08	The Union agrees that its officers, stewards and members shall not transact Union business during hours for which they are paid by the Company, except with the permission of the Company. No steward may leave his/her department without securing permission from his/her foreperson. Permission will granted as soon as reasonably possible.
10.09	Employees shall not be regularly required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period. When employees are required to work three hours or more beyond their scheduled working hours, they will be entitled to an allowance of $6.00, which will be added to their gross earnings for that fiscal week.
Employees, if required to work in excess of five hours on Sunday (except for those employees whose schedule calls for work on calendar Sundays), will be entitled to an allowance of $5.50.
Lunch periods will be scheduled between three and one-half (3%) and five (5) hours into the shift, unless a mutual agreement is reached to vary the lunch times.
10
10.10	There shall be no accumulation of overtime premiums for the same hours worked, but the highest single premium shall apply.
10.11 Injury-Shift Guarantee. An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours necessarily lost in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs and/or for hours necessarily lost from up to three subsequent scheduled shifts within three weeks of the date of the accident if, as a result of such injury he/she is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. If the injury occurs on a non-scheduled day, the employee will be paid for the hours necessarily lost which would have been worked had the injury not occurred. Workers' Compensation for such injury shall be deducted from benefits due under this section.
ARTICLE 11 PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Company agrees to pay all regular and probationaryemployees at their regular rates of pay, for the normal number of hours of work on each of the following public holidays, whether they work or not on such holiday, and such hours paid will be considered as hours worked for the purposes of Article 10.1.
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Regular and probationary employees absent on the work-day next preceding or their work- day next following any of the above paid holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good cause arising from circumstances beyond his/her control. The work -day next preceding the holiday and on which the employee must report for work and work shall be interpreted to be one of the three work-days immediately preceding the holiday.
Effective December 12, 1996, one (1) individual floater to be granted between the months of October 1 through April 30.
11
11.02	Employees eligible for holiday pay and instructed to report for work on a holiday, shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times their regular rates for all hours worked on the calendar day of the holiday in addition to holiday pay to which they are entitled.
11.03	If any of the above holidays fall on a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed and where Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday will be observed in lieu of Friday. If any of the paid holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will be observed in lieu of Monday.
Subsection 3. By mutual agreement a paid holiday may be observed by the plant, on another day in lieu of the holiday, and in such a case the day generally recognized as the Public Holiday, shall be considered a normal work day and regular rates will apply.
11.04	A regular or probationary employee, if laid off or recalled in the pay weeks in which the public holiday falls, shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at regular rates for such holiday, provided he/she receives pay for hours worked in such week. Paymentwill also be made in respect to such holidays which are observed on Monday to employees laid off on the Friday, Saturday or Sunday immediately preceding. Similarly, paymentwill be made in respect to Saturday holidays to employees laid off on the Friday immediately preceding. To qualify for this holiday pay, employees must report for work when required in that week.
11.05	If a paid public holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, he/she may elect to receive holiday pay as provided in the first paragraph of this Article or receive a compensatory day's holiday.
If the employee elects to receive a compensatory day's holiday with pay, it shall be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If subsequently the employee does work on the day agreed upon as the compensatory day's holiday, it shall be considered as work performed on a paid public holiday and the employee shall be paid as set out above.
1106 The Company agrees to pay to an employee who would otherwise qualify for holiday pay under Article 11, but who is receiving sick pay or Workers' Compensation, the difference between sick pay or Workers' Compensation as the case may be and eight (8) hours' pay at his/her regular rate when the employee returns to work, as long as he/she continues to receive sick pay or, if on compensation, for such period
12
as the employeewould have been entitled to receivesick pay hadhe/she been sick. Should the public holiday be observed on a non- scheduled day, the Company will pay the employees eligible for either of the above payments, eight (8) hours' pay at their regular rates.
ARTICLE 12 REST PERIODS
12.01	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of ten (10) minutes during morning and afternoon shifts, provided the working time of the shift exceeds two and one half (2%) hours. A rest period of ten (10) minutes shall be granted in overtime, provided the overtime shift is expected to exceed one and one half (1%) hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that Rest Periods must not be abused. The Company will schedule a minimum of eight (8) hours between scheduled shifts unless the employee agrees to a lesser period of time.
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY
13.01	Subject to the provisions of this Article, seniority shall mean accumulated service in the bargaining unit, except that all service with the Company priorto Decembers, 1993, shall be considered as "seniority". Personsfrom the bargaining unit appointed to plant supervisory positions after December 12, 1993, shall continue to retain seniority while in such positions for a period of one year from the date of their appointment.
13.02	Employeesshall be regarded as falling into three (3) classes: part-time, student and full-time.
Part-time employees shall mean employees regularly employed for twenty-four (24) hours weekly or less. These employees shall not be entitled to seniority.
"Students" shall mean those employees hired around the school vacation period, meaning March break, and University or College reading week or during the month of December, April 1 until September 1, and the Christmas Holidays. These employees shall not have seniority. Such employees, if retained after the vacation period, shall be subject to the probationary period commencing at the end of the school vacation period.
13
All other employees shall be regarded as probationary employees when hired and shall have no seniority. After three (3) months' service they shall become full-time employees and shall receive credit for seniority from the date of their employment, provided however, that for the purpose of determining the probationary period each full day of absence from work for any reason, will be added to the stipulated three (3) month period.
Probationary employees, if laid off and later rehired, will be given credit for past service as a probationary employee, if they complete the probationary period within nine months from the date they became probationary employees.
13.03 a)	Lay-off. In case it becomes necessary to reduce the working force, the order
of lay-off shall be as follows:
First:	Student employees will be laid off.
Second:	Part-time employees except by agreement with the Union.
Third:	Probationary employees will be laid off, provided regular
employees remaining can perform the required tasks satisfactorily.
Fourth:	Regular employees in order of seniority, provided those
employees who are retained can perform the required work satisfactorily. Senior employees who may be expected to qualify reasonably quickly will be given an opportunity to do so.
A lay-off for the purpose of this section shall be defined as a lay-off of seven
(7) consecutive calendar days or longer.
13.03	b) If an employee is affected by a shortage of work within their scheduled work
week, they have the options of bumping to another shift or choosing an
excused day or the use of a vacation day, providing the needs of the
business are satisfied.
13.04	Recall. When increasing the working force, the order of recall shall be full-time employees in order of their seniority, regardless of the departments in which they
14
were previously employed, provided they can perform the required work satisfactorily. Part-time employees in order of their seniority.
13.05	An employee transferred from one plant of the Company to another shall retain his/her seniority, subjectto approval by the managementand local union of the plant to which he/she is transferred.
13.06	Accident or Sickness Leave. If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, he/she shall accumulate seniority while off work, up to the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 13.11 and shall be returned to the position previously held or to a position carrying a rate equal to that previously held subject to seniority and ability to perform the required work satisfactorily. If such positions are not available, the employee shall, subject to seniority and ability, be placed on ajob he/she can satisfactorily perform. Applications for reinstatement after the expiry of the allowable periods shall be considered on their merits.
13.07	a) Leave for Union Position. One employee who is elected or appointed to a
full-time positionwith the Union, shall upon proper notice, be granted leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed the term of this Agreement. Such employee, upon one month's notice of his/her desire to return to work with the Company, shall subjectto his/her seniority and ability to satisfactorily perform the requiredwork, be placed in the position previously held or one at an equal rate of pay. If such positions are not available the employee shall, subjectto seniority and ability, be placed on ajob he/she can satisfactorily perform, retaining the seniority possessed at the time such leave of absence was granted.
b) Public Office Leave. Employees who are elected to the municipal government, the Provincial Legislature of the Government of Canada shall, upon establishing need for same, be granted leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed the duration of this Agreement. Those granted such leave will retain the seniority possessed prior to the leave but will not accumulate seniority during the leave of absence.
C) Temporary Union Business Leave. Subject to the needs of the business, leave of absence for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions or conferences for a period not exceeding forty five (45) days of Union paid work days in total per calendar year. The employees to participate in these leaves shall be chosen by the Union on a written request from the Local
15
Union. The Union shall give the Company written notice of at least five (5) days before the requested leave is to commence. Employees on such leave of absence shall accumulate seniority during the period of the leave of absence.
13.08	Leave of Absence. Subject to the exigencies of the business, leave of absence without pay up to one year may be granted by the Company on the written request of an employee provided the reasons stated in the application are sufficient.
13.09	Pregnancy and parental leaves shall be granted in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario as amended from time to time.
13.10	Seniority records shall be maintained by the Company showing the places on the seniority list of all employees in every department. This list shall be revised quarterly or as otherwise agreed and copies given to the Chief Steward of the Union. The names and service of probationary employees will be added to this list.
13.11	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there shall be no obligation to rehire, when he/she:
a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, or is dismissed for cause.
b)	Fails to return to work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact or a telegram or a notice mailed to the employee at the last known address of the employee, shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if, within 48 hours of such notice, the employee fails to reportforduty, or to advise the Company of the date when he/she will so report, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee has voluntarily left the Company's employ. In urgent cases, however, where it is necessary to secure workers at notice of less than 48 hours, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list, until the vacancy if filled.
The Company will give the employee reasonable time to report to work, howeverthis time will not extend beyond 2 hours.
Employees rehired under such circumstances shall retain the positions to which they are appointed, but provided the employees with whom the
16
Company was unable to communicate in time, later within 96 hours advise the Company of their desire to return to the Company’s employ, they shall retain their seniority, and shall be eligible for recall on the next occasion of a vacancy in a position for which they possess the required ability.
If an employee is absent from work for three (3) consecutive work days without securing a leave of absence from his/her supervisor unless the employee provides a bona fide reason for his/her absence.
Has been out of the Company’s employ in excess of allowable breaks defined below:
Length of Employee's Service	Allowable Break
Over 90 days to 12 months	- Time equivalent to one-half of
length of service.
Overl year	- Time equivalent to length of
service of up to two years.
These allowable breaks on lay-off may be extended by adding periods of absence resulting from sickness or personal injury certified by a physician, up to the above time limits, or by leave of absence granted by the Company, up to one year.
An employee who returns to work within the time of an allowable break shall retain the seniority he/she had at the time he/she was laid off, but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of lay-off. A seniority employee laid-off or suspended, who returns from layoff or suspension, shall accumulate seniority for a period of twenty working days following the lay off or suspension.
13.12	Persons whom the Company is training to fill technical, commercial or supervisory positions may be employed or retained in employment in plant operations irrespective of the seniority provisions of this Article. The secretary of the Local Union shall be advised of such appointments. Except by agreementwith the Union, such appointments shall not exceed 1% of the total number of employees covered by this contract.
13.13	Changes introduced into the Company’sseniority policy as a result of the provisions of this Article, shall apply only to employees affected by this Agreement, who are presently in the employ of the Company, and future employees.
c)
d)
17
13.14	Training shall be determined by the Company. Where the Company has determined training opportunities exist, such training shall be assigned, for those requiring the ,	training, provided that the employee has the qualifications and ability to warrant the
training.
ARTICLE 14 JOB POSTING
14.01	a)	Notices of vacancies above Production Category 1 (including all Mechanical
and Engineers categories) within the Bargaining Unit will be posted. A copy of all such notices will be given to the Unit Chairperson or Chief Steward of the Union at the time of posting. Those applying within five (5) working days from the time of posting will receive consideration for the vacancy on the basis of ability and seniority, seniority being the governing factor when ability is equal, provided they possess suitable qualifications for the job and can qualify reasonably quickly. All promotions shall be on a probationary basis until the employee has demonstrated his/her ability to perform the new task satisfactorily. Employees selected to fill such positions temporarily shall receive equal consideration with such applicants. Employees who have successfully bid on a job posting in the previous twelve (12) months will not be eligible to apply to a posting unless the posted position is in a higherwage category. The employee may elect to returnto his/her former position within twelve (12) days of his/her commencement in the position.
b) Temporary Full-Time Job Posting: The Company will determine when a temporary full-timejob vacancy exists. Temporary full-timejob postings shall be posted in accordance with 14.01 (a) above.
i)	Temporary vacancies as described above shall be utilized to temporarily replace for full-time employee absences such as, but not limited to; leave of absence, longterm illness, and maternity/parental leave.
ii)	Such postings shall include the effective date, and where known, the length of time that the job is available.
iii)	In the event a permanent posting becomes available during the time an employee is posted to a temporaryjob such employee shall have the right to post for the permanent job posting, if successful, the temporaryjob vacancy shall be reposted for the remainder of time available.
iv)	Upon completion of the temporary assignment such employee shall be returned to the position which they held at the time of the posting.
SHIFT PREFERENCE
18
An employee who successfully bids on a job posting, must work on the shift where the vacancy appears.
The employee must remain on that same shift for one year. During this period of time, they have the option of applying for any other job posting within the plant.
After one (1) year, the employee has the option of bumping less senor employees within the same job posting.
ARTICLE 15 VACATIONS
15.01	The Company agrees subject to the provisions set forth in the following sections of this Article to grant vacations with pay on the basis of service calculated to January 1st, as follows:
a)	Employeeswith service of less than five (5) years will be granted vacations in
accordance with Ontario Law.
Thereafter, employees will receive vacations with pay based on years of service as follows:
After 5 years' service 3 weeks After 10 years' service 4 weeks After 20 years' service 5 weeks After 25 years' service 6 weeks
15.02	Employees who, after January 1st and prior to September 1st of the calendar year, reach the service required to entitle them to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation scale set out in Section 15.01(b) above, will become eligible for such additional week of vacation on completion of the required years of service. If circumstances permit such week may be granted earlier in the year.
15.03	The vacation week shall be considered to consist of 40 hours at the regular hourly rate, provided this amount will be reduced by one fifty-second (1/52nd) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
19
(1)	With permission up to 30 days annually.
(2)	Due to sickness up to 30 days annually or such longer periods as an employee may be entitled to receive sick pay under the Company's Sick Pay Plan, and
(3)	Up to one (1) year due to compensable accident.
15.04	The Company may schedule a one week shut down each year. This will normally be scheduledthe last week of July priorto Civic Holiday. Employeeswill be notified of this shut down by March 1st in the year a shut down is to be scheduled.
15.05	Vacations may be granted at any time subject to the demands of the business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at times requested by employees. Subject to the requirements of Article 15.04 employeeswill indicate their preference for their first two weeks vacation entitlement in order of seniority. Where there is a shutdown, as in Article 15.04, the shutdown week will be considered to be the employees first week of vacation. Employees will then indicate their preference for any remaining weeks' entitlement in order of seniority.
15.06	Employees with six (6) or more years of service who leave the service of the Company for any reason will be eligible at time of leaving to receive any unexercised vacation credit to which they may be entitled as follows:
a)	Vacation with pay for which they were eligible at January 1st last preceding.
b)	One fifty-second (1/52nd) of the vacation scale applicable in each case at time of separation for each week of service computed back to January 1st.
15.07	Every employee will take his/her vacation in the year in which he/she becomes eligible for it. Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year.
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of employees during working hours. Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary properly to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. This, however, shall not be construed to include such personal necessities as safety boots, gloves, coveralls, or any such article which becomes the personal property of the employee.
The Company and the Union are committed to ensuring that reasonable effort is made to promote and protect the safety and health of employees. It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate in establishing, adopting and enforcing
20
rules and practices which promote and protect the occupational health and safety of all employees in the Company.
Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company.
The Company and the Unionwill cooperate in establishing a Joint Health and Safety Committee (JHSC) in accordance with provincial legislation which shall be responsible for investigating concerns and resolving problems relating to occupational health and safety.
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall hold regular monthly meetings and shall inspect, monitor and make recommendations regarding occupational health conditions and safety practices within the plant.
The Committee will also function in the education of all employees of the Company regarding occupational health and safety. The Committee will monitor compliance with, .and make recommendations on applicable health and safety legislation.
Health and Safety concerns shall be reported to the Supervisor of the area or department where the concern arises. All concerns which cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the Supervisor, may be referred to the Joint Health and Safety Committee for investigation and evaluation. The Committee will then seek to resolve the issue to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 17 SICK PAY, BENEFIT AND PENSION PLANS
17.01	Sick Pay. Effective the first full pay week following the date of ratification, sick pay will be paid in the following amounts in accordance with the Company's Sick Pay Plan:
Group 1 Production Category 1	$319.00
Group 2Production Categories2-4 and Mechanical Category 1	$348.00
Group3Mechanical Categories2-3 and Engineers	$377.00
The service scale for duration of payments is as follows:
6	months to 18 months'service 18 months to 5 years' service
5 years to 7 years' service
7	years to 10 years' service 10 years' service and over
4 weeks 16 weeks 26 weeks 34 weeks 52 weeks
21
The required premiums will be paid 75% by the Company and 25% by the employee.
The three day waiting period will be waived in respect to an employee who is hospitalized during the waiting period due to an illness, accident or day surgery.
17.02	Life Insurance. In accordance with the Company's Life Insurance Plan, eligible employees are covered for $30,000.
The Company will pay the full cost of Group Life Insurance Plan.
17.03	Extended Health Care. The Company's Major Medical plan will remain in effect for the term of this Agreement, except for benefits introduced in any compulsory government-sponsored plan.
Drug Card
The Company will implement a generic drug plan card based on the current coverage by September 1, 1998. There is a seven dollar ($7.00) dispensing fee cap.
Vision Care
Effective June 1,2006, allowable expenses will be paid to a maximum of $170.00. Effective March 1,2007 $180.00. Effective March 1,2008 $190.00 payable each 24 months.
17.04	Pension Plan
Effective May 7, 2006, amend employer contribution from $13.00 to $14.00 retroactive for all eligible years in the plan.
22
17.05	a) (i) Dental Plan
Effective January 1, 2003, allowable expenses will be based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule up to a maximum of $1,600.00 percalendaryear unit February 28, 2007.
(jj) UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan (Ontario)
Effective March 1,2007, the Company will contribute twenty-six cents (260) and effective March 1, 2008 the Company will contribute thirty cents (300) perhourforall hours worked, plusapplicabletaxestothe United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan (Ontario). The Company contribution to the Plan will be calculated at the end of each month and will be forwarded to the Planwithin twenty-one (21) days following the end of each month.
ARTICLE 18 APPEARANCE IN COURT
18.01	An employee summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or one who has been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness shall be paid the difference betweenwhathe/she would have earned for his/her scheduled hours at his/her paid rate and the court fee received. Employees should notify their foreperson as soon as possible after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment under this section. The employee will come to work during those regular hours that he/she is not required to attend court. An employee serving as ajuror or as a subpoenaed witness is not required to work his/her regular scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 19 BEREAVEMENT PAY
19.01	When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative, he/she shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at his/her regular rate for the day of the funeral and for two (2) other days to be taken not later than two (2) days following the day of the funeral, provided that such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his/her regularwork days.
When an employee cannot attend the funeral of an immediate relative because of geographical distance, he/she shall receive (8) eight hours pay at his/her regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made in respect to absence from work on his/her regularwork day.
23
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: Wife, Husband, Common-Law (as defined in the benefit booklet), Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law,Brother-in-law,Sister-in-law, Grandmother, Grandfather, Grandchildren, Step-son, Step-daughter (on both sides of the family).
When an employee attends the funeral of an immediatefamily member, specifically Great Grandfather, Great Grandmother, immediateAunt(s), immediate Uncle(s) they shall be entitled to eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular rate for the day of the funeral, provided that such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his/her regular work day. If an employee should request time off for attendance at the funeral of a spouse's Great Grandfather, Great Grandmother, immediate Aunt(s), immediate Uncle(s) the day of the funeral will be granted at no pay.
ARTICLE 20 RENEW OF LICENSES
20.01	The Company will reimburse employees for the renewal of necessary licenses required in the performance of their duties.
ARTICLE 21 CLOTHING
21.01	Oilskin aprons, oilskin sleeves, gloves, hair nets, head coverings and knives specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to employees but such items shall remain the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises.
Launderable outer work clothing specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to employees. The Company will make the necessary arrangements for the laundering of such clothing. Notwithstanding the above, the deposit system presently in effect for leathergloves, jackets, coveralls and smocks shall continue in effect. The Company will provide a $30.00 allowance towards the costs of frock liners if employees purchase a frock liner during the course of this Collective Agreement.
Employeeswith morethansix(6) months'seniority, who purchaseC.S.A. approved safety footwear for use on the job, will receive an allowance of up to one hundred and twenty five dollars ($1200.00) towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months' seniority who purchaseC.S.A. approved safety footwear shall be reimbursed up to one hundred and fifteen dollars ($115.00) towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months' seniority. For a subsequent purchase,
24
employees will again become eligible for this allowance one (1) year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
Tool Allowance
Employees in the mechanical group will be granted a tool allowance of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) during the course of the Collective Labour Agreement for the replacement of tools required by the company, which are broken or worn out on the job. The allowance may also be used for the purchase of new tools, required by the company to maintain new equipment or to employ new techniques.
New employees in the mechanical group will not be eligible until they have completed twelve (12) months service on the job.
ARTICLE 22 GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
22.01	It is mutually agreed that no demand shall be made by either party to this Agreement upon the other party, which in any way contravenes laws, orders or regulations issued by, or under authority of, the Government of Canada or that of the Province of Ontario, or such agency as may be deputed by either of such Governments from time to time in regard to wages, bonuses, hours, conditions of Labour or other related matters.
ARTICLE 23 UNION NOTICES
23.01	During the life of this Agreement, the Company agrees to permit Union Officers,who are employees of the Company, to put notices of Union meetings or of other matters of interest to Union members upon bulletin boards customarily used for such purposes, provided all such notices are to be first approved by the manager, or his/her designated representative.
The Union agrees to refrain from distributing any other notices of publications upon the Company's premises, and to distribute any printed material at the gates only after working hours.
ARTICLE 24 PLANT CLOSING
24.01	When it becomes necessary to close the plant or a substantial portion of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
25
a)	They have one (1) or more years' seniority.
b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within the thirty (30) day period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one (1) year, and employees receiving Workers' Compensation or off sick will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 13.
c)	They have not refused an offer of employment by the Company in the same plant or in another unit of the business, the location of which is reasonably accessible to the location of the place of employment from which the employees are being separated.
d)	They have not refused an offer of employment the requirements of which are not substantially different from the work previously performed and provided they cannot be reasonably expected to perform the offered work satisfactorily.
e)	They have not been granted retirement on pension.
f)	They have not been transferred to another plant.
g)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow down or other cessation of work, fire, government action, or Act of God.
h)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
i)	The scale of separation allowance shall be as follows:
YEARS OF
COMPLETED SERVICE
AMOUNT
1
2
3
4
5
6
26
21 and over
11 to20
The ten year allowance plus $250,00 for each year over ten. The twenty year allowance plus $325,00 for each year over twenty.
24.02	Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on so doing terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
24.03	In respect to those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical-Surgical, Extended Health Care and Hospitalizationplans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE 25 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01 This Agreement shall remain infull force and effect March31,2006 until the 30th day of March 2009, and shall thereafter automatically renew itself from year to year, unless a notice of termination or of amendment is given by either party to the other in writing anytime within 90 days before the expiry date of the Agreement. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall remain in force during the period of negotiations.
Sub-titles of the provisions of this Agreement are for index purposes only and are not intended as a guide to interpretation of the Agreement.
In signing the foregoing Agreement the parties hereto recognize that no rigid rules can of themselves secure mutual co-operationwhich both parties agree is essential alike to the welfare of the business and to that of the employees.
It is, therefore, of paramount importance to all concerned that the spirit of this Agreement be followed as faithfully as the written terms.
With this in mind the parties hereto pledge their best endeavour to carry out the provisions of this Agreement in a spirit of goodwill, tolerance and understanding.
25.02 The parties to this Agreement agree to sign a collective agreement within thirty (30) days of the Union ratification vote date.
SIGNED this____________day of_____________________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
28
APPENDIX "D"
1.
JOB CATEGORY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
(a)	Subject to the following provisions, regular full-time, probationary, part-time and student employees shall receive the applicable wage rates set out in Appendix "D", Section 2 -Schedule of Wage Categories for the classifications to which they are regularly assigned, provided they are qualified.
(b)	An employee shall receive the applicable category rate after he/she has been assigned to the classification concerned for a period of six (6) weeks and is qualified, subject to (e) or (9 below.
(C) When an employee is regularly assigned to classifications in more than one wage category he/she shall be paid an hourly wage rate determined by bringing into account the actual percentage of time worked in the highest rated category and the balance of the total time worked in the next highest rated category. Where such an employee regularly works 75'% or more of his/her time in the highest rated category he/she shall be paid the rate for that category.
The above hourly wage rate calculation will be subject to (e) or (9 below.
(d)	When an employee is required to temporarily fill a job in a higher rated category he/she shall receive the higher rate, but if requiredto temporarily fill a job in a lower category he/she shall receive his/her regular rate, subject to (e) or (9 below.
(e)	"The starting rate for new employees hired priorto July 22,2000, will be 80% of the applicable category. Automatic increases of 5% of the category rate will be granted on the completion of each 6 months' service, except that after twenty-one months service, the category rate will be paid."
New part-time employees hired priorto July 22,2000, shall receive a starting rate of 80% of the applicable category. Automatic increases of 5% of the category rate will be granted on the completion of each one thousand (1,000) hours worked. After four thousand (4,000) hours worked, they will be paid
29
the rate of the category as set out in Appendix "D", Section 2 - Schedule of Wage Categories.
1(f)	It is agreed that the differential for new employees applicable to all other
employees will not apply to those in the Mechanical or Engineers categories. The starting rate for new employees hired in the Mechanical or Engineers categories will be 0.500 per hour below the category rate. An automatic increase of 0.250 per hour will be granted on the completions of 3 months' service. After 6 months' service, the category rate will be paid.
(g)	Lead Hands designated by the Operations Manager shall be paid a premium
over their calculated wage rate for the duration of the assignment, on the following basis:
Lead Hands - fifty cents (504) per hour.
2. SCHEDULE OF WAGE CATEGORIES
PRODUCTION	Effective
Apr 1/06
Category 4	$16.49
Gravy Maker Line Operator
Freezer/Fryer/Oven Operator
Hayssen Operator
Formulator
Massager
Waste Water
Sanitation
Category 3 (a)	$16.23
Quality Control Shipper-Receiver
Category 3	$16.19
Set up and Maintain Equipment Pastry Maker Fork Lift Operator Cook Room Supplier Stock Room Clerk
Effective Mar 30/07
$16.84
$16.58
$16.54
Effective Mar 30/08
$17.19
$16.93
$16.89
30
Effective	Effective
Apr 1/06	Mar 30/07
Category 2	$15.29	$15.64
Pie Line Attendant
Plate Freezer Operator
Skidding
Dicing
Comatrol
Sepomatic
Sauce Maker
Top Dough
Box Maker
Category I	$14.99	$15.34
General Labour
Packer
Spreader
inspection
Janitor/Janitress
MECHANICAL
Category 3
Electrician “A” (fully qualified with Provincial Certificate)
$23.00	$24.35
Millwright “A” (fully qualified with Provincial Certificate)
$23.00
1st Class Engineers or Refrigeration B
$23.00
Category 2	$18.48
General Maintenance ‘ ‘A”
Category 1	$15.57
Maintenance Help ENGINEERS
2nd Class Engineers	$22.65
3rd Class Engineers	$22.50
4th Class Engineers	$22.50
$24.35
$24.35
$18.83
$15.92
$24.00
$23.85
$23.85
Effective Mar 30/08
$15.99
$15.69
$25.35
$25.35
$25.35
$19.18
$16.27
$25.00
$24.85
$24.85
31
New Hires After July 22, 2000 Effective April 12006
FULL-TIME	Category 1	Category 2 Category 3 Category 3a Category 4			
Start Rate	$11.30	$11.52	$12.18 $12.22 $12.40		
Ist Year	$12.13	$12.37	$13.08	$13.11	$13.32
2nd Year	$12.96	$13.22	$13.98	$14.02	$14.24
3rd Year	$13.79	$14.06	$14.89	$14.92	$15.16
4th Year - Full	$14.99	$15.29	$16.19	$16.23	$16.49
PART-TIME	Category I	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
Start Rate	$11.30	$11.52	$12.18	$12.22	$12.40
I8t Year	$11.80	$12.03	$12.72	$12.75	$12.95
2nd Year	$12.30	$12.54	$13.26	$13.30	$13.51
3rd Year	$13.05	$13.31	$14.08	$14.11	$14.34
					
STUDENT RATES	Category I	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
/ST Year	$9.98	$10.17	$10.76	$10.79	$10.96
Subsequent Years	$11.04	$11.26	$11.92	$11.95	$12.14
32
Effective March 30, 2007
FULL-TIME	Category 1	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
Start Rate	$11.65	$11.87	$12.53	$12.57	$12.75
f* Year	$12.48	$12.72	$13.43	$13.46	$13.67
2nd Year	$13.31	$13.57	$14.33	$14.37	$14.59
3rd Year	$14.14	$14.41	$15.24	$15.27	$15.51
					
PART-TIME	Category 1	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
Start Rate	$11.65	$11.87	$12.53	$12.57	$12.75
Ist Year	$12.15	$12.38	$13.07	$13.10	$13.30
2nd Year	$12.65	$12.89	$13.61	$13.65	$13.86
					
					
STUDENT RATES	Category 1	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
1st Year	$10.33	$10.52	$11.11	$11.14	$11.31
					
33
Mav ;l
j
■
FULL-TIME	Category 1	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
Start Rate	$12.00	$12.22	$12.88	$12.92	$13.10
l8t Year	$12.83	$13.07	$13.78	$13.81	$14.02
2nd Year	$13.66	$13.92	$14.68	$14.72	$14.94
3rd Year	$14.49	$14.76	$15.59	$15.62	$15.86
4tn Year - Full	$15.69	$15.99	$16.89	$16.93	$17.19
PART-TIME	Category 1	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a Category 4	
					
					
					
3rd Year	$13.75	$14.01	$14.78	$14.81	$15.04
4th Year - Full	$14.75	$15.03	$15.87	$15.91	$16.15
STUDENT RATES	Category I	Category 2	Category 3	Category 3a	Category 4
Ist Year	$10.68	$10.87	$11.46	$11.49	$11.66
Subsequent Years	$11.74	$11.96	$12.62	$12.65	$12.84
3. CLASSIFYING NEW OF CHANGED JOBS
(a)	The Company will classify the job into the wage category schedule, based on comparisons with other jobs in the plant, and notify the Chief Steward, in writing.
(b)	In case of disagreement, the Union will give written notice to the Company stating the wage category in which, in the Union'sjudgement, the job should be classified, and a list of job comparisons explaining the basis upon which the Union'sjudgement was made. If notice of disagreement as set out above is not received by the Company within 60 days of the date the Chief Steward was notified of the wage category in which the job was classified by the Company, the category in which the job was placed by the Company will be considered the agreed category for the job.
34
Similarly, when the Company has advised the Union that there is no justification for reclassifying a job in a higher rated category where the Union alleges a job has been changed, the Union may give written notice of disagreement to the Company stating the wage category in which, in the Union'sjudgement, the alleged changed job should be classified, and a list of job comparisons explaining the basis upon which the Union'sjudgement was made.
Following receipt of the Union's notice of disagreement, the Company, within 30 days, will submit the Union inwriting, a listofjob comparisons explaining the basis upon which the Company's judgement was made.
(c)	The disagreementwill then be discussed by the Chief Steward and/or Unit Chairperson and Managementrepresentatives. A full-time representative of the Union may attend this meeting.
If no agreement is reached, the Union may refer the disagreement to arbitration as set out in Article 7, Section 6 by giving written notice to the Company, within 30 days following the above meeting, stating the Union's final judgement of the appropriate wage category and the list of job comparisons on which it will rely at arbitration. Following receipt of the Union's notice the Company will submit its finaljudgement of the appropriate wage category and the list of job comparisons on which it will rely at arbitration.
The Arbitrator, or Arbitration Committee, shall have only the authority to decide in favour of the wage category set by the Company or the wage category submitted by the Union, based on comparisons with other jobs in the plant as submitted on the final lists of job comparisons submitted by the parties. The Arbitrator's, or Arbitration Committee's, decision will establish the wage category which will be binding on both parties.
(d)	After the job is started the wage category set by the Company will be implemented and the applicable rate will be paid retroactive to the date that the job reached normal operation. Similarly, i f subsequently the job is placed in a higher rated category as a result of a disagreement submitted by the Union, including at arbitration, the rate increasewill be paid retroactiveto the date that the job reached normal operation.
35
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
and
United Food & Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinaftercalled “the Union”)
RE: CLOTHING SUPPLIES
This will confirm our understanding with respect to supplying clothing to employees.
Freezer coats will be made available to employees working in the freezer, or employees working outside in winter.
Shippers will be supplied with snowsuits as in the past.
As employees rotate around vests sometimes are needed in certain areas of the plant. When this happens, vests will be made available to such employees.
SIGNED this_________day of_________________ 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
36
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2
Between:
Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
and
United Food & Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: RECALL RIGHTS
This will confirm our understandingwith regards to having a Union Representativepresent when the company is recalling employees.
The Company will continue as in the past to have a Union Representative present when recalling employees to witness that the calls were made, if the employee was unavailable.
SIGNED this_________day of________________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
37
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called “the Company”)
and
United Food & Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: PAST PRACTICE - ARTICLES #1, #7, #10.07, #18
This will confirm that the Company will live up to past practice regarding Articles #1, #7, #10.07, #18.
SIGNED this_______day of_______________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
38
Between:
and
Step #1 Step #2
step #3 Blatant means:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #4
Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinaftercalled “the Union”)
RE: OVERTIME
If a person misses an overtime opportunity, which is not blatant, the Company will offer compensating time at both parties convenience, at the next available overtime opportunity (without taking the overtime from another employee) or within one (1) month period.
Failure to make up the time at the next opportunity will result in the employee being paid at their appropriate rate for the time missed.
If the employee is missed again within a six (6) month period then that employeewill be offered50/50 (i.e.50% compensatingtime/50% pay to be offered at the next available overtime opportunity) without taking the overtime from another employee or within a one (1) month period.
Failure to make up the time at the next opportunity will result in the employee being paid at their appropriate rate for the time that was missed.
If the employee is missed again within the same (6) month period then that employee will receive the pay for the hours missed at their appropriate rate.
If an employee comes to a supervisor and tells them they were missed on the overtime opportunity before the overtime takes place or the Company has not updated the employee’s telephone number in the records after a change has been submitted by the employee.
39
If the employee is not missedwithin a six (6) month period they will be placed bacK into Step #1.
SIGNED this
day of
2006
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
40
L
OF AGREEMENT#5
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
and
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Subject to the following conditions, the Company may employ part-time employees who will not be entitled to the provisions of Article 10 and Article 13 of this Agreement. Part-time employees shall receive statutory holiday pay in accordancewith the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
A)	A part-time employee may not regularly work more than twenty-four (24) hours per week except between May 1sf and September 15th.
B)	Hours worked by part-time employees should not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total number of hours worked by all employees in the plant except during the May 1st to September 15th period.
C)	It is agree that if a part-time employees has completed 1040 hours of part-timeworkhe/she will be considered to have part-time seniority and ifhe/she is hired to a full-time position as per(D) below, the part-time employee will be considered to have seniority effective the date of the full-time hire.
D)	If a full-time employee does not fill ajob postingas per Article 14 then parttime employees may bid on the job posting based on the length of service and the criteria set out in Article 14.
E)	A full-time employeewill not lose full-time employment as a result of his/her specific full- time job being split into the work of two (2) part-time employees.
F)	A full-time employeewill not be sent home priorto his/her quitting time unless all part -time employees who are working on the same shift have been sent home, provided that the full- time employee can perform the work the parttime employee is performing provided the Company does not incur overtime costs.
41
G)	These employees shall have a separate seniority list.
SIGNED this______day of_____________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
42
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
and
United Food & Commercial Workers Canada, LocaM75
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: VACATION POLICY
The Company and the Union have agreed that the following policy has been and will continue to be in effect with regards to scheduling vacation.
To all employees who are entitled to more than two (2) weeks’ vacation within the given year, please indicate your preferred two (2) weeks on the vacation forms as per the Collective Agreement.
All vacation requests must be submitted on or before April 1st each year. The Company will approve the vacation schedule by April 15. The Company will allow vacation entitlementto be taken on a reasonable basis prior to April 15 of the calendar year. Vacation request resubmitted between April 16 and May I will be scheduled based on seniority. All other vacation request submitted after April 15 will be based on the first come first serve basis pending the final vacation schedule. All vacations that are not booked by October 15 will be booked by the Company/Employee. (A full week of vacation booked will take preference over single days after April 1).
All vacation requests submitted between the period of January 1 and April 1, for this same period, will be rescheduled based on first come, first serve.
The number of employees allowed off perjob posting, per category at any given time will be a maximum of 10%. During volume reduced production periods, the maximum of 10% may be exceeded by the mutual agreement of the employee and the Production Manager.
43
All vacation forms may be found in the Supervisor’s Office and in the Human Resources office, If you have any questions or concerns, please see your Supervisor or Human Resources.
SIGNED this_______day of________________ 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
44
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7
Between:
and
Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called “the Company”)
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: BOOKLET PRINTING
This will confirm the Agreement reached during 2006 contract renewal negotiations regarding the printing of booklet copies of the Collective Agreement.
The Company to accept invoice for $300.00 (three hundred dollars) towards Booklet printing costs.
SIGNED this
day of
2006
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
45
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #8
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called “the Company”)
and
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: UFCW LEUKEMIA FUND
The Employer agrees to deduct once during the month of May from each employee’s pay an amount of ten (IO) dollars subject to authorization by such employee. Such deductions shall be matched on a dollar for dollar basis by the Employer. The Employer shall forward said deductions to UFCW Local 175 by the end of May. The amount forwarded shall be donated to the UFCW Leukemia Fund.
SIGNED this________day of_______________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
46
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called “the Company”)
and
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinafter called "the Union”)
RE: PRODUCTION LEVELS
During the life of the agreement, should there be a need to increase production levels, beyond current capacity levels the Company and the Union will mutually agree on a process to achieve desired production levels. Any agreement reached by the parties will not be implemented unless ratified by the membership.
SIGNED this_______day of______________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
47
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #10
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called “the Company”)
and
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinaftercalled “the Union”)
RE: MECHANICAL CATEGORY 3 - HIGHER WAGE RATES
The Company reserves the right to pay higher than the wage rates set out within the Collective Agreement and it’sAppendices and Letters of Understandingfor the positions in MechanicalCategory3. Thiswill only occurforthe purposes of recruitingnew/replacement licensed employees. In the event that this is necessary, the Company will demonstrate to the Unionthat they were not successful in recruiting qualified and suitable employees at the applicable starting rate. At such time, all current employees within Mechanical Category 3 will receive an equivalent increase, and the Category rate will be adjusted accordingly. Prior to doing so the Company will inform the Union of the Company’s decision.
SIGNED this________day of_________________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
48
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #11
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
and
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinaftercalled “the Union”)
RE: BACK-UP POSITIONS
The Company will determine when a back-up job vacancy exists,
I.	The Company agrees to allow existing back-up employees at date of ratification to be grandfathered to one (1) back-up position.
II.	Any employee who currently holds two (2) back-up positions will be given seven (7) calendar days from date of ratification to select the back-up position they want to maintain.
III.	Any resulting vacation positions and any other vacation back-up positions will then be posted within 30 days from ratification by the Union.
IV.	Back-up positions shall be posted, as per 14.01 (a), and successful candidatesshall be utilized to work in the event of short-term absences.
V.	Employees shall only be entitled to be posted to one (I) back-up position.
VI.	Where required the Company may allow for one (1) back-up position for each job classification per shift contained in 2, 3, 3a and 4.
VII.	Back-ups shall not be utilized to prevent the posting of a regular full time job opportunity.
SIGNED this___________day of_____________________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
49
LETTER OF AGREEMENT#^
Between:	Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled “the Company”)
and
United Food& Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
(Hereinaftercalled “the Union”)
RE: POWERHOUSE
In orderto comply with CurrentTSSA and operational requirements it is necessary to staff the powerhouse 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
To address this necessity, following the date of ratification of this collective agreement the parties agree to formulate a committee for the purpose of discussing the necessity of powerhouse coverage 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The committee will consist of the maintenance negotiating committee member, the Chief Steward, Union Representative,the Chief Engineer, the Plant Manager and HR Manager.
The purpose of the committee is to discuss options to come to a resolve to ensure the appropriate coverage of the powerhouse for the continual operation of the plant, and to ensure the plant is in compliance with TSSA requirements. The committee will meet as required, and within ninety (90) days will make a recommendation. After this ninety day period the Company will proceed with an alternate shift schedule for the powerhouse.
SIGNED this_________day of_________________, 2006.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC.
WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO