SYDNEY DISTRIBUTION CENTRE - COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS December^ 2010
BETWEEN:	Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited
P. 0. Box 1444 Sydney, N. S.
B1P6R7
hereinafter referredto as the "Employer"
AND:	Teamsters. Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and
Helpers Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 2C4
hereinafter referred to as the "Union"
WITNESSETH	that the Employer and the Union hereby mutually agree as
follows:
ARTICLE 1 • OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT:
A.	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be to promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work and conditions cf employment which will render justice to all.
B.	The parties hereto desire to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment satisfactory to Employer and Employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and better understanding between the parties.
00374 (12)
ARTICLE 2 • BARGAINING UNIT:
A.	The employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafterdefined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall be all employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank of foreperson or above, salesperson other than driver salespersons, quality control staff, office staff and those excluded by Section 1 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
B.	Non-bargaining unit employees will not perform bargainingunitwork except:
emergency conditions
2.	For the purpose of demonstration or training
3.	To relieve an employee for breaks
4.	When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
5.	When it is deemed necessary by management to meet emergency customer needs
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so as to cause the lay-off of any bargaining unit employee.
C.	Forthe purposesof this agreement, part-time employees shall be defined as employees who are regularly scheduled for twenty-four hours (24) or less per week.
Part-time employees shall not be entitled to the provisions of Articles 11 and 13, except that:
(1)	Part-time employees shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked if such holiday is part of their regular schedule, provided they report for work their regular scheduled day before and their scheduled day after.
Part-time employees shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate for all hours worked on a holiday.
(2)	For part-time employees, accumulatedyears of seniority shall replace years of continuous service in Article 12 (B).
The vacation pay referred to in Article 12 B (1) to B (5) inclusive, for all part time employees, shall be 2% for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure which results from their gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by the Christmas bonus.
(3)	Part-time employees and part time employees working temporarily in a foil time position, shall receive a rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in a work week.
(4)	To become a member in either of the plans mentioned in Article 21 of
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT:
A.	The employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafter defined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall be a l employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank cf foreperson or above, salesperson other than driver salespersons, quality control staff, office staff and those excluded by Section 1 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
B.	Non-bargaining unit employees will not perform bargaining unit work except:
1.	In emergency conditions
2.	For the purpose of demonstration or training
3.	To relieve an employee for breaks
4.	When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
5.	When it is deemed necessary by management to meet emergency customer needs
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so as to cause the lay-off of any bargaining unit employee.
C.	Forthe purposes of this agreement, part-time employees shall be defined as employees who are regularly scheduled for twenty-four hours (24) or less per week.
Part-time employees shall not be entitled to the provisions of Articles 11 and 13, except that:
(1)	Part-time employees shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked if such holiday is part of their regular schedule, provided they report for work their regular scheduled day before and their scheduled day after.
Part-time employees shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate for all hours worked on a holiday.
(2)	For part-time employees, accumulated years of seniority shall replace years of continuous service in Article 12 (B).
The vacation pay referred to in Article 12 B (1) to B (5) inclusive, for all part time employees, shall be 2% for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure which results from their gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by the Christmas bonus.
(3)	Part-time employees and part time employees working temporarily in a full time position, shall receive a rate cf time and one half (11/2) for all hours worked in excess cf forty (40) in a work week.
To become a member in either of the plans mentioned in Article 21 of
(4)
this agreement, an employee must work at least twenty (20) hours perweek. Should a part time employee become a member of these plans, the company contribution will be proportionate to the number of hours worked, in relation to the normal company contribution.
1(5)	Part time employees shall earn 1/260 of the sick day entitlement
mentioned in Article 22 A and B for each day worked in the May-May period.
(6)	Part time employees shall be exempt from Article 23C. Part time
employees shall be paid 1 /12 of $100.00 for each full continuous month of service terminating December 31 st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December 18th or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or been discharged prior to December 31 st.
(7)	Part time employees may be used on a full time basis during the
period of December 1st to January 1st and May 15th to September 15thorwhen they are replacing a full time employee who is absent due to vacation, sickness, injury or leave of absence. When replacing full time employees on such a temporary basis or while working on this seasonal basis, they shall not achieve full time status and will not be eligible for the provisions of the Collective Agreement which pertain to full time employees.
Part time employees shall receive the applicable hourly wage rate for the hours worked in a full time position.
Part time employees shall achieve full time status only through the job posting procedure.
ARTICLE 3 - MUTUAL RIGHTSAND BENEFITS:
A.	No employees shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract which may limit, alter, modify, or conflict with the stipulations of this Agreement.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Employer and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement.
C.	In administering this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith, without discrimination and in a manner consistent with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY:
A.	Every employee who is a member of the Union on the date of the execution of this Agreement shall maintain his membership in the Union during the term of the Agreement as a condition of continued employment with the
Employer.
B.	All employees covered by this Agreement as described in Article 2A shall at the same time as filling oui their hiring papers, sign a membership card plus check-off form for the Union as a condition of continued employment with the Employer. At the expiration of the probationary period, the membership card shall be forwarded to the Union and the check-off card shall be forwarded to payroll for the authorized deductions.
C.	Every employee who is not a member of the Union on the date of the execution of this Agreement shall authorize the Employer in writing to deduct from his first pay each month and remitto the Union an amount equivalent to monthly dues as a condition of continued employment and such authorization shall be irrevocable during the term of this Agreement.
D.	The Employer agrees to deduct the Union initiation fee from the first pay of each employee who becomes a new member immediately following the expiration of the probationary period.
E.	The Employer agrees to deduct the monthly Union dues in the amount designated by the Union, from the first pay each month of all employees included in the bargaining unit
F.	Should an employee be absent on vacation or due to illness at the time his/her initiation fee or dues should be deducted, said deduction shall be made from the first full payhe/she receives following his/her returntowork. The maximum amount to be deducted per pay period as a result of this absence shall be $50.00 (fifty dollars). The company shall notify the union of any deduction that is not made as a result of absence due to illness <x vacation.
G.	The Employer further agrees to remit the amount deducted in conformity with Sections "C", "D", and " E above, to the Treasurer of the Union, before the twentieth (20th) day of each and every month by cheque payable to the Union.
H.	All new employees will sign a dues check off which will be copied to the union as notification that a new employee has been hired.
I.	Should an employee be absent from work for reason of illness or injury it will be the employees responsibility to contact the union office and request to be put on a withdraw card. In doing so, the union shall waive the dues owed for the said period. Should the union not be in receipt of union dues for a period greater than three (3) months without being informed of a withdraw card request, the employee will be considered to have suspended status and may be required to pay the initiation fee again.
J.	The Company will pay for one employee member at regular time for wages during bargaining sessions up to but not including conciliation.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION:
A.	The employer acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or elect a shop steward for the employees, and if the operations are such as cannot be handled by one steward only, additional stewards may be appointed or elected.
B.	The Union agrees to advise the Employer in writing of the name of the shop steward and members of the Grievance Committee and of any subsequent change in the names thereof.
D.	The Union Representative shall, with the permission of the Employer, be permittedto enter the Employer’s premises on Union business provided he/she does not unduly interfere with the operations or progress of the work.
E.	The shop steward shall be allowed the necessary time off with pay to investigate and settle grievances on the premises. They shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with he Company may be affected. The shop steward shall act in good faith and not abuse these rights and shall make honest attempts to settle grievances.
F.	A shop steward shall be an employee of the Employer. There shall be no discrimination against a shop steward for Union activities.
G.	An employee may request to have a Shop Steward or alternate union representative present for any meeting involving or leading up to discipline. Should the Steward or union representative not be present after the request is made, the meeting will be suspended to such a time that one or the other can attend. The union will suspend time restrictions placed on the company for the grievance process for a maximum of five
(5)	days, or until the meeting can be had. The exception is termination, in which case, the company reserves the right to terminate an employee for grounds, and the union reserves the right to interview all concerned parties on the premises as part of step one of the grievance process. Timelines for "notice to arbitrate’’ will be extend by the company to the union to such a time that the meeting can be had to a maximum of five (5) days. Either party may request a five (5) day extension.
ARTICLE6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	(1) The parties to this Agreement recognize that within the
Grievance Procedure there lies the means for resolution of differences of interpretation or violation or alleged violation of any one of the stipulations of this Agreement or working conditions by the Employer or the employees who are covered by this Agreement.
(2)	The Union may file a grievance on behalf of all employees or any restricted number of employees or on behalf of an individual employee where the Union believes there has been violation of the Collective Agreement affecting an employee ora group of employees. Such grievance may be filed directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedu re.
FIRST STEP:
B.	An attempt must be made between the shop steward and the employee with a member of managementto settle the matter verbally. The company will respond in (3) days.
SECOND STEP:
C.	If this attempt is unsuccessful, the matter shall be considered a grievance provided it is submitted in writing to the appropriate member of management within ten (10) working days of the day the matter complained of occurred or ought to have reasonably come to the attention of the grieving patty. There will be a grievance meeting to discuss the matter concerned. The decision of a member of management or the union shall be renderedwithin five (^working days of receipt of the grievance.
THIRD STEP:
D.	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance may within twenty five days (25) then be referred to an arbitrator in accordance with Article (7) of this Agreement.
E.	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits provided for in step one or two shall automatically expire; however, the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
ARTICLE 7-ARBITRATION
A.	No matter may be submitted to an Arbitrator unless settlement thereof has been attempted through the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 6.
B.	The Employer and Union shall agree on an Arbitrator within four (4) days following the notice of Arbitration given by one cr the other party.
C.	Should either party refuse to agree on an Arbitrator, such appointment may be made by final and binding decision of the Nova Scotia Minister of Labour.
D.	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days following his/her appointment and shall be final and binding on both parties. It is understood, however, that the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the stipulations of this Agreement, nor to delete, after, ormodify any part thereof, provided however, the Arbitrator may alter any discipline imposed by the Company, including altering a discharge to a suspension and financial restitutionto the grieving party if the Arbitrator deems it just.
a
ARTICLE8- SENIORITY:
A.	The purpose of seniority is to provide a policy governing promotions, lay-offs and rehiring, overtime and vacations. Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Company while a member of the bargaining unit.
B.	(1) The seniority of each fall time employee covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probationary period of thirty (30) working days upon completion of which seniority shall be calculated from the day the employee was hired. This probationary period can be extended by written mutual agreement between the Company and the Union by a maximum of fifteen (15) days.
(2)	The seniority for each part time employee shall be established after a probationary period of 240 working hours and shall be calculated for days worked with the company.
(3)	Part time employees shall only be given seniority credit for the days they actually work.
C.	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited for the following reasons:
(1)	If he voluntarily resigns;
(2)	If he is discharged for just cause;
(3)	If he has been absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Employer, or without reasonable excuse.
D.	Inability to work because cf proven injury or illness shall not result in the loss ofseniority rights for a period not exceeding twenty-four (24) months. An employee who returns to work after an absence due to illness or injury within 2 years and can perform the essential duties of their pre injury/illness position shall return to his or her same job. An employee who returns after these time limits have expired, or within the time limits but is determined he or she will be unable to perform their former job, on a permanent basis, may exercise his or her seniority rights as per Article 9C to obtain a work assignment he or she can safely perform. The employee who is displaced may exercise his seniority rights as per Article 9C of the Collective Agreement.
If an employee returns under a return to work program to a job other than his pre injury/illness position and his/her condition later improves so that he can perform the essential duties of his pre injury/illness job the employee may at that time return to his former position provided it is within the 2 year time limit.
In the event an employee is unable to perform any of the positions as described above, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss what alternative options might be available to the employee. They will consider both the Union and Company's duty to accommodate and the operational requirements of the Company.
In all cases, an employee's eligibility to perform the requiredwork satisfactorily shall be determined:
1.	Through discussions with the employee, his doctor, occupational health nurse and the insurer's return to work coordinator.
2.	And a reasonable training period (at least the period of time that would be required by an average employee).
E.	An employee who is laid off shall retain his/her full seniority rights for a period of twelve (12) months, and if he/she is ill when called back to work, shall fall under D (2) of this Article 8.
F.	A seniority-rating list shall be prepared by the employer, with the assistance of the employees, and furnished to the Union. The list is to be posted annually and kept revised as necessary.
G.	An employee who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of (6) six months, said period to be included in the seniority rating, in the case of demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position.
H.	An employee shall have the right to accept employment by the Union as a Business Agent. Employees so elected or appointed, shall upon proper notice, be granted leave of absence, without pay, for a period not to exceed the term of this or subsequent agreements. Those granted such leave shall accumulate seniority during the period of their absence. The employee must provide the Company with 30 days notice of their intent to return to work.
I.	The company will provide an updated seniority list quarterly to be posted on the union board. An updated list may also be requested by any member at any time.
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS. LAY-OFFS. REHIRINGS
A.	li matters of promotions, qualifications and skill being equal and/or sufficient, seniority shall be the governing factor. However, in case of layoffs and rehirings, seniority shall be the governing factor.
B.	The employer agrees to post job openings and route vacancies. VUien ajob is posted, the filling of the job vacancy, including promotion and new position, shall be done on the basis of seniority, providedthe employee is able to perform the 'pb and has served the probationary period. Ability to perform the job will be determined following an appropriate familiarization or appropriate training period. Where a new position requires additional licensing, the employer will give the employee a reasonable amount of time to obtain the license.
C.	(1) A layoff shall be defined as an ongoing reduction in hours.
When a layoff is to occur in a fulltime classification, the junior person in that classification shall be the person to receive the layoff notice. This employee may elect to bump a junior full time employee in
0
his/her bargaining unitor may elect to goon layoff as per Article 8, Section E of this Agreement.
Should the laid off or bumped employee be the junior full time employee in their classification, they may elect to bump a junior part time employee in their bargaining unit or may elect to go on lay off as per Article 8, Section E of this Agreement.
(2) When a layoff occurs within a part time classification, the junior person in that classification shall be the person to receive the layoff notice. This employee may elect to bump a junior part time employee in his/her bargaining unit or may elect to go on layoff as per Article 8, Section E of this Agreement.
D.	Where it is necessary to generally reduce the work force of the employees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Employerfrom maintaining a work force of employees who are qualified and willing to perform the work which is available. The principle will be last on, first off. Recall shall be carried out conversely to the layoff procedure.
E.	A job posting shall show:
(1)	The classification of the job
(2)	The current days and hours of work
(3)	The salary
(4)	The shift premium (if applicable)
F.	Where a senior applicant does not receive the position applied for, he/she shall be able to request of the appropriate manager the reason why his/her application was refused.
G.	Positions of full time bargaining unit employees on layoffwill not be filled by casuals or students so as to displace the bargaining unit members. It is clearly understood that this will in noway preclude management from meeting customer demands.
ARTICLE 10 - DISCHARGE:
A.	I n all cases involving the discharge of an employee, the Employer must immediately notify the discharged employee, in writing, of his discharge and the reason therefore. A copy of such notification shall be supplied to the union.
B.	Any discharged employee must be paid, in full, all wages owed to the employee by the Employer, including earned vacation pay if any, within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge and after any legal liability to the Employer has been paid or satisfied.
C.	A claim by an employee that the employee has been unjustly discharged from employment shall be considered a grievance to be submitted, in writing, directly to the manager or the responsible representative, within (7) seven working days from date of discharge. Consequently, the preliminary
a
step of the Grievance Procedure, Article 6, Section "B" of this Agreement shall be omitted ii such cases.
ARTICLE 11 - PAID HOLIDAYS:
A.	New Year's Day, Good Friday, the day observed as the Queen's birthday, Canada Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day. Christmas Day, Boxing Day and Heritage Day, f proclaimed a legal holiday, shall be paid holidays. In addition, in lieu of a Civic holiday, individual employees shall be entitled to a day off with pay at a time which is mutually agreeable. All employees who are not required to work shall be paid their regular wages for the day, provided nevertheless that if because of paid holidays, three off days occur consecutively, one of such off days as determined by the Employer shall be worked as a regular working day.
B.	Any employee absent without leave on the working day preceding or the working day following any of these holidays without a reasonable excuse will not receive the benefit of the provisions of this Article 11 or the sick days referred to in Article 22, Section A unless such absence is reported to the Company priorto the day's work in question and is later supported by a valid medical doctor's certificate outlining the reason for the absence.
C.	Any employee required to work on the above mentioned holidays shall be remunerated at the rate of double time for the work performed on such holiday in addition to the holiday pay. In the case of holiday pay, the employee may choose to have a day off with pay in lieu of the holiday pay.
If a day off is chosen, it must be scheduled within 4 months and at a time that is mutually agreeable between the employer and employee.
D.	The Company agrees that should a paid holiday occur on an employees day off, such employee shall be compensated with an additional day's pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday. The employee may request his choice of a day off and such choice shall not be unreasonably denied.
E.	(1) An employee shall not be entitled to receive holiday pay pursuant to this article for any holiday which falls within the time period in which the employee is also qualified to receive Short Term Disability, LongTerm Disability, Workers Compensation Benefits or lay off.
(2)	Non-probationary employees who are laid off ten or less
working days prior to a holiday shall be paid for the holiday.
ARTICLE 12 - PAID VACATION
A.	(1)	In the event an employee shall have completed less than one
(1) full year of continuous employment with the Employer, year ending January 1st in any year, he/she shall be granted vacation or
n
pay according to the provisions of the Labour Standards Code cf Nova Scotia.
(2) , The Company agrees to grant vacation entitlement on the anniversary of the employee's hiring date, however, scheduling of vacations is to remain as of January 1 st of each year. The company vacation year is the calendaryear (Jan-Dec).
B.	(I) Each employeewho has completed one (1) year's continuous
service with the Employer shall be entitled to two (2) week's vacation with pay.
(2)	Each employee who has completed five (5Jyear's continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to three (3) week's vacation with pay.
(3)	Each employee who has completed ten (10) year's continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to four (4) week's vacation with pay.
(4)	Each employee who has completed twenty (20) year's continuous service with the Employershall be entitled to five (5) week's vacation with pay.
(5)	Each employee who has completed 25 years continuous service with the employer shall be entitled to six (6) week's vacation with pay.
The vacation pay referred to in B (1) to B (5) inclusive, for all fulltime employees, shall be 2%, for each week of vacation entitlement, mukiplied by the figure which results from the gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by the Christmas bonus.
C.	Any employee entitled to such one, two, three, four, five or six week's vacation with pay when is discharged, leaves of his/her own accord, or is laid off due to lack of work prior to taking such vacation shall be compensated at the rate of pay he/she would have receivedfor such vacation.
D.	Employees shall not be permitted to accumulate vacation periods from year
to year.
E.	(1)	Employeeswho wish to take vacation during the period of
January 1 and April 31 must submit their requested weeks in writing. Vacation will be awarded based on seniority and employees must request whether they wish to exercise their first choice of vacation during this period if necessary to maintain their chosen week(s). All employees shall submit their vacation dates to the Employer by April 30th. The Employershall on May 15th, at the latest, post the vacation lists for two (2) weeks. Any protest to vacation dates must be made during this two weeks. Any employee who does not apply for their
1 n
vacation by April 30th shall not have the right to protest and shall accept vacation through mutual agreement with the Employer.
(2) Employees shall only be allowed a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer vacation period unless it is mutually agreed between the Employer and employee for the employee to receive extra weeks of vacation. Any extra weeks cf vacation granted shall not interfere with other employee's vacation.
F.	The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation, such employee shall be compensated with an additional day's pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday. The choice between the days pay or the day off is to be at the discretion of the employee.
G.	Should the period of an employee's absence resulting from sickness or accident correspond with his vacation period, the latter shall be delayed until after said employee returns to work. Such vacation time shall be taken at a mutually agreeable time.
Should an employee's vacation be cancelled or altered by the Employer in an extreme emergency situation where there is nc recourse, the employee shall be reimbursed for the non-returnable portion of vacation contracts and reservations provided satisfactory proof of such amounts are provided by the employee and that such contracts are through public carriers and bona fide agencies.
Once the final vacation schedule is posted, there can be no changes by either party except by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 13- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A.	The normal workweek shall fall within Monday to Friday inclusive. Those employees who by the nature of their jobs are required to work other than the normal work week above shall have two consecutive days off.
B.	An employee, otherthan Driver Salespersons, requiredto work on the sixth (6th) day will be remunerated at the rate of time and one half (11/2) their hourly rate. An employee, otherthan Driver Salespersons, required to work on the seventh (7th) day will be remunerated at the ratecf double their hourly rate. Driver Salespersons are covered under Article 14.
C.	(1) The regular workweek for full time driver salespersons shall consist of five (5) days. Full time driver salespersons may be required to work Saturdays as regular working days and have another day as their day off in addition to Sunday, the two days off must be consecutive.
(2) The regular workweek for Spare Drivers will normally consist of five days.
1 O
D.	It is understood that nothing in this Agreement shall guarantee a minimum workweek.
A.	When an employee is required to report for work, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay either at the regular rate or the appropriate premium pay if applicable.
B.	The normal workweek shall be four (4) days often (10) hours orfive (5) days of eight (8) hours. Any work performed in excess of the normal workday shall be paid at the rate of time and on half 1 1/z). Driver salespersons are covered in Article 14.
C.	Should business requirements lead to the need for increasedwork on Saturdays, full time merchandisers may opt to work the full Saturday shift or work available hours on Monday. Monday hours may include a split shift, but will have a minimum of six (6) hoursforfull time employees. In the event further business changes lead to less than six (6) hours work on Monday it is agreed that the union and company will meet to discuss options available.
D.	Bargaining unit employees who work on the night shift will be paid a shift differences for all regularly scheduled hours worked between 6pm-12pm cf .45 cents per hour or for all regularly scheduled hours worked between 12am-8am, the shift difference will be .75 cents per hour if required by the Company. It is understood that if any employee voluntarily chooses to work during a time of a shift difference, they will not be have the difference applied to their wages.
ARTICLE 14- RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS:
A.	It is mutually agreed that a driver salesperson's duties shall consist of delivery of dairy products and collecting payment for same.
B.	Upon proper evidence furnished by the employee, to the satisfaction of the Employer, allowance shall be made daily for all goods broken, spilled or soured.
C.	Credit customers shall not be permitted unless authorized by the Employer
D.	If the appropriate Branch personnel is available, each Driver salesperson shall complete his/her daily return each day.
E.	All driver salespersons shall be furnished each week with a full report of all units sold and the total earnings of the week with ail deductions, shortages, and overages indicated thereon.
F.	Any delivery that requires a drier salesperson, upon return from his/her
1 T
normal run, to extend his/her scheduled will be paid at an overtime rate.
G.	A Driver Salesperson required to work on the sixth (6th) day will be remunerated at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) the hourly rate. If required to work on their seventh (7th) day, they will be remunerated at the rate of double the hourly rate.
ARTICLE 15 - ROUTE CUTTING:
A.	It is agreed that when a route is split into two or more routes, the driver whose route is split shall have the first choice as to which route he/she shall work.
B.	The route driverwhose route is split shall receive a guaranteed minimum pay to be governed by the four (4) weeks sales average previous to the aforementioned split, for twenty-two weeks following the splitting of the route, with the understanding that the months of July and August shall not constitute the aforementioned four (4) week period, except where wages are higher during these months. Should an employee be absent from his/her route during the twenty-two (22) week period, the balance of the guarantee will be paid; week-by-week, during the weeks following his/her return to that route.
The guarantee shall not apply in the event that:
(1)	The route is cut at the request of the employee;
(2)	The customer is removed from a route at the request of the customer;
(3)	The customer is removed from a route, when in the opinion of the Company, such customer must be removed in order to prevent loss of sales to such customer.
ARTICLE 16 -WAGES:
E.	It is agreed by both parties hereto that the wages, salaries, and other conditions outlined in the appendices shall be paid during the term of this Agreement, in addition to any other applicable clause.
ARTICLE 17- UNIFORMS:
A.	The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free tf charge to warehouse/freezer employees, three pairs of overalls and three shirts as well as rubber aprons
1 .-1
if required. If requested, pants will be supplied in lieu of overalls. Rubber boots will be supplied at cost if requested.
B.	Milk Salespersons and IceCream Salespersons on permanent routes shall receive one complete uniform yearly. Such uniforms shall consist of three pairs of trousers, one windbreaker, three shirts, and one hat. Ice cream drivers on permanent winter delivery routes shall receive a winter jacket once every three years and the first issue of such jacket shail be cost-shared on a 50/50 basis wiih the employee.
C.	The employees shall maintain themselves and their clothing in a neat, tidy and clean condition at all times. The Company shall maintain the right to lease overalls. Employees shall receive their clothing allotment in October of each year if possible.
D1.	The Company will pay $150.00 + HST per calendar year for full time employees
toward the cost of approved safety footwear a footwear related items, including but not limited to laces, insoles, socks and footwear protective products will be appropriate for the type of work being performed. Management will determine underwhich circumstances safety footwear are required.
D2:	The Company will pay $150.00 + HST once every eighteen (18) month period
for part time employees toward the cost of approved safety footwear a footwear related items, including but not limited to laces, insoles, socks and footwear protective products will be appropriate for the type of work being performed. Managementwill determine under which circumstances safety footwear are required.
E.	Full time merchandisers shall receive four pairs of pants, three golf shirts and two sweatshirts per year.
Part time merchandisers who are regularly scheduled to work 3 days or less shall receive 2 pairs of pant, 2 golf shirts, and 1 sweatshirt per year.
Part time merchandisers who are regularly scheduled to work more than 3 days per week shall receive 3 pairs of pants, 3 golf shirts, and 2 sweatshirts per year.
F.	All full and part time merchandisers will receive 1 summer wind breaker per year.
If employees require additional clothing before the next year's supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements
1 c;
ARTICLE 18-ABSENCES:
A.	Union delegates and officers may be absent from work to attend Union conventions, but at their own expense, provided that the Employer is given two (2) weeks notice of such absence to make necessary adjustment in schedule, if need be. The maximum time off shall be twelve (12) days.
B.	The Employer agrees that when the spouse, or common-law spouse; if this relationship had been declared to the Company and the period of cohabitation exceeded six months, child. parent, brother, sister, grandparents, grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, or legal guardian of any employee dies, such employee shall not, because of absence from work connected with the bereavement, suffer a loss of pay during a five (5) day period immediately following the date of death. The purpose of this Agreement is to alleviate any loss of pay an employee might incur due to an unforseen absence related to a death in the family. Should an employee require extra time off for purposes connected with the bereavement, it is agreed that such time off, up to a maximum of seven (7) days will be granted without pay, provided that such leave has been requested by the employee and granted by the Company. Time off with pay, to a maximum of one day, will be granted to attend the funeral of a sister-in-law, brother-in-law or spouses grandparents. Time off, without pay, will be granted to attend the funeral of an aunt or uncle.
C.	An employee will not lose seniority as a result of absence from work provided that such leave of absence has been requested in writing and permission has been granted by the Company in writing. Permission lor such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
D.	An Employee who loses time for his/her regularly scheduled work as a result of jury selection or service cr subpoenaed as a witness shall have the difference between the pay received for such jury service and his/her straight time earnings he/she would have received, if it were not for the jury service paid by the company, subject to the following terms:
(1)	Five days advance notice in writing to his/her supervisor.
(2)	Proof of jury service satisfactory to the company.
ARTICLE 19 - BULLETIN BOARDS:
A. The Union may, with the permission of Management, post notices of Union meetings or other activities on a bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
ARTICLE 20- MEDICAL EXAMINATION:
A. Any medical examination required by the Employer shall be promptly
complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Employer be required to pay all expenses for such examination.
1 £
The Employer reserves the right to select their own medical examiner or physician, and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done, cause an employee to be re-examined at the Union's expense, by its chosen examiner physician.
ARTICLE 21 - SECURITY PLAN:
A.	The Employer and the employees agree to participate in maintaining a Security Plan involving Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care and Long Term Disability Benefits. The Em pi oyer agrees to discuss the benefits and costs of this Plan with the Union from time to time as may be required.
B.	Farmers Co-operative Dairy has established a Pension Plan. Membership in the Plan will be mandatory after two (2) years of service. Employees may apply earlier to join the Plan. This will be on a voluntary basis.
ARTICLE 22 - SICKNESS BENEFITS:
A.	In order for any employee to receive a sick day for a reason other than illness, they must make a written request, in advance of such day, to the Supervisor at the branch. The request will be granted only where, in the opinion of the Supervisor at the branch, the employee's absence will not cause disruption to operations and a suitable replacement can be located.
B.	The Company agrees to allow six (6) days off with pay per year for sickness (equivalent48 hours).
C.	On or about the last Friday in January of each year the Company will pay six (6) day's pay to any employee who has not been paid for days off under this Article, and the difference between six (6) day's pay and any days used on account of sickness in the case of all other employees.
D.	The above-mentioned sick days shall not be accumulated from year to year.
E.	It is clearly understood that one day's entitlement is equivalent to one fifth (1/5) or one quarter(1/4) of a basic week's pay depending on whether the employee's regular schedule is a five-day week a a four-day week.
F.	New employees must have completed nine (9) continuous weeks service in order to qualify for theirfirst sick day. Thereafter, they will become eligible for one (1) additional sick day after each nine (9) continuous weeks to a maximum of six (6) sick days per calendar year.
i 1
G.	The Employer may investigate any report of sickness.
H.	It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that a false report of sickness by the employee may be grounds for Discipline up to and including dismissal of the employee and any employee so disciplined shall forfeit to the employer any amount of sickness benefits otherwise payable to him/her.
I.	Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer of his/her own accord, or is discharged and has received sickness pay under this Article in excess of the amount entitled, shall pay the Employer the amount of such excess or the Employer may deduct the amount of such excess from any amount owed to the employee by the Employer at the time the employee leaves or is discharged.
ARTICLE 23-GENERAL:
A.	Employees shall not be permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment if it interferes with their employment with Farmers Dairy.
B.	The Employer agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and supply a copy of same to the Union.
C.	All employees in the bargaining unit shall receive an extra 1/12 of a week's pay (guaranteed earnings plus full commissions where it applies) for each kill continuous month of service terminating December31st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December 18th or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or been discharged prior to December 31st.
D.	The Company agrees that letters of discipline will be null and void after eighteen (18)months, provided:
There is no repeat of the matter disciplined for
(2)	No violence involved
(3)	No illegal acts that pertain to Company personnel and/or property.
Letters of discipline that involve drugs or alcohol will be null and void after two (2) years and the completion of the company's or a government addiction program provided there is no repeat of the matter for which discipline was applied.
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY:
A. It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards cf safety in order to continue to eliminate, insofar as possible, industrial accidents and illness. There is hereby established a safety committee consisting of not less than four (4) members, two of whom shall be management employees and two of whom shall be Union employees.
1 Q
The Committee will determine their own terms of reference: frequency of meetings and inspection tours, and will post the terms of reference as agreed to between Union and Management.
B. A union member who has a safety concern must fill out a safety incident report. Upon presenting the report to the site manager or similar, one copy will be filed with the Occupation Health and Safety Manager, as second copy will be provide to the JOHSC, and a third copy will remain with the employee concerned. The committee will be responsible for providing a written statement of the action to the employee concerned within ten (10) days
C.	All reports and recommendations and a written statement of the action taken thereon shall be kept by the safety committee as a permanent record and shall at all times be available to any member of the committee. A written report of Safety Committee Meetings is to be posted and a copy provided to the union representative.
ARTICLE 25 - SEVERANCEALLOWANCE:
Each full time employee who ceases to be a full time employee of the Company by reason of the permanent closing of a department, by the introduction of labour saving equipment, or a permanent layofffor a reduction in the work force, shall be entitledto one week of pay for each year of service with Farmers Dairy.
A full time employee who ceases to be a full time employee of the company for one of the above stated reasons between May 9, 2010 to June 1, 2011, will be entitled to 1.5 weeks of pay for each year of service.
Employees who do not exercise their seniority rights when laid off as per Article 9(C) may elect to receive a severance allowance as per the article either at the time of the layoff or shall receive it after their recall rights under Article 8 (E) have expired.
Should the laid off employee be the junior employee with no bumping rights under Article 9 (C), they shall be entitled to receive a severance allowance after their recall rights under 8 (E) have expired.
Upon receiving the severance, the employee shall terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 26- DURATION OF AGREEMENT:
A.	This agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 10 m day of May
2010, until the 5th day of May, 2013 and shall automatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period of two months prior to expiry
1 G
one cf the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, cf its intentions to revise, amend, or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
on
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HERETO SIGNED
O 1
APPENDIX 1
CLASSIFICATION
2012
Effective Date
May 9, 2010 May 8. 2011
Ice Cream Driver Salesperson 736.33 wk
758.42 wk
Commission - $0.01 per equivalent litre on sales.
Bonus - $0,01 per equivalent litre on all sales above 7,500 litres when 8,500 litres per week are sold (averaged over fiscal month)
Shipper/Dutv Person	17.82/hr.	18.35/hr
Full-Time Merchandiser	16.71/hr.	17.21/hr
Part-Time Merchandiser	10.40/hr	10.72/hr
Part-Timelce Cream Driver	157.26/day	161 98/day
May 6, 773.58wk
18.72/hr
17.55/hr
10.93/hr
165.22/day
A driving allowance per kilometre shall be paid to merchandisersforthe distance required to be driven between stores. The rate will be as per the Employer’s policy.
Should the Sydney branch reduce the cost per unit by 10 cents per unit (currently.58 cents to .48 cents) byOctober3l, 2011 employees will receive an addition 1% increase of wages scheduled for May 6, 2012
O O
January 20.1993
Mr. Jim Russell
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemens Helpers Union Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 2C4
Dear Mr. Russell:
This letterwill confirm our understanding that part-time employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full-time employees at regular rates.
Yours truly,
Donald Rankin
Human Resource Manager
July 20, 1994
Mr. Jim Russell
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen &
Helpers Union Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 2C4
DearMr. Russell:
RE:	SYDNEY NEGOTIATIONS
This letterwill confirm that if a part time employee works at least 1 day in a calendar month, then this month shall be considered as a "continuous month of service" for the purposes of Article 2 C (f).
Yours truly,
Donald Rankin
V. P. Human Resources
O A
July 20, 1994
Mr, Jim Russell
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemens Helpers Union local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N, S,
B3N2C4
Dear Mr. Russell:
RE:	"EMPLOYEE PERSONAL FILES"- SYDNEY BRANCH
This letterwill confirm our understanding reached at negotiations. The Business Agent of the Teamsters shall be allowed to review the employee's personal file if the employee provides the company with written authorization. This would normally occur during normal business hours and advance notice would be given.
Yours truly,
Donald Rankin
V, P. Human Resources
o t;
December 18, 2002
Mr. James Russell
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers Union Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 2C4
Dear Mr. Russell,
RE: Clothing for Shipper
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations. We will supply to the shipper at the Sydney branch with a jacket or snowsuit, at the choice of the employee, which is suitable for wear in the freezer environment. This item will remain on the premises.
Yours truly,
Joanne Brown
Director of Human Resources
November 1, 2010
Mr. Robert Beairsto
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers Union Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 2C4
Dear Mr. Beairsto,
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at Negotiations. If a full time employee who was laid off elects to bump into another full time position, this employee will maintain his current rate for a period of six (6) months if his current rate is higherthan the position he is bumping into. This letter cf understanding is effective from May 9, 2010 to June 1, 2011.
Yours truly,
Kellie Hogan
Manager of Human Resources
o n
November 1,2010
Mr. Robert Beairsto
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers Union Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 204
Dear Mr. Beairsto,
The company commits not to hire a merchandising company or independentdrivers to do current merchandising work in the Sydney Branch for the life of this agreement.
Yours truly,
Hogan
Manager of Human Resources
OQ
November 1.2010
Mr. Robert Beairsto
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers Union Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, N. S.
B3N 2C4
Dear Mr. Beairsto,
Letter of Understanding- Hours of Work
This letter will confirm the agreement reach at negotiations.
It is agreed that the company will not create split shifts for full time positions or create two part time positions by splitting the hours of work of a full time position for the life of this agreement.
If there is a permanent reduction of hours worked in one of the current full time positions that employee will have the choice to be laid off and exercise his/her lay off options or accept the reduction of hours.
If the reduction of work results in 24 hours or less remaining per week the company may create a part time shift from an existing full time position. If a full time employee elects to accept the reduction of hours or bids or bumps into this position, he/she will be entitled to the wages and benefits provided to part time employees under the collective agreement.
If the reduction of work results in an amount greater than 24 hours perweek and the employee affected accepts the reduction of hours or an employee bids or bumps into the position he/she will have full time status, however; benefits earned for sick days, vacation, wage loss programs, life insurance, pensionable service, pensionable contributions, and Christmas bonus will be pro rated based on the number of hours worked in the calendar year. The employee will be entitledto full medical and dental benefits provided he/she continues to make his/her required contributions.
Yours truly,
r>o
Kellie Hogan
Manager of Human Resources