THIS AGREEMENT made in duplicate this	day
A. D., 1993
BETWEEN:
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED A Corporation with its HEAD OFFICE at REGINA, in the Province of Saskatchewan.
hereinafter called the EMPLOYER of the FIRST PART
AND:
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS LOCAL UNION NO. 834, of
REGINA HUMBOLDT and MOOSE JAW, Saskatchewan, amnateb Vtfu TnEi TNI1!7i?m r/TI BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS.
hereinafter called the UNION of the SECOND PART
c *1 1993
00394 (04)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE........................................... PAGE	1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND SCOPE............................. PACE	i
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY.................................... PAGE	1
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK OFF......................................... PAGE	2
ARTICLE 5 - GENDER............................................ PAGE	2
ARTICLE 6 - MANAGEMENT........................................ PAGE	2
ARTICLE I - sEmCTjtaTr........................................ PAGE	2
Vacation Relief......................................... PAGE	4
ARTICLE 8 - TRANSFERS: POSTINGS & VACANCIES................... PAGE	4
ARTICLE 9 - WAGES............................................. PAGE	6
ARTICLE 10 - CLASSIFICATIONS.................................. PAGE	6
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK.................................... PAGE	7
Plant Employees and Truck Drivers ...................... PAGE	7
Office.................................................. PAGE	7
City Wholesale Driver Salesmen ......................... PAGE	8
Country Wholesale Driver Salesmen ...................... PAGE	8
Interbranch Depot Truck Drivers and short Order-off Dock Drivers .... PAGE 8
Interbranch Drivers - Interbranch/Interprovincial Trips. PAGE	8
4	x 10 Hour Day Program ................................ PAGE	9
Overtime on Packing Routes.............................. PAGE	9
ARTICLE 12 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS........................... PAGE 11
ARTICLE 13 - VACATIONS ................................... PAGE 12
ARTICLE 14 - DISMISSAL AND SUSPENSION..................... PAGE 14
ARTICLE 15 - TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.................... PAGE 15
ARTICLE 16 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.......................... PAGE 15
ARTICLE 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY . . . PAGE 17
.ARTICLE 18 - GROUP BENEFIT PLANS
PAGE 18
ARTICLE 19 - CLOTHING, UNIFORMS AND TOOLS................ PAGE 19
ARTICLE 20 - ABSENCE FOR CAUSE .......................... PAGE 22
ARTICLE 21 - UNION BUSINESS & BARGAINING ................ PAGE 23
ARTICLE 22 - BONDING AND LICENCES........................ PAGE 23
ARTICLE 23 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH......................... PAGE 24
ARTICLE 24 - CONTRACTING OUT..........,.................. PAGE 24
ARTICLE 25 - GENERAL CLAUSES................................ PAGE	25
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION....................................... PAGE	26
SCHEDULE A.................................................. PAGE	27
SCHEDULE B.................................................. PAGE	31
SCHEDULE C.................................................  PAGE	43
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING:
UHT Department........................................ PAGE	44
Union Counselling Program ............................ PAGE	46
Commissioned Country Drivers....................... PAGE 47
Pension Plan for Unionized Employees ................. PAGE	48
4 x 11.4 Hour Shifts - 4 On/4 Off - Bulk Tank Drivers and Bulk Tank
UnloaderA/Vashers................................ PAGE	52
re PARTIES HERETO MUTUALLY AGREE;
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Employer and the Union cooperate to obtain full and unrestricted production and distribution of the Employer’s products; to maintain harmonious relationship between the Employer and its Employees and to provide a method of settling any differences or grievances which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment. New Employees when being hired will be informed by Management of this Agreement.
1.02	No provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to authorize or approve any action or Act which is illegal under any Dominion or Provincial Legislation.
1.03	Notwithstanding any clause or article or anything else to the contrary in this Agreement, where the normal or customary work of an Employee is completed, or not required by Management, the Employee, if so directed, shall perform any other work he is capable of performing.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND SCOPE
2.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive Bargaining Agency for all
its Employees at Regina, Humboldt and Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan excluding the Manager, Office Manager, Manager’s Secretary, Accountant, Assistant Accountant, Bookkeeper, Plant Superintendent, Assistant Plant Superintendent, Chief Engineer, City and Country Wholesale Salesmen, Manager Cold Storage Warehouse and Supervisor Egg and Poultry Department, Head Office Staff, Payroll Clerk, One Management Trainee, Regional Sales People and Distribution Supervisor.
2.02	(a) Union members shah elect a Shop Steward in each Department whose name,
or change thereof, shah be promptly given to the Manager responsible for the location, at Regina, Humboldt and Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan in writing by the Secretary of the Union. The Shop Steward must have two (2) years of service with the Employer before he shall be elected.
(b)	Union Members shall, through the Shop Stewards, have the right to discuss, at any suitable time, any grievance with the proper Employer’s official. The Business Agent of the Union shall at all times have the right to take up grievances and disputes after they have been presented to the Employer in writing.
(c)	Deductions shall not be made from the wages of Shop Stewards for time actually spent on the settlement of disputes and grievances.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	Every Employee, who is now or here after becomes a Member of the Union, shall
maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment and every new
PAGE 1
^"[ifoyee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after fnmencement of his employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
3.02	No person who is not a Member of the Union shall work at any job or occupation
which is within the Bargaining Unit represented by the Union, as described in this Agreement, except in the case of emergency, and then only until a Member of the Union can be placed on the job.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK OFF
4.01	Upon the request of the Employee and upon the request of the Union, both in writing, the Employer shall deduct from the first pay of each month out of the wages due to such Employee his monthly Union Dues and Assessments, and pay the same to the person designated by the Union to receive them. The Employer further agrees, upon the request of the Union and the Employee, to deduct Initiation Fees and to remit the same to the designated official of the Union. The amounts so collected shall be remitted each month in one payment within a reasonable time after collection.
ARTICLE 5 - GENDER
5.01	Reference to Employee or Employees or to the word “he” or any reference to anyone contained within the Bargaining Unit of this Agreement shah be understood to mean either male or female as the context may require.
ARTICLE fi - MANAGEMENT
6.01	The Union recognizes the sole right of the Employer to manage the Plant and direct the work of the Employees, including the right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge for cause, lay off, assign to jobs and shifts, to transfer Employees from Department to Department, increase or decrease working forces, determine products to be handled, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production and the methods of processing, the amount of production and the handling of the same, The Employer shall not discriminate against present and prospective Employees whether or not they are members of the Union. This clause shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effects of other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY
7.01	(a) A list showing seniority of service of permanent Employees shall be compiled
by the Employer and kept posted on a Notice Board; the same shall be revised every six months and verified by the Shop Stewards before posting. Seniority with the Employer shall start from the time the Employee is first employed by the Employer. Seniority of service shall be considered broken when an Employee -
(i)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Employer or is discharged for
cause.
PAGE 2
(ii)	Fails to report for duty after being laid off or to give satisfactory son for not doing so promptly after notification.
(b)	In the event of a reduction of staff and in rehiring of Employees, seniority shall apply, providing such Employee is then capable of handling the job in the opinion of the Manager, subject to recourse by grievance procedure.
(i)	When an Employee holding a bid job is due to be laid off due to seniority - the job shall be posted. If the job cannot be tilled from the applications of the present staff then that Employee will not be laid off but another Employee, even though he may have greater seniority, may be laid off instead.
(c)	(i) The Company will attempt to contact the Employee due to be recalled, and if unable to do so will notify the Union and notify the Employee (s) by registered mail addressed to the last known address. The Employee (s) concerned shall notify the Company and the Union that they shall return to work within five (5) working days of the date of mailing notification. Failure of the Employee(s) to reply to recall notice shall cause all rights to recall and to seniority to be forfeited.
(ii)	It is agreed that in order for an Employee to benefit from the above clause (i), he shall leave his address with the Company and the Union and notify the Company of any changes of address thereafter.
7.02	(a) Seniority of an Employee shall be established from the date an Employee last
enters the service of the Bargaining Unit.
(b)	New Employees shall be on probation for one hundred and twenty (120) worked days during which time they may be terminated, if in the opinion of the Company they are unsuitable or unsatisfactory. For the first 30 (thirty) worked days such terminations shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure. The decision to terminate shall be at the discretion of the Company, which shall be exercised reasonably.
(c)	An Employee who is laid off because of shortage of work and has not completed his probationary period shall complete that portion of his probationary period if recalled to work.
(d)	upon completion or the probationary periddbieTim^ioyee^rclli be placed
on Permanent Staff.
(e)	During the probation period outlined in (b) above, such new Employees may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall be under no obligation to rehire the said Employee.
<f) At the end of the one hundred and twenty (120) worked days, such new Employee shall be entitled to full benefits of permanent staff members. All other hirings shall be considered temporary and paid as such, with the proviso that such Employee’s status shall be reviewed at the end of Six months except where he has taken over a year-round job in the
PAGE 3
meantime. Pay increases provided for in this Agreement shall be based on the anniversary date iking.
7.03	VACATION RELIEF
(a)	Employees hired for Vacation Relief during the period April 15th to September 1st shall not acquire Seniority rights. The term of such employment is not to exceed one hundred and thirty-five (135) calendar days in any one period unless the parties mutually agree in writing to an extension.
(b)	The Employer shall advise the Union of the name(s) of the Employees hired for Vacation Relief.
(c) Should an Employee who is first hired for Vacation Relief succeed in being subsequently designated as a probationary Employee, then such Employee, subject to (a) above, will be required to commence a sixty (60) worked days probationary period upon no longer being designated as Vacation Relief. Upon becoming a Permanent Employee, he will be
CreUilCU Willi uis accumuidicu mile wuiacu uuin uic uaic 11b last whuuvuvaai vvvijuiig aa a
Vacation Relief Employee.
ARTICLE 8 - TRANSFERS. POSTINGS & VACANCIES
8.01	(a) Staff vacancies and new positions shall be posted on the notice boards, to be provided by the Employer, in conspicuous places in the plant, and permanent appointment to the vacancy listed shall not be made until three (3) working days after the said posting. The Shop Steward shall be notified, before appointment is made, of the Employer’s decision. In each case of a job posting resulting in a second vacancy, this second vacancy will be filled at Management's discretion. The effect of this statement is that every other job vacancy is posted when a succession of vacancies occur because of an initial vacancy being filled.
(b)	Vacancies and new jobs within the Bargaining Unit shall be posted to give Employees with seniority ample time to apply for such vacancies. Jobs shall be posted within one (1) week of the vacancy occurring and the posting shall remain up for a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours.
(c)	Promotion within the Bargaining Unit shall be based on seniority and ability. Ability being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Appointments to supervisory positions
shall be made in accordance with Employer regulations.
8.02	Employees transferring from one Department to another shall do so on the understanding that while seniority with the Employer is retained, such seniority is not carried into the new Department insofar as choice of holidays for the first year in the Department is concerned. If, however, the Employee has been transferred to a Department by the Employer after the holiday list for the year has been approved, the Employee's holiday period shall not be changed unless otherwise mutually agreed upon.
MOOSE JAW ONLY - Such Employee shall revert to the first year wages in the
PAGE 4
department to which he is transferring; with the proviso that such Employee's wages shall be iewed by the Employer and the Stewards immediately after he has served Three months in the department to which he was transferred; at which time if his services are satisfactory, he shall be paid in accordance with the schedule of wages in the said department, based on his length of service with the Employer, or given the opportunity to return to his former department, but not necessarily to his former position. Should an Employee be asked to transfer from one department to another, and such new position calls for an increase in pay, the same shall be granted. Employees accepting promotion or transfer shall he allowed a reasonable time to qualify.
8.03	Employees will be restricted to a maximum of two (2) successful bids within a period of one year, except where Management and the Union mutually agree otherwise. When this bidding restriction forces the hiring of a new Employee to fill a vacancy then the “two (2) successful bids” rule will be waived to allow current Employees a third bid opportunity when a vacancy other than general plant help is involved.
8.04	Senior Employees shall have the right to preferential work in their classification over junior Employees.
8.05	The Employer may introduce a system of on the job training so that Employees may have the opportunity to receive training and qualify for promotion or transfer in the event of a vacancy arising. Accordingly, Employees may be allowed regular opportunities to learn the work of higher or equal positions during regular working hours by working together with senior Employees for temporary periods, without affecting the salary or pay of the Employees concerned. Except where the Union and the Employer have jointly agreed to an Affirmative Action Plan to redress inequities, such opportunities for training shall be allocated according to seniority provisions of the Agreement.
8.06	In the event that a vacancy is not filled through the normal posting process, it will then be filled at the discretion of the Company.
8.07	(a) In the event of an Employee taking an extended Leave of Absence, or being placed on Long Term Disability or Workers Compensation, a notice shall be placed on the Bulletin Board requesting Employees interested in filling the position on an interim or temporary basis to submit a Letter of Interest to the Branch Manager.
(b)	Such Letters of Intent to be considered by the Branch Manager in consultation with Union representatives.
(c)	The transition to the interim position to be made in such a manner as not to disrupt the normal operations of the Branch.
(d)	The length of time of the original placing of the notice and the appointment being made shall follow the guidelines as set out in Article 8 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(e)	The above procedure shall apply to all temporary positions and only
PAGE 5
Employees not holding bid or classified positions who are presently working or on layoff shall ;ive consideration for any such temporary positions.
ARTICLE 9 - WAGES
9.01	Attached to this Agreement there shall be Schedule "A", Schedule "B" and Schedule "C" covering the wages etc., of the Employees included under the provisions of this Agreement.
Schedule “A” shall cover all Employees other than those covered under Schedule "B" -Recognized Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles.
Schedule Mall cover all Recognized Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles as identified under the Classification System
Schedule "C" shall deal with Commissions for drivers.
9.02	A special rate Of pay, other than that listed in the atncuuYes hereto, may be
arranged by the Employer’s Manager and the Shop Stewards, for any Employee who because of disability is unable to continue in his regular position, but whose services can be used in another capacity on the staff.
9.03	HUMBOLDT ONLY - Regular Employees who are recalled to work after completion of their regular work day, or on their regular day off shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours of overtime at the applicable overtime rates of pay in this Agreement.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employee’s scheduled hours of work.
9.04	The Company agrees to recalculate the current Commission Structure on a percentage of Total Adjusted Sales (Sales - Returns).
ARTICLE 10 - CLASSIFICATIONS
10.01	For the purpose of recognizing positions of leadership ‘and responsibility, and of establishing a uniform operating structure throughout all of the Company’s plants, certain Departments and jobs Y>e!dieUtffieh uhuer‘a'TJuissmc^uOns System.
Attached to and forming part of this Agreement is a Schedule "B" outlining the recognized Departments, Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles. Those Department Job Titles and Special Job Titles will be known as Classified Jobs.
10.02	Holders of Recognized Job Titles or Special Job Titles must meet the Minimum Qualifications as outlined for each position and perform in that position for at last 60% of his normal working time.
10.03	In order to have a recognized Department Head there shall be a minimum of four
PAGE 6
CD Employees, including the Department Head, working in the involved Department.
In order to have a recognized Assistant Department Head there shall be a minimum of seven (7) Employees, including the Department Head, working in the involved Department.
10.04	For Classification purposes, plants will be classified in one of two categories
based on volume and distribution. These categories will be entitled:
“A” PLANTS "B" PLANTS
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) PLANT EMPLOYEES AND TRUCK DRIVERS
(i)	Normal hours of work shall be Five (5) Days, Forty (40) Hours per week, Eight (8) Hours per day. All Plant Employees shall be entitled to Two (2) consecutive days off within each week. It	‘agre&fTnhtir.’Fuur'(4/Lray”rork Week, TenV^/itfais per
day can be arranged, then consideration shall be given provided it is agreeable to both parties. Except where the Employer has obtained the written consent of the Union to work Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days each week with respect to certain designated positions within a Department, then the above shall apply.
MOOSE JAW ONLY - The Shop Stewards shall be notified of any change in the work schedule to cover emergencies.
(ii)	Properly licensed shipping floor Employees who are required to take intercity or interbranch hauls (i.e. Weybum, Yorkton, Swift Current) and drivers hauling loads between Regina and Moose Jaw will be paid a premium of ten ($10) dollars per week for any week in which such trips are made.
(iii)	Truck drivers (Multiple Trailers Certified only) who pull two 48 foot trailers on an occasional basis will be paid $ 12/day for doing so over and above the $10/week premium for Intercity, Interbranch and Interprovincial Hauls.
(b) OFFICE
The basic work week for all office Employees will be thirty seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours per week, seven and one-half (7 1/Z) hours per day. Hours will be normally scheduled as follows unless mutually agreed at the Branch level.
8:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M., with a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period.
It is understood that coverage will be provided between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. so as to maintain coverage on the order desk or other required areas between these hours. This is to be achieved by staggering hours and without payment of premium pay.
PAGE 7
(c) CITY WHOLESALE DRIVER SALESMEN
The Hours of Work shall consist of Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days per week. Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, and where practical Statutory Holidays, to be nondelivery days. The normal lunch break for City Wholesale Driver Salesmen shall be one-half (1/2) hour without Pay-
(d)	COUNTRY WHOLESALE DRIVER SALESMEN
The Work Week shall be Forty (40) Hours. The hours shall be averaged on the basis of Twenty (20) Hours for each Two Day Trip. Hours in excess of Twenty (20) per Two Day Trip, Forty (40) per week, shall, notwithstanding Article 11, Clause 11.05, be paid for at the rate of time and one-half of basic pay for the first Four (4) Hours worked in excess of Twenty (20) hours per Two (2) day trip, and double time thereafter. Should the commission based on the agreed rates be greater than the overtime, then he shall be paid the difference. It is understood that Two (2) consecutive days off shall be granted for each week worked. The normal lunch break for Country Wholesale Driver Salesmen shall be One (1) hour without pay.
(e)	All Employees shall be prohibited from stamping prices, dates, etc., on products in stores and from packing products in show cases etc.
Driver Salesmen must be capable of extending and completing their invoices properly and accurately and exercise this capability. Continual offenders will be discussed with the Shop Stewards.
(f)	INTERBRANCH DEPOT TRUCK DRIVERS AND SHORT ORDER-OFF DOCK DRIVERS
The Hours of work shall consist of Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days per week. TWO of the days off each week shall be consecutive. These hours to apply to those Employees, within this Classification, for whom the Union have given their consent.
(g) INTERBRANCH DRIVERS - INTERBRANCH/INTERPROVINCIAL
TRIPS
(i)	Regularly scheduled Interbranch and Interprovincial trips out of Regina Branch will be first assigned to Interbranch Drivers.
(ii)	Should extra Interbranch or Interprovincial trips out of Regina Branch be necessary, wherever practical and possible they will first be assigned to Interbranch Drivers, providing that such assignment does not necessitate:
(1)	re-scheduling of trips
(2)	unnecessary overtime
(3)	undue expense for the Company
PAGE 8
(iii)	Wherever practical and possible, Interbranch and/or Interprovincial out of Regina Branch will first be assigned to Interbranch Drivers. Wherever practical and
possible, Inteibranch and/or Interprovincial trips out of Regina Branch will first be assigned to Interbranch Drivers, This means that no other Employee(s) will be assigned to an Interbranch or Interprovincial trip out of Regina Branch, subject to 2. above, when an Interbranch Driver is available and not scheduled to take any other trip on the same day.
(iv)	Subject to (ii) and (iii) above should an Interbranch Driver not be available to take any extra Interbranch or Interprovincial run as may become available the run shall first be assigned to a properly licensed Shipping Dock Employee (that Employee to be chosen in descending order of seniority), unless the Shipping Department is disrupted by this process in which case a properly licensed Employee from elsewhere in the operation can be used.
(h)	4 X 10 HOUR DAY PROGRAM
It is agreed that the following Departments may remain on a 4 x 10 hour day program in Regina Branch:
(i)	Ice Cream Department
(ii)	Milk Department - Exception will be the Juice Section, which will swing from 4 x 10’s to 5 x 8’s and reverse on a Two (2) week notice of system change in recognition of the uncertain volumes and nature of this business.
(iii)	Cream Section
(iv)	Driver Salesmen, Dock Drivers, Interbranch Drivers.
(v)	Bulk Tank Drivers.
(vi)	Laboratory Technicians (May be required to work 5 x 8’s)
(vii)	Engineers (May be required to work 5 x S’s)
It is understood that the Garage Employees, Shipping Floor Employees and all other Service classifications not referred to above will remain on a 5 x 8 hour schedule except the Office Employees who will remain on a 5 x 7 1/2 hour day schedule.
(i) OVERTIME ON PACKING ROUTES
country Wholesale Routes deemed as Packing Routes by Management will fall under the following Overtime Schedule:
(i) The driver who is assigned to the route in question and the Transportation Services Supervisor will assess the route to determine a fair and reasonable level
PAGE 9
vertime, if any, to be paid to the driver by the following schedule:
100% -75% -50% -0% -
0-3 months 3 - 6 months 6-9 months after 9 months
(ii)	The driver and the Transportation Services Supervisor will develop a plan for the removal of the need for packing on the route and will be responsible for monitoring the plan regularly over the nine (9) month period.
(iii)	Should, after the initial nine (9) months has passed, packing remain a problem on the route the Company and the Union will meet to discuss and determine a reasonable and workable solution to the problem.
(iv)	In the event that an existing route experiences pressure to pack product, and such activity causes the route to run overtime, a determination will be made through the preceding process as to what level of overtime should be allotted to the route and such overtime will be paid by the same schedule listed above.
11.02	The Union agrees that they are prepared, should the Company request, to negotiate with the Company with regard to the days of work.
11.03	A Schedule indicating Employee starting times will be posted on the Bulletin Boards and will require a one-week notice of change excepting in the case of emergencies.
11.04	The scheduled days in each week that a Plant Employee and Truck Driver is not required to work in order that his hours of work in that week shall not exceed Forty (40), are to be considered as regular days off. No Employee shall be asked or permitted to work his day off except in cases of sickness or emergency.
11.05	(a) Subject to (b) herein, an Employee who works hours in excess of his normally scheduled hours shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for the first two hours of such excess, and double time for the remainder of such excess.
(b)	Subject to Paragraph (iv) below, in a week in which a Statutory Holiday
occurs:
(i)	An Employee who normally works 5 days per week at 8 hours per day, shall be paid his regular rate for 8 hours worked per day, time and one-half for the next two hours worked, and double time for hours worked in excess of 10 hours. If an Employee works on a day other than the Statutory Holidays and has already worked 32 hours at his regular rate, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first 2 hours and double time thereafter.
(ii)	An Employee who normally works 4 days per week at 10 hours per day, shall be paid his regular rate for 10 hours worked, time and one-half for the next two hours worked, and double time for hours worked in excess of 12 hours. If an Employee works on a
PAGE 10
day other than the Statutory Holiday and has already worked 30 hours at his regular rate, he l be paid time and one-half for the first 2 hours and double time thereafter.
(iii)	An office Employee who normally works 5 days per week at 7 1/2 hours per day, shall be paid his regular rate for 7 1/2 hours worked per day, time and one-half for the next two hours worked, and double time for hours worked in excess of 9 1/2 hours. If an office Employee works on a day other than the Statutory Holidays and has already worked 30 hours at his regular rate, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first 2 hours and double time thereafter.
(iv)	In respect of the Statutory Holiday, the Employee will be paid in accordance with Article 12, Clause 12.01 (b).
(v)	The Company agrees to establish a schedule of normal starting times for all In-Plant workers. Except in cases of emergency, the Company further agrees to provide one (1) weeks’ notice for any change in these posted starting times. It is understood that this notice period does not apply to any Employee working in the “Relief’ designation. A reasonable effort will be made to have the same starting time for each day of the week for each Employee.
11.06	Regular Employees who are recalled to work after completion of their regular
work day, or on their regular day off shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours of overtime at the applicable overtime rates of pay in this Agreement.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employees scheduled hours of work.
11.07	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Management in getting necessary overtime work done. The Management agrees that overtime work shall be kept to a minimum. It is further agreed that overtime work shall be voluntary and that no Employee shall be compelled to work overtime nor shall they be discriminated against for a refusal to work overtime.
11.08	Employees shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute rest period each morning and
each afternoon. Where facilities are not provided for coffee in the Plant, Employees wishing to leave the plant for same must obtain permission from their Supervisor.	'
ARTICLE 12 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
12.01	(a) Employees shall be entitled to the following Statutory Holidays with pay:
NEW YEAR’S DAY
GOOD FRIDAY VICTORIA DAY DOMINION DAY SASKATCHEWAN DAY (1 st Monday in August)
LABOUR DAY THANKSGIVING DAY REMEMBRANCE DAY
CHRISTMAS DAY BOXING DAY
and any other Statutory Holiday declared by proper authority.
PAGE 11
(b)	Statutory Holidays worked by Employees shall be paid for at the rate of time one-half,^usuhis-re^ylarxrate of pay, for all ho-urs_worked on that day.
In the event of a Statutory Holiday coming on an Employee’s regular day off, or during his annual vacation, he shall receive another day in lieu thereof.
(c)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on an Employee’s regular day off, the Employee will be given another day in lieu thereof, or paid for the same within a period of Thirty (30) days, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon; upon the further understanding that all Statutory Holidays must be cleaned up within the Fiscal Year of the Employer.
(d)	Where any Civic Holiday is worked it shall be paid for at straight time in addition to regular basic wages for the time worked on that day.
12.02	In any week in which a Statutory Holiday occurs, the hours of work for that week
shall be reduced by Fight (8) hours. Statutory Holidays shall be observed on days other than calendar date when so proclaimed by Governmental Authority. Where a Statutory, Public or Civic Holiday occurs in any week - the
Employer shall have the right to change the delivery days and the schedule of work in such week upon Fifteen (15) days notice to the Union.
ARTICLE 13 - VACATIONS
13.01	(a) Every Employee to whom this Agreement applies shall be entitled after each
year of his employment with the Employer to Annual Holidays in accordance with the following schedule -
UPON COMPLETION OF:
3	weeks holidays
4	weeks holidays
5	weeks holidays
6	weeks holidays
One year’s service Nine years’ service Sixteen years’ service Twenty-six years’ service
(b)	(i) Notwithstanding Article 13.0 1 (a), Employees hired on or after 1 April
1986 shall receive an annual vacation based on his years of service, as set out in Article 13.01
(a), commencing on 1 January following his date of hire. For all such Employees the qualifying years of service shall be deemed to have been earned from 1 January to 31 December of the same year.
(ii)	Any such Employee with less than one year of service on 1 January following his date of hire shall be granted a vacation of 1 1/4 days for each full month of employment prior to that 1 January.
The effect of Article 13.01 (i) and (ii) is to establish a common anniversary date for all new Employees hired 1 April 1986 forward.
PAGE 12
M.02	(a) During the month of February a list shall be posted on which each Employee
!tl indicate his preference date for Vacations. Senior Employees who have not indicated their vacation preference by March 31st may not use their seniority to dislodge Employees with less seniority but who did indicate their preference by March 31st. Any Employee who has not indicated his vacation preference by September 30th, may be subject to having his vacations assigned by the Employer to open periods within the vacation year.
(b)	The Annual Vacation period shall commence on April 1st and terminate on March 31st of the ensuing year. All vacations must be taken during this period and shall not be accumulated.
(c)	The Employer shall permit the Employee to take the entire annual holiday to which he is entitled in one continuous and uninterrupted period except in the case of an Employee who is entitled to five (5) or more weeks, in which case such additional holidays to be taken at a time to be approved by the Employer. The foregoing subject to the provisions of
13.02	(d) of this Article.
(d)	Employees selecting their Annual Vacations during the months of June, July and August shall be limited to three (3) weeks, except in the case where further time remains available, then the more senior Employee may claim a fourth week if he is so entitled and it is mutually agreeable with Management.
(e)	During the months of June, July and August, the Employer agrees to provide sufficient staff coverage to allow a minimum of 20% of the permanent staff within the Department to have simultaneous vacations.
13.03	Seniority shall govern as far as possible, in the allocation of holidays, but senior
Employees must exercise the right of selection within the first two weeks of first posting or of being specifically approached by the Department Supervisor to so specify his holidays, otherwise they forfeit their right of first choice to holidays for that year. The Official Holiday Schedule shall be posted no later than April 15th for that year. Shop Stewards shall be informed of any changes in the Holiday Schedule.
13.04	(a) Annual holidays will as far as possible be granted for the period selected by the Employee and every reasonable effort will be made to avoid cancellation of preselected holidays once the schedule has been posted. The Employer, in order to assure orderly operation of all Departments, will retain the right to authorize final allocation of vacation periods but agrees to co-operate as far as possible in providing holidays at a mutually satisfactory time. If an Employee’s holidays are cancelled by Management after September 30th, then the Employee can negotiate a new holiday period which, if necessary, may extend into the subsequent year.
(b) Notwithstanding Article 13.04 (a), Management hereby agrees that once authorized and posted, there will be no cancellation of an Employee’s selected vacation period unless mutually agreed between the affected Employee and the Employer. It is further understood that an affected Employee when approached regarding an emergent situation leading to a request for a change in his preselected vacation period will not unreasonably withhold his agreement to such proposed change if in fact the change could be made by the Employee without
PAGE 13
—J ie hardship.
13.05	Each Employee shall be paid by the Employer in respect to Annual holidays 1/52 of his earnings for the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to that Annual Holiday for each week of holiday he is entitled to. In cases where computation of an Employee's vacation pay, according to the above method does not exceed the value of vacation pay calculated on the basis of his current rate of pay, then the latter shall apply. Current rate of pay for Commission Driver Salesmen shall be construed as meaning his present basic rate of pay plus the average commission earned during the preceding Twelve (12) months.
13.06	The parties are agreed that vacation entitlements may be combined during a two year period under special requests as outlined below:
a)	The Employee must make such request at least six (6) months in advance of the date he wishes to use such special vacation entitlements.
b)	Such request must be for the use of vacations during the off season and such request must not cause undue hardship for the Company.
c)	In order to be paid vacation pay for the special vacation entitlement, the Employee must have earned the same at the time he requests such pay. In the event that the Employee makes a request for an advance in vacation entitlement, he will be paid at his appropriate rate (3/52; 4/52; 5/52) for the amount of time worked from his anniversary date to the date he takes such special vacation.
ARTICLE 14 - DISMISSAL AND SUSPENSION
14.01	Dismissal for Cause: Impaired ability to perform an Employees duties due to alcohol or drug use, alcohol or drug use on the job, alcohol or drug use or consumption tarnishing the Company’s image while in the Company’s uniform or coveralls, abuse of Employer’s equipment, absence without permission where practical and possible to obtain the same, dishonesty and allowing unauthorized persons to ride in or on delivery vehicles or other behaviour or action that serves to disrupt the work place or impede the efficient and reasonable management of the operation. Any disputes in this regard will be dealt with through the normal Grievance process.
14.02	When an Employee who requires a driver’s licence to perform his job, has his
licence revoked or suspended for a period of time, for other than valid medical reasons (other than substance abuse), the Company will assign a qualified Employee to the vacant position. Should the Employee who suffered the revocation of his Drivers Licence, not secure either a permit or have his Drivers Licence m-instated within twelve (12) months, his job will open for bid. During the period of time between losing his licence and either securing a permit or having his Drivers Licence re-instated, the Company will endeavour to provide other employment to the individual provided he is capable and work is available and that such re-employment will not result in the bumping of a Permanent Employee. The affected Employee will make every reasonable effort to secure a permit or to have his Drivers Licence re-instated. This does not preclude normal bidding or seniority rights.	.
PAGE 14
1A.03	An Employee will receive a copy of any written reprimands, incident reports or
.filing letters placed on his file, with a copy to the local Union Office and the Shop Steward. The incident causing such written reprimand, incident report, or warning letter will not be used to compound other disciplinary action taken against the Employee according to the following:
(a)	For Minor Infractions as outlined in the Company Human Resources Policy, which is not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement - if the written reprimand, incident report or warning letter is more than twelve (12) months old.
(b)	For Major Infractions as outlined in the Company Human Resources Policy, which is not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement - if the written reprimand, incident report or warning letter is more than thirty-six (36) months old.
(c)	In order for the above paragraphs (a) and (b) to have force and effect, the Employee concerned must have worked for the twelve (12) months or thirty-six (36) months as the case may be and any time missed from work on account of Short Term Disability, Long
Term Disability, Workers Compensation claim, approved leave of absence or lay off will be added to the applicable time period.
(d)	Any unrecorded reprimands or warnings will not be used for disciplinary
action.
ARTICLE 15 - TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
15.01	Any Employee wishing to leave the service of the Employer shall give Seven days prior notice. Except for cause, in the event of the Employer wishing to dispense with the services of an Employee, such Employee shall receive Seven days prior notice, or in lieu of Seven days his normal basic pay for One week. In the event of an Employee being dismissed, only those wages due up to time of leaving shall be paid and within Fourteen days all other monies due or owing either party shall be paid. An Employee leaving without notice or being dismissed because of impaired ability from drinking, drinking while on duty, dishonesty, shall not be entitled to notice or pay in lieu thereof.
ARTICLE 16 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
16.01	There shall be no strikes, slow downs, stoppage of work or suspension of the same by Employee union members, or lock-outs on the part of the Company during the life of this agreement.
16.02	Any complaint, dispute or controversy must be reduced to writing on a Grievance Form, and signed by the Employee or the Union to constitute a grievance. All grievances must be presented by the Shop Steward to the Plant Superintendent or his designate within fourteen (14) calendar days of the matter first having arisen, or fourteen (14) calendar days of the date on which the Employee or the Union had knowledge of the matter having arisen, whichever is the later.
16.03	The Plant Superintendent or his designate shall give his decision in writing to the
PAGE 15
ployee, with a copy to the Shop Steward within twenty four (24) hours of receiving the tten grievance.
16.04	In the event that the written decision of the Plant Superintendent or his designate is not satisfactory, the Shop Steward shall within five (5) working days take the matter up with the Branch Manager or his designate.
16.05	The Branch Manager or his designate shall give his decision in writing to the Employee and the Union within three (3) working days of the meeting with the grievor and the Union.
16.06	Should the matter under dispute not be settled in any of the previous stages to the satisfaction of the grievor or the Union, the Union and the Branch Manager or his designate shall submit a written report to the Industrial Relations Manager of the Company or his designate stating the grievance and the arguments used on behalf of the grievor and the Company. The written report shall be forwarded to the Head Office of the Company within five (5) working days of having received the Branch Managers or his designates reply as outlined in 16.05 above.
16.07	The Industrial Relations Manager of the Company or his designate shall give his decision in writing to the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days.
16.08	Should the matter under dispute not be settled in any of the previous stages to the satisfaction of the grievor or the Union, the matter may then be referred to a single arbitrator by mutual agreement. The Union shall first propose names for a single arbitrator to the Company. Should the parties be unable to agree on the appointment of a single arbitrator the matter in dispute shall be immediately referred to a Board of Arbitration. Such Board shall be composed of one member named by the Company, one member named by the Union with the third member, who shall be the Chairman to be mutually agreed upon by the two parties. In the event that the agreement is not reached for the selection of the third member, he shall be named by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Saskatchewan. Such Board of Arbitration to meet and render a decision within thirty (30) days after appointment.
16.09	Should the Union wish to proceed to a Board of Arbitration with any proper matter they must advise the Company within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date of notification of the decision of the Industrial Relations Manager or his designate as outlined in 16.07.
16.10	In any arbitration, the written grievance shall be presented to the Board of Arbitration, and its decision shall be confined to deciding the issues therein set out.
16.11	A Board of Arbitration shall not alter, add to, subtract from, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
16.12	Any time limits fixed by this Article for the taking of any action in connection with a specific written grievance may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union.
PAGE 16
ARTICLE 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
17.01	(a) The Company goals include the maintenance and development of viable
Branch operations. In pursuit of these goals, it is understood that the Company may participate in the development of training programs which will enable Employees to further their knowledge and/or skills relative to the requirements of the Company’s business. Should certain Branch operations be closed or altered resulting in layoffs or job deletions then the Company will offer relocation to affected Employees elsewhere within the organization including the affected Branch operations where vacancies exist.
(b)	In all of the above cases, the Union will be given ninety (90) days written notice of the Company’s intention to close or alter the plant operation. If no vacancy occurs during the ninety (90) day notice period the Employees affected will have another fifteen (15) months in which to have an opportunity to transfer to vacancies that may come open. The Employee may elect the option of taking another job that may be available or severance pay under Article 17.01 (g). In the event that an Employee exercises an option to transfer to another plant, then the Unions agree to provide an opportunity for the transferred Employee(s) to maintain their full seniority rights without respect to their prior Union affiliations subject to a two (2) year restriction on bidding rights. The opportunity for transfers will be allocated in accordance with Article 17.02.
(c)	New Employees hired on or after the giving of the ninety (90) day notice period will not be covered by the above clause.
(d)	An Employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his job as a result of Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) shall be dealt with under seniority provisions of this Agreement.
(e)	Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by the
affected Employees, such Employees shall, at the expense of the Employer, be given a reasonable period of time, without reduction of hours of work or rates of pay, during which they may acquire the necessary skills required by such Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan).	•
(f)	No additional Employee shall be hired by the Employer until Employees affected by Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan), or Employees on layoff, have ‘been notified of the proposed Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) and allowed a reasonable training period to acquire the necessary knowledge or skill to retain their employment.
(g)	In the event of an amalgamation, permanent closure of a plant or Department or parts thereof, or automation causing Employees to lose their employment, Employees who have five (5) years or more of service will be paid Severance Pay at their current basic rate of pay as follows:
Two (2) week’s pay for each year of Service to a maximum of 20
years of Service. (Pro-rated for partial years)
PAGE 17
Employee will forfeit any claim to employment with the Company once severance pay has uroji taken.
17.02	(a) An Employee (one or more) who is displaced from his job by virtue of
Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) will be given the opportunity to fill other vacancies which are or become available on the basis of seniority and ability. Where ability is equal as between two or more Employees, seniority shall prevail.
(b)	The Company agrees to maintain an In-Company Labour Pool of Employees laid off due to Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan). Employees in this Pool will be advised of opportunities which come available at any of the Company’s plants and for which these laid off Employees may be qualified. Employee names will be maintained in this Pool until they have accepted a job offered or until the expiry of a period of up to eighteen (18) months from the date they received notice of the lay-off.
ARTICLE 18 - GROUP BENEFIT PLANS
18.01	All insurance whether Employer paid, shared by the Employer and the Employee, and/or compulsory, Pension Plans, Six (6) Days Sick Leave with pay, shall be continued.
In the event of an Employee not requiring the said Sick Leave for that calendar year, he shall be paid for the number of days not taken as soon after the end of the calendar year as possible. For purposes of establishing the daily rate of the unused sick pay, it is agreed that it shall be arrived at by dividing the Employee’s annual Basic rate for the year by 260.
Should it be necessary to make changes in the premiums or conditions of the above, the Employee shall be notified. New Employees who will benefit under any of the above shall be notified by the Employer’s Official when being hired. Employees hired to fill a permanent vacancy shall not be entitled to Sick pay for the calendar year in which they are hired.
18.02	The Life Insurance, Short and Long Term Disability Income Plans, previously in existence, shall be continued. New Employees who become eligible shall be notified by the Company and enrolled on the effective date. Contributions from the Employee and the Employer together with the benefit resulting from the Unemployment Insurance Program, shall continue to fund the Plans through to March 31,1983. Effective April 1,1983, the Company will pay the full cost of the Short Term, Long Term and Life Insurance premiums, offset by the benefit resulting from the Unemployment Insurance program.
Particulars regarding the Plans are available from the Branch Administration Office.
18.03	An Employee will not be eligible for vacation pay and paid sick days during the period of absence in excess of 105 consecutive days.
18.04	Group Benefits Plans will be as follows and will remain in place during the life of this Agreement:
PAGE 18
- * SIC GROUP LIFE INSURANCE:
ti Employee: $40,000
WEEKLYINDEMNITY:
Benefit is equal to 66 2/3% of gross weekly salary Maximum: $460/week
Benefits commence on the 1st day of accident or the 4th day of sickness for a maximum of 15 weeks
LONG TERM DISABILITY:
Benefit is equal to 66 2/3% of gross monthly salary
Maximum: $2,500/month
Benefits commence after 15 weeks of disability
DENTAL:
Basic services: 100 % coverage
Major restorative: 60% coverage
Orthodontics (18 and under): 50% coverage
Annual maximum (basic and major combined): $l,750/person
Orthodontic maximum: $1,500 lifetime/person
EXTENDED HEALTH CARE:
100% coverage $25 annual deductible
18.05	(a) Effective. AqriLl, 1993, in respect of each participating Employee, the
Company agrees to contribute 4% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay to the Pension Plans for Unionized Employees. Employee contributions will remain at 3% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay. This shall be regular straight time earnings exclusive of commissions, bonuses, and any other special payments or taxable benefits.
(b) Effective April 1,1995, in respect of each participating Employee, the Company agrees to contribute 4 1/2% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of - pay to the Pension Plans for Unionized Employees. Employee contributions will increase to 3 1/2% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay. This shall be regular straight time earnings exclusive of commissions, bonuses, and any other special payments or taxable benefits.
18.06	While an Employee who is a member of the Pension plan is in receipt of benefits under the Long Term Disability plan, the Company shall contribute an amount equal to 5% of such member’s earnings at the time of disability. This contribution will increase from 5% to 6% effective April 1,1995.
ARTICLE 19 - CLOTHING. UNIFORMS AND TOOLS
19.01	(a) Employees required to wear a uniform by the Employer while on duty shall
do so as required.
PAGE 19
(b) The Employer agrees to supply Uniforms for Driver Salesmen, Dock Truck louvers, Inter-branch Drivers and Shipping Department staff.
The basic uniform package, supplied by the Company, will be as follows:
3	pairs of trousers
4	shirts
1 windbreaker
1	winter jacket
2	caps (if requested)
1 tie (if requested)
All newly hired drivers (as well as existing drivers) receiving their first basic uniform package, will receive the previously listed “basic package".
All existing drivers who have previously received Company uniforms will then choose their uniforms from the option list supplied. Drivers will receive the equivalent dollar value of one Basic Uniform Package and will be allowed to interchange from the option list.
All drivers will receive their next uniform package in accordance with existing time frame guidelines. However, from that point on, all drivers will receive a basic uniform package or the equivalent of the basic package, every two (2) years.
The Company will accommodate substitutions to the basic package from the options list below. Any cost over and above the basic package amount will be covered by the Employee.
OPTION LIST
shirts
-	Long sleeve
-	Short sleeve
-	Western cut (long sleeve cut)
-	Golf shirt
Jackets
-	Nylon vest
-	Windbreaker
-	Parka
-	Bomber
PAGE 20
Trousers
-100% poly trousers - Walking shorts
(walking shorts must be worn with white knee high socks and black shoes, low cut all black running shoes are acceptable)
(c)	Crests identifying the Company shall be provided without charge to the
Employee.
(d)	The Employer shall be responsible, without cost to the Employees, for the dry cleaning, laundry and repair (if thought advisable) of Uniforms that Employees are required to wear. Uniforms for dry cleaning and shirts for laundry will be deposited and picked up at a station in the plant,
All uniforms and shirts for dry cleaning and laundry are to be delivered and picked up by the Employee from a designated station within the plant and none of the clothing referred to herein is to be directly delivered to any dry cleaning or laundry establishment.
(e)	Material and style shall be determined by the Employer.
19.02	Suitable clothing, rubber aprons, rubber or safety footwear shall be provided by the Employer to those Employees in the plant who due to the nature of their work are required to wear the same, in the opinion of the Manager and the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. White coveralls, rubber boots and cotton gloves will be provided for Bulk Tank Drivers. At no time must this clothing be removed from the Employer’s premises after an Employee is off duty at the end of his daily work. Should such clothing receive unnecessary rough usage, the Employee shall be charged for the same.
In the event of an Employee leaving the service of the Employer the uniforms shall be returned to the Employer.
19.03	Each Employee wearing a uniform must at all times keep it and himself neat and tidy.
Uniforms, or parts thereof may be worn only while going to and returning directly from work and while on duty. Any breach of this regulation shall, after due warning, be just cause for dismissal.
19.04	The Employer has the right to have uniforms, coveralls, rubber aprons, rubber footwear repaired if thought advisable. Management shall be responsible for allocating all clothing to Employees.
19.05	Plant Employees required to work in rooms of below freezing temperatures shall be provided with suitable parkas and mitts free, the same to be kept on the Employer’s premises
PAGE 21
all times.
19.06	To assist Bulk Tank Drivers to purchase protective clothing, the Company agrees to pay Twenty (20) Dollars toward the purchase of a "Skidoo Suit” for each Bulk Tank Driver on the basis of one (1) payment per man each Five (5) years. It is the Driver’s responsibility and commitment to carry his "Skidoo Suit” in his truck during the period November 1st to March 3 1st each year. Any Driver found not to have his Skidoo Suit” with him during this period will be subject to reprimand under the terms of this Agreement.
19.07	(a) For Mechanics, Service Mechanics and others who are required to provide their own tools, Company will replace such tools which are broken at work and which are not covered by any guarantee by the supplier and/or manufacturer from whom the Employee purchased the tools.
(b) Company Fire & Theft Insurance will cover the loss of personal tools due to theft resulting from break-in to the Company premises and/or the mechanic’s tool box and for fire on the Company's premises. In order to be eligible, the mechanic must supply the Company with an inventory of his tools and their cost each January.
ARTICLE 20 - ABSENCE FOR CAUSE
20.01	Effective from the day of this Agreement, leave of absence with pay will be granted to Employees, for the purpose of arranging for and attending the funeral of members of his immediate family. The length of such time off shall be determined by the Company following discussion with the Shop Steward and the bereaved Employee. The immediate family shall include Employee’s Mother, Father, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Wife, Husband, Common-Law Spouse, Son, Daughter, Brother, Sister, Grandparents, and Grandchildren.
20.02	(a) Employees requiring time off for medical, dental or optical appointments because they were unable to arrange for the same during their non-working hours, shall be allowed such time off up to a maximum of two (2) hours on each occasion with pay. The Company shall be entitled to request written confirmation of attendance to medical, dental or Optical appointments. Absence with cause will not include any treatment (including chiropractic), therapy or session other than routine medical, dental or optical appointments unless prescribed by a doctor, dentist or optician.
(b) The Company shall be entitled to request a medical certificate indicating that the Employee is unable to fulfil his/her duties, in all cases of absence because of illness, where the absence exceeds three (3) days. Employees shall notify the appropriate manager/supervisor of their absence and its estimated duration. Insofar as is reasonable, other Employees will assume the workload of persons on sick leave in order to ensure that scheduled activities continue.
(c)	The Employee shall give the Company a minimum of twenty four (24) hours notice of the requirement for such time off for medical, dental or optical appointments except in cases of emergency, in which case the Employee shall give the Company as much advance notice as possible.
PAGE 22
Permanent Employees, upon the understanding that the Employer’s responsibility extends to luffeur’s or Operator’s Licences (without restriction or penalty charges) only where required. Any Employee leaving the service of the Employer will refund, or may have deducted from his pay, such portion of the Licence Fee as the same bears to the unexpired time for which the Licence is granted.
ARTICLE 23 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
23.01	In order to provide safe and healthy working conditions for all Employees, the Company agrees that the minimum acceptable standards for the safety and health of its Employees will be provided in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1977 and the Accident Prevention Regulations as outlined by the Occupational Health and Safety Division of the Department of Labour in the Province of Saskatchewan or as subsequently amended.
ARTICLE 24 - CONTRACTING OUT
24.01	(a) Should the Company decide to contract out and/or franchise out a portion of its present Bargaining Unit work, the Company agrees to give the Union a one hundred and fifty (150) day Notice period prior to implementing any changes. The relevant factor which the Company will consider before contracting out any such work will be the economic importance to the Company or to the affected Branch of the proposed contracting out and/or franchising out.
(b)	Should the Company give the Union the above stated one hundred and fifty (150) day Notice, the Company agrees to meet with the Union not later than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the intended date of implementation to explain the details which support the economic importance of its proposals in the context of its business.
(c)	The Union shall have the opportunity at such meeting to explain to the Company the details which support the alternatives and proposals the Union is willing to consider to attempt to persuade the Company not to contract out and/or franchise out in accordance with the Company's said Notice.
(d)	(i) Should the Company and the Union fail to reach agreement on the matter prior to one hundred and five (105) days of the intended date of implementation, the Union may file a grievance at the last step of the Grievance Procedure and the matter shall be taken to Arbitration on the written request of the Union which shall be given to the Company not less than ninety-five (95) days prior to the intended date of implementation.
(ii)	Should an Arbitration Board be called on to decide the matter,
pursuant to this paragraph (d), the question before such Board will be:	“Is the proposed
contracting out and/or franchising out of such work economically important to the Company or to the affected Branch as opposed to arguments as may be presented to the contrary by the Union representing those Employees directly affected by the proposed contracting out and/or franchising out of bargaining unit work?”
(iii)	Should a Board of Arbitration be called on to decide the matter, such Board shall be composed of one member named by the Company, one member named by the
PAGE 24
Union and the third member who shall be Chairman mutually agreed upon by the parties named. Should an agreement not be reached upon the selection of the Third Member not less than hty-five (85) days prior to the proposed date of implementation, he shall be named by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Saskatchewan.
(iv)	The decision of the Board of Arbitration, if unfavourable to the Company, shall have force and effect only until the expiration date of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, or until the matter becomes the subject of collective bargaining between the parties, upon the parties entering into negotiations for a new or revised Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever is the later.
ARTICLE 25 - GENERAL CLAUSES
25.01	The Employer shall provide bulletin boards which shall be placed so that all Employees will have access to them and upon which the Union shall have the right to post notices of meetings and such other notices as may be interest to the Employees. The Union agrees that such notices shall not be offensive to the Company.
25.02	To offset the cost of providing all Employees with updated Collective Bargaining Agreements, the Company will pay the Union the amount of $5.00 per member (to cover a reasonable number of copies of the Collective Bargaining Agreement).
25.03	Truck Drivers shall not be required to wash the outside of their trucks, but must keep the inside of the truck washed and neat at all times.
25.04	It is agreed that the rate for Employee parking at the Regina Branch is $7.00 per month for five (5) months per Employee for serviced parking. This parking rate is inclusive of P.S.T. and G.S.T..
25.05	The Company agrees to make House or Insurance Tenant Packages available through the Company payroll deduction program.
25.06	HUMBOLDT ONLY - No Employee shall remain on the Employer’s premises except while on duty. No person other than the authorized driver shall be allowed to ride on trucks unless authority to do so has been obtained from the Humboldt Branch Manager or the Humboldt Plant Superintendent. Violation of the provisions of this paragraph shall be considered as a breach of the Employer’s regulations and shall be dealt with as such.
25.07	MOOSE JAW ONLY - In all cases of loss or damage through accident or breakdown the Employee shall be given a fair hearing before any decision is reached. The Employer shall investigate all accidents or breakdowns.
25.08	MOOSE JAW ONLY - Employees having under their control equipment with pneumatic tires shall see that this equipment is properly inflated at all times.
25.09	HUMBOLDT AND MOOSE JAW ONLY - The Employees shall assume their fair share of responsibility with the Employer in keeping unauthorized persons from loitering around the plants and will not give any personal consent to any one to so loiter around the plants.
PAGE 25
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION
This Agreement and the attached Letters of Understanding shall cancel all previous agreements between the Employer and the Union and shall be in effect from the date of ratifiratinn and shall ftnH nn the 31st dav of March 1996T and shall remain in force thereafter on a yearly basis which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the Term of the Agreement until terminated by either party giving the other not less than Thirty (30) days nor more than Sixty (60) days notice, in writing, prior to the expiration date. If. amendments to not more than Three (3) paragraphs are contemplated by either party of this Agreement, such amendments shall not be considered as termination of the Agreement, but the party proposing the same shall give notice, in writing, thereof to the other party not less than Forty (40) days nor more than Sixty (60) days before the expiration date hereinbefore referred to.
Notice of intention to terminate or amend this Agreement shall be given to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union or the Industrial Relations Manager of the Employer, as the case may be, either by delivering the same to him personally or by registered mail.
SIGNED THIS !0 DAY OF	. 1993.
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,
PAGE 26
SCHEDULE A
'I'M following Basic Hourly Wage Scale shall prevail EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 1593:
	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3
JOB TITLE	(0 to 12 months)	(13 to 24 months)	(after 24 months)
BASE RATES:			
General Plant Helo	10.10	13.48	14.98
Office	10.15	13.29	14.77
CLASSIFIED POSITIONS:			
Automotive Mechanic	10.98	14.27	15.86
Bulk Tank Drivers	10.68	14.01	15.57
1 Bulk Tank Relief Drivers	11.27	14.54	16.15
Bulk Tank Unloader/Washer	10.29	13.65	15.17
Cheddar Selector	10.78	14.09	15.66
CIP Wash-UD	10.59	13.92	15.47
Cream Receiver	10.29	13.65	15.17
Cream Tester	10.29	13.65	15.17
Department Head	11.47	14.72	16.35
Assistant Department Head	10.78	14.09	15.66
Head Engineer	11.86	15.07	16.74
Assistant Head Engineer	11.67	14.90	16.55
Engineer	11.57	14.81	16.45
Engineer - Refrigeration Endorsement	11.37	14.63	16.25
Evaporator/Drver Operator (with 4th Class Steam Pacers!	10.98	14.27	15.86
Evanorator/Drver Operator	10.39	13.74	15.27
High Rack Forklift Operator	10.29	13.65	15.17
Intercity Bulk Hauler	10.39	13.74	15.27
Laboratory Technician	10.49	13.83	15.37
Lead Cooler Person	10.68	14.01	15.57
Lead Fridga.Person	10.68	14.01	15.57
Millwright/Tndustrial Mechanic	11.76	14.98	16.64
Mix Maker	10.59	13.92	15.47
Packaging Machine Operator	10.39	13.74	15.27
Pasteurizer	10.59	13.92	15.47
Plant Relief Person	10.59	13.92	15.47
Transport Refrigeration Service Mechanic	10.98	14.27	15.86
Truck Drivers fBase Rate Plus $0.32/hour)	10.10 + 0.32	13.48 + 0.32	14.98 +0J2
1 Truck Driver-Multiple Trailers Certified (Base Rate Plus $0.78/hr)	10.10 + 0.78	13.48 + 0.78	14.98 + 0.78
Interbranch Drivers (Base Rate Plus $0.49/hour)	10.10 + 0.49	13.43 + 0.49	14.98 + 0.49
Wholesale Drivers	10.10	13.49	14.99
Relief Drivers	11.27	14.54	16.15
1 D Vehicle Body Maintenance	10.29	13.65	15.17
1 VTIS Operator (Regina Only)	10.59	13.92	15.47
PAGE 27
SCHEDULE A fconfd)
"he following Basic Hourly Wage Scale shall prevail EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,1994:
	Sten 1	Sten 2	Sten 3
JOB TITLE	(0 to 12 months)	(13 to 24 months)	(after 24 months)
BASE RATES:			
General Plant Hein	10.30	13.75	15.28
Office	10.35	13.56	15.07
CLASSIFIED POSITIONS:			
Automotive Mechanic	11.20	14.56	16.18
Bulk Tank Drivers	10.89	14.29	15.88
Bulk ianj{ Kklief Drivers	11*&	14.83	16.47
Bulk Tank Unloader/Washer	10.50	13.92	15.47
Cheddar Selector	11.00	14.37	15.97
CIP Wash-UP	10.80	14.20	15.78
Cream Receiver	10.50	13.92	15.47
Cream Tester	10.50	13.92	15.47
Department Head	11.70	15.01	16.68
Assistant DeDartment Head	11.00	14.37	15.97
Head Engineer	12.10	15.37	17.07
Assistant Head Eneineer	11.90	15.20	16.88
Eneineer	11.80	15.11	16.78 .
Eneineer - Refrieeration Endorsement	11.60	14.92	16.58
Evaoorator/Drver Operator fwith 4th Class Steam Papers)	11.20	14.56	16.18
Evanorator/Drver Operator	10.60	14.01	15.58
Hieh Rack Forklift Operator	I 10.50	13.92	15.47
Intercity Bulk Hauler	10.60	14.01	15.58
Laboratory Technician	1070	14.11	15.68
Lead Cooler Person	10.89	14.29	15.88
Lead Frideei’erson .	10.89	14.29	15.88
Millwrieht/Industrial Mechanic	12.00	15.28	16.97
Mix Maker	io.'mT	14.20	15.78
Packaeine Machine Operator	10.60	14.01	15.58
Pasteurizer	10.80	14.20	15.78
Plant Relief Person	10.80	14.20	15.78
Transport Refrieeration Service Mechanic	11.20	14.56	16.18
Truck Drivers IBase Rate Plus $0.32/hour)	1030 + 033	13.75 + 032	15J29 • 032
Truck Driver-Multiple Trailers Certified (Base Rate Plus $0.78/hr)	1030 + 0.78	13.75 + 0.78	15.28 + 0.78
Interbranch Drivers (Base Rate Plus $0.49/hour)	1030+ 049	13.75 + 0.49	15.28 + 0.49
Wholesale Drivers	10.30	13.76	15.29
Relief Drivers	11.50	14.83	16.47
Vehicle Body Maintenance	10.50	13.92	15.47
VTIS Operator (Regina Only)	10.80	14.20	15.78
PAGE 28
SCHEDULE A (cont’d)
Xhe following Basic Hourly Wage Scale shall prevail EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 1995:
	Step l	Step 2	Step 3
JOB TITLE	(0 to 12 months)	(13 to 24 months)	(after 24 months)
BASE RAILS*			
General Plant Help	10.51	14.03	15.59
Office	10.56	13.83	15.37
CLASSIFIED POSITIONS:			
Automotive Mechanic	11.42	14.85	16.50
Bulk Tank Drivers	11.11	14.58	16.20
Bulk Tank Relief Drivers	11.73	15.13	16.80
Bulk Tank Unloader/Washer	10.71	14.20	15.78
Cheddar Selector	11.22	14.66	16.29
CIP Wash-up	11.02	14.48	16.10
Cream Receiver	10.71	14.20	15.78
Cream Tester	10.71	14.20	15.78
Department Head	11.93	15.31	17.01
Assistant Department Head	11.22	14.66	16.29
Head Engineer	12.34	15.68	17.41
Assistant Head Engineer	12.14	15.50	17.22
Engineer	12.04	15.41	17.12
Engineer - Refrigeration Endorsement	11.83	15.22	16.91
Evaporator/Dryer Operator (with 4th Class Steam Papers)	11.42	14.85	16.50
Evaporator/Drver Operator	10.81	14.29	15.89
High Rack Forklift Operator	10.71	14.20	15.78
Intercity Bulk Hauler	10.81	14.29	15.89
Laboratory Technician	10.91	14.39	15.99
Lead Cooler Person	11.11	14.58	16.20
Lead FridgeJPerson .	11.11	14.58	16.20
MillwriehtAndustrial Mechanic	12.24	15.59	17.31
Mix Maker	11.02	14.48	16.10
Packaging Machine Operator	10.81	14.29	15.89
Pasteurizer	11.02	14.48	16.10
Plant Relief Person	11.02	14.48	16.10
Transport Refrigeration Service Mechanic	11.42	14.85	16.50
Truck Drivers (Base Rate Plus $0.32/hour)	10.51 +0.33	14X0 + 0.32	13.59 + 0.32
Truck Driver-Multiple Trailers Certified (Base Rate Plus $0.78/hr)	10J1 +0.78	14X3 + 0.78	15.59 + 0.78
Interbranch Drivers (Base Rate Plus $0.49/hour)	10.51 + 0.49	14X0 +049	15.59 + 0.49
Wholesale Drivers	10.51	14.04	15.60
Relief Drivers	11.73	15.13	16.80
Vehicle Body Maintenance	10.71	14.20	15.78
VTIS Operator (Regina Only)	11.02	14.48	16.10
PAGE 29
TRUCK DRIVERS - shall be paid $032. pci hour over auu'aL&vc* i«rvjtiicis1 rllujY jSiu?.
INTERBRANCH DRIVERS - shall be paid $0.49 per hour over and above the General Plant Rate.
TRUCK DRIVERS - MULTIPLE TRAILERS CERTIFIED - shall be paid $0.78 per hour over and above the General Plant Help Rate.
HUMBOLDT ONLY - Employees holding positions entailing responsibility and knowledge may receive consideration over and above the foregoing minimum wage scale in keeping with their ability to fulfil their duties.
A SHIFT JALHFERHNTt AT.	'Wits* •pei Vko\k shall be paid to shift
Employees who work a shift starting prior to 5 AM or after 1 PM and sixty-five (65) cents per hour for shifts beginning after 8 PM and before 1 AM. This differential shall apply to the entire shift and the shift differential shall not form part of the basic wage rate and shall not be subject to overtime rates.
In the third year of the agreement, April 1, 1995, the shift differential will be increased by $.05, respectively paying fifty-five (55) cents an hour and seventy (70) cents an hour.
Temporary Holiday Relief Wage Rate - June 18,1992
General Plant Hein		
First Summer	9.00 per hour	$1,560 per month
Second Summer	10.10 per hour	$1,750 per month
Third Summer	10.67 per hour	$1,850 per month
Thereafter	11.25 per hour	$1,950 per month
TOTHTS JO	DAY OF //t>^ . 1993.	
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION, LIMITED	LOCAL NO. 834
Industrial Relations Manager
PAGE 30
SCHEDULE £
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1. The job titles referred to under Recognized Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles will be the plant Departmental job classifications recognized, where applicable, in the following
Recognized Departments
1.	Bjiften Department
2.	Milk Department
3.	Ice Cream Department
4.	Cheddar Cheese Department
5.	Cultured Products Department
6.	Powder Department
7.	Shipping Department
8.	WJI Department
2. RECOGNIZED DEPARTMENTAT, TOR TITI.F.S
(with 4th Class Steam Papers) (h) Shipper
(h)	Evaporator Dryer Operator (without 4th Class Steam Papers)
(i)	High Rack Fork Lift Operator
(j)	Lead Cooler Person
(k)	Lead Fridge Person
. (Ice Cream Manufacturing Plants only)
(l)	Mix Maker
(m)	Packaging Machine Operator
(n)	Plant Relief Person
(o)	VTIS Operator (Regina Only)
"A” PLANTS
tl
B" PLANTS
(a)	Cheddar Selector
(b)	CLP Wash-up
(c)	Cream Receiver
(d)	Cream Tester
(e)	Department Head
(f)	Assistant Department Head
(g)	Evaporator Dryer Operator
(a)	Buttermaker
(b)	Cooler Person
(c)	Cream Receiver
(d)	Cream Tester
(e)	Head Milk Processor
(f)	Department Assistant
(g)	Packaging Machine Operator
PAGE 31
LGHEDIJLE B (Cont’d)
3. SPF.CTAL TOR TTTI.F.S
(a)	Automotive Mechanic
(b)	Bulk Tank Driver
(c)	Relief Bulk Tank Driver
(d)	Bulk Tank unfoader/Washer
(e)	Head Engineer - “A" PLANTS
(0 Assistant Head Engineer (A Plants only)
(g)	Engineer
(h)	Engineer - Refrigeration Endorsement
(i)	jFvsrdffMff - "B" Plants
(j)	Intercity Bulk Hauler
(k)	Lab Technician
(l)	Millwright/Industrial Mechanic
(m)	Pasteurizer
(n)	Relief Driver
(o)	Transport Refrigeration Service Mechanic ("A" Plants only)
(p)	Vehicle Body Maintenance (Regina only)
4. I TFT DF PLANTS AND ~RP.f!OfiNTZRD DFPARTMFNTS TN FAT.H	
"A" PLANTS	"B" PLANTS
REGINA:	LLOYDMtNSTER:
1. Milk Department	1. Butter Department
2. Ice Cream Department	2. Milk Department
3.	Shipping Department 4.	Cheddar Cheese Department 5.	UHT Department	MELFORT: 1. Milk Department
SASKATOON:	
1. Milk Department	NORTH BATTLEFORD:
2.	Ice Cream Department 3.	Cultured Products Department	1. Milk Department
4. Shipping Department	PRINCE ALBERT:
5. Butter Department	1. Milk Department
6. Powder Department	SWIFT CURRENT:
YORKTON:	1. Butter Department
1.	Butter Department 2.	Milk Department	2. Milk Department
3. Powder Department	WEYBURN:
4. Shipping Department	1. Milk Department
PAGE 32
HEDULEB (Cont’d)
CLASSIFIED JOB TITLES AND MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS - “A” PLANTS
1st - 2nd - 3rd Step Step Step
TOB TITLE: CHEDDAR SELECTOR	$10.78 -14.09 -15.66 (April 1/93)
$11.00 - 14.37 - 15.97 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.22 -14.66 -16.29 (April 1/95)
-	Qualified for and capable of grading and selecting Cheddar for packaging, and for the Supervision of the cutting and packaging operation.
-	Must have the knowledge of the various Standards for the selection.
JOB TITLE: CEP WASH-UP	$10.59 - 13.92 -15.47 (April 1/93)
$10.80 - 14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.02 - 14.48 - 16.10 (April 1/95)
-	Must be capable of operating all applicable equipment.
-	Knowledgeable of recognized Cleaning, Good Housekeeping and Sanitation Practices.
-	Must be knowledgeable of the make up and characteristics of all plant chemicals and their risk factor.
JOB TITLE! CREAM RECEIVER	$10.29 - 13.65 - 15.17 (April 1/93)
$10.50 -13.92 - 15.47 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$10.71 -14.20 -15.78 (April 1/95)
-	Must be capable of Cream Receiving, Grading, Testing, Vacreating, Pasteurizing and Neutralizing.
-	When required, act as a replacement for:
(a)	The Assistant Department Head for Vacreating and Pasteurizing.
(b)	The Cream Tester.
JOB TITLE: CREAM TESTER	$10.29 -13.65 -15.17 (April 1/93)
$10.50 - 13.92 - 15.47 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$10.71 -14.20 -15.78 (April 1/95)
-	Qualified for and capable of Cream Testing.
PAGE 33
‘ "kmt’dtLE R
1st - 2nd - 3rd
Step Step Step
TOB TITLE; DEPARTMENT HEAD	$11.47 -14.72 -16.35 (April 1/93)
$11.70 -A5J1' - 16.68 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.93 -15.31 -17.01 (April 1/95)
-	Qualified for the complete processing and operating function of the involved Department and capable of heading the operation of that Department, which shall include directing the work force, Monitoring Operations, sustaining Good Housekeeping and Sanitary Practices, Supervising the training of new Employees and maintaining all required Department records adequately.
-	Must be capable of performing all functions assigned to each Classified Job in the Department and in emergency situations may be required to handle any given job in this Department.
JOB TITLE: ASSISTANT DEPARTMENT HEAD	$10.78 -14.09 -15.66 (April 1/93)
$11.00 -14.37 -15.97 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.22 -14.66 -16.29 (April 1/95)
-	Capable of processing and operating as assigned by the Department Head.
-	Must be capable of operating all applicable equipment adequately.
-	Must be capable of performing all functions assigned to the various Classified jobs in the Department.
-	Must be capable of Com^ositiom Control including,Standardizing,and having knowledge nf Government Standards as required.
-	Knowledgeable of recognized Cleaning, Good Housekeeping and Sanitation Practices.
-	Act as a replacement for the Department Head during periods of absence.
fnBATHTLR A T QR/DRYER OPERATOR	$10.98 -14.27 -15.86 (April 1/93)
$11.20-14.56-16.18 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.42 -14.85 -16.50 (April 1/95)
-	Capable of operating evaporator/dryer and (With 4th Class Steam Papers) related equipment including start-up and clean-up as required.
-	Must have 4th Class Steam Papers,
-	Must be capable of operating all equipment in this Department.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control with a knowledge of Governmental Standards.
-Knowledge of recognized Cleaning and Sanitation practices.
PAGE 34
SCHEDULE B (Cont’d)
1st - 2nd - 3rd
Step Step Sten
JOB TITLE: EVAPORATOR/DRYER OPERATOR $10.39 -13.74 -15.27 (April 1/93)
$10.60 - 14.aWAf.ftAkprW94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$10.81 -14.29 -15.89 (April 1/95)
-	Capable of operating evaporator/dryer and (Without 4th Class Steam Papers) related equipment including start-up and clean-up as required.
-	Must be capable of operating all equipment.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control with a knowledge of Governmental Standards.
-	Knowledge of recognized Cleaning and Sanitation practices.
JOB TITLE: HIGH RACK FORKLIFT OPERATOR $10.29 -13.65 -15.17 (April 1/93)
$10.50 - 13.92 - 15.47 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$10.71 -14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/95)
-	Capable of operating the Raymond High-Lift Double-Reach Fork-Lift Truck in pallet racked storage areas where the lift exceeds twelve (12) feet.
-	Must have adequate knowledge of machine operation.
-	Able to make minor adjustments when necessary.
-	Capable of operating routinely at capacity of machine at recognized levels.
JOB TITLE: LEAD	JPERSON	$10.68 i<k£>J -15.57 (Apn) 1/93)
$10.89 -14.29 -15.88 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.11 -14.58 -16.20 (April 1/95)
-	Capable of Cooler Inventory Control which includes ordering of products into cooler, the disposition and rotation of products out of cooler.
-	Capable of supervision of other personnel in the cooler.
JOB TITLE; LEAD FRIDGE PERSON (Ice Cream Mfg Plants only)
Minimum Qualifications:
-	Capable of Inventory Control, Inventory Rotation and Supervision of area personnel.
$10.68 -14.01 - 15.57 (April 1/93) $10.89 -14.29 -15.88 (April 1/94) $11.11 - 14.58 - 16.20 (April 1/95)
PAGE 35
SCHEDULE B (Cont’d)
1st - 2nd - 3rd
Step Step Step
JOB TITLE! MIX MAKER	$10.59 - 13.92 -15.47 (April 1/93)
$10.80 - 14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.02 -14.48 -16.10 (April 1/95)
-	Qualified for and capable of processing Mixes.
-	Must be capable of operating all Mix Processing Equipment.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control and associated knowledge of Formulations and Standards.
-	Assume responsibility for proper cleaning and Sanitizing procedure.
JOB TITLE: PACKAGING MACHINE OPERATOR $10.39 -13.74 -15.27 (April 1/93)
$10.60 -14.01 - 15.58 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$10.81 -14.29 -15.89 (April 1/95)
-	Qualified for operating Recognized Departmental packaging equipment including start-up and clean-up.
-	Assume full responsibility for particular packaging operation.
-	Must have adequate knowledge of Machine Operation.
-	Able to make minor adjustments as necessary.
-	Capable of operating routinely at capacity of machine at recognized levels.
-	Assume responsibility for Cleaning and Sanitizing.
TOB TITLE PLANT RELIEF PERSON	$10.59 -13.92 -15.47 (April 1/93)
$10.80 - 14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.02 -14.48 -16.10 (April 1/95)
-	Must be capable of relieving up to and including the Machine Operator level in both the Milk Department and the Ice Cream Department as required.
JOB TITLE: VTIS OPERATOR
(Regina Branch Only)
Minimum Qualifications:
-	Must be capable of operating all Mix Processing Equipment.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control and associated knowledge of Formulations and Standards.
-	Assume responsibility for proper cleaning and Sanitizing procedure.
$10.59 -13.92 - 15.47 (April 1/93) $10.80 - 14.20 -15.78 (April 1/94) $11.02 -14.48 -16.10 (April 1/95)
PAGE 36
SffCont’dLE B
SPECIAL JOB TITLES - ENGINEERING AND MAINTENANCE
.TOR TITLE: AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC
Minimum Qualifications:
-	Require a Journeyman’s Certificate.
TOB TITLE: BULK TANK DRIVERS Minimum Qualifications:
-	Must possess the required Class Operator's Licence.
-	Department of Agriculture Licence as required.
JOB TITLE: BULK TANK RELIEF DRIVERS Minimum Qualifications:
-	Same qualifications as Bulk Tank Drivers.
JOB TITLE: BULK TANK UNLOADERAVASHER Minimum Qualifications:
1st - 2nd • 3rd Step Step Step
$10.98 - 14.27 - 15.86 (April 1/93) $11.20 ■ 14.56 - 16.18 (April 1/94) $11.42 - 14.85 - 16.50 (April 1/95)
$10.68 - 14.01 - 15.57 (April 1/93) $10.89 - 14.29 - 15.88 (April 1/94) $11.11 - 14.58 - 16.20 (April 1/95)
$11.27 - 14.54 - 16.15 (April 1/93) $11.50 - 14.83 - 16.47 (April 1/94) $11.73 - 15.13 - 16.80 (April 1/95)
$10.29 - 13.65 - 15.17 (April 1/93) $10.50 - 13.92 - 15.47 (April 1/94) $10.71 - 14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/95)
-	Holder of Valid Class "1A" Licence
-	Holder of Valid Grader’s Licence.
-	Must be capable of Washing and Sanitizing Tankers and C.I.P. System in accordance with proper acceptable procedures.
-	Must be capable of taking proper care of Tanker Pump.
TOB TITLE: HEAD ENGINEER	$11.86 -15.07 -16.74 (April 1/93)
$12.10 - 15.37 -17.07 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$12.34 -15.68 -17.41 (April 1/95)
-	Require a Valid 3rd Class Engineer's Certificate.
-	Must also hold a valid Refrigeration Certificate.
-	Must be capable of directing the work force, sustaining good Housekeeping and Sanitary practices and maintaining all required records adequately.
PAGE 37
SCHEDULE B (Cont’d)
1st - 2nd - 3rd
Step_____Sten Ston
.TOR TITLE; ASSISTANT HEAD ENGINEER	$11.67 -14.90 -16.55 (April 1/93)
$11.90 - 15.20 - 16.88 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$12.14 -15.50 -17.22 (April 1/95)
-	Require a Valid 3rd Class Engineer’s Certificate.
-	Must also hold a valid Refrigeration Certificate.
-	Must be capable of directing the work force, sustaining good Housekeeping and Sanitary practices and maintaining all required records adequately.
- Ad. as. a.	far. the. DepartmecA. Head, diiria?,	of. absence.
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER	$11.57 -14.81 -16.45 (April 1/93)
$11.80 - 15.11 -16.78 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$12.04 -15.41 -17.12 (April 1/95)
-	In order to Qualify must be Holder of valid 4th Class Engineer’s Certificate with Refrigeration Engineer’.* XTsrtificate.
-	Recognized 3rd Class Engineer’s Certificate with Refrigeration - only where required.
-	Increments will be paid for when positions require:
INCREMENT
$0.10/hr - High Pressure and/or Stainless Steel Welding,
$0.10/hr - Industrial Maintenance Certificate.
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER - REFRIGERATION	$11.37 -14.63 -16.25 (April	1/93)
ENDORSEMENT	$11.60 - 14.92 - 16.58 (April	1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.83 -15.22 -16.91 (April	1/95)
- In order to qualify must be holder of. valid 4th Class Engineer’s Certificate with a Refrigeration Plant Endorsement not exceeding 200 tonnes.
JOB TITLE: INTERCITY BULK HAULER	$10.39 -13.74 -15.27 (April 1/93)
$10.60 - 14.01 - 15.58 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications;	$10.81 -14.29 -15.89 (April 1/95)
- Must possess the required Class Operator’s Licence. JOB TITLE: LABORATORY TECHNICIAN Minimum_Oualifications:
$10.49 - 13.83 -15.37 (April 1/93) $10.70 - 14.11 - 15.68 (April 1/94) $10.91 - 14.39 - 15.99 (April 1/95)
- Laboratory Technician’s Certificate required.
PAGE 38
.WCont’dLB B
1st - 2nd - 3rd
Step Step Step
JOB TITLE: MILLWRIGHT/INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC $11.76 -14.98 -16.64 (April i/93)
$12.00 - 15.28 - 16.97 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$12.24 - 15.59 -17.31 (April 1/95)
-	Must possess the required Journeyman’s ticket.
-	Must possess specific knowledge of general food processing packing equipment.
IOB TITLE: PASTEURIZER	$10.59 -13.92 -15.47 (April 1/93)
$10.80 -14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.02 -14.48 -16.10 (April 1/95)
-	Must be capable of processing all fluid milk products.
-	Must be capable of operating all milk processing equipment.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control and associated knowledge of Formulations and Standards.
-	Assume responsibility for proper cleaning and sanitizing procedures.
JOB TITLE: RELIEF DRIVERS	$11.27 -14.54 -16.15 (April 1/93)
$11.50 - 14.83 -16.47 (April 1/94)
Minimum Qualifications:	$11.73-15.13-16.80 (April 1/95)
-	Must hold a valid Class 1A license.
-	Must have good interpersonal and communication skills and be able to deal effectively with the public.
-	Must be bondable and have a neat appearance.
-	Must be able to operate the route commander.
-	Must be able to co-ordinate his time to allow for the complete coverage on route in established route time.
TOB TITLE! TRANSPORT REFRIGERATION	$10.98 -14.27 -15.86 (April 1/93)
SERVICE MECHANIC	$11.20-14.56 -16.18 (April i/94)
$11.42 -14.85 - 16.50 (April 1/95)
Minimum Qualifications:
-	Required to possess or obtain within a reasonable period, a Thermo King School Certificate or Equivalent.
-	Must be capable of dismantling and Rebuilding mobile refrigeration units.
PAGE 39
----TEDULE B (Cont’d)
1st - 2nd - 3rd
Step Step Step
.TOR TITLE: VEHICLE BODY MAINTENANCE	$10.29 -13.65 -15.17 (April 1/93)
(Regina Branch Only)	$10.50 -13.92 - is.47 (April i/94)
$10.71 - 14.20 - 15.78 (April 1/95)
Minimum Qualifications:
- Require Specific knowledge of Vehicle Repair and Maintenance.
OVF.R-RATF.S
With job rates in effect, it is recognized that some Employees will have been receiving rates of pay which are in excess of those established. The Company agrees to protect former rates by accepting “over-rates” which shall be in effect so long as the incumbents remain on the particular job.
Should an Employee be transferred to a lower rated job at his own request, the lower rate will be effective immediately. If, however, the transfer is involuntary, the over-rate difference will be added to the new job rate.
If a transfer to a higher rated job is involved the over-rate will be reduced by the difference
between the former and the new job rate.
It is understood that any future increases in the rate of pay of a job or increase in job increment will be applied against the over-rates until such time as they have been eliminated.
SPLIT. OF A WHOLESALE ROIJTF.
Unless otherwise agreed upon, before a Wholesale Route is split, the same shall first be discussed by the Branch Manager with the Driver Salesman involved, and the Driver Salesman whose route is split will receive a guaranteed commission for three (3) months’, based on the monthly average of Jar previous three (3) months' commission, except that where a Driver Salesman has served a route for less than one (1) year no guarantee shall apply. In the event that the months of July and/or August fall within the said three (3) month period, the guaranteed commission payable for the said three (3) months shall be based on the average of the route for the previous six (6) months.
PAGE 40
SCHEDULE R (Cont’d)
WAGF. ADJUSTMENTS FOR TRANSFER
TO CLASSIFIED .TORS
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,1982 in conjunction with the CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE.
(a)	Transfers to Special Job Titles and Certain Departmental Job Titles.
When Employees transfer to jobs with special job titles they will be paid on the basis 0f a
rate established midway between their present wage rate and the listed wage rate for the particular Special Job Title for a period of two (2) months. Should progress, upon review, be considered satisfactory, a further increase in wages will be awarded on the basis of a rate
be awarded the full rate established for that position. It is understood that all required licences or certificates will have been obtained and minimum qualifications met.
This same method of salary determination will be applicable to the following Recognized
Departmental Job Titles: Department Heads “A" PLANT, Head Milk Processors "B" PLANT, Assistant Department Heads, Mix Maker, Cheddar Selector, Evaporator/Dryer Operators.
(b)	Transfers to other Recognized Departmental Job Titles
Other Recognized Departmental Jobs will have a maximum sixty (60) day qualifying period at a wage rate one-half way between his present rate and the rate established for the particular Recognized Departmental Job. If after review at the end of sixty (60) days the applicant is found satisfactory, he will receive the rate established for that Recognized Departmental Job.
(c)	Should an Employee not be considered satisfactory upon review, by Management in consultation with the Union, he will revert to a lower rated job opening for which he is qualified and receive the wage rate applicable to that job. Where circumstances warrant au extension of the qualifying period can be granted.
(d)	Where an Employee transfers to a job for which he has proven qualifications, then he shall receive the full job rate immediately.
(e)	Where an Employee regularly performs two or more jobs, one of which is classified and requires a minimum of one-third of his time, then a composite rate shall be established. In the determining of a composite rate the two highest hourly rates shall be used to calculate an average rate which recognizes the percentage of time spent on the highest rated job with the balance of his time calculated at the second highest rate.
Composite rates will be reviewed on March 31st, and October 31st each year and adjusted
PAGE 41
necessary for changes in the normal job routine.
(f)	Employees temporarily assigned to classified jobs shall receive a rate of pay in accordance with the wage procedure outlined above.
SIGNED THIS D A Y O F /So f . 1993.
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,
PAGE 42
~ "HEDIJLE C
In the case of City Ice Cream Salesmen who solicit and place poultry and egg orders but do not deliver the actual products, a commission equal to one-half of the normal regular commission rate shall be paid on such sales.
In the case of Holiday Weekends when a Statutory Holiday falls on either a Monday or a Saturday resulting in no regular deliveries for two or more consecutive days, the City Ice Cream Salesmen shall receive full commission credit for products picked up at the dock by customers on their route.	'
SHIPPING DF.PARTMF.NT F.MPT OYF.F.S
Employees working a normal shift who are required to work after 8 P.M. shall be allowed $2.00 on each occasion to cover the cost of supper. Proper vouchers to be completed and approved by Plant Superintendent.
COMMISSION ON NEW PRODUCTS
The Employer, after giving prior notice, agrees to negotiate with the Union, the commission payable on a new product and a supplementary Agreement shall be executed by the parties covering the results of such negotiations. The Union agrees to handle the new product irrespective of whether or not the negotiations are concluded. The Company agrees that the negotiated commission will be paid retroactive to the introduction date of the new product.
MOOSE JAW ONLY - COUNTRY WHOLESALE DRIVER SALESMEN shall receive a commission on all cream picked up at a rate of five ($0.05) cents per can gallon. Overtime shall not be paid to Wholesale Truck-Driver Salesmen unless the same would be more than the commission payable,and then only the difference shall be paid.
PAGE 43
“TTEROF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN: DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
The Company will recognize a UHT DEPARTMENT under the Collective Bargaining
Agreement, Schedule "B", page 2, A Plants - REGINA:
(1)	Department Head - Hourly Wage Scale: $11.47 - 14.72 - 16.35
(2)	Assistant Department Head - Hourly Wage Scale: $10.78 - 14.09 - 15.66
(3)	Blend Mixers (One per shift) - Hourly Wage Scale: $10.59 - 13.92 - 15.47
(REGINA ONLY)
(4)	Packaging Machine Operators - Hourly Wage Scale: $10.39 - 13.74 - 15.27
(5)	Department Head; Assistant Department Head; Blend mixers and Packaging Machine Operators in the UHT Department will only be subject to lay-off as outlined in Article 7.01, if the next more senior Employee due to be laid off is then capable of performing the job. This means that the more senior Employee has the right to take over the job of the more junior Employee provided he has the necessary training and knowledge which will permit him to take over the position immediately without any further training.
(6)	The Company and the Union are agreed that pursuant to Article 6.01 of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Company has the exclusive right to determine the products to be handled, processed or manufactured in the UHT Department as in any other Department.
(7)	The Union agrees that should the production in the UHT Department fall below the following agreed standard:
Any six (6) month period compared to the same six (6) month period of 1988
(a)	THAT the UHT Department will cease to be a Recognized Department and the former UHT Department will immediately reyert to its status prior to this Agreement.
(b)	THAT those individuals in the above noted Classifications will revert to General Plant Help and that the Blend Mixer Position will be removed from the Classification Program.
PAGE 44
SIGNED THIS DAY O F //C l/ . 1993.
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION, LIMITED
Industrial Relations Manager
PAGE 45
TER OFUNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN: DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED AND:	DAIRY AN-D PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
The Company understands and agrees that the Union may introduce a Union counselling program at the Regina, Moose Jaw and Humboldt operations and agrees to consider such terms of reference and goals of the Program as are presented to the Company.
SIGNED THIS /O DAY OF
1993.
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,

Industrial Relations Manager
PAGE 46
(V) The Plan and Trust will be created and operated so that it is registered uxiu<^ the Income Tax Act and anv anolicable Pension Benefits Act.
(vi)	Inter-Plan Transfer Agreements may be effected with the Employer and any other Board of Trustees or Plan sponsor to and from which Employees, represented by the Unions may transfer. The provisions of any such agreement between the Pension Plan for the Unionized Employees of the Employer and the new Plan shall be mutually acceptable to the Employer, the Union and the Board of Trustees.
(vii)	All Employees represented by the Unions shall be informed of the provisions of the new Plan.
(c)	CONTRIBUTIONS
Commencing with and for the duration of the current Collective Agreements between the Unions and the Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, it is agreed that the following contribution shall be made to the Plan and Trust:
(i)	by each participating Employee, 3% of all hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay.
(ii)	by the Employer in respect of each participating Employee, 3% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay.
For purposes of (i) and (ii) above, earnings shall be regular, straight time earnings received by an Employee from the Employer (exclusive of commissions, bonuses, and any other special payments or taxable benefits). Contributions from the participating Employee shall be made by payroll deduction.
Contributions, along with a list of the Employees for whom they have been made (showing Employee and Employer amount separately) shall be provided by the Employer to the Trust Company, Plan Administrator or other financial institution designated by the Trustees to
receive these and shall do so not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of the Employer’s normal 4-week, 5-week or monthly accounting periods. This listing shall be prepared in a form compatible with the Company’s system and shall also show the amount of the voluntary contributions, if any,
t
If the provisions of the Plan allow for Employees to make voluntary contributions, the Employer shall co-operate by taking payroll deductions and, subject to such time limits as may be set by the Employer, in changing the amount deducted from time to time.
In the event the Employer fails to forward the prescribed contributions within the above-stated time limitation, the Employer shall be liable to pay interest on such contributions equal to 1% multiplied by the number of completed plus partial months from the date such contributions were due to the date they were paid.
PAGE 49
(d)	ADMINISTRATION
The Plan shall be administered by such organization, persons or entity as the Trustees shall decide. The Employer agrees that it shall provide such details and information about Employees covered under the Plan as are needed to create Plan records and administer the Plan and shall assist the Trustees as requested to ensure the pro-per and efficient operation of the Plan and Trust.
(2) Existing Staff Pension Plan (Old Plan) as of May 31. 1991
With respect to the Old Plan as at May 3 1,1991:
(a)	Each active and disabled Employee participating in it who is represented by the Unions shall cease doing so as of May 31,1991.
(b)	Each retired Employee, joint annuitant or beneficiary thereof at May 31,1991 where the Employee is or was a member of one of the Unions at his date of retirement shah be given the option to be transferred to the new Plan or have their pension benefit provided through the purchase of an immediate annuity contract
(c)	All terminated vested Employees in the old Plan shall have their deferred pension benefit provided through the purchase of a deferred annuity contract.
(d)	As of December 3 1,1991, all the assets of the old Plan, less the amounts required to purchase the annuity and deferred annuity contracts provided for in (b) and (c) above, shall be transferred to the new Plan and Trust. It is understood and agreed that the foregoing transfer of assets and liabilities from the old Plan to the new Plan shall be subject to approval by Revenue Canada Taxation and the Department of Pension for Saskatchewan and the parties hereto agree to take all necessary steps to secure such approvals at the earliest possible date. If the transfer of assets and liabilities is delayed beyond December 31,1991, then it is agreed by the parties that the Employer and Trustees will make reasonable arrangements for the on-going operations of the old Plan.
(e)	It is agreed that the Employer shall not have any liability for the funding and or the benefits promised under the new Plan nor will the Employer have any liability for any pension benefits from the old Plan to any Union or any former member of the former Pension Plan for the Unionized Employees of Dairy Producers Co-Operative Limited. In consideration of this fact, the parties are agreed that release forms, to be drawn up by the Company’s Actuary and Legal counsel shall be signed as follows:
(i)	by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union
(ii)	by the Chauffeurs, Teamsters and Helpers, Local 395
(iii)	by the Dairy & Produce -Workers Union, Local 834
PAGE 50
(iv)	by the United Food and Commercial Workers Union
(v)	by each Employee or former Employee (beneficiary or Joint Annuitant) or Terminated Vested Employee who's pension benefits are transferred from the former Plan to the new Plan or to any annuity contract.
(3) COSTS
Costs incurred fry the Employer to implement this Letter of Us&/siaadlng shall be paid
out of the assets to be transferred from the old Plan into the new Plan. Costs incurred in the
creation of the new Plan shall be paid from the assets of the new
Plan.
SIGNED THIS /O DAY OF M&l/ . 1993.
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,
PAGE 51
jekiTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN: DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY & PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
RE; 4 x 11.4 HOUR SHIFTS - 4 ON/4 OFF - BULK TANK DRIVERS AND BULK TANK UNLOADER/WASHERS
Hours of work shall consist of 4 x 11.4 hour days every 8 day period.
Those involved in this Letter of Understanding will be paid overtime for Statutory Holidays, as per the Collective Bargaining Agreement. In addition, in the event of mechanical breakdowns or extraordinary scheduling needs, overtime will be paid after 14 hours/day.
In the event that a driver completes his duties ahead of time, there, will be no requirement to complete the shift.
This Letter of Understanding will terminate in one year from this date. One month prior to termination a review will be conducted to determine the future of 11.4 hour shifts.
SIGNED THIS /O DAY OF_
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AJt>\/ . 1993.
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,
PAGE 52