ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 12th day of September, 2005
BETWEEN:
NATREL, A DIVISION OF AGROPUR COOPERATIVE ISLAND FARMS, VANCOUVER ISLAND OPERATION 2220 Dowler Place, P.O. Box 38 Victoria, BC V8W 2M
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464 Of the City of Vancouver,
Province of British Columbia,
Affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
INDEX
MUTUAL OBJECTIVES.........................................................1
DEFINITIONS...............................................................2
CLAUSE 1: UNION SECURITY..................................................3
CLAUSE 2: UNION REPRESENTATIVES AND UNION NOTICES.........................3
CLAUSE 3: MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...............................................4
CLAUSE 4: DEDUCTION OF DUES...............................................4
CLAUSE 5: SHOP STEWARDS...................................................5
CLAUSE 6: CONFLICTING AGREEMENT ..........................................5
CLAUSE 7: CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT.....5
CLAUSE 8: GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES............................6
CLAUSE 9: DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES..........................................8
CLAUSE 10: LEAVES OF ABSENCE..............................................9
CLAUSE 11: WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN.................................10
CLAUSE 12: COMPENSATION COVERAGE AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY......14
CLAUSE 13: PAY DAYS......................................................16
CLAUSE 14: PAY STATEMENTS................................................16
CLAUSE 15: POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS...........................16
CLAUSE 16: NEW CLASSIFICATIONS...........................................20
CLAUSE 17: LOSS OF WAGES.................................................20
CLAUSE 18: NEW EMPLOYEES.................................................20
CLAUSE 19: SENIORITY, PROBATIONARY PERIOD, REDUCTION OF STAFF, SEVERANCE PAY,
LAY-OFF AND RIGHT OF RECALL.....................................21
CLAUSE 20: MINIMUM PAY...................................................28
CLAUSE 21: EATING AND REST PERIOD........................................28
CLAUSE 22: ANNUAL VACATIONS..............................................28
CLAUSE 23: STATUTORY HOLIDAYS............................................34
CLAUSE 24: DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME...........................35
CLAUSE 25: SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL AND PREMIUMS........................................39
CLAUSE 26: UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT .............................................40
CLAUSE 27: WORK CLOTHES...........................................................41
CLAUSE 28: PERFORMANCE OF DUTY....................................................41
CLAUSE 29: WAGES..................................................................41
CLAUSE 30: EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT................................................41
CLAUSE 31: SAVINGS CLAUSE.........................................................42
WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULES "A", "B", "C", "D" AND “E”.......................44
PART-TIME SCHEDULE “F”............................................................47
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING:
“A” Tool Insurance................................................................48
“B” Time Served at Bargaining Table...............................................49
“C” Education & Industry Enhancement Fund.........................................50
“D” Class 1 License For Cooler Freezer Employees..................................51
“E”	Special Early Retirement Program (SERP)......................................52
“F” Grandfathering of Existing Part-Time Employees................................54
“G”	Banked Sick Leave - One Time Lump Sum Payment................................55
APPENDIX "A"......................................................................56
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN (VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION)
MUTUAL OBJECTIVES
The objectives of this Agreement are to maintain a harmonious and co-operative relationship between the Company, its employees and Teamsters Local Union No. 464; to promote the utmost co-operation consistent with the express rights of the Parties to this Agreement; to foster a friendly spirit between the Parties; to allow effective and efficient operation of the Company’s business to ensure its financial health, subject to the provisions of this Agreement; to provide an amicable and equitable method of settling grievances or differences arising from the provisions of this Agreement; to maintain mutually satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
Consistent with Section 53 of the Labour Relations Code of B.C., the Parties agree to develop a Joint Union-Management Committee for the purpose of meeting to discuss issues which affect the relationship between the Parties and the mutual objectives of the Parties. The Parties will meet on a regular basis or as requested by either Party and, consistent with the terms of reference developed and agreed by the Parties, will work co-operatively to resolve issues placed before the Committee for their consideration.
1
DEFINITIONS
Company Seniority: The length of service within the bargaining unit from date of hire.
Classification: The job or category of jobs performed for which a rate of pay is established and listed in the Wage and Classification Schedule(s) to the Collective Agreement.
Full-Time Employee: An employee who has been awarded or holds a posted full-time position.
Part-Time Employee: An employee who does not hold a posted full-time position and who is dispatched on a Seniority basis to work, which is available from time to time consistent with the Employee’s qualifications and abilities. Part-Time Employees will receive the rate of pay for the job classification performed, as listed in the Wage and Classification Schedule(s) to the Collective Agreement, as well as any applicable shift differential and/or premium. A Part-Time Employee will not displace a Full-Time Employee occupying a posted position.
Summer-Help Employees: Employees who are hired seasonally by the Company to supplement work assigned during the period of April 1st to September 3Cfh inclusive in any year. Summer-Help Employees are paid the rate for Summer-Help listed in the Wage and Classification Schedule(s) of the Collective Agreement. Summer-Help Employees will not displace any FullTime or Part- Time Employees.
Masculine and Feminine:	The masculine or feminine gender may be used interchangeably
throughout this Collective Agreement. Wherever one gender is used, it will be construed as meaning the other, if the context requires.
Reliefman: A Reliefman is a Full-Time Employee who relieves two or more job classifications.
2
CLAUSE 1 - UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Company agrees to retain in their employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed:	That any person not a member of the Union shall not work at
occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the Company's operation, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter will be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 8.
1.03	The Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Company may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute. The Union’s jurisdiction will include all employees covered by this Agreement and listed in the attached Wage and Classification Schedule(s) to this Agreement.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Company's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction, such work must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being sold or distributed. Section 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union, unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 2 - UNION REPRESENTATIVES AND UNION NOTICES
2.01	Upon receipt of a written request from the Union, not later than thirty (30) days prior to the date the leave is required to commence, an unpaid leave of absence may be granted to employees who are elected as representatives of the Union and required to attend at Union Executive meetings, Union conventions, seminars or as member(s) of the Union Negotiating Committee during collective bargaining with the Company. Where operational considerations are compromised, or where no suitable replacement is available, the Union undertakes in good faith to consider alternate arrangements. Seniority will be unaffected by the granting of the Union’s request. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his position nor be discriminated against for that reason. No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union’s principals.
3
2.02	To facilitate the administration of Clause 2.01, where such leave of absence is granted pursuant to 2.01, the Company will maintain the basic pay and benefits for the employee during the leave and will invoice the Union for benefits and wages paid. The payment of wages and benefits to employees who are at the bargaining table negotiating will be paid in accordance with the Letter of Understanding appended to this Agreement.
Union Notices
2.03	The Company agrees to provide bulletin board facilities fer the exclusive use of the Union at each of the locations of the Company. The use of such bulletin board facilities will be restricted to posted notices and information which is the official business of the Union, as authorized by the Principal Officer or Business Agent of the Union. The Company shall provide one (1) bulletin board in the Cassidy facility and two (2) bulletin boards in the Victoria facility.
CLAUSE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Company shall have the exclusive right and authority to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire; suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay-off; promote; assign to jobs; transfer employees from Department to Department; increase or decrease the working force; determine the products to be handled.
3.02 Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Company to manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive.
3.03	Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 4 - DEDUCTION OF DUES
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Company to deduct and pay over to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-laws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the Union, which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made from employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
4
CLAUSE 5 - SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizes the Union’s right to elect or appoint the appropriate number of Shop Stewards to represent employees. The Company agrees to recognize the Shop Stewards, provided that the Union has first advised the Company in writing of the name(s) of the Shop Stewards so elected or appointed. There shall be no discrimination against a Shop Steward for the carrying out their duties consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
5.02	The Company agrees to allow the Union to conduct the election of Shop Stewards in a location at the Company’s facilities as directed by the Company (e.g. the employee lunchroom), providing the election process is not disruptive to the Company’s operations.
5.03	In the exercise of their functions, the Shop Steward shall first obtain the necessary permission from the Manager of the Department or his designate prior to leaving their assigned duties to carry out any investigation arising out of a complaint and/or settlement of a grievance(s). The Company agrees that a Shop Steward carrying out such duties shall suffer no loss in pay.
5.04	The Shop Steward(s) shall have no authority to alter, amend or otherwise change the terms of this Agreement. The Shop Steward(s) have the authority of the Union to resolve formal grievances up to and including Step 1 of the grievance procedure as provided at Clause 8 of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6 - CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Company that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Company conflicting with this Agreement.
CLAUSE 7 - CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Company shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction or the Labour Relations Board of BC. The Company shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local No.464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction or the Labour Relations Board of BC, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local No. 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction or the Labour Relations Board of BC, around or against.
5
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any materials or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction or the Labour Relations Board of BC.
CLAUSE 8 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES
8.01	The Parties confirm that they recognize that mutual cooperation is necessary to the effective resolution of workplace disputes and all reasonable efforts should be made to determine the facts in any matter before a grievance is pursued, particularly with respect to allegations of workplace harassment.
(a)	Any difference or dispute arising between the Parties bound by this Collective Agreement may be registered as a grievance and shall be resolved without stoppage or interruption of work or work procedure.
(b)	The Union and its members agree that they will not cause, authorize or sanction any slow down in any Department nor engage in any strike or stoppage of work or curtailment of operations during the term of this Agreement.
(c)	The Company will not authorize, cause nor engage in any lockout of the Union or its members during the term of this Agreement.
(d)	The Company will not meet with or interview an employee without providing the employee with an opportunity to have a Shop Steward present when the purpose of the meeting/interview is to administer discipline on the employee or to determine if the employee should be disciplined. Where the employee advises the Company that he wishes to have a Shop Steward present, no such meeting/interview will commence until a Shop Steward is present and in attendance.
(e)	Either Party to this Agreement may lodge a grievance with the other Party on any difference(s) between the Parties concerning the alleged violation of, or the interpretation of, application or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable. Where the Company or Teamsters Local 464 files a grievance, such grievance shall commence at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure as listed below.
(f)	For the purposes of this Clause, any grievance filed by a Party must be in writing. Any grievance filed by an employee or the Union must be submitted on a proper grievance form as authorized by the Union and filed with the Company. Any grievance must be filed within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the issue giving rise to the grievance or within thirty (30) days of the Party being aware of the issue. The Company will provide, in writing, acknowledged receipt of the grievance to the Union.
6
(g)	If the issue referred to in paragraph (f) is not advanced to a grievance within the time frame set out in paragraph (f), the issue will be deemed to be abandoned
Grievance Procedure
8.02	(a) Any employee who has a grievance or complaint shall first discuss the matter in
dispute with his immediate supervisor as soon as he becomes aware of the matter.
For the purposes of this procedure, ‘immediate supervisor’ means either a member of the bargaining unit (Assistant Foreman or Foreman) or a member of management to whom the employee directly reports.
(b)	Where the matter in dispute raised by the employee, pursuant to 8.02(a) above, is not resolved to the satisfaction of the employee, it shall be advanced as a grievance, reduced to writing consistent with 8.01(f) above. Such grievance shall set out the nature of the grievance, the relevant provision of the Agreement in dispute, the remedy requested and the signature of the grievor advancing the grievance as follows:
Step 1
The grievor and the Shop Steward shall meet with the Department Manager or his designate within fourteen (14) calendar days of acknowledged receipt of the grievance by the Company. The Company shall provide the Union, grievor and Shop Steward with a written reply to the grievance as soon as is reasonably practicable, but in any case not later than ten (10) calendar days from the Step 1 meeting.
Step 2
Failing a resolve to the grievance at Step 1, and within twenty (20) calendar days of the Company’s reply, the grievor and the Union representatives (Union Officer and Shop Steward) and the Director of Human Resources (or in his absence his designate) shall meet in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The Company shall provide the Union, grievor and Shop Steward with a written reply to the grievance as soon as is reasonably practicable, but in any case not later than ten (10) calendar days from the Step 2 meeting.
Where the grievance is filed by the Company or Teamsters Local 464 at this step, the Company representative(s) and the Union representative(s) shall meet in an attempt to resolve the grievance.
Step 3
Failing a resolve at Step 2, and within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of a written reply, either Party may advance the grievance in accordance with Clause 8.04.
Alternatively, the Parties may mutually agree to refer the matter to “Mediation-Arbitration” pursuant to Section 105 of the B.C. Labour Code.
7
8.03	The time limits listed above may be extended, in writing, only by mutual consent between the Parties.
Arbitration Procedure
8.04	The Company and the Union shall endeavour to agree upon the selection of an acceptable Arbitrator to hear and render a final and binding decision on the grievance or matter(s) in dispute. In the event the Parties are unable to agree upon the selection of an Arbitrator, either Party may apply to the Director of the Collective Agreement Arbitration Bureau pursuant to Section 86 of the B.C. Labour Code for the appointment of an Arbitrator.
8.05	The Arbitrator, as selected or appointed, shall contact the Parties and schedule a hearing into the grievance or matter in dispute, where he/she shall consider the submissions and the evidence submitted by the Parties and render a decision within ten (10) calendar days. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties. Each Party shall bear one-half ('A) the costs of the Arbitrator.
8.06	Provided both Parties agree, the grievance or matter in dispute may be referred to a three (3) person Panel of Arbitrators consisting of a Chairman as selected by the respective nominees of the Parties.
The decision of the majority will be the decision of the Panel and shall be final and binding on the Parties. If there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman is the decision of the Panel
In the case of a three (3) person Panel, each Party shall bear the costs associated with their own nominee to the Panel and one-half (A) the costs of the Chairman.
8.07	The Arbitrator or Panel of Arbitrators shall be restricted to the authority as set out at Section 89 of the B.C. Labour Code with respect to the interpretation and application of the existing Agreement and shall have no authority or jurisdiction to alter, modify, delete or supplement any existing provision of the Agreement in any way.
CLAUSE 9 - DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
9.02	The Company reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for proper cause, including but not limited to the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles, provided "no riders" stickers are on vehicles.
8
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of Company equipment/machinery/facilities.
9.03	Any discharged employee may, within seventy-two (72) hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Company to give to him the reasons for his discharge and the Company will give such reasons to him in writing, within seventy-two (72) hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.04	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or if an employee, laid-off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, is not re -hired and feels that he should have been re -hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievance to be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof, provided that the grievance shall be launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
9.05	The nature of a suspension, length of a suspension and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
CLAUSE 10 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
10.01 General
(a)	Following fifty-two (52) weeks of employment, an employee may apply for a leave of absence without pay and such application shall not be unreasonably denied by the Company.
(b)	The basis for the denial shall be when the reason for, the timing and/or duration of the leave will unduly affect the efficient operation of the Department, the reputation of the Company or the business.
(c)	Applications for a leave of absence must be in writing and registered with the Director of Human Resources, or in his absence his designate, not less than thirty (30) calendar days in advance of the anticipated commencement of the leave.
The Company may accept applications filed within the thirty (30) calendar day period where unanticipated or compassionate circumstances are present.
(d)	Where the application for the leave is granted, the Company will confirm the approved duration and the purpose of the leave in writing. The Company agrees to provide notification of granting or denial of the application not later than seven (7) calendar days from the date the application is received by the Company.
(e)	If such leave of absence is used for purpose(s) other than those for which it is granted, it may be caus e for dismissal.
9
10.02	Bereavement Leave
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absence with pay when such leave is necessary in order to make arrangements for and/or to attend the funeral. The term "immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse, providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-mother and step-father. It is understood funeral leave is payable only for working time lost.
10.03	Pregnancy, Parental, Family and Adoption Leave
(a)	The Company will grant Pregnancy, Parental, Family and Adoption Leave without pay, consistent with the provisions of Sections 50, 51 and 52 of the Employment Standards Act of B.C.
(b)	In addition to the Leave outlined in (a) above, a birth father may take up to two (2) calendar days leave without pay on, or immediately following, the birth of the employee’s child. Banked time (if available) shall be used to offset any wage loss on such leave.
(c)	Excluding employees at (b) above, employee(s) on leave as provided in this Clause, shall provide the Company with a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days notice of their intended return to work from leave.
10.04	Jury Duty
(a)	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on jury duty, or any court proceedings arising out of his employment, shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee. No employees shall be paid until they have provided proof satisfactory to the Company of such attendance.
(b)	Any employee on jury duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Company.
CLAUSE 11 - WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following one hundred four (104) shifts employment, the Company shall provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $30,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30,000.00, both occupational and non-occupational coverage.
10
(1)
In the event of death by accident, the principal sum will be paid in addition to the Life Insurance benefit in 11.01(a).
(ii) In the event of dismemberment following amounts will be paid:
1.	Both hands or feet
2.	Sight of both eyes
3.	One hand and one foot
4.	One hand and the sight of one eye
5.	One foot and the sight of one eye
6.	Sight of one eye
7.	One hand or one foot
or loss of sight due to accident, the
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum Half the Principal Sum Half the Principal Sum
(c)	The following schedule of additional Life Insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents upon death of the employee:
First dependent	$30,000.00
Each additional dependent	$7,500.00
(d)	Sick Benefit in the sum of sixty-five percent (65%) of the employee's gross weekly base rate for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks, to become effective on the first (1st) day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
To apply for Sick Benefit, an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Company.
In addition, any employee that is on Weekly Indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using Earned Sick Leave entitlements from the current year, followed by any remaining Banked Sick Leave accumulations, as per 11.03(a), (b) and (f). An employee who draws down on his Banked Sick Leave accumulations in this manner, to a level that is less than eighteen hundred dollars ($1,800.00), will have the option to replenish the Banked Sick Leave balance to a maximum of nine thousand dollars ($9,000.00) by directing their current year Earned Sick Leave into their Banked Sick Leave account.
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician, an employee shall be reimbursed up to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each physician's statement completed in any sickness or accident period as requested by the Company.
(e)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of B.C.
11
(f)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association of B.C.
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 in out-of-province Medical Coverage.
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
0- 100% payment for Plan A (Basic Services)
-	75% payment of claims for Plan B (prosthetic appliances, crown and bridge procedures)
Claims under Plans A and B are limited to $3,000.00 per year for each person covered.
-	50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,000.00 per annum, $2,000.00 per life.
(h)	A Long Term Disability Plan (LTD Plan) providing a benefit of fifty percent (50%) of an employee's weekly base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age sixty-five (65). This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD Plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period of two (2) years and/or the Company is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal duties of any occupation.
If deemed appropriate, benefit recipients may be required to participate in a rehabilitation program developed through consultation with the Company, the Union and professional rehabilitation specialists.
(i)	An Optical Plan to provide one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) of coverage for each two year period, applicable to each eligible person.
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11.01 shall be borne 100% by the Company.
11.03	Earned Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period, all employees will be credited sick days at the rate of one-half (^) day per month in which wages are earned, to a maximum of six (6) days per year.
(b)	On October 1st of each year, all employees will be credited with six (6) sick days to be available for use, prior to Sept. 30th of the following year, as sick days and/or top up to their Weekly Indemnity.
An employee who leaves during a year and has used more sick days than one-half (^) day per month, a pro ration of sick days used, but not earned, will be recovered from their final pay.
12
(c)	On October 1st of each year, an active employee may elect to:
1.	receive any unused days in cash at their current rate of pay (less statutory deductions), or
2.	elect to have the equivalent value contributed to an RRSP in the name of the employee. Employees must provide a copy of their previous years Income Tax notice of assessment proving they have sufficient room to contribute to their RRSP.
(d)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident, is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01(d)) or Compensation, employees shall draw on accumulated Sick Leave time so accumulated in the following manner:
(i)	First day of absence	-	One full	days pay
(ii)	Second day of absence	-	One full	days pay
(iii)	Third day of absence	-	One full	days pay
Thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty-two (52) weeks and is not covered by the Sick Benefit.
Employees must use their “Earned Sick Leave” days before they can access their “Banked Sick Leave” account.
(e)	It is understood by the Parties that Sick Leave is intended to be utilized by employees who experience a bona fide medical illness/disability and not for the booking of days off.
Banked Sick Leave
(f)	Commencing on the date of ratification, existing employees with unused balances in their Banked Sick Leave account will have those balances frozen (in dollars based on their December 31, 2004 rate) and will not accrue any additional sick leave beyond that outlined above.
Employees with unused ‘frozen’ balances may, for the calendar year in which ratification is achieved and at October 1st of each subsequent year up to their year of retirement, elect to:
1.	leave their Banked Sick Leave as is,
2.	elect to receive up to eighteen hundred dollars ($1,800.00) in cash (less statutory deductions), or
3.	elect to have up to eighteen hundred dollars ($1,800.00) contributed to an RRSP in the account of the employee. Employees must provide a copy of their previous years Income Tax notice of assessment proving they have sufficient room to contribute to their RRSP.
13
This process will take place each year until the Banked Sick Leave accumulation is eliminated.
(g)	At the time of retirement, employees may elect to have any unused Sick Leave accumulations paid out, in the same manner as outlined in 11.03(c), or opt to use such accumulations for time -off towards an earlier departure date based on their current hourly rate.
11.04	Pension
The Company shall continue to participate in the operation of the Teamsters Local 464
Dairy Industry Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "A" attached hereto, which
shall form part of this Agreement.
11.05	(a) When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation, or grievance procedure
is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his welfare fees and Union dues so that at all times the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)	For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(c)	All working time los t by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by the Company, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.06	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer-Help) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 30th inclusive.
(b)	Part-Time Employees (per Clause 19.02(c)) who do not work fifty percent (50%) of the standard work hours in an accounting period for their job classification.
These employees shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause 11, Welfare Plan.
CLAUSE 12 - COMPENSATION COVERAGE AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
Compensation Coverage
12.01	(a) A return to work program is intended to provide temporary work to an employee who is receiving either WCB Wage Loss benefits or Weekly Indemnity benefits and who is deemed medically able to perform light and/or alternative duties. Wherever possible, and in those cases where the employee is not deemed by the Workers’ Compensation Board (WCB) to be supernumerary, every attempt will be made by the Company to provide a suitable return to work program in order to facilitate an expedient return to his regular, posted position.
14
12.02
(b)	In order to be considered for this program, support from both the WCB and the employee’s doctor is required. Wherever possible, the employee will be provided with available work for which they are qualified and for which no training is required. No posted employee will lose work as a result of this program and the employee may be required, at the Company’s discretion, to work temporarily in an area other than their regular position and/or Department.
(c)	Until the employee returns to his regular, posted position, the employee will be paid the wages assigned to the work they are performing or their regular rate of pay, whichever is greater, and they will be paid for those hours worked. No overtime work will be assigned to an employee while on a return to work program.
(d)	When employees on WCB Wage Loss benefits are directed by the WCB or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, they shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall be subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
(e)	Any employee injured or disabled on the job and who is required to leave for medical treatment will receive the regular rate of pay for the balance of his assigned shift.
(f)	Where an employee is unable to return to their posted position due to a disabling condition that has been medically certified to the satisfaction of the Company and the Union, the Company may apply to the Union for a waiver of the seniorityposting provisions.
Occupational Health and Safety
(a)	The Company undertakes to provide each new employee, at the time of hiring, the necessary orientation for the safe performance of work and handling of materials and products.
(b)	Every employee must take reasonable care to protect their health and safety and the health and safety of others who may be affected by their acts or omissions at work; to carry out their work in accordance with established safe work procedures; to use and wear protective equipment, devices and clothing as required by the Company and or the OH&S Regulations.
(c)	Where required by the Company, an employee who is required to obtain or maintain a First Aid Certificate will have the cost of the Course and/or Examinations borne by the Company. Time spent attending assigned courses and/or writing examinations shall be considered as part of their workweek and scheduled as such.
15
CLAUSE 13 - PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous.
13.02	The Company shall provide for the direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) of the employee's pay in a participating chartered bank, trust company or credit union of the employee's choice on or before the appropriate payday.
CLAUSE 14 - PAY STATEMENTS
14.01	All Union employees will be given a pay statement for a pay period during which work was performed. Such statement shall note type of hours worked, type of time off taken in lieu of work, wages paid and other approved statutory and/or regulatory deductions.
14.02	A statement by Department shall be posted following each accounting period in each location showing accumulate d sick days, vacation days, banked days and statutory holidays owing.
CLAUSE 15 - POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
15.01	Procedures for Posting of Vacancies
(a)	Posted vacancies shall be determined by the Company. The Company will consider applications from employees who, at the time of a posting, are or will be absent from work as a result of vacation, leave of absence or illness/WCB wage loss benefits during the posting period, provided the employee has requested consideration, in writing, to the Director of Human Resources prior to the absence. Employees who are Summer-Help or who have not completed the probation period (19.02) are not eligible to apply for new routes, vacant routes, new positions or vacant positions.
Employees already on the payroll shall be given the first opportunity to apply for the new and/or vacant position before new employees are hired. Applications will be considered from employees in other Divisions if there are no other applicants from the Division in which the vacancy was posted. The decision of the Company shall be final and binding.
(b)	All routes and vacancies shall be posted, within fourteen (14) days of the new route, vacant route, new position or vacant position becoming available, on the bulletin boards at all Locations for a period of seven (7) calendar days with details of rate of pay, currently assigned hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There will be no changes in requirements during the period of the posting.
(c)	There shall be a maximum of two (2) additional vacancies resulting from the posting of the initial vacancy, with the exception of route vacancies. There shall be only one posting created by a route vacancy.
16
If the subsequent vacancy from either of the processes above is a Holiday Relief or Foreman position, only these positions will be posted prior to an appointment.
(d)	Any employee desiring the vacancy shall make written application, in the form provided by the Company, to the Director of Human Resources within the period of posting. An employee selected for or appointed to a vacancy in accordance with this Clause may be required to undergo a trial period. The purpose of the trial period is to familiarize the employee with the requirements of the job and to determine if the successful applicant is suitable. However, such trial period shall not exceed three (3) working weeks except by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee. It is understood that the Company, in agreement with the employee, may shorten the trial period and confirm the employee in the position prior to the expiry of the established trial period. Upon completion of the trial period as confirmed by the Company, the next subsequent vacancy will be posted.
If the successful applicant is deemed unsuitable for the vacancy, the applicant will revert to his former route or position. Where an employee is deemed to be unsuitable by the Company, upon request from the employee, the Company will provide in writing the reason and/or reasons why the employee was not successful. An employee who by his choice reverts to his old position within the three-week trial period shall lose all bidding rights for the next six (6) months.
(e)	When an employee voluntarily returns to his former position, or is deemed to be unsuitable for the vacancy as stated above in 15.01(d), the Company will fill the vacancy from applicants to the original posting in accordance with 15.02 below. If none are suitable, the Company will re-post the vacant position.
(f)	Any employee applying for a posted position that requires a specific Drivers License/ Engineering Certificate/Trade Ticket and/or any other similar required qualification must possess the qualifications necessary for the position at the time of the posting in order to be considered eligible for the position.
(g)	Applications for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last twelve (12) months.
(h)	The successful employee filling a vacancy in the following Specialized Positions shall fulfill a non-mobility period of twelve (12) months, whereby he will not be eligible to apply for other vacant positions. The Specialized Positions are Accounts Payable Clerk, Payroll Clerk, Cost Accountant, Reliefman (All Departments), Tanker Driver, Pasteurizer, Mix Maker, Cottage Cheese Maker, Yogurt Maker, Ice Cream Maker, Head Checker, Assistant Foreman and Foreman.
In the event that no suitable applicant is available and the position cannot be filled, then Clause 15.01(g) and (h) will be waived and the position will be reposted.
17
(i)	The results of the posting will be announced within fourteen (14) calendar days of the closing date of the posting. Upon successful completion of the trial period, the employee shall commence the duties of the new position as soon as reasonably practical. The employee will be confirmed at their new rate of pay after they have successfully completed the trial period.
(j)	The time limit for posting of vacancies may be lowered in cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(k)	The Company may appoint a qualified employee to fill a vacancy on a temporary basis until a suitable candidate is selected in accordance with this Clause.
15.02	Determination of Successful Applicant
It is agreed between the Parties that operational efficiencies must be ensured and, as such,
qualifications, abilities and Seniority shall be the determining factors when selecting
applicants for posted positions and shall be applied as follows:
(a)	Foreman and assistant Foreman vacancies in all divisions may be filled by the Company without regard to Company Seniority.
(b)	The Specialized Positions listed in 15.01(h) will be filled on the basis of Company Seniority within the Division, provided the employee’s overall qualifications and abilities are relatively equal, as reasonably determined by the Company.
(c)	For remaining positions, they will be filled on the basis of Company Seniority within the Divisions, as set out in Clause 19.03, unless the overall qualifications and abilities of the employees are demonstrably different, as reasonably determined by the Company.
(d)	If such vacancies are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Company shall notify the Union within forty-eight (48) hours and shall supply them with the names of all applicants for the vacant position.
(e)	Upon request, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified as to the reason why they were not chosen for the vacant position.
15.03	Temporary Vacancy
(a)	On the occurrence of accident, illness or scheduled Leave of Absence, the Company will attempt to establish within twenty-one (21) days whether an employee will be off for a temporary period exceeding ninety (90) days.
(b)	If the absence is expected to be more than ninety (90) days, the Company will post the Temporary Vacancy for seven (7) calendar days listing rate of pay, currently assigned hours of work, days off and any other pertinent information. There will be no changes in requirements during the time of the posting. The vacancy will be awarded according to Clause 15.02.
18
(c)	Where required, the Company will fill any subsequent temporary vacancy through appointment, by Company Seniority, to a qualified Part-Time Employee.
(d)	An employee filling a Temporary Vacancy will return to his former position on the return of the incumbent employee.
(e)	Should the Temporary Vacancy become a Vacant Position, consistent with Clause 15.01(a), at any point, the Vacant Position will be re-posted pursuant to Clause 15.01.
(f)	The Company may appoint a qualified employee to fill a Temporary Vacancy until a suitable candidate is selected in accordance with this Clause.
15.04	Vehicle Change
(a)	If the Company requires any employee to possess a higher classification of driver’s license for any driving position due to a vehicle change, the cost of obtaining the license and the driving assessment will be borne by the Company. The Company will allow up to a ninety (90) day grace period for the employee to acquire the necessary license and pass the Company Driving Assessment. The choice of any course or training to secure the appropriate upgraded license will be at the discretion of the Company.
(b)	Required attendance at driver training will be considered part of the employee’s regular workday and, where practical, will be scheduled in advance of the vehicle change. The employee will be expected to attend to his regular and/or other duties prior to or after attending the required driver training.
(c)	By mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, the Parties may agree to an additional ninety (90) day grace period to upgrade to the necessary license and/or pass the Company Driving Assessment. All costs will be borne by the employee and completed on the employee’s own time.
(d)	When an employee is unable or unwilling to obtain the required license, notwithstanding that there is no reduction of positions as defined in 19.04(a), the employee will be laid- off and shall be eligible to displace the most junior employee in his classification in the Sub-Department of the Division at his Location.
(e)	Where there is no junior employee in his classification, or where the employee who is to be laid-off pursuant to 15.04(d) elects not to exercise the right to displace the junior employee in the classification, he may elect to go to the PartTime list.
(f)	The junior employee displaced pursuant to 15.04(d) shall be given the opportunity to obtain the required license in accordance with this Clause and to assume the duties of the route/position identified in 15.04(a).
19
15.05	Promotion Outside Bargaining Unit
(a)	Employees who leave the bargaining unit on a trial basis (up to three (3) months) but remain in the employ of the Company, shall continue to remit Union dues and shall have the right to re-enter the bargaining unit and retain their full Company Seniority.
(b)	Following the trial period, bargaining unit Seniority shall be frozen and re-entry to the unit shall be at the Company's discretion.
(c)	Re-entry shall be to the Part-Time list until a position vacancy is obtained consistent with Clause 15.01 of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 16 - NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Company shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in the Wage and Classification Schedule(s).
16.02	In the event that the Company and the Union cannot reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work and wage rate, either Party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8 of this Agreement. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17 - LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction of earnings or rate of earnings because of the adoption of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
CLAUSE 18 - NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Summer-Help) shall receive thirty percent (30%) less than the rate provided herein for the first two hundred eight (208) working shifts and twenty percent (20%) less than the rate provided herein for the next two hundred eight (208) working shifts and full scale thereafter. This shall include Part-Time Employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with another Company covered by Local 464 and are hired by the Company (in the same capacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
20
CLAUSE 19 - SENIORITY, PROBATIONARY PERIOD, REDUCTION OF STAFF, SEVERANCE PAY, LAY- OFF AND RIGHT OF RECALL
19.01	Seniority
Company Seniority as defined at Clause 19.02(b) of this Agreement will be permanently
lost, recall rights will be voided and the Company will have no further obligation to an
employee where:
1.	An employee voluntarily terminates his employment;
2.	An employee is discharged for just cause;
3.	An employee is on uninterrupted lay-off for a period exceeding twelve (12) months;
4.	An employee does not return to work on the specified date following an approved Leave of Absence; or
5.	An employee fails to report to work in response to a recall from lay-off
19.02	Probationary Period and Seniority Lists
(a)	A probationary period for each new employee in which one hundred and four (104) working shifts are to be completed within a period of three hundred and sixty-five (365) consecutive calendar days. During such time, Seniority will not apply and an employee may be laid-off without reference to Seniority and the Company will not be obligated to rehire such employee.
(b)	Company Seniority (date of hire) will be granted to employees who have completed the probationary period and will be the length of service in the bargaining unit in the employ of the Company.
(c)	There will be two (2) Seniority lists. The first list will include all Full-Time Employees and the second list will include all Part-Time Employees. Such lists will be posted in all Locations and supplied to the Union by the Company on or about April 1st and October 1st of each year and will include all employees that have achieved a Seniority date pursuant to 19.02(b). The Full-Time list will show the employees’ name, Seniority date, and classification. The Part-Time list will show the employees’ name and Seniority date.
(d)	Where a regular Full-Time Employee works more than one (1) classification on a regular basis (excluding Reliefman, Assistant Foreman and Foreman), there will be no changes made to his classification from the one into which he last posted.
A Full-Time employee’s classification will not change from his regular posted position if he is temporarily posted, or assigned to work, in a different classification.
21
(e)	Part-Time Employees will be asked at their date of hire to select their availability for either, or both, Victoria and/or Cassidy locations. A Part-Time Employee wishing to change availability shall notify the company in writing.
(f)	Part-Time Employees may express their preferences for shifts and waive their right to be scheduled for any shift less than the designated full shift by advising the Company in writing. Failure to provide the written waiver will result in the Part-Time Employee being scheduled for the available shifts at the discretion of the Company.
(g)	The Company undertakes to consider Part-Time Employees’ preferences and availability, however, notwithstanding the Part-Time Employees’ written availability and preferences pursuant to 19.02(e) and (f) above, it is understood that Part-Time Employees will be scheduled by qualifications and Company Seniority in accordance with the operational requirements of the Company.
(h)	Summer-Help Employees
(i)	May be employed to supplement the regular workforce and provide additional help between April 1st and September 30th.
(ii)	Summer-Help Employees will not displace Full-Time or Part-Time Employees.
(iii)	Summer-Help Employees will not accrue Seniority rights, nor be guaranteed a minimum number of hours.
(iv)	Summer-Help Employees will be laid-off not later than September 30th in any calendar year.
19.03	Reduction of Staff - Permanent Job Loss - Full-Time Employees
(a)	All Full-Time Employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice before being laid-off. Employees shall give the Company the same notice when the employee intends to terminate employment.
(b)	A reduction in staff may only be effected in accordance with the following procedures in 19.04 or 19.05, recognizing the following Locations/Divisions/ Departments/Sub-Departments:
(i)	Victoria Location Divisions:
1.	Production, Sales and Distribution
2.	Office
3.	Maintenance
4.	Janitorial
22
(ii)	Cassidy Location Divisions:
1. Production, Sales and Distribution 2 Office
(c)	There shall be no bumping (displacing) into other Divisions.
(d)	The Victoria Production, Sales and Distribution Division will be divided into three (3) Departments with Sub-Departments as follows:
(i)	Department -	Production
Sub-Dept: Ice Cream
Culture (includes Yogurt; Cream Cheese; Cottage Cheese; Sour Cream; Milk Cups)
Fluid (includes Mix Making)
Cooler-Freezer (includes Case Dock)
Warehouse
(ii)	Department -	Sales
Sub-Dept: Wholesale
(iii)	Department - Distribution
Sub-Dept: Freight Tankers
(e)	The Cassidy Production, Sales and Distribution Division will be divided into three (3) Departments with Sub-Departments as follows:
(i)	Department -	Production
Sub-Dept: Cooler-Freezer
(ii)	Department -	Sales
Sub-Dept: Wholesale
(iii)	Department - Distribution
Sub-Dept: Freight
19.04	Bumping Procedure for Production, Sales and Distribution Division
(a)	Where the Company decides to permanently reduce the number of Full-Time positions by lay-off for any reason whatsoever, in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.03 above, the laid-off employee affected may elect to bump a more junior employee in Company Seniority, subject to the laid-off employee having the formal qualifications required (e.g. Trade Ticket or Drivers License) and the demonstrated ability in other jobs so as to be able to satisfactorily assume the duties of the position within a three week time period.
23
Step 1 The affected employee may elect to bump the junior employee in the Classification within the Sub-Department where the reduction of staff is identified. If there is no junior employee within the Classification in the Sub-Department, the affected employee will proceed to Step 2 below.
Step 2 The junior employee within the Classification displaced from Step 1 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the Sub-Department. If there is no junior employee within the Sub-Department, the affected employee will proceed to Step 3 below.
Step 3 The junior employee within the Sub-Department displaced from Step 2 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the department. If there is no junior employee within the Department, the affected employee will proceed to Step 4 below.
Step 4 The junior employee within the Department displaced from Step 3 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the Division. If there is no junior employee within the Division, the affected employee will proceed to Step 5 below.
Step 5 The junior employee within the Division displaced from Step 4 above may elect to bump the junior employee regardless of Location. If there is no junior employee regardless of Location, the affected employee will proceed to Step 6 below.
Step 6 The junior employee within the Location displaced from Step 5 above may elect to exercise their options under 19.04 (b) below.
Bypass
The affected employee may bypass Step 1 at his option and with the Company’s
concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step 1 has more
Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 2.
An employee displaced through Step 1 may bypass Step 2, at his option and with the
Company’s concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step
2	has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 3.
An employee displaced through Step 2 may bypass Step 3, at his option and with the
Company’s concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displace d in Step
3	has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 4.
An employee displaced through Step 3 may bypass Step 4, at his option and with the
Company’s concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step
4	has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 5.
24
(b)	Those identified for lay-off or displacement as described in the procedures above may, at any time prior to electing to displace another Full-Time Employee or who do not have the Company Seniority to bump another employee, elect to:
(i)	Be placed on the Part-Time list in order of Company Seniority,
(ii)	Be laid-off with a Right of Recall in accordance with Clause 19.07, or
(iii)	Accept severance pay in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.08.
(c)	Any employee who displaces an employee in a Specialized Position as set out in Clause 15.01(h) will be subject to the non-mobility period contained therein.
(d)	An employee bumping into a driving position must possess the necessary License and pass the Company Driving Assessment prior to assuming the regular duties of the position. Upon completion, the employee will assume his new position.
(e)	The employee to be displaced may remain in the driving position until the bumping employee passes the Company Driving Assessment.
(f)	Where the bumping employee does not possess the required Drivers License or is unable to pass the Company Driving Assessment, the employee will bypass this Step in the Bumping Procedure and proceed to the next applicable Step.
19.05	Bumping Procedure for Office, Maintenance and Janitorial Divisions
Step 1 The affected employee displaces the junior employee in the Classification within the Division where the reduction of staff is identified. If there is no junior employee within the Classification in the Division, the affected employee will proceed to Step 2 below.
Step 2 The junior employee within the Classification displaced from Step 1 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the Division. If there is no junior employee within the Division, the affected employee will proceed to Step 3 below.
Step 3 The junior employee within the (Office only) Division displaced from Step 2 above may elect to bump the junior employee within the (Office only) Division regardless of Location.
Those identified for lay-off or displacement as described in the procedures above may, at any time prior to electing to displace another Full-Time Employee or who do not have the Company Seniority to bump another employee, elect to:
(i)	Be placed on the Part-Time list in order of Company Seniority,
(ii)	Be laid-off with a Right of Recall in accordance with Clause 19.07, or
(iii)	Accept severance pay in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.08
25
19.06 Temporary Lay-off
(a)	A Temporary Lay-off of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, emergency or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or breakdown shall be in reverse order of Company Seniority and shall affect only the job classification in the Sub-Department of the Location concerned. Employees will be recalled in order of Company Seniority.
(b)	The Company may apply to the Union for its consent to waive Company Seniority and the Union will consider such application.
(c)	A Full-Time Employee will not be subject to a Temporary Lay-off if there are shifts available that are usually assigned to Part-Time Employees. Such shifts will be offered to the qualified Full-Time Employee in an attempt to provide him with as many weekly hours as possible.
19.07	Lay-off from Full-Time and Right of Recall
(a)	Any employee laid-off or displaced from a posted position, per Clause 19.04 or 19.05, will be afforded the option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Location in which they were employed with the Right of Recall to that Location only. This option must be completed and signed at the time of displacement from the posted position and will provide for the Right of Recall to a vacant Full-Time position for twelve (12) months from the date of initial lay-off.
(b)	The employee will leave with the Company an address and phone number at which the employee can be served notice of rehire. The onus will rest with the employee to maintain a correct address and phone number.
(c)	An employee who works a total of fifty-two (52) shifts or more from the first day of lay-off in the previous twelve (12) months will be entitled to:
(i)	Renewal of their Right of Recall for twelve (12) months, and
(ii)	The option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and renew the lay-off option previously selected.
(d)	Employees who fail to work a minimum of fifty-two (52) shifts in any recall period (12 months) from the date of original lay-off will be transferred to the PartTime Seniority list.
(e)	Employees may waive placement on the Part-Time list and accept severance pay in accordance with Clause 19.08.
(f)	Seniority will not accumulate during the lay-off period if shifts are not worked.
26
(g)	At any time within the twelve (12) month period from the date of lay-off, an employee on the recall list may advise the Company that he elects to accept severance pay in accordance with Clause 19.08.
(h)	Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a recall to work notice delivered by registered mail to the employee will be deemed to have forfeited both the Right of Recall and Seniority and is subject to the provisions of Clause 19.08.
19.08	Severance Pay
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b)	In respect of an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
1.	The elimination of a job process, or
2.	The introduction of equipment or methods which reduces the number of employees, provided he has two (2) years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at the rate paid at the time of severance.
(c)	All employees with two (2) to five (5) years of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severance pay sha ll accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of full pay for each year of service commencing with the sixth (6h) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty-eight (28) weeks of full pay.
(d)	Upon termination such employee shall, at his option, be placed on the Recall list as provided for in 19.07(a) of this Clause for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end of four (4) weeks, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the Recall list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the Recall list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Company, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
(e)	Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms set out above shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement.
Any employee electing to retire on Pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severance pay.
(f)	Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee.
19.09	Where any dispute arises, such dispute shall constitute a grievance and will be settled pursuant to the grievance provisions of this Agreement.
27
19.10 Pay upon termination
All employees terminating their employment shall receive vacation pay at four percent (4%); six percent (6%); eight percent (8%); ten percent (10%); twelve percent (12%); or fourteen percent (14%) of their annual earnings in lieu of unused vacation to which they are entitled. In addition, banked days and/or Statutory Holidays shall be paid out at the current rate of pay.
Earned and banked sick leave shall be paid out in accordance with Clause 11.03.
In the event of the death of an employee, these entitlements shall be paid to the employee’s beneficiary, or to his Estate if there is no beneficiary.
CLAUSE 20 - MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his days off, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
CLAUSE 21 - EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employee shall work longer than five (5) hours without one-half ('A) hour off for the purpose of eating a meal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 22 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
22.01	Anniversary Date/Vacation Year
(a)	January 1st of each year will be the common anniversary date for the purpose of calculating annual vacation entitlement and vacation pay. January 1st to December 31st of each year is known as the Vacation Accrual Period.
(b)	Annual vacation entitlement earned during the vacation accrual period will be taken between May 1 of one year to April 30th of the following year. This is known as a Vacation Year.
(c)	Employees hired during a Vacation Accrual Period will be granted a pro-rata entitlement and may be entitled to schedule vacation during a Vacation Year in accordance with the procedures below.
28
(d)	Employees who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years towards vacation schedule and shall receive prorated vacation pay depending on the number of months worked, as follows:
12 months worked - 2 weeks vacation or 4% vacation pay 24 months worked - 3 weeks vacation or 6% vacation pay 84 months worked - 4 weeks vacation or 8% vacation pay 168 months worked - 5 weeks vacation or 10% vacation pay 216 months worked - 6 weeks vacation or 12% vacation pay 300 months worked - 7 weeks vacation or 14% vacation pay
22.02	Vacation Entitlement
Employees shall accrue annual vacation entitlement during the Vacation Accrual Period
and shall be granted annual vacation during the Vacation Year on the following basis:
•	One years service equals two (2) weeks annual vacation, payable at the employee’s regular rate of pay or at four percent (4%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
•	Two (2) to Six (6) years service equals three (3) weeks annual vacation, payable at the employee’s regular rate of pay or at six percent (6%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
•	Seven (7) to thirteen (13) years service equals four (4) weeks annual vacation, payable at the employee’s regular rate of pay or eight percent (8%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
•	Fourteen (14) to seventeen (17) years service equals five (5) weeks annual vacation, payable at the employee’s regular rate of pay or at ten percent (10%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
•	Eighteen (18) to twenty-four (24) years service equals six (6) weeks annual vacation, payable at the employee’s regular rate of pay or at twelve percent (12%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
•	Twenty-five (25) or more years service equals seven (7) weeks annual vacation, payable at the employees regular rate of pay or at fourteen percent (14%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
29
• Employees off work during a Vacation Accrual Period due to illness or on W.C.B. wage loss benefits or other approved leave of absence shall have their vacation entitlement credited as follows:
-	2 months if entitled to 2 weeks
-	3 months if entitled to 3 weeks
-	4 months if entitled to 4 weeks
-	5 months if entitled to 5 weeks
-	6 months if entitled to 6 weeks
-	7 months if entitled to 7 weeks
The above credit is in addition to all time worked during the Vacation Accrual Period provided that the sum of the credit and the time worked does not exceed one year, providing such employee worked during the Vacation Accrual Period.
22.03	Vacation Pay Top-Up
Where the calculation of vacation pay payable to an employee results in a shortfall between the employees regular rate of pay, paid during the employees annual vacation period(s) taken, and the percentage of vacation pay payable, consistent with 22.02 above, the difference will be paid as a single “top-up” payment not later than one (1) accounting period following the accounting period in which the last day of entitled vacation was taken or the accounting period at the end of the Vacation Year, whichever is earlier. A statement showing the calculation will be provided to the employee.
22.04	Posting of Vacation Schedules & Procedures - Full-Time Employees
(a)	Vacation schedules for the Summer Period (May 1st to September 30th inclusive) shall be posted by January 31st and vacation selections, by Company Seniority, will be completed by April 1st of each year.
(b)	Vacation schedules for the Winter Period (October 1st to April 30th inclusive) shall also be posted by January 31st and vacation selections, by Company Seniority, will be completed by September 1st of each year, subject to 22.05(a).
(c)	An employee may schedule their entire vacation entitlement in one continuous period provided they schedule their selection during the Winter Period (October 1st to April 30th).
(d)	All employees in each Department at each Location shall be given the opportunity to select their annual vacation in the Summer Period and/or Winter Periods in order of Company Seniority. Employees in each Department at each Location may be divided into groups of equal number, or as nearly as reasonably possible, and listed in order of Company Seniority. Group(s) will have the most senior employee at the top of the first group followed by the second most senior employee at the top of the second group etc. until all groups are filled.
30
(e)	It is the employees’ responsibility to make their vacation selection(s) by April 1st for the Summer Period selections and by September 1st for the Winter Period selections. After these deadlines any employee, regardless of Company Seniority, may select any unscheduled vacation periods on a first come, first served basis according to their vacation entitlement.
(f)	Upon notification of their turn by the Supervisor, an employee will have four (4) calendar days to submit their selection in writing or the employee will, subject to extenuating circumstances (the onus of demonstrating the extenuating circumstances will rest with the employee), forfeit their turn. The available periods remaining for that round of selections will be offered in order of Company Seniority to the remaining employees in the group.
(g)	Employees may select their vacation entitlement in periods of one (1) week or more however employees may also request authorization from the Supervisor to select vacation periods in less than one (1) week, providing their remaining vacation entitlement is less than (1) one week. Whenever possible, accumulated time owing will be used to top up a part week of vacation entitlement to make a full week of vacation and that full week selection is then subject to the provisions of 22.07. A selection of a vacation period of less than one (1) week is deemed an employees selection for the purposes of this clause.
All periods of the year, save for the seven (7) calendar days immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for vacation and shall be posted.
(h)	It is understood that there is no carry-over of any unused vacation entitlement, as outlined in 22.01(b), without authorization from the employee’s Supervisor. Any vacation entitlement earned during the Vacation Accrual Period, which remains unscheduled as of January 1st in a Vacation Year, will be scheduled where possible. Upon notification of their remaining entit lement by the Supervisor, the employee will have four (4) calendar days to submit their selection in writing, or the Supervisor will schedule their remaining vacation entitlement by the expiry of the Vacation Year (April 30th).
(i)	Any unused annual vacation entitlement from the previous vacation year will not be scheduled until after April 1st or September 1st in a given year.
22.05	Vacation Selection - Summer Period (May 1st to September 30th inclusive)
(a)	After all employees in each group have made their first selection, or not later than April 1st of each year, the Winter Period of the schedule will be closed. The schedule for the Winter Period will re-open for employees’ vacation selection on June 1st.
(b)	Employees entitled to up to four (4) weeks of annual vacation requesting annual vacation during the Summer Period shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period.
31
(c)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks or more of annual vacation requesting annual vacation during the Summer Period shall, at their option, receive three (3) weeks in one continuous period.
(d)	In the event the application of vacation selection as outlined above results in single weeks left open on the vacation schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on their first choice. This selection of one (1) week in the Summer Period shall constitute that employee’s first choice, with any further vacation entitlement being selected from the available time in order of Company Seniority.
(e)	Should available vacation time remain open in the Summer Period schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional Summer Period selections in order of Company Seniority. These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods.
(f)	The remainder of the vacation entitlement to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the Winter Period.
22.06	Vacation Selection - Winter Period (October 1st to April 30th inclusive)
(a)	Consistent with 22.04(c) above, employees scheduling vacation entitlement during the Winter Period may, at their option, schedule all of their vacation entitlement in one continuous period.
(b)	Should available vacation time remain open on the Winter Period after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional selections during the Winter Period in order of Company Seniority.
22.07	Cancellation of Annual Vacation
There shall not be any change of the dates of a Full-Time Employee's annual vacation
from the dates shown in the completed and approved vacation schedules, unless a change
has been agreed to by the employee as follows:
(a)	The employee will be asked if he would cancel his vacation in emergency situations, or where operational requirements or lack of suitable available personnel for the safe and/or effective operation of a process exists.
(b)	If the employee does not agree to cancel some or all of his vacation, the Company will accept this decision of the employee.
32
22.08	Vacation Selection & Procedures - Part-Time Employees
(a)	Part-Time Employees will receive their vacation entitlement and vacation pay percentage rate based on his years of service per Clause 22.02 and will receive vacation pay based on his gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period. Part-Time Employees are not entitled to the “greater of’ as referred to in 22.02.
(b)	A Part-Time Employee off work during a Vacation Accrual Period due to illness or on WCB wage loss benefits or other approved Leave of Absence shall have their vacation entitlement credited as follows:
-	2 months if entitled to 2 weeks
-	3 months if entitled to 3 weeks
-	4 months if entitled to 4 weeks
-	5 months if entitled to 5 weeks
-	6 months if entitled to 6 weeks
-	7 months if entitled to 7 weeks
The above credit is in addition to all time worked during the Vacation Accrual Period provided that the sum of the credit and the time worked does not exceed one year, providing such employee worked during the Vacation Accrual Period.
(c)	Full-Time Employees will always have priority over Part-Time Employees in the selection of annual vacation periods, subject to the procedures at 22.04(e) and (f) above.
(d)	Part-Time Employees will not be entitled to schedule annual vacation during the Summer period or the two (2) calendar weeks prior to and the one (1) calendar week following Christmas Day in any vacation year.
Part-Time Employees must submit their request for annual vacation in writing for approval by their “Home” Department Manager before forwarding their request to the Cooler-Freezer Manager by September 1st of each year. Priority will be accorded by Company Seniority. It is the employee’s responsibility to make his selection for vacation by September fl, otherwise a more junior employee may have first choice.
(e)	Any Full-Time Employee who is displaced into Part-Time status during a Vacation Year shall retain, on a one time-only basis, any vacation selection scheduled while a Full-Time Employee.
(f)	If a Part-Time Employee does not select their vacation time within a reasonable period of time, their time-off will be selected for them by their scheduling Supervisor.
33
CLAUSE 23 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees shall receive ten (10) Government Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year, provided such holidays do not duplicate present Statutory Holidays. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
Good Friday	B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Victoria Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
23.02	All Full-Time Employees shall receive one (1) additional Statutory Holiday with full pay, to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 19.02 (a)).
(b)	Summer-Help Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 30th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays. Statutory Holidays shall be given immediately prior to or following the employee's weekend days off.
Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holidays cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.04	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance, save by mutual consent of the Company and the employee.
23.05	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday, but when this is not possible, anyone required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall have the option of being paid at double time plus an accrued day off with pay or straight time plus the accrual of two (2) additional days off with pay.
No wholesale routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
23.06	Any Statutory Holiday owing as of April 30th each year for the previous year shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate of double time.
34
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays with full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
(i)	Part-Time Employees (per Clause 19.02(c)) who shall receive, on the first payroll after January 1st of each year, payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01, prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve-month period.
(ii)	Summer-Help Employees shall receive, on termination date, payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01, prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that, should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government, the prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
23.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday, even if it falls on his weekly days off or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday, even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, WCB Wage Loss benefits or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between WCB Wage Loss benefits or sick leave payment and his or her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 24 - DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
24.01	Days and Hours of Work
(a)	The Company will generally schedule its operations through the application of the following principles:
(i)	Office employees: thirty-five (35) hours per week, with shifts being seven (7) hours per day, five (5) days per week.
(ii)	Inside employees: thirty-six (36) hours per week, with shifts being nine (9) hours per day, four (4) days per week.
(iii)	Freight Haul and Dock Delivery Drivers: thirty-six (36) hours per week, with shifts being nine (9) hours per day, four (4) days per week.
(iv)	Bulk Haul and Mainland Freight Drivers: forty (40) hours per week, with shifts being ten (10) hours per day, four (4) days per week.
(v)	Driver Salesmen: forty (40) hours per week, with shifts being ten (10) hours per day, four (4) days per week.
(vi)	Maintenance: thirty-six (36) hours per week, with shifts being nine (9) hours per day, four (4) days per week.
(vii)	Janitors: thirty-six (36) hours per week, with shifts averaging seven point two (7.2) hours per day, five (5) days per week.
Other alternate shift arrangements currently in place will remain in place.
35
(b)	Forty (40) hour workweek, ten (10) hour days
(i)	When the Company, for legitimate business reasons and customer requirements, determines that it is necessary to introduce in a particular work area, a forty (40) hour workweek comprising four (4) days of ten (10) hours each, the Company will provide the Union with a minimum of seven (7) days advance notice of the Company’s intention. During that seven (7) day period, the Company will, at the Union’s request, meet to discuss the reasons that the Company has for the introduction of the forty (40) hour workweek in the particular work area.
(ii)	At the end of the seven (7) day period, the Company may implement the forty (40) hour workweek in the work area concerned.
(iii)	If the Union disagrees with the Company’s introduction of the forty (40) hour workweek for the particular work area, the Union may refer the matter to expedited binding arbitration.
(iv)	In the expedited arbitration, the onus will be on the Company to present the Arbitrator very persuasive reasons why the forty (40) hour workweek was warranted in the particular circumstances and why it should be allowed to continue in effect, based on the changed/changing business needs and customer requirements of the Company.
(c)	Forty (40) hour workweek, eight (8) hour days
(i)	If the Company determines that it is necessary, for legitimate business reasons and customer requirements, to introduce a forty (40) hour workweek comprised of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each into a particular work area, it will advise the Union of it’s intention and the reasons for the introduction of the workweek in that work area.
(ii)	The Company may not proceed with any workweek arrangements of forty (40) hours comprising of five (5) days of eight (8) hours per day except with the Union’s agreement in writing.
(iii)	The Union will give reasonable consideration to any Company request for these types of shift arrangements. The Union’s agreement to any Company request will not be unreasonably withheld.
(iv)	In cases where the forty (40) hour workweek, comprising five (5) days of eight (8) hours each day, is solely for the purposes of responding to new and additional work and will not have any affect on current employees, the presumption will be that the Union will concur with the Company’s request for implementation of the modified workweek.
36
24.02
24.03
24.04
Time clocks and time cards or time sheets must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Employees must record their name and employee number on their time cards and/or time sheets. Time cards, time sheets and other payroll records are to be made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show the following:
(i)	Starting Time
(ii)	Finishing Time
(iii)	When leaving premises (except drivers)
An employee shall not be deemed to have completed his days work until he has completed: all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; refuelled and checked his truck or other equipment; balanced his daily load sheet or other records; attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
No employee shall be required to perform work of any nature prior to recording his starting time nor after recording his finishing time.
(a)	All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of nine (9) hours, ten (10) hours or other shift mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
(b)	There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between scheduled shifts. All time worked at the beginning of a scheduled shift that falls within the ten (10) hour period shall be paid at two times (2x) the hourly rate.
(c)	There shall be no split shifts.
(d)	No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal workload not included.
(a) A schedule shall be posted so that Full-Time Employees shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off.
All Full-Time Employees working a regular schedule for their classification shall receive at least two consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For the purpose of this Clause, consecutive days of Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
37
(b)	Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
(c)	It is agreed and understood that for the purposes of “seven days advance notice” only, where such changes of days off are occasioned by sickness or accident to another employee, then the seven (7) days notice shall not apply.
(d)	All employees will receive twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except for the following reasons:
1.	Short notice absenteeism of other employees.
2.	Exceptional weather conditions.
3.	Supply of product.
4.	Suspension of an operation due to a breakdown.
24.05 Shift Selection
(a)	The Company retains the discretion for deciding in what circumstances a shift selection process should take place when the Company imposes changes to employees’ shifts, hours of work and days off.
(b)	The present practice will continue whereby shift selection occurs when major changes in work operations result in a significant number of employees in a particular work area having their shifts, hours of work or days off changed.
(c)	The present practice will also continue whereby the Company exercises it’s discretion to allow a shift selection process to occur in other circumstances, notwithstanding that a significant number of employees are not adversely affected.
(d)	In exercising it’s discretion in determining whether to permit a shift selection process in a specific situation, the Company will exercise that discretion reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a non-arbitrary manner.
(e)	If the Union believes that the Company has acted unreasonably, unfairly, in bad faith or in an arbitrary manner in determining that a shift selection process should not occur in a specific situation, the Union may refer the matter to expedited arbitration.
(f)	Company Seniority within the job classification shall be a determining factor in the selection of days off and shift to be worked.
(g)	The Company shall retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees are available on each shift to ensure proper and efficient operation.
38
24.06	Opportunity to Work Overtime
Where the Company schedules an overtime shift(s) to be worked, the employees within the classification, who are available and qualified to perform the work required, will be given the opportunity to work the overtime shift(s) on the basis of Company Seniority, failing which, the overtime will be assigned on the basis of qualifications and ability to the least senior employee.
24.07	Direction to work Another Shift
Full-Time Employees regularly working a full shift who are directed to another shift by the Company shall be guaranteed the pay for the original shift.
A Full-Time Employee shall not suffer a loss in wages if directed to a shift that provides more hours of work than his original shift.
24.08	(a) All Farm and Interplant Tanker Drivers shall, upon completion of their unloading
duties, be entitled to spend the remainder of the unloading period, up to but not exceeding one-half ('A) hour, in the lunchroom. This remainder period shall be calculated as part of the regular work shift in recognition of them having worked through their lunch period. Furthermore, it is understood that all breaks other than lunch are deemed to be taken en-route.
24.09	Driver Salesman (Wholesale)
(a)	In the event any of the Driver Salesmen completes his work in less than ten (10) hours in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked ten (10) hours on that day. As required, it is understood that employees may be temporarily reassigned to other duties during their shifts, provided it does not displace a Full-Time Employee on the job, in order to complete a ten (10) hour day.
(b)	All routes shall be loaded or pre-stacked in an approved manner. A pre-timed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area in the time prescribed by the Company.
CLAUSE 25 - SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL AND PREMIUMS Shift Differential
25.01	Employees working a daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra one dollar and sixty-five cents ($1.65) per hour for the entire shift.
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6:00 a.m. shall receive an extra one dollar and sixty-five cents ($1.65) per hour for hours worked prior to 6:00 a.m.
25.03	Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totalled and paid for in each pay period.
39
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled workday) shall be paid a premium of two dollars and forty cents ($2.40) per hour for Wage and Classification Schedule A, B, C, and D and two dollars ($2.00) per hour for Wage and Classification Schedule E, in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable, for all hours worked on Sunday.
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Janitors and Summer-Help Employees.
Premiums
25.06	First Aid
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows:
Level II - eighty-five cents ($.85) per hour
Level I - twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour
25.07	Freezer
Any employee working fifty percent (50%) or more of his daily shift in the sharp freeze room - fifty cents ($.50) per hour premium.
25.08	Forklift
A premium of twenty cents ($.20) per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride on forklift fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
25.09	Boiler Start-up
A premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour will be provided to non-maintenance employees who regularly assist in starting up the boiler. Such premium to apply only when this work is being performed.
25.10	Relief Premium
A premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour will be paid to those employees classified as “Relief’ or “Reliefman” in the Wage and Classification Schedule(s) A, B, C, D and E for all hours worked.
CLAUSE 26 - UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26.01	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate. If an employee is required to fill temporarily the place of another employee receiving a lower rate of pay, his rate of pay will not be changed to the lower rate.
40
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
26.02 (a)
(b)
CLAUSE 27
27.01 (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
CLAUSE 28
All employees shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed Wage and Classification Schedules(s). It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classifications or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall continue to be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
WORK CLOTHES
Employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, as well as gloves where required.
Where coveralls or smocks are required, these shall also be supplied at no cost to the employee. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
The Company shall provide each Driver with a clean uniform at least once per week. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
The Company shall provide a suitable uniform to all Drivers.
All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
28.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the performance of his duties and shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 29 - WAGES
29.01	The Company shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in the Wage and Classification Schedule(s) hereunto annexed.
CLAUSE 30 - EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01 (a) This Agreement shall be in effect from January 1, 2005 to September 30, 2011 and from year to year thereafter, unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by either Party to the other Party in writing, four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
41
(b) In the event that circumstances in the dairy industry change during the term of this
agreement which would cause Island Farms to be placed at a distinct competitive
disadvantage, the following will apply:
1.	Either side shall provide the other with written notice of the situation as soon as possible;
2.	The Parties shall meet within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the written notice contained in point 1;
3.	The Parties will attempt to reach mutual agreement as to the approach to be taken, including any changes to be made to the Collective Agreement;
4.	If the Parties are unable to reach mutual agreement, then they shall attempt to prepare an agreed statement of facts;
5.	The agreed statement, or any disputes about the facts, shall be submitted to a mutually agreed Mediator;
6.	The Mediator shall provide non-binding recommendations after considering the situation (including any relevant factors outside the Company but within the industry);
7.	All fees and expenses relating to the Mediator shall be shared equally by the Parties.
30.02	This Agreement voids all previous Agreements or Letters of Understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
CLAUSE 31 - SAVINGS CLAUSE
31.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted and, where necessary, altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or Orders-in-Council made or passed thereunder.
31.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid, or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
31.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the period of the Collective Agreement.
42
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefore, and the Party of the Second Part has hereunto affixed its signature by its Officers duly authorized therefore.
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this	day of , 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
43
WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE "A"
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT, ETC.
The following wages shall be paid:
		2.5%	2%	2%	2%	2%	2%	3%
	Classification	Jan. 1/05	Oct. 1/05	Oct. 1/06	Oct. 1/07	Oct. 1/08	Oct. 1/09	Oct. 1/10
A.	Foreman	27.80	28.35	28.92	29.50	30.09	30.69	31.61
	Assistant Foreman	26.64	27.17	27.72	28.27	28.84	29.41	30.29
								
B.	Pasteurizer	25.52	26.03	26.55	27.08	27.63	28.18	29.02
	Ice Cream Maker	25.52	26.03	26.55	27.08	27.63	28.18	29.02
	Cottage Cheese Maker	25.52	26.03	26.55	27.08	27.63	28.18	29.02
	Ice Cream Mix Maker	25.52	26.03	26.55	27.08	27.63	28.18	29.02
	Yogurt Maker	25.52	26.03	26.55	27.08	27.63	28.18	29.02
	Head Checker	25.33	25.83	26.35	26.88	27.42	27.96	28.80
								
C.	Pure Pak Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	C.I.P. Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	Checker and/or Loader	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	Cottage Cheese and/or Yogurt Machine Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	Freezer Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	Bulk Pack Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	Creamer Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
	Machine Operator	24.96	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02	27.56	28.38
								
D.	Dairy Worker	24.73	25.23	25.73	26.25	26.77	27.31	28.13
	Packager	23.80	24.28	24.76	25.26	25.76	26.28	27.07
								
E.	Summer Help	11.60	11.84	12.07	12.31	12.56	12.81	13.19
								
F.	Relief (Classifications A& B)	26.23	26.75	27.29	27.84	28.39	28.96	29.83
	Relief (All other Classifications)	25.67	26.18	26.70	27.24	27.78	28.34	29.19
44
WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE "B"
DRIVER/SALESMEN (Wholesale)
	2.5%	2%	2%	2%	2%	2%	3%
Classification	Jan. 1/05	Oct. 1/05	Oct. 1/06	Oct. 1/07	Oct. 1/08	Oct. 1/09	Oct. 1/10
Driver/Salesman (Wholesale) Ice Cream or Fluid	25.33	25.83	26.35	26.88	27.42	27.96	28.80
Driver/Salesman (Wholesale) Combination Route Fluid & Ice Cream	25.56	26.07	26.60	27.13	27.67	28.22	29.07
Reliefman	26.23	26.75	27.29	27.84	28.39	28.96	29.83
Route Foreman	26.64	27.17	27.72	28.27	28.84	29.41	30.29
WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE "C" DRIVERS [NOT DRIVER/SALESMEN (Wholesale)]
	2.5%	2%	2%	2%	2%	2%	3%
Classification	Jan. 1/05	Oct. 1/05	Oct. 1/06	Oct. 1/07	Oct. 1/08	Oct. 1/09	Oct. 1/10
Route Foreman	26.67	27.20	27.75	28.30	28.87	29.45	30.33
Reliefman	26.23	26.75	27.29	27.84	28.39	28.96	29.83
Semi-Trailer Driver	25.53	26.04	26.56	27.10	27.64	28.19	29.04
Tanker Driver	25.47	25.98	26.50	27.03	27.57	28.12	28.97
Hauling Truck Driver	24.90	25.40	25.90	26.42	26.95	27.49	28.31
Special Delivery Driver	24.90	25.40	25.90	26.42	26.95	27.49	28.31
A premium of fifteen cents (150) per hour shall be paid Reliefman or Foreman while driving a Semi-Trailer.
When a Pup Trailer is added to the unit, the Driver will be paid five cents (50) per hour extra per pup axle over the Semi-Trailer rate while pulling the Pup.
45
WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE "D"
MAINTENANCE AND JANITORIAL
	2.5%	2%	2%	2%	2%	2%	3%
Classification	Jan. 1/05	Oct. 1/05	Oct. 1/06	Oct. 1/07	Oct. 1/08	Oct. 1/09	Oct. 1/10
Maintenance Foreman	30.37	30.98	31.60	32.23	32.87	33.53	34.54
Maintenance Man	28.62	29.19	29.77	30.37	30.98	31.60	32.54
Mechanic (Truck)	27.08	27.62	28.17	28.74	29.31	29.90	30.80
Trade Helper	25.14	25.65	26.16	26.68	27.22	27.76	28.59
Janitor	17.38	17.73	18.09	18.45	18.82	19.19	19.77
WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE "E"
OFFICE STAFF
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
	2.5%	2%	2%	2%	2%	2%	3%
Classification	Jan. 1/05	Oct. 1/05	Oct. 1/06	Oct. 1/07	Oct. 1/08	Oct. 1/09	Oct. 1/10
							
Category 1:							
Office Clerk	20.58	20.99	21.41	21.84	22.28	22.72	23.41
Relief Clerk	20.58	20.99	21.41	21.84	22.28	22.72	23.41
							
Category 2:							
Payroll Clerk	22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44	23.91	24.39	25.12
Accounts Payable Clerk	22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44	23.91	24.39	25.12
Senior Clerk	22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44	23.91	24.39	25.12
							
Category 3:							
Cost Accountant	22.94	23.40	23.87	24.34	24.83	25.33	26.09
Cassidy Senior Clerk to receive fifty cents (500) per hour above their current rate. Office Relief to receive the rate of position relieved.
46
PART-TIME SCHEDULE ”F”
The terms and conditions for Part-Time Employees shall be determined exclusively by Schedule “F” and its reference to the Collective Agreement.
Mutual Objectives	Applicable
Clause 1-9	Applicable
Clause 10	Clauses 10.01, 10.02, and 10.04 applicable, subject to provisions of 11.06; 10.03 applicable
Clause 11	Applicable, except as outlined under Clause 11.06 exclusions
Clause 12	Applicable, except for the reference to returning to a posted position
Clause 13-14	Applicable
Clause 15	Clause 15.01, 15.02 and 15.03 only applicable
Clause 16	Applicable
Clause 17-18	Applicable
Clause 19	Clauses 19.01, 19.02, 19.09, and 19.10 only applicable
Clause 20	Not applicable
Clause 21	Applicable
Clause 22	Clauses 22.01 and 22.08 only applicable
Clause 23	Applicable, except for 23.02, 23.03, 23.04, 23.05, 23.06 23.08, 23.09.
Clause 24	Clauses 24.01, 24.02, 24.03, 24.06, 24.08 and 24.09 are applicable
Clause 25	Applicable
Clause 26	Not applicable
Clause 27	Applicable
Clause 28	Applicable
Clause 29-31	Applicable
Wage & Classification Schedules “A”, “B”, “C”, “D” and “E”	Applicable
Schedule F	Applicable
Letter of Understanding: “A” Tool Insurance “B” Time Served At Bargaining Table “C” Education & Industry Enhancement	Applicable Applicable
Fund “D” Class 1 License for Cooler Freezer	Applicable
Employees “ E’ Special Early Retirement Program	Applicable
(SERP) “F” Grandfathering of Existing Part-	Not applicable
Time Employees “G” Banked Sick Leave-One Time Lump	Applicable
Sum Payment	Applicable
Appendix “A” Pension Plan	Applicable
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “A”
TOOL INSURANCE
It is agreed and understood that the Company will provide tool insurance for their maintenance staff at no cost to the employee, covering loss due to fire or theft (as per insurance regulations) to a maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
It is further agreed that the Company will reimburse these employees for any losses resulting from tool breakage occurring on the job.
A Tool Depreciation Allowance of ten percent (10%) of the value of tools to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per man per year shall also be provided.
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “B”
TIME SERVED AT BARGAINING TABLE
It is agreed to and understood that for one employee, the charge to the Union for time served at the bargaining table negotiating with management for the renewal of the Collective Agreement will be at the base rate and will not include fringe benefits.
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “C”
EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY ENHANCEMENT FUND
It is hereby agreed to and understood that effective April 1, 1994 the Company shall remit five cents (50) per hour worked on behalf of all benefit rated employees (as per Clause 11) to the Teamsters Local 464 Education and Industry Enhancement Fund. Payments shall be made quarterly in the month following each calendar quarter.
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “D”
CLASS 1 LICENSE FOR COOLER FREEZER EMPLOYEES
It is hereby agreed that the Class I License requirements for all Cooler, Freezer or Case Dock positions shall be as follows:
Foreman and Assistant Foreman	100%
Holiday Reliefman	100%
Loaders (cooler)	100%
Builders	None
Track	None
Case Dock	100%
Freezer (day shift)	One person per shift
Freezer (night shift)	One person per shift
B&B Cooler Warehouse	One person per shift
Part-time	50%
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “E”
SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT PROGRAM (SERP)
This Special Early Retirement Program has been negotiated to afford eligible employees the opportunity to commence their retirement earlier than the unreduced retirement age of sixty-four (64) years. SERP affords eligible employees a measure of security between the time that they retire early and their regular retirement age.
Scope
The program is available to Teamster employees of Island Farms who are regular Full-Time Employees.
Eligibility For Application To Program
Acceptance to the program is by written application from any employee who has either achieved or will have achieved sixty (60) years of age on or before January 1st of any given year. Written applications must be submitted on an approved Company application form and received by the Director of Human Resources between January 1st and January 30th of any given year (referred to as the open period).
Successful applicants will be eligible for early retirement at a “mutually agreed date” during the year in which the employee was approved for the SERP.
Criteria For Selection To Program
The Company reserves the right to designate the number of early retirements under this Program. Those eligible will be taken from the list of employees who have completed the necessary application.
Employees will qualify for the SERP based on the following “Retirement Credits”:
Employee’s Age + Years of Completed Continuous Service (at January 1st of each applicable year).
Notwithstanding the above criteria for selection (Retirement Credits), employees with a “bona fide disabling condition” that is medically certified to the satisfaction of the company shall have priority.
52
Program Components
Those employees who are accepted to the program will be eligible to receive the following:
A Early Retirement Allowance
This allowance will be calculated and paid to the employee as a lump sum as follows:
One weeks pay (regular base rate) is given for each year of completed service to the Company, up to a maximum of five (5) weeks.
B.	Core Benefits Continuation
The Company will continue to age sixty-four (64) for each eligible employee (and spouse) selected under the SERP, the following core benefits:
BC Medical
Dental (excluding Orthodontics)
Extended Health
C.	Pension Enhancement
Employees will receive monthly payments equivalent to the penalty discount to the unreduced retirement age of sixty-four (64) years.
D.	Tax Effective Options
The Company will assist eligible employees in assessing the payment options to employees so as to provide tax effectiveness (e.g. RRSPs).
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “F”
GRANDFATHERING OF EXISTING PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
It is agreed to and understood that any Part-Time Employee on the payroll at date of ratification will not be subject to the new provisions of the following Articles:
1.	Clause 18.01 - Wage progression for new employees
2.	Clause 19.02 - Probationary Period
3.	Clause 23.02 - Additional Statutory Holiday
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “G”
BANKED SICK LEAVE - ONE TIME LUMP SUM PAYMENT
On a one time only basis, within forty-five (45) days of ratification, employees may elect to receive all of their frozen balance taken in cash or contributed to the account of the employee’s RRSP. To make a contribution to the RRSP, employees must provide a copy of their 2004 income tax Notice of Assessment in order to demonstrate they have sufficient room to contribute to their RRSP.
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this__________________day of________________, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
55
APPENDIX "A"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT ISLAND FARMS
BASIC PLAN PROVISIONS
This plan shall operate pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3) to be named by the Union and three (3) to be named by the Company. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors, as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Company and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an Arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Company shall from time to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's
56
administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Company shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Company to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Company and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(j)	The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k)	The Company shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement:
(i)	nine percent (9%) of gross earnings to September 30, 2005.
(ii)	nine and one third percent (9.33%) of gross earnings from October 1,2005 to September 30, 2007.
(iii)	nine and two thirds percent (9.66%) of gross earnings from October 1, 2007 to September 30, 2009.
(iv)	ten percent (10%) of gross earnings from October 1, 2009 to September 30, 2011.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day following achievement of benefit status whether said employees are permanent, temporary, seasonal or Full-Time or Part-Time Employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his gross earnings shall be forwarded by the Company to the Custodian of the assets of the Plan
57
designated by the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Company shall also submit to the Phn Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the gross earnings upon which the Company's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1)	It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.
58