TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Alpha Milk Company and its branches at Calgary, Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, Banff, Stettler & Edmonton
and
Miscellaneous Employees Teamsters Union Local 987 of Alberta
Article No.
1.	Intent and Purpose ......................
2.	Management Control ......................
3.	Employees Included ......................
4.	Union Security	.................
5.	Bargain with Ratification................
6.	Continuity of Work ......................
7.	Seniority	.................
8.	Hours of Work	.................
9.	Wages	...............■■■■
10.	Annual Vacations ........................
11.	Paid Holidays	.................
12.	Shop Stewards	.................
13.	Grievance Procedure .....................
14.	Mutual Interest	.................
15.	Health and Welfare ......................
16.	Industrial Standards Act. 18.............
17.	Renewal Industrial Standards Schedule....
18.	Duration, Termination and Amendments..
1
1
1
1,2
2
2
2-5
5-8
8
9- 11 11
11,12 12 - 14 14 - 17
17
18 18 T?
OO'AOZO^
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
ALPHA MILK COMPANY and its branches at Calgary, Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, Banff, Stettler and Edmonton
hereinafter called the "Company"
AND
MISCELLANEOUSEMPLOYEES
TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA
hereinafter called the "Union"
PAGE 1
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: ARTICLE 1 - INTENT AND PURPOSE
1:01 It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain an efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products, to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its Employees, and to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT CONTROL
2:01 Responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively with the Management.
Management personnel will not perform duties of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3 - EMPLOYEES INCLUDED
3:01 The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all Employees
including Route Supervisors of the Company at Calgary, Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, Banff, Stettler and Edmonton who belong to the craft or crafts included in the Union, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall exclude specifically office workers and Employees engaged in any kind of supervision who have the right to hire, discharge or change the status of Employees except for Route Supervisors.
3:02 Probationary Employees retained as permanent staff shall be deemed to be on permanent staff as of the date of commencing the most recent period of continuous employment. Seniority provisions of this Agreement shall be effective from the date, subject to the one hundred and twenty (120) days probationary period described in Article 7:02.
3:03 Gender:	Except where specifically stated to the contrary or where
these requires the contrary, use of the term "he", "him" or "his" , throughout this Agreement will be considered to also mean "she", "her", or "hers".
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4:01 The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for Union membership and dues deductions which shall be signed by all new Employees on the day on which the new Employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the Union and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment. The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for pension benefits, these forms shall be signed on the day of which the new Employee is hired. All completed copies are to be sent to the Union office.
PAGE 2
TERM MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
4:02 Upon written request of an Employee, the Company will, in accordance with the tenor of the request, deduct the Employee's initiation fee and monthly Union dues, remitting same, together with a list of the Employees from whom the deductions have been made to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union on or before the 15th day of the following calendar month in which the dues are deducted.
4:03 The Company agrees to supply the Shop Steward of the Department concerned with a list of the new Employees each month.
4:04 It is agreed by the Employer and the Union that no Employee will
make or be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - BARGAIN WITH AND RATIFICATION
5:01 Pursuant to the corresponding Certificates of Certification issued by the Labour Relations Board, the Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the Employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, and will bargain only with the Union, and duly appointed representatives thereof, on behalf of the Employees of the Company.
5:02 This Agreement will be ratified by Union member Employees, whose
decision will be final, and neither Union members employed by other companies, nor non-Union employees employed by the Company, shall have any voice in ratifying this Agreement or amendments thereof that may be made in the future.
ARTICLE 6 - CONTINUITY OF WORK
6:01 There shall be no cessation of work, or slow down of any kind by the Employees, or lock-out by the Company, during the time this Agreement is in force, or in the process of being renewed or amended.
6:02 In the event of any other milk company or companies having
difficulty in production and/or distribution by reason of a dispute between such company or companies and its or their employees, the Company will not require the Employees to which this Agreement applies to perform the additional work to that which they ordinarily perform, and the Employees agree to perform their usual work as though such dispute did not exist.
6:03 No Employee covered by this Agreement shall be required to cross any legal picket line.
6:04 The business agent is allowed to visit the Company premises, but shall not conduct Union business on Company time.
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY
7:01 Seniority shall be based on the length of continuous service an Employee has been on the payroll.
TERM-
7:02
7:03
7:04
MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 3
A probationary period of one hundred and twenty (120) days on the payroll shall apply in the case of each new Employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an Employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Compny shall not be obligated to re-hire such an Employee. After having completed this probationary period, or upon being recalled within nine (9) months after being laid off, the Employee's seniority and service records shall date back to the beginning of his employment.
An Employee's seniority shall prevail in consideration of all applications for jobs as classified in Appendix "A" above the rank of "Group 4" and excluding the classification of "Route Supervisor" with merit and ability being considered. Employees desiring a transfer to a full time position in classification Group 4 shall do so, in writing, to the plant superintendent. Based upon the employee's seniority and ability, the company shall award the next vacant position to said employee(s) before hiring from the outside. The twenty (20) day qualifying period in 7:04(b) will not apply.
The previous job will be posted in accordance with the contract.
a)	When a vacancy or a new job is created it will be posted, in each department, on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days during which period an Employee, with seniority, may make written application for such vacancy. Employees within the department containing such vacancy will be given first consideration for vacancy.
Any immediate changes to a job that is posted will be made prior to posting.
b)	The successful applicant will be advised within five (5) working days of the expiry of the five (5) working day posting period. Upon filling the vacancy, the successful applicant will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify for a period of twenty (20) working days following a placement resulting from the successful bidding for a job vacancy, the employee shall be permitted to return to his former job. The Company shall also have the right to return such employee to his former job within (20) working days if he is found incapable of satifcatorily performing the duties of the job vacancy. Should he be returned, the job will not be reposted but will be filled by the second senior candidate on the original posting.
c)	The company will maintain a position up to 12 consecutive months for employees on Worker's Compensation (W.C.S.) or company disability. Employee's returning to work after 12 consecutive months on Worker's Compensation (W.C.S.) or disability will be given duties as assigned.
d)	The successful applicant will be selected by the Company and such selection shall be made in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
e)	The Company reserves the right to place non-commissioned wholesale drivers on whatever route(s) it deems necessary.
PAGE 4
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
7:05 In determining vacancies, promotions, demotions, lay-offs and recall, seniority shall be on a Departmental basis, as follows:
The following departments shall apply: Calgary
A - Production plant and shipping B - Home Service
C - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales D - Garage Staff E - Lab Staff F - Cheese Department G - Maintenance & Engineering
Lethbridge
A - Plant & Shipping Department B - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff C - Home Service Sales Staff D - Garage E - Maintenance
Medicine Hat
A - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff B - Shipping Department C - Cheese Factory, Lab & Maintenance
Red Deer
A - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff B - Shipping & Receiving C - Maintenance
Stettler, Edmonton & Banff
A - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff (Commissioned & Non-Commissioned)
B - Shipping & Receiving (if applicable)
C - Maintenance (if applicable)
7:06 In the event of a reduction in staff in a Department, the junior Employee of the Department shall be the first subject to lay-off, except, if he is capable of performing the work of the most junior Employee within the branch, the latter Employee will be subject to lay-off.
7:07 The Company agrees to re-hire on a seniority basis, Employees who have been laid off for a period not exceeding nine (9) consecutive months, providing the Employee is capable of performing the duties of the vacancy, with seniority from the first day of employment with the Company prior to being laid off.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93	PAGE 5
7:08 A list showing the seniority of each Employee, based on the length of service an Employee has been on the payroll, shall be compiled and kept posted on the bulletin boards. This list shall be revised every three (3) months and posted on the bulletin boards. Any errors shall be reported to the Chairman of the Shop Stewards for correction.
7:09 An Employee shall lose all seniority rights and his Employee status with the Company shall be be cancelled in all repects if he:
a)	voluntarily leaves the Company,
b)	is discharged for just cause,
c)	is laid off by the Company for a period exceeding nine (9) consecutive months.
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK
The working hours of all Employees covered by this Agreement shall be:
8:01 Commissioned Wholesale Drivers (Banff, Stettler, Edmonton)
a)	Days of work shall be four (4) ten-hour days or five (5)
eight-hour days. There shall be two (2) consecutive days off, one of which shall be Sunday. Banff may schedule five (5) eight-hour days between September 15th and May 15th of the following year.
b)	Daily maximum - Ten (10) hours
Weekly maximum - forty (40) hours
c)	Overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2)
times the driver's base rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week if scheduled on a four (4) day basis or eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours if scheduled on a five (5) day basis.
(d) There shall be two fifteen-minute paid coffee breaks per day. There shall be one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
8:02 Non-Commissioned Wholesale Drivers
-(Calgary, Red Deer, Lethbridge, Medicine Hat)
a) Days of work shall be four (4) ten hour days or five (5) eight
hour days. There shall be two (2) consecutive days off, one of which shall be Sunday.
b)	Drivers shall only be paid for actual hours worked but the
company shall endeavor, where practical, to reasonably schedule close to a forty (40) hour work week.
c)	Overtime at one and one half times the hourly rate shall apply
to all hours worked over eight (8) hours if scheduled on a five (5) day basis or ten (10) hours if scheduled on a four (4) day basis.
TERM MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 6
d)	There shall be two (2) fifteen-minute paid coffee breaks per day. There shall be one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
8:03 Lab Staff and Medicine Hat Cheese Factory
The Company shall have the flexibility of scheduling the days and hours of work for all Employees. They shall be scheduled on either a four (4) or five (5) day basis with two (2) consecutive days off each week. No split shifts.
8:04 All Other Employees
a)	Ten (10) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, four (4) days per week, or eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, five (5) days per week. While the intent is to provide forty (40) hours of work per week to the full-time ice cream packagers, it is understood that there are fluctuations in the business whereby it may be necessary to schedule less than this amount.
It is understood and agreed that any change from ten (10) hour work days to eight (8) hour work days will be with the mutual consent of the Union and will only be implemented at the first of a calendar week and only if a minimum of seven (7) calendar days' notice has been given by the Company.
b)	The Company shall have the flexibility of scheduling the days
and hours of work for those Employees associated with the Wholesale delivery. Specifically they are those Employees in the following areas:
-	coolers
-	freezers
-	checkers
-	loader/shipper
-	case room workers
These Employees' days and hours of work shall be scheduled on either a four (4) or five (5) day basis.
c)	All hours worked in excess of ten (10) in the day and or forty
(40) in the week and four (4) days work per week, shall be considered as overtime, and paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the Employee's rate of pay.
d)	In the event any changes are to take place in the Employee's
days of rest, forty-eight (48) hours' notice shall be given to the Employees affected by the change (not applicable in cases of emergency, i.e. fire, flood or act of God).
e)	Employees required to work any of their regular daily shifts
outside of the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. shall be paid a shift differential of:	sixty cents (60^) per hour for all hours
of their regular daily shift worked prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 6:00p.m. Shift differential shall not apply to overtime hours worked. This clause shall apply to wholesale non-commissioned drivers.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93	PAGE 7
f)	All inside staff shall receive two (2) fifteen-minute paid coffee breaks. One such break in the first half of the shift and one in the second half of the shift. There shall be a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
8:05 Days of Rest
The parties agree that unless otherwise agreed by an Employee, the Collective Agreement which provides for two (2) consecutive days off, one of which shall be a Sunday, will continue to apply to any employee on the payroll as of April 19, 1988 who was enjoying the provision at that time. Hours of work for Employees hired thereafter will be four (4) ten (10) hour days or five (5) eight (8) hour days.
8:06 Record of Hours
The Company agrees that an accurate record of hours of work for all Employees covered by this Agreement shall be kept, and no Employee shall record or be asked to record times other than their actual hours of work. All time cards shall be signed by the Employee, and by the Supervisor in charge, and all Employees shall be paid in accordance with the time cards.
Such records shall be available to the Union for inspection on request.
8:07 Call In
Where an Employee is called to work on one of his scheduled days off, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the overtime rate.
An Employee who has left the Company's premises and is specially called outside of his scheduled hours for emergency work shall be througth when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, he shall be paid four (4) hours at his job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is greater.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employee's scheduled hours or if the Employee leaves after eight hours even though such departure from the premises precedes his regular scheduled end of shift. Employees called in early will have the right to work their regular shift.
8:08 Summer Relief and Part-time Employees
The Company may employ summer relief and part-time Employees under the following conditions:
a)	To supplement the regular work force, to provide additional help on an incidental basis to cover work periods and other such time to cover an absent Employee.
PAGE 8
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
b)	Part-time and Summer Relief Employees shall not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement or prevents the hiring or recall of full-time Employees.
c)	Each part-time and Summer Relief Employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay each month Union dues in accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement for those months in which the Employee has earnings.
d)	A part-time Employee employed under the conditions set out in Clauses a), b) and c) above shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
e)	Part-time Employee will be paid the wage rate as set out in Appendix 'A' of this Agreement and should they be employed in classifications covered in Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3, then the appropriate wage shall apply.
f)	Part-time Employees shall be given first opportunity to qualify as regular Employees and be placed at the bottom of the seniority list if they meet all qualifications and their seniority date will be the date in which they become a full-time Employee.
g)	Summer relief shall be defined as those Employees hired between April 1st and September 15th of any calendar year for the purpose of temporarily replacing vacationing regular Employees. When a permanent vacancy occurs under Article 7:03 it will be posted as provided therein.
h)	A Summer Relief Employee will be paid at the Summer Relief Rate regardless of the classification in which he works. The "Inexperienced Help" section of the Agreement shall not apply to Summer Relief.
i)	Seniority will not accumulate during the period between April 1st and September 15th inclusive, but in the event a Summer Relief Employee is retained as a regular Employee after September 15th, his probationary period under Article 7:02 will commence as of September 16th. Should he satisfactorily complete such probationary period, his seniority date will be established as his original date of hire as a "Summer Relief' Employee.
j)	The Company will maintain in each department a list of part time employees and the total hours each part time employee has worked on a four (4) week basis. The shop steward will be granted access to said information on a "as requested" basis.
ARTICLE 9 - WAGES
9:01 Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix "A" setting forth the wage rates and classifications of all Employees covered by this Agreement.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 9
ARTICLE 10 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
Annual vacations with pay shall be granted to all Employees covered by this Agreement, on the following basis:
10:01 Time off
a)	Those Employees with less than one year, prior to March 1 of
each year, one (1) day for each 208 hours actually worked. (Vacation time not to exceed 80 hours).
b)	Those Employees with one (1) year's continuous employment and
less than four (4) years, prior to March 1 of each year, two (2) weeks annual vacation.
c)	Those Employees with four (4) years continuous employment and
less than eleven (11) years, prior to March 1 of each year, three (3) weeks annual vacation.
d)	Those Employees with eleven (11) years and less than twenty-two
(22) years of continuous employment, prior to March 1 of each year, four (4) weeks annual vacation.
e)	Those Employees with twenty-two (22) years or more of continuous
employment, prior to March 1 of each year, five (5) weeks annual vacation.
10:02 Calgary - Nine (9) Holiday Schedules
i)	Drivers - Wholesale (on a swing basis, six (6) routes per swing).
ii)	Home Service (on a swing basis, five (5) routes per swing) .
iii)	Ice Cream Storage,
iv)	Ice cream,
v)	Milk Plant,
vi)	Shipping.
vii)	Maintenance.
viii)	Garage.
ix)	Lab.
Lethbridge - Four (4) Holiday Schedules
i)	Drivers - Wholesale (on a swing basis, 5 routes per swing).
ii)	Home Service (on a swing basis).
iii)	Plant.
iv)	Maintenance and Garage.
Medicine Hat - Five (5) Holiday Schedules
i)	Drivers.
ii)	Milk Depot Staff.
iii)	Cheese Warehouse.
iv)	Cheese Packaging,
v)	Cheese Manufacturing.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 10
Stettler - one (1) schedule.
Banff - Two (2) Schedules.
i) Drivers. ii) Plant Staff.
a)	Employees on each schedule shall choose their vacation dates in order of seniority. The senior Employee will choose his vacation date first, and should he decide, in accordance with the selection procedure herein contained, to split his vacation into two periods he shall not make his second selection until all other Employees on the schedule have made their first selection. No Employee, on his first selection, may take more than three continuous weeks vacation during the months of May to September inclusive. The next senior Employee will follow the same procedure and so on down the schedule until all Employees have made their selections.
b)	An Employee may take his entire vacation in one continuous period during the month of October to April. However, the period from December 15 to January 2 is excluded, all employees referred to in this secion shall be allowed their annual vacation within the calendar year, January through December 15.
c)	An Employee shall be entitled to thirty (30) days advance notice
of any change of his vacation date allocation, provided that such change is caused by anything other than sickness or accident, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the parties involved.	(
d)	Sixty (60) days prior to the vacation period of each Department, a vacation schedule shall be distributed by the Supervisor in charge, allowing each employee of the Department to choose his vacation period. Provided operations are not impared, selection of vacation periods will be in accordance with seniority.
e)	Employee (s) who qualify for the added week of vacation following years 4, 11 & 22 will receive the extra week within 365 days after their anniversary date. This time will be granted by mutual agreement.
10:03 When during the course of a working year, in respect of which an
Employee has not received an annual vacation, the Employer shall, on
cessation of employment, pay to the Employee, in lieu of an annual
vacation and in addition to all other amounts due to him as follows:
a)	In the case of an Employee who has worked less than four (4) years, prior to March 1st, an amount equal to four per cent (4%) of his regular pay for the period of his employment in that year.
b)	In the case of an Employee who has four (4) years continuous
employment and less than eleven (11) years prior to March 1st in any year, an amount equal to six per cent (6%) of his regular pay for the period of his employment in that year.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 11
c)	In the case of an Employee who has eleven (11) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1st in any year, an amount equal to eight per cent (8%) of his regular pay for the period of his employment in that year.
d)	In the case of an Employee who has twenty-two (22) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1st, in any year, an amount equal to ten per cent (10%) of his employment in that year.
ARTICLE 11 - PAID HOLIDAYS
11:01 Every Employee shall be entitled to the following Holidays with pay, except that an Employee, if scheduled to work on his regular working day preceding and following a Paid Holiday, must work on those days to be entitled to pay for the Paid Holiday, unless absent due to illness verified by a doctor's certificate.
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
August Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
11:02 Should it be required to work any of the above Paid Holidays in
Article 11:01, two weeks notice will be given, or should they fall on an Employee's regular day of rest or during his annual vacation, he shall be compensated in addition to his regular salary as follows:
a)	For Paid Holidays falling upon an Employee's regular day of rest, a day in lieu, at a time mutually agreed on or a day's pay, at rates of pay or a day added to his annual vacation. It will be the employees choice whether to accept a day off or a days pay.
b)	For hours worked on the day of the holiday, or on an Employee's regular day of rest, pay at one and one half ( 1 1/2) times basic rate of pay.
ARTICLE 12 - SHOP STEWARDS
12:01 There shall be elected from the Employees, by the Employees, not
less than five (5) Shop Stewards, and as many as are agreed upon by the Company and the Shop Stewards Committee, all of whom shall have been continuously employed by the Company for not less than six (6) months. The elected Shop Stewards shall appoint a chairman from among themselves. Their duties shall be to see that the members of the Union abide by the rules and regulations of the Company, the Union, and the terms of this Agreement.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 12
12:02 The Management agrees to hold, once a month, a meeting of the Shop Stewards, to discuss all difficulties that may arise, as well as discuss the good and welfare	of the Company	and its Employees.
12:03	Shop Stewards,	the number to	be agreed upon	between local Management
and the Union, all of whom shall be Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of such Stewards.
12:04	The Union will	elect and the	Company agrees	to recognize a Grievance
Committee, the	number agreed	upon between local Management and the
Union, whom shall be Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have atttained seniority. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be furnished to the Company.
12:05 Grievance meetings with the Grievance Committee shall be conducted at times suitable to the operation of the business, by arrangement between Company Management and the Chief Shop Steward. The Company will 'pay members of the Grievance Committee at their regular rates for time spent at meeting of the Grievance Committee with Management Representatives during regular working hours.
12:06 Before leaving his job or his Department in connection with any
grievance, a Shop Steward or member of the Grievance Committee must first obtain permission from the Supervisor of his Department.
Should the grievance require such Steward or member of the Grievance Committee to go into another Department, he must first report to the person in charge of the Department.
ARTICLE 13 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13:01 Should any alleged grievance arise as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, such grievance shall be processed within ten (10) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance have originated or occurred, in the following manner and sequence:
FIRST STEP
Between the aggrieved Employee, with the Shop Steward, and his Department Head. The decision of the Department Head shall be given within three (3) working days following presentation of the grievance. Failing settlement, then,
SECOND STEP
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the first step, a meeting will be held between the Shop Steward and the Branch Manager. The decision of the Branch Manager shall be given within three (3) working days of such meeting. Failing settlement, then,
PAGE 13
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93 THIRD STEP
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the second step a meeting will be held between the Union Grievance Committee and a Committee designated by the Company. A staff representative of the Union will be present at the request of either the Company or the Union. A decision under this step will be given within five (5) working days following such meeting. The grievance will be presented in writing at this step by the grieving party. Failing settlement, then,
If the grievance remains unsettled, then within ten (10) working days of the date of the decision under the third step the grievance shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration as provided herein.
13:02 The term "working days” for purposes of this Article shall not be deemed to include Saturdays, Sundays and Paid Holidays.
13:03 If the Company wishes to grieve to the Union against any action of the Union, its officers or members, the foregoing procedure may be followed commencing with the second step.
If an Employee, who has completed the probationary period, has an alleged grievance that he has been unjustly discharged, he shall notify the Company through the Grievance Committee within three (3) working days after date of separation stating the reason of objection to the discharge and the grievance will be considered commencing with the second step of Article 13:01.
13:04 Should any grievance arise directly between the Company and the
Union as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the grievance shall be taken up commencing at the second step of Article 13:01.
13:05 Pending settlement of any grievance, the aggrieved Employee shall perform the duties assigned to him.
13:06 a) If the Union and the Company cannot reach a settlement,
following the third step of the Grievance Procedure, and upon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to the Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members. The Company and the Union shall each select one (1) member, and the third member within seven (7) days shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two (2) members first selected. The third member shall be impartial and possess knowledge of Labour Management relations. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board.
If agreement cannot be reached within seven(7) days, in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta who shall appoint a Chairman. No person involved directly in the controversy under consideration shall be a member of the Board of Arbitration.
TERM - MAY 1/911-Q APRIL 30/93	PAGE 14
b)	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider material
evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
c)	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to
change, modify or alter any of the terms of the contract. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this contract, and shall not depend on, or involve, an issue or contention by either party which is contrary to any provision of this contract, or which involves the determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this contract.
d)	The findings and decision of the Board of Arbitration on all
arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
e)	The expense of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the
parties of the Arbitration.
f)	The Company and the Union may agree to a single arbiter, jointly
selected rather than a Board consisting of three (3) members.
ARTICLE 14 - MUTUAL INTEREST
14:01 The Union agrees that it will further the interests of the Company at all times to the limit of its ability.
14:02 To comply with the Order of the Public Utilities Board, no Home
Service Driver Sales Staff shall sell or be required to sell, any milk or dairy products for credit, or for other than cash or cash equivalent.
14:03 Driver Sales Staff shall make every effort to collect cash for
N.S.F.cheques. All N.S.F. cheques over two months old shall be written off the driver's book.
14:04 a) When a commissioned wholesale route is split and a vacancy is
created by the split, the Driver whose route is so divided shall have the choice of the two routes.
b) When a commissioned wholesale route is split and/or cut, the commission of said Driver for the following six (6) pay periods shall be based on the average commission earned by the said Driver for the six (6) pay periods prior to the division or cut.
14:05 a) An Employee promoted under Article 7:04 shall receive the higher rate when he becomes qualified, but such qualifying period for purposes of rate application will not exceed twenty (20) working days.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 15
b) Employees temporarily working on jobs of a higher rated
classification shall not be paid the higher rate for the first four (4) hours of work. If however, the employee works at least for (4) hours, he/she shall receive the higher rated pay for the entire day. If he/she shall work in excess of twenty (20) hours in a given week on a higher rated job he/she will receive the higher rate for the entire week.
14:06 a) Any classification not included in this Agreement, any change in classification, or any change in method constituting a change in classification, shall be negotiated between the Company and the Union, at the time it comes into existence. If the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
b) On any new product or container size introduced for sale, a
commission rate shall be negotiated and established between the Company and the Union. If negotiations are not satisfactorily concluded, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
14:07 Before putting into effect any further curtailment of milk delivery during the life of this Agreement, Article 6 - Hours of Work, and Appendix "A", Wages and Classifications, shall be reopened for negotiations , and agreement reached on revision of same.
14:08 a) Employees shall be paid bi-weekly.
b) Commission shall be calculated up to the last working day of a week pay period, and included in the following four week pay period.
c)	All Employees shall be given a statement with each four week pay period pay cheque , showing overtime hours worked, if any, units sold, Home Service and Wholesale, base pay and commissions, and how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any.
d)	All Drivers shall receive commissions on any delivery made to their regular routes, unless the delivery was made because of Driver neglect.
14:09 Jury Duty or Subpoenaed as a Crown Witness
The Company shall continue to pay an Employee for scheduled hours at his regular wage for time he is away due to being sommoned to serve Jury Duty. Within one (1) month of the Employee's return to work he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the Employee will report to work during regular hours that he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the Court Office if requested by the Company.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
PAGE 16
14:10 Leave of Absence
a)	Leave of absence may be granted to an Employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the Employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. Since it is the desire of the Company, the Union, and employees to allow as many employees as possible to take their regular vacation during the prime vacation time of May to September and during the Christmas/New Year Day week, applications for leave of absence during those periods will be restricted to absolute emergencies as defined by the Company.
b)	If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, a written application shall be made by the Employee to the Company, and if leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing.
c)	Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence, but where leave exceeds one (1) calendar month, the employee will be required to repay all premiums on any benefits to which he is entitled.
14:11 Compassionte Leave
That application for compassionate leave of absence must be made to the Department Head and approved by the Manager. In the event of death in the immediate family, leave of absence shall be granted for the purpose of attending the funeral. The length of such absence with pay shall be at the discretion of the Manager. "Immediate Family" shall mean Spouse, Parents, Child, Brother, Sister, Grandparents, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law.
14:12 a) Uniform - Plant/Garage Employee
The Company will provide and launder, without charge, designated outer work clothing required by plant, lab, maintenance & garage Employees in the performance of their duties. It is understood and agreed that such clothing will be treated with proper care by the Employee and will not be removed from Company premises under any circumstances.
b) Uniforms - Delivery Employees
As a condition of employment , all delivery personnel shall wear only Company approved uniforms in the performance of their duties which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times.
Employees with more than one year seniority shall be provided with a Company uniform consisting initially of a jacket, two shirts, two pair of pants and an outer jacket, if required. Replacement items will be provided as required upon the return of worn out items.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93	PAGE 17
c) Safety Footwear
As a condition of employment, all plant, maintenance, shipping, garage and truck drivers shall be required to wear company approved safety footwear. Full time Employees who have completed their probationary period, as of February 1 of each year will receive a footwear allowance of seventy five ($75.00) dollars at that time.
ARTICLE 15 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company is to pay for yearly medical examinations for all drivers compelled by law to take the examination.
15:01 Pension Plan
Effective May 1, 1990 contributions to the Teamsters Pension Plan shall be eighty cents (80/) per hour for all hours worked (including vacation & holiday pay but excluding overtime). This shall be increased to 85/ per hour effective May 1, 1992. The maximum hours will be 173 per month. Contributions will start on the day an employee begins work for the company.
It is agreed that the Teamsters Pension Plan as adminstered by Miscellaneous Employees, Teamsters Local Union 987 of Alberta Province of Alberta will be amended to provide the following:
a)	To provide for both Union and Company Trustees and that one such Company Trustee will be appointed by Alpha Milk Company.
b)	There will be no contributions by 'the Company to the Pension
Plan for hours worked by students and part-time Employees.
Re:	Contributions on behalf of part-time and summer students;
the Company will make any contributions on behalf of a part-time and/or summer student as required under the Alberta Pension Act.
15:02 Dental Plan
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification or upon introduction, whichever first occurs, implement the 1991 Alberta Dental Schedule.
Adopt the 1991 and 1992 Alberta Dental Schedule when introduced. 15:03 Short Term Disability Plan - see Company Benefit Plan.
15:04 Long Term Disability Plan - see Company Benefit Plan.
TERM - MAY 1/91 TO APRIL 30/93
ARTICLE 16 - INDUSTRIAL STANDARDSACT
PAGE 18
16:01 The Industry shall be kept under an Industrial Standards Schedule, based on the minimums of the Agreement, for the protection of all parties.
ARTICLE 17 - RENEWAL INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE
17:01 The Company and the Union agree to make a joint application to the Board of Industrial Relations to revise and bring up to date the Industrial Standards Schedule Dairy Industry, Calgary zone, whenever necessary by the Advisory Committee.
ARTICLE 18 - DURATION, TERMINATION AND AMENDMENTS
18:01 This Agreement shall be in full force and effect as of the 1st day of May, 1991 and continue in full force and effect through the 30th. day of April, 1993 and from year to year thereafter except as hereinafter provided.
18:02 Either party may terminate this Agreement on any anniversary date, by notice in writing to the other party, not less than sixty (60) days prior to such anniversary date of this Agreement.
18:03 If amendments are desired by either party to become effective in the next ensuing year, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not less than ninety (90) days before the last day of April in any year, and negotiations on such amendments shall be commenced within twenty (20) days of the receipt of said notice.
SIGNED AT Red Deer, Alberta, this
o f
t
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
ALPHA MILK COMPANY Calgary, Alberta
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES LOCAL, Union No. 987, Calgary, Alberta
APPENDIX “A”
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION 1	RATES PER HOUR
Mav 1. 1991
Group 1
Plant Staff
Automatic Control Panel	15.11
Operator - Milk & Ice Cream Automatic CIP Operator (Full Time)
Group 2
A - Lab Staff (Calgary &
Medicine Hat)	15.03
B - Ice Cream Mix Maker	14.95
Ice Cream Maker	14.95
Milk Receiver/Grader	14.95
Head Shipper *	14.95
* Red Deer & Edmonton	15.95
Group 3
Aseptic Creamer Operator, Pur-Pak	14.58
Operator, Pouch Machine Operator
Novelty Machine Operator
Bulk Dispenser Machine Operator
Jug Filler - Operator, Head Milk
Storage Man, Head Checker-In
Group 4
Other experienced employees	14.29
Group 5
13.47
Mav 1.1992
15.61
15.53
15.45
15.45
15.45
15.45
16.45
15.08
14.79
13.97
Packagers
Group 6
Summer Relief	10.13	10.63
Part Time	10.42	10.92
Part Time hired prior to April	19,1988	11.47	11.97
Other: The following other “skilled” rates apply to the Medicine Hat Cheese Factory and Calgary Cheese Packaging Plant.
Cheese Maker	16.21	16.71
Ass’t Cheesemaker	14.68	15.18
Packaging Machine Operator	14.58	15.08
“Lead Hand” designated by the Company will be paid $1.00 per hour over and above his rate.
SECTION 2	RATES PER HOUR
May 1, 1991	Mav 1. 1992
Mechanical & Dock
Truck Mechanic (with papers)*	16.74	17.24
over 6 months
Truck Mechanic (with papers)*	16.09	16.59
First 6 months
Apprentice Mechanic Over*	14.88	15.38
4 years
Apprentice Mechanic *	14.83	15.33
3 to 4 years
Apprentice Mechanic *	14.75	15.25
2-3 years
14.74	15.24
Apprentice Mechanic* 1-2 years
Garage Serviceman
14.57
15.07
Garage Staff
14.34
14.84
Maintenance Man & 4th Class Engineer
15.42
15.92
* Will also apply to “truck refrigeration mechanic”
Note 1 - A “Special Skilled Rate” of $2.00 per hour above the plant maintenance may be granted, There shall be a semi-annual review made by a joint committee consisting of the Branch Manager, Department Supervisors and Shop Steward. While the company maintains the right to determine the number of “special skilled” personnel at each location, initially four (4) individuals will be so designated in Calgary and two (2) in Lethbridge.
2 - Garage and plant mechanics required to provide their own tools will receive a $100.00/year tool allowance.
SECTION 3
RATES PER HOUR
Wholesale (Non Commissioned) Wholesale (Non Commissioned) Supervisor
May 1. 1991 16.00
17.00
Non Commissioned Delivery Staff (Dock) 14.57
Non Commissioned Delivery Staff (Dock) 15.07 (Tractor/Trailer)
Mav 1. 1992
16.50
17.50 15.07 15.57
Commissioned City Sales staff (milk combination or ice cream) (base)
14.61
15.36
Country Drivers
(to include combination sales staff)
Commissioned Driver Sales Staff (Combination)
14.36
14.41
14.86
14.91
Stetter (Working Supervisor)
16.70
17.20
Section 4
The following wage progression rates shall apply to new employees except for Maintenance, Mechanics, Cheesemakers, Assistant Cheesemaker, Summer Relief and Part Time.
$2.00 per hour less than the scheduled rate during the first year.
$1.00 per hour less than the scheduled rate during the second year.
Section 5
Any classification not included in this Agreement, any change in classification, or any change in method constituting a change in classification, shall be negotiated between the Company and the union at the time it comes into existence. If the parties fail to reach an Agreement, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding award.
APPENDIX "B
COMMISSIONS
(A) UNIT STRUCTURE WHOLESALE
1
2
3
4
5
6
Fluid Milk & Cream
1 - Litre Milk (Any Type)	One Unit	(1)
1 - Litre Cereal Cream	Two Units	(2)
1 - Carton/Bag (160) Creamers/Milkers	Two Units	(2)
1 - Litre Whipping Cream	Four Units	(4)
Feature Products
1 - Litre Egg Nog/Cordial 1 - Carton/Bag (160) Koffee Kreamers 1 - 225g Dairyworld Aerosol Whip 1 - 400g Dairyworld Aerosol Whip 1 - Litre Mix (Ice Cream, Milkshake, Yogourt)
Fruit Drink/Juice
1 - Litre
Cultured Products 1 - Kg Cottage Cheese 1 - Kg Yogourt 1 - Litre Yop 1 - Litre Sour Cream
Cheese
1 - Kg Cheddar, Processed & Other Butter/Butter Oil/Margarine 1 ■ Kg Ice Cream 1 - Litre Novelties 1 - Dozen Honey l-Kg
Skim Milk Powder
Two Units	(2)
Two Units	(2)
One Unit	(1)
Two Units	(2)
Two Units	(2)
One Unit (1)
Four Units	(4)
Four Units	(4)
Four Units	(4)
Four Units	(4)
Two Units (2)
Two Units (2)
One Unit (1)
One Unit (1)
Four Units (4)
(1)
l-Kg
One Unit
-2 -
Appendix "B"
(B)
1.
2
3
4
5
COMMISSION RATES PAID Wholesale and City Combination
a)	No commission the first eighteen thousand, four hundred and sixty-two (18,462) units per pay period.
b)	On all units over eighteen thousand, four hundred and sixty-two (18,462) units per pay period, point four four cents (.440) commission paid per unit.
c)	Feature products paid at a rate of one cent (10) per unit.
d)	Ice Cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid at one cent (10) per litre.
e)	Novelties sold as per the daily sales sheets, will be paid for at one and one-half (11/2 0) per dozen.
Supervisors
a)	Wholesale - No Commission (Calgary, Lethbridge, Medicine Hat & Red Deer)
- Average Commission Earned Per Pay Period (Banff, Edmonton &
Stettler)
b)	Retail - Average Commission Earned Per Pay Period Depot Working SupervisoriS-tettlerl
No commission paid.
Citv Ice Cream Driver Sales Staff
Ice cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid at one cent (10) per litre.
One and one half cents (11/2 0) per dozen on novelties sold as per daily sales sheets.
Country Drivers
a)	Noncommissioned Driver Sales Staff
No commission paid, but paid actual road expenses.
b)	Commissioned Driver Sales Staff Combination
i)	No commission on the first six thousand, two hundred and seventy-seven (6,277) units sold per pay period. Point eight eight cents (.880) per unit on all units sold over six thousand, two hundred and seventy-seven (6,277) units per pay period.
-3 -
Appendix "B"
ii)	Feature products will be paid at one cent (10) per unit.
iii)	Ice Cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid for at one cent (10) per litre.
Novelties paid at one and one half cents ( 11/2 0) per dozen sold as per daily sales sheets.
c)	Commissioned Sales Staff Ice Cream
Ice Cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid at one cent (10)
Novelties paid at one and one-half cents (11/20) per dozen sold as per daily sales
6.	Home Service Drivers
As per Letter of Understanding, with the exception of “Butter” which shall be paid at five cents (50) per unit.
per litre. sheets.
the rate of
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: HOME SERVICE
Date: cA T
The Collective Agreement as it applies to Home Service personnel will be modified as follows:
1.	Commission shall be the sole basis of remuneration for sales to Home Service and designate Wholesale accounts. Products sold will be converted to a unit basis. The Unit Compensation Rate shall be as follows:
Effective	Effective
Mav 1. 1991	Mav 1. 1992
Home Service Sales
Per Unit	13.2cents	13.6 cents
Wholesale Sales
Per Unit	6.6 cents	6.8 cents
The Schedule of Units Structure (commission) is attached hereto.
2.	Benefit Program Vacations
An Employee shall receive as compensation two percent (2%) of his previous year’s gross earning for each week entitlement. (Gross earnings will include vacation and statutory holiday pay).
Statutory Holidays. Sick Leave. Jury Duty. Compassionate Leave
The following rates shall apply when making calculations relative to the above.
May 1. 1991 May 1. 1992
Deliverymen	13.95/hr	14.45/hr
Supervisors	17.20/hr	17.95/hr
Note: An Employee may elect to be paid in lieu of vacation for any complete week(s) of vacation in excess of two (2) weeks of his entitlement. The Employee will also be paid the appropriate commission during periods worked as a result of such election.
If an Employee works on a statutory holiday, the Employee shall receive the appropriate commission earned in addition to pay provided herein.
Article 11:02 will not apply.
Pension
The Company shall make pension contributions to the union in the amount of eight dollars ($8.00), for each full day completed with a maximum of thirty two dollars ($32.00) per week. Effective May 1,1992 increase to a maximum of thirty four dollars ($34.00) per week .
3.	It is understood and agreed that the payment of such commission is predicated on a Home Service Salesman’s route being completed daily and/or weekly within the maximum hours permitted under the Alberta Labour Standards Act. In the event a claim is made for payment of overtime then the route will be revised to eliminate the overtime and any overtime payments will be deducted from the commissions earned.
4.	New Employees and trainees shall be paid at the rate of nine dollars ($9.00) per hour (maximum of forty (40) hours per week). Such rate will prevail until the Employee, in the opinion of the Company, is capable of handling the route at which time commission will prevail.
5.	Route Supervisors shall be covered by this Memorandum, and will be paid at the rate of three dollars and twenty-five cents ($3.25) per hour (maximum of forty (40) hours per week), plus average commission earned. Effective May 1,1992 this shall be increased to $3.50 per hour.
6.	The Company may utilize Route Relief Drivers to relieve on Home Service routes because of excess absenteeism and illness, unforeseen emergencies, etc..., that cannot be covered by Route Supervisors and under Article 15 of the Collective Agreement. Such Route Relief Drivers will be paid twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) per hour and no commission will apply.
7.	Commencing November 1st, 1988, Home Service Drivers receiving additional customers as a result of a route split or consolidation, will compensate the Company in an amount of five dollars ($5.00) per customer. A customer for purposes of this section is defined as a call purchasing in excess of four (4) units per week. Compensation by the Drivers will be spread over a six (6) month period.
8.	Article 8 - Hours of Work will not apply for Home Service except as provided under Section 3 herein.
9.	Article 10 - Annual Vacations will apply except as superseded by Section 2 herein.
10.	Article 11 - Paid Holidays will apply except as superseded by Section 2 herein.
11.	Article 14:06 (ch will not apply.
12.	Wages and Commissions are described in this Memorandum. Reference in Appendices “A” and "B" are, therefore, deleted.
13.	The job posting provision under Article 7 will apply except, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a driver will be permitted only one (1) promotion in any twelve (12) month period. Likewise, the second sentence of Article 7:04 (b) will not apply
14.	It is understood and agreed that in consideration of the adoption of the Commission Payment Basis to Home Service, the Company agrees it will not switch to jobbers on any route (not presently handled by a jobber) in the metropolitan areas of Calgary and Lethbridge during the term of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing commitment, it is understood and agreed that if the Company deems the practice for Home Service compensation as contained herein unsatisfactory, it may upon notice provided under Article 18 of the Collective Agreement, at any anniversary date of the Collective Agreement, notify the Union that it wishes to open the matter for Collective Bargaining. It is further understood and agreed that under no circumstances may any other matter be brought up for negotiations under this provision.
Signed at Calgary, Alberta thid C& o f 0	/ / t f ^
COMPANY:	ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
COMMISSIONS
(A) UNIT STRUCTURE HOME SERVICE.
1. Fluid Milk & Cream
1 - Litre Milk (Any Type)
1 - Litre Cereal Cream 1 - Carton/Bag (160) Creamers/Milkers 1 - Litre Whipping Cream
One Unit	(1)
Two Units	(2)
Two Units	(2)
Four Units	(4)
2.	Feature Products
1 - Litre Egg Nog/Cordial 1 - Carton/Bag (160) Koffee Kreamers 1 - 225g Dairyworld Aerosol Whip 1 - 400g Dairyworld Aerosol Whip 1 ■ Litre Mix (Ice Cream, Milkshake, Yogourt)
Fruit Drink/Juice 1 - Litre
Cultured Products 1 - Kg Cottage Cheese 1 - Kg Yogourt 1 - Litre Yop 1 - Litre Sour Cream
Cheese
1 - Kg Cheddar, Processed & Other Butter/Butter Oil/Margarine 1 ■ Kg
3.	Ice Cream
1 - Litre
4.	Novelties
1 - Dozen
5.	Honey
1 ■ Kg
6.	Skim Milk Powder
1 - Kg
Two Units	(2)
Two Units	(2)
One Unit (1) Two Units	(2)
Two Units	(2)
One Unit (1)
Four Units	(4)
Four Units	(4)
Four Units	(4)
Four Units	(4)
Two Units (2)
Two Units (2)
One Unit (1)
One Unit (1)
Four Units (4)
One Unit (1)
-2-
(B)	COMMISSION RATES PAID
1.	Wholesale and City Combination
a)	No commission the first eighteen thousand, four hundred and sixty-two (18,462) units per pay period.
b)	On all units over eighteen thousand, four hundred and sixty-two (18,462) units per pay period, point four four cents (.440) commission paid per unit.
c)	Feature products paid at a rate of one cent (10) per unit.
d)	Ice Cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid at one cent (10) per litre.
e)	Novelties sold as per the daily sales sheets, will be paid for at one and one-half (11/2 0) per dozen.
2.	Supervisors
a)	Wholesale - No Commission (Calgary, Lethbridge, Medicine Hat & Red Deer)
- Average Commission Earned Per Pay Period (Banff, Edmonton Sc
Stettler)
b)	Retail - Average Commission Earned Per Pay Period
3.	Depot Working Supervisor	(Stettler)
No commission paid.
4.	City Ice Cream Driver Sales	Staff
Ice cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid at one cent (10) per litre.
One and one half cents (11/2 0) per dozen on novelties sold as per daily sales sheets.
5.	Country Drivers
a)	Noncommissioned Driver Sales Staff
No commission paid, but paid actual road expenses.
b)	Commissioned Driver Sales Staff Combination
i)	No commission on the first six thousand, two hundred and seventy-seven (6,277) units sold per pay period. Point eight eight cents (.880) per unit on all units sold over six thousand, two hundred and seventy-seven (6,277) units per pay period.
-3 -
ii)	Feature products will be paid at one cent (10) per unit.
iii)	Ice Cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid for at one cent (10) per litre.
Novelties paid at one and one half cents ( 1 1/2 0) per dozen sold as per daily sales sheets.
c)	Commissioned Sales Staff Ice Cream
Ice Cream in bulk and packages will be reduced to litres and paid at one cent (10) per litre. Novelties paid at one and one-half cents (11/20) per dozen sold as per daily sales sheets.
6.	Home Service Drivers
As per Letter of Understanding, with the exception of “Butter” which shall be paid at the rate of five cents (50) per unit.