ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this	daycf	,1991.
BETWEEN:
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVEASSOCIATION, P.O. Box 38 VICTORIA, B.C.
V8W2M1
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464,
of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
(hereinafterreferred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
i?g - 5 1992
OQUOOOV ■
INDEX
CLAUSE 1 CLAUSE 2 CLAUSE 3 CLAUSE 4 CLAUSE5 CLAUSE 6 CLAUSE 7
CLAUSE 8 CLAUSE9 CLAUSE 10 CLAUSE 11 CLAUSE 12 CLAUSE 13 CLAUSE 14 CLAUSE 15 CLAUSE 16 CLAUSE 17 CLAUSE 18 CLAUSE 19 CLAUSE 20 CLAUSE 21 CLAUSE 22 CLAUSE 23
PAGENUMBER 1 1 2 2 2 2
UNION SECURITY l MON ACTIVITIES CF EMPLOYEES UNION NOTICES DEDUCTION CF DUES, ETC.
SHOP STEWARDS CONFLICTING AGREEMENT CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND
RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT	3
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	3
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES	4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	5
WELFARE PLAN	5
COMPENSATION COVERAGE	9
PAYDAYS	9
PAY STATEMENTS	10
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS	10
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS	13
LOSS CF WAGES	13
NEW EMPLOYEES	13
SENIORITY-REDUCTION OF STAFF-SEVERANCE PAY 14 MINIMUM PAY	17
EATING AND REST PERIOD	17
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS	17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	20
CLAUSE 24
CLAUSE 25 CLAUSE 26 CLAUSE 27 CLAUSE 28 CLAUSE 29 CLAUSE 30 CLAUSE 31 CLAUSE 32 CLAUSE 33
CLAUSE 34 CLAUSE 35 CLAUSE 36 CLAUSE 37 CLAUSE 38
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
UTUJZATICN OF EMPLOYMENT
WORK CLOTHES
JURY DUTY
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON CREDIT CN ROUTES KEEPING PROPER RECORDS PERFORMANCE CF DUTY
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME,
TIME OFF AND SPLITROUTES
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
WAGES
UNIT VALUES
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT SAVINGS CLAUSE
WAGE SCHEDULES "A","B", "C", "D" AND "E" LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING APPENDIX "A"
21
22
22
23
23
24 24 24
24
25 27
27
28
29
30 36 40
1
CLAUSE 1 UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall not vcric at occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the Employer's operation, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it, In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter wi 11 be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions cf Clause 8, Section 8.02.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Employer may frantimeto tine process, manufacture, all and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work corning within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above cr employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution cf dairy or other products shipped cr forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction such vatic must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being scQd or distributedprovided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who vhb on October 1st, 1965 carrying on such selling or distribution, Section 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distributLcn or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman cr Assistant Plant Foreran shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lOse his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shall allow time off work to any man or woman who is serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation of the plants or routes, and provided that requests for such time offare made by Officers of the Union.
2
CLAUSE 3
UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the employees.
CLAUSE 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
4.01	Each cf the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-laws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made fern employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary- Treasurer cf the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5 SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the Superintendent or Foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such Shop Steward shall be elected by the Uhicn members in the shop concerned failing which a Shop Steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee cf the place in which he is a Steward, There shall be nondiscrimination against the Shop Steward for Union activities.
5.02	The Shop Steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The Shop Steward shall report to the Union (TTk-ww any vkdatiai cf this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member Shall make any written crverbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
3
CLAUSE 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member cf the Union to cross a picket line which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction. The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods firm any person, or employees cf any person, with whom the Union, Local No,464, has a picket arplacara line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jimsdkfci.cn, around or against, <x to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local Nb. 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not be a violation cf this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship cr transport any materials or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any alleged violation of this Agreement must be submitted to the Employer as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Board cf the Union.
Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or allegedviolation cf this Agreement shall be subjecttothe above tine limit and shall be resolved according to the following procedure.
(a)	The employee or the Union together with such person or persons as he or the Union may wish, shall take the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an Officer or Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shall discuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reached, this shall be final.
8.02	If the procedures set forth in Section 8,01 (a) and (b) above do not result in a solution being reached wfirrin seven days of me first discussion between an Officer of the Union and a Representative of the Employer, or within such furtherperiod as the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Iferty desiring a±itratkn shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify the other party in writing cf the name and address cf the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Eferty receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a member for the Board and notify the other E&rty of its appointment,
4-
(c)	The two Arbitrators so appointed shall confer to select a third person to be Chairman and failing for three days firm. the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
8.03	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, settle the terms of the question to be arbitrated and make its award within ten (10) days from the date of the appointment cf the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board.
8.04	If the Arbitration Board finds (arif atany earlier stageofthe grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be re-instated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage cf the grievanceprocedure it is found) that an ex-employee should have been re-hired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he would have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefits
if it is shown to the Board that die employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between dischargeand/or suspension and re-in statement or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted firm wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenses which the employee has incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted, AND PROVIDED THAT the Arbitration Board, if circumstances are established before it, which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.05	If the award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction the question shall, at the request of either E&rb/, be submitted to another Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to and with all the powers provided in this Clause.
8.06	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the Parties in equal shares.
8.07	Witotfc restricting the specific powers herein before mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have aLL the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
9.02	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for proper cause, including but not limited to the following causes:
•5-
1.	Dishonesty
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful	order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Dri nki ng intoxicating liquors while on duty
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided "no riders" stickers are on vehicles.
7.	WiTTTfl abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	TaTTHTI abuse cf Company equipment/machinery/facilities.
9.03	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give to him the reasons for his discharge ana the Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge cf an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.04	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitutea grievanceto be settled pursuant to toe provisions cf Clause 8 hereof, provided that the grievance shall be launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
9.05	The nature cf a suspension, length of a suspension, and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employeein writing and the Unicn shall be so notified immediately.
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, includingthe right to hire, suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay oft; promote; assign tojobs; transfer employees fine department to department; to increase <x decrease the working force; to determine the products to be handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere vitii the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control the business. It is further agreedthat nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its renters or its Executive.
10.03	Nothing in any cf the provisions cf this Clause shall in any way limit, void cr affect the other provisions cf this Agreement.
CLAUSE 11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following one hundred four (104) shifts employment the Employer shall continue to provide a Welfare Plan for all
6
employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sun of $30,000,00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)
Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sun of $30,000,00 both occupationalandnon-occupational coverage.
i, In the event of death by accident, the principal sum Will be paid in addition to the life Insurance benefit in (a).
ii. In the event of dismembermentor loss of sight due to accident, the following amounts will be paid
1,
2.
3,
4.
6,
7,
Both hands or feet Sight cf both eyes One hand and one foot One hand and the sight of one eye
One foot and the sight cf one eye Sight <3 one eye One hand cr one foot
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
The principal Sum
The Principal Sum Half the Principal Sum Half the Principal Sum
(c)	The following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents upon death of the employee.
First dependent	$30,000.00
Each additional dependent	7,500.00
(d)	Sick benefit in the sum of 65% of the employee's gross veridy base rate for
a period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first (1st) day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th)day of any sickness.
(e)
In addition, any employee with over seven (7) years seniority that is on Weekly Indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03
(c).
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Side
Cn presentation of a receipt fern the Physician, an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten dollars ($10.00) for each physicians statement completed in any sickness oraccidentperiod.
Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical S ervices Plan of B, C,
Extended Health BenefitsPlan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association of B,C.
7-
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 in out-of-province Medical Coverage.
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
-100% payment farPlan A (Basic Services)
- 75% payment cf claims for Plan B (Prosthetic appliances, crown and bridge procedures).
Claims under Plans A and B are limited to $3,000.00 per year for each person covered.
- 50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,000.00 per annum, $2,000.00 per me.
(h)	A Long Term Disability Plan prodding a benefit of fifty (SO) percent of an
employee’svaddy base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions or LTD plan to include
for a period oftwo years and/or the Employer is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be
If deemed appropriate, benefit recipients mey be required to participate in a rehabilitation program developed through consultation with the EhpLcyer, the Union and professional rehabilitation specialists.
(j) An Optical Plan to provide $150.00 of coverage for each two year period
applicable to each eligible person,
11.02	The cost of the bmefits contained in Clause 11.01 shall be borne 100% by the Employer.
11.03	SickLeave
(a)
Commencing on the first of the month following completion of the pmbationai-yperiod (Per Clause 19.01 (a)} all employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (1/2) day per month for each month wages are earned. For the purpose of this Clause, wages shall indude Weekly Indemnity and Workers' Compensation Benefits. Accumulation whiledrawing such benefits shall be limited to one (1) year.
Errployees who accumulate side leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive such excess days accumulated in the contract year as time off in the folkwing contract year at amimDy agreeable time at their regular rate of
pay.
An employee may request by October 31st following the end of each contract year that he receive these excess days in cash rather than time eff and such request shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer. The basis of refusal shall be vahen such request will unduly effect the efficient operation of the business.
-8
Employees over age 50 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely, with the days in excess of 30 being accumulated at the rate of pay in effect when the days are earned,
Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01 (c) of this Clause) or Compensation employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
(i)	First day of absence- One IHf (1/2) day's pay
(ii\ Second day c£ absence - One full day's pay (iii) Third day of absence - One full day's pay
thereafter, the balance of accumulated SickLeaveto be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty (52) weeks and is not covered by the SickBenefit. Employeewith an existing accumulated balance of 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first day cf absence.
(c)	On retirement <x voluntary termination an employee having completed:
-	7 years of service will receive 33 % cf accumulated sick days owing.
-	14 years of service will receive 66% of accumulated sick days owing.
-	18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick days owing.
11.04	Funeral Leave
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up tp three (3) working days leave of absence vziih pay when such leave is necessary in order to make arrangements for and/or to attend the funeral. The terra "immediatefamily" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependant under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, granddmldren, mother-in-lawand father-in-law.
It is understood funeral leave is payable only for working time lost.
11.05	Leave of Absence
An employee may request a leave of absence and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The basis of refusal shall be when such leave will, unduly affect the efficient operation of the business.
Leave of absence must be requested in writing stating the time required and the purpose of the leave. The Employer must confirm in writing that the leave has been granted, identifying both the length and reason for the leave.
If such leave of absence is used for purposes other than those for which it is granted, it shall be cause for dismissal.
9
11.06	Pension
The Employers shall continue to participate in the operation of theTeamsters Local
464 Daily Industry Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "A" attached hereto
which shall form part of this Agreement.
11.07	(a) When an employee goes off work ill cr on compensation or grievance
procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay roth his welfare fees and Union dues so that at all times the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)	To provide payment for the above mentioned welfare benefits, an employee must leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay, or have paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct. to the Employer.
(c)	For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(d)	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test a:examinations are required by h i s Employer, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.08	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer Help per Clause 29) whose term of employment does
not exceed the period April 1st to September 15th inclusive.
(b)	Part-time employees (per Clause 19,01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work week for their job classification.
These employees Welfare* Plan.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employees on compensation are directed by the CompensationBcard or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous j ob and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, they shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall be given a job cf comparable nature subject to the provisions cf Clause 19.
CLAUSE 13
PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way cf wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous
10-
save for commissions which shall be computed on a four week period, Any exception to this will be covered by a Letter cf Understanding.
13,02	The Employer shall provide for the direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) of the employee's pay in a participating chartered bank, trust company or credit union of the employee's choice on or before the appropriate pay day.
CLAUSE 14
PAY STATEMENTS
14,01	(a) All Plant employees and non-commissioned drivers will be given a statement on each pay day showing overtime, if any, and rate of pay; how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any; and all Retail Driver Salesmen will be given a statement once each periodshowing the number of units sold, retail, wholesale, plus extras, etc. how the amount is computed including deductions, if any.
(b)	Accumulated sick leave, days off, and Statutory Holidays owing shall be shown by posting a list each month at the applicable Haris and Depots.
CLAUSE 15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
15,01	(a)	All routes and vacancies shall be posted within fifteen (T51 davs of the new
v	*	on the bulletin boards for
a period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Sundays with details of earnings, units, hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent infamatLcn. There diall be no changes in requirements cf posted vacancies during time of posting. There shall be a maximum of two (2) additional vacancies resulting firm the posting cf the initial vacancy with the exception of route vacancies. There shall be only one posting created by a route vacancy provided that any vacancy of a Relief Driver's, Holiday Relief or Route Foreman's position shall be posted.
(b) Any employee desiring the vacancy shall make writtHi application in the form provided by the Employer to the Hunan Resources Manager within the period of posting. There will be a probationary period not to exceed three (3) working weeks during vfiddi the employee and/or the Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former route or position. The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing vilh a copy sent to the Union.
(c)	Unsuccessful applicants under (b) above shall be considered in the filling of
(d)	Applications for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last twelve (12) months.
11
In the event that no suitable applicant is available and the position can not be filled from within the department, then Clause 15,01 (d) will be waived.
(e)	If a higher classification of driver's license is required for any driving job due to vehicle change or replacement, the cost of obtaining the license shall be borne by the Employer. The choice cf any course required shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
15.02	Temporary Vacant Routes (Wholesale)
A temporary posting, to cover for any driver expected to be absent for 90 days or
more, will be done in the following manner:
1.	The Employer will post a notice for 72 hours at the depot concerned advising of the temporary position.
2.	Present drivers vill be given first consideration for the vacancy.
3.	The resulting (cr original if no drivers have applied) vacancy will be posted in the normal manner and will be open to any employee holding the necessary licence.
4.	All employees shall return to their former positions on the return of the incumbent employee.
5.	Should the temporary vacancy become a permanent vacancy at any point, the position shall be re-posted in the normal nans:.
15.03	Miscellaneous
(a)	Any person desiring to change from one branch to another in the same department may make Written application to do so and all such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which transfer is requested.
(b)	The filling of vacancies and promotions shall be based on the length of continuous service an employee has been on the payroll of the department concerned, other considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal particularly in the case of vacancies involving customer contact.
The Parties recognize that job opportunity and security should increase in proportion to length of service. It is therefore agreed that in all cases in filling job vacancies, senior employees shall be entitled to preferential consideration.
The Parties further agree that any employee presently holding cr having held any position of equal responsibility and/or complexity wouLd possess the ability to be trained in a reasonable length of time and would therefore be considered to be qualified for the vacant position.
In evaluating the qualifications and ability cf an applicant, an employee on the full-time seniority list will have precedence over an employee on the part-time seniority list in the awarding cf any posting.
12-
Applications for vacant positions cf Checker/Loaders and Dairy workers shall be filled without reference to departmental seniority.
(c)	The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected to be notified, within seven (7) days. In the event a successful applicant is not assigned to the new position within fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or pxnct±ns are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employer shall notify the Shop Steward and/or the Union within forty-eight (48) hours and shall supply them with the names of all the applicants for the vacancy or promotion.
Upon request firm the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing as to the reason why they were not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
(d)	If no applications are received from the department concerned, then an employee of the other department who has applied for a change shall be given considerationforthevacancy as outlined in 15,03 (b).
(e)	In determining vacancies, seniority shall be on a departmental basis, as follows:
1.	Production Department
Includes all production employees as well as checker/loaders in the cooler and freezer.
2.	Sales
Includes all Wholesale Driver Salesmen, Home Service Driver Salesmen and Special Delivery Drivers.
3.	Distribution
Includes hauler drivers (semi trailer) and tanker drirers.
4.	Office
Includes all clerical staff
(f)	The time limit for posting of vacancies and promotions may be lowered in cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent cf the Union.
(g)	Vacant positions shall be those which are vacant for any reason whatsoever, and must be posted. Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new route, vacant route or position before new employees are hired. Employees on days off or holidays shall be notified of vacancies by the Employer provided the employee, in writing, has requested a change. Errplcyees who are Summer Help or who have not completed the 52 shift probation period are not eligible to apply for new routes or vacant mutes or positions.
13
(h)	Any vacancy that has occurred because of sickness or accident shall be considered temporary (and shall be filial in accordance with the provisions cf Clause 24.04 provided re-training is not necessary) until such time as medical evidence indicates the employee wH not be returning to his farmer job or position.
(i)	The Employer shall post on the bulletin boards at all operations on April 1 st and October 1st of each year a list of all employees in the bargaining unit with their date of commencement of employment and their current classification. A copy of such list or lists shall be given to the Union.
CLAUSE 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate cf wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E".
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposed classification cf work either E&rty may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8, of this Agreement. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17 LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction of earnings cr rate of earnings because of the adoption of t h i s Agreement. For the purposes cf this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
CLAUSE 18
NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Summer Help) shall receive twenty-five percent (25%) less than the rate provided herein, for the first two hundred eight (208)working drifts and fifteen percent (15%) less than the rate provided herein for the next two hundred eight (208) working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall, include part-time employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employer covered by Local 464, then go to wade for another Employer (in the same capacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent firm the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
14-
CLAUSE 19
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF - SEVERANCE PAY
19,01	Seniority and Reduction of Staff
(a)
A probationary period cf fifty-two (52) working shifts, to be completed within a period off one hundred and eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days, shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid cff without reference to seniority and the Employer snail not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period shall be extendeaby any working shifts lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall date from the date of employment.
(b) There shall be two separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to the Union by the Employer on April 1st and October lstcf each year and shall include all employees covered by this Agreement who have completed their probationary period.
The first list shall cover all employees other than part-time and Summer Help employees, and shall show the name, classification, and date of employment of each employee.
The second list shall cover all part-time employees (those employees employed for less than the standard work week for the job classification) and shall show the name and classification of each employee and the number of shifts worked for the Employer.
Should a part-time employee become full-time that employee shall be transferred to the first seniority list and a date of employment for the purposes of seniority shall be determined retroactively on the basis cf one calendarmonth for each 17.3 shifts accumulated.
(c)
Summer Help Employees
1.
2.
May be employed to supplementthe negularwork addLtknalhelp between April 1 and September 15.
Surmer Help employees will not displace full-time employees.
3.	Summer Help employees shall not accrue seniority rights, nor be
entitled to benefits normally granted other employees, nor be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
Whenever it is necessary to reduce the number of employees for any reason whatsoever, the employees shall be considered as laid off and will be rehired in order of seniority, provided that the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority in any case where the ability and qualifications of a particular employee are substantially superior to those of a more senior employee and provided further that such superior ability and qualifications are necessary for thejob involved.
15
The onus of establishing the matters aforesaid shall be on the Employer.
(e)	All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice before being
laid off save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, or exceptional weather conditions or suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown. Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
(£)	A reduction in staff may only be effected by the laying off of the least senior
employee in accordance vziih the following procedure, recognizing the following Departments:
(g)
1. Production
2, Sales and Distribution
1.	Procedure for reduction of staff:
(a)	Where the Employer eliminates a job process, route or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior employee within the Department affected in the Plant cc Branch concerned.
(b)	The displaced employee from step 1 (a) above shall displace the least senior employee within the Plant or Branch concerned, regardless of Department
(c)	The displaced employee from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardless of Plant or Department.
2.	Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction cf staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, cr suspension of an operation due to maintenance or unscheduled breakdown shall be by seniority (as per Clause 19.01 (d)) and shall affect only the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned
As in sub-section (d) of this Clause, the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority and the Union, within the terms stipulated in sub-section (a), undertakes to consider such application.
Any employee laid off from a posted position will be afforded the option to ‘waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off fran the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right of recall to that Branch/Plant only. This option must be completed and signed at the time of lay-off from his/her position and will provide recall to a vacant position.
Employees laid off pursuantto this Clause shall retain the right to be rehired fcr fifty-two (52) weeks fran the date of initial lay-off firm permanent or
address and telephone number at which the employee can be served notice
16-
cf rehire. The onus shall rest vridh the employee to maintain a correct address and telephone number. The date cf initial lay-off will be advanced forward by fifty-two (52) weeks ifthe employee has worked a minimum cf one hundred and four (104) shifts in the previous fifty (52) week period. Qi completion cf the above shifts, this would provide renewal of the 52 week right of recall.
The qoticn for laid-off employees to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed is subject to renewal at the time that the 52 wedc right of iBcall is renewed.
Employees who fail to work a minirrun cf 104 shifts in any recall period w i 11 be transferred to the part-time seniority list
Seniority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a notice cf recall shall be deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(h)	Employees who leave the bargaining unit but remain in the employ of the
Employer, shall have the right to re-enter the bargaining unit and retain their full Company seniority unless terminated.
19.02	Severance Pay
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b)	In respect of an employee whose termination arises out cf cr is attributable to:
1.
2.
The elimination cf aj ob process, or
number of employees, provided he has two (2)years cr mere service, he shall be eligible for severancepay at the rate paid at the time of severance.
(c)	All employees with two (2) to five (5)years cf service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severancepay shall accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of full pay for each year of service commencing wiih the sixth (6th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeks of full pay.
(d)	tjpen termination such employee shall be placed on the re-hire list as provided for in Section 19.01 (f) of this Clause for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end of four (4) we^cs, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the re-hire list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the re-hire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Employer, he must accept severancepay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
-17.
(e)	Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms set out above
shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement,
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severance pay.
(f)
CLAUSE 20
Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee.
MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his days off, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours' pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever i s the greater.
CLAUSE 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	NO employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a neaL.
21.02	ALL employees shall be entitled to a tHi minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess c£ one (1) additional hour is anticipated,
CLAUSE 22
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01	Employees who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employ eel in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years towards holiday schedule and shall receive pro-ratea holiday pay depending on the number cf months worked.
12 months worked - 2 weeks holiday <x 4% holiday pay 24 months worked - 3 weeks holiday or 6% holiday pay 84 months worked - 4 weeks holiday or 8% holiday pay 168 months worked - 5 weeks holiday or 10% holiday pay 216 months worked * 6 weeks holiday or 12% holiday pay 300 months worked - 7 weeks holiday or 14% holiday pay
22.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% cf their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% cf their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with seven (7) years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay or 8% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with
18
fourteen (14) years or nos service shallreceive five (5) weeks cff with full pay or 10% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay <x 12% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with twenty-five (25) years or more service shall receive seven (7) weeks off vzLth full pay or 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee cff ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit cf:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks
(c)	4 months if entitled to four weeks
(d)	5 norths if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to seven weeks
In addition to all time worked during the year, provided further that the sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and providing such employee worked for his regular Employer during sane part of the year.
22.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have,
on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within the months cf October to April inclusive, shall be given the employees entitled to same in the norths	to September inclusive. A11 employees in each
group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order cf their seniority, i.e. length of service.
Annual holidays will constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days do not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periods cf the year save for the week immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
22.04	HU. employees entitled to mae than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the norths October to April inclusive.
Employees taking all their holidays within the winter schedule shall indicate the period desired and shall be given same on the basis of their seniority.
Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 31st and all vacation selections must be completed by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitled to five (5) weeks cr more of annual holidays requesting annual holidays during the months May to Septemberinclusive may receive, at their option three (3) weeks in one continuous period. The remainder of the holidays tO which such employee is entitled shall be given during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15th and all vacation selections must be completed by September 1st, It is the employee's
19
responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise mars junior employees irey have first choice acholidays may be refused during this time slot.
22.06	(a) In the event the application of holiday selection as outlined above results in
single weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of die single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selection of one week in the summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order cf seniority.
(b)	Should available time rarain open cn a holiday schedule after a 11 employees
covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order of seniority.
These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) _ week periods only and shall in no way limit the selections in order of seniority on the winter schedule.
22.07	Vacation schedules for the summer period (the months May to Septemberinclusive) dall be posted by January 31st and completed by April 1st of each year, and must also show the dates chosen by employees electing to take holidays in the norths October to April inclusive. Vacation schedules for the winter period (the months October to April inclusive) shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
22.08	There shall not be any change of the dates of an employee's annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods unless a change has been agreed fo by the Parties as follows:
1.	The employee will be asked if he/she would cancel his/her holidays.
2.	If the employee does not want to cancel his/her holidays. Island Farms Dairies Co-op Association will accept this decision of the employees.
3.	The employee will be asked to cancel his/her vacation only in extreme emergency situations.
22.09	All employees tenranatingtheir employment shall receive 4%; 6%;8%; 10%; 12%; cr 14% cf their annual earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled,
20-
CLAUSE 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees shall receive ten (10) Government Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year, provided such holidays do not duplicate present Statutory Holidays. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day	CanadaDay	ThanksgivingDay
Good Friday	B,C, Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day	Labour Day	GristrtBS Day
Boxing Day
23.02
employees shall receive one fl) additional Statutory Holiday viiti full pay, ;n at a mutually agreed upon aate for each employee.
m
given at
to be
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 19.01 (a)).
(b)	Employees (Summer Help) whose term cf employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days' advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays. Statutory Holidays shall be given immediately prior to or following the employee's weekend days cfF.
Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior Id cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holidays cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice, shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so Cancelled.
23.04	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by nuUxaL consent of the Employer and the employee.
23.05	Whenever possible, tine ff for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible anyone required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall have the option of being paid at double time plus an accrued day off with pay cr straight time plus the accrual cf two ^additional days off with pay.
This provision shall not apply to Retail Driver Salesmen who shall be paid at the rate of straight time for working a Statutory Holiday and shall receive a day off with full pay at a later date.
No wholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Ifeads Day.
23.06	Any Statutory Holiday owing as of April 30th each year for the previous year shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate cf double tine.
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays vzith full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
21
I.	Part-time employees (per Clause 19,01 (b)) who shall receive on April 1st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause
23,01	prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period.
II.	Summer Help (per Clause 29) who shall receive on termination date payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23,01 prorated according to the ruber cf shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased number,
23.0	8 An employee shall be entitled to a paid day cff for each such Statutory Holiday even
if it falls on his weekly days cff or tine off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23,09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Hlidyf even when he or she is cff through illness, quarantine, compensationcrlay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between compensation or sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 24
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
24.01	Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitutea day's work. All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift cf nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time. There shall be a minimum break cf eight (8) hours between shifts. There shall be no split gifts.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting firm start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributableto the normal workload not included.
24.02	All inside employees and drivers (not Driver Salesmen) shall receive Saturday-Sunday or Sunday-Monday, plus one other day off during the week or, Sunday plus any other two consecutive days off. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday,
Any non-complying schedule shall be covered by a Letter of Understanding.
■22-
24.03	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that inside employees and drivers (not Driver Salesmen) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any cf his days off shall be paid at double time.
It is agreed and understood that for the purposes of "seven days advance notice" only, where such changes of days off are occasioned by sickness or accident to another employee then the seven (7) days notice shall not apply.
24.04	(a) Seniority within the job classification shall be a determining factor in the
shift to be worked. The Employer shall retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees is availableon each shift to ensure proper and efficient operation.
(b) Experienced workers regularly working a nine (9) hour shift who are directed to another shift by the Employer shall be guaranteed nine (9) hours' pay.
24.05	fill farm and Interplant Tanker Drivers shall, upon completion of their unloading duties, be entitled to spend the remainder of the unloading period, up to but not exceeding one-half (1/2) hour, in the lunchroom, This remainder period shall be calculated as part of the regular vcric shift in recognition cf them having worked through their lunch period, Furthermore, it is understood that all breaks other than lunch ace deemed to betaken en-route.
CLAUSE 25
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01	This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding Night Tfetchnsi and Janitors, Any employee working a daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra $ 1.65 per hour for the entire shift.
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6:00 a,m, shall receive an extra $ 1,65 per hour for hours worked prior to 6:00 a.m.
25.03	Any tineless than ten (10) minutes viH not be computed, except where it is a daily cr nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totalled, and paid for in each pay period.
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paid a premium cf ten percent (10%)of his base hourly rate (in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable for all hours worked on Sunday.
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer Help.
CLAUSE 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26,01	Reliefman - A relief Dairyworker is an employee who relieves on two or more jdo classifications during the work week.
■23-
26.02	Employment - Other Classifications- When an employeeis required to fill the place cf another employee receiving a higher rate c£ pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
26.03	(a) Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) - All employees
shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications. It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications,
(b) Any employee affected by the combining of his classificadon vriih any other classifications or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall continue to be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES
27.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, as well as gloves to those requiring time, where coveralls or smocks are required, these shall also be supplied at no cost to the employee. These clean clothes vail be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced,
27.02	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least onceper ve^c. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.03	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothingto a 11 employees required to work in the cold roan,at no cost to the employee.
The Company shall provide a suitable verm coat to all Driver Salesman.
27.04	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Tfearstar Local Union, provided the rates are comped tive.
CLAUSE 28
JURY DUTY
28.01	All working time lost by an employeedue to necessary attendance on jury duty or any court proceedings arising out cf his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee. No employees shall be paid until he/she has provided proof satisfactory to the Employer of such attendance.
28.02	Any employee on jury duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All
jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
-24-
CLAUSE 29
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
29.01	The summer season shall be defined as the time cf year between and including the 1st of April and the 15th of September.
29.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined in Section 29.01, shall be classed as Summer Help and paid at the rate applicable, it being understood that any employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 18.01.
CLAUSE 30
CREDIT ON ROUTES
30.01 Credit cn the mutes and the rules and regulations thereof are the soleresponsibility of the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate the credit through their employees. The Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous
place the rules and regulations regarding cred.it. The Employer is solely responsible forbad debts providing that the regulations in effect regarding the granting of credit have been observed by the employee and enforcedby the Employer.
Employer.
30.02	The Employer shall provide each Retail Driver Salesman with suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by my customer requiring credit. The completed form shall be returned to the Employer for his approval or rejection and such approval or rejection cf credit shall be indicated by the Employerin an appropriateplace in the driver's route book records and shall constitute either approval or rejection by the Employer of the customer’s application fir credit.
30.03	lithe stated policy cf the Employer is not to grant or recognize credit to any retail customer, no Retail Driver Salesman employed by that Employer shall be held responsible for any monies owing by a customer to whom he has not granted credit nor shall there be any _ discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the stated policy of the Employer.
30.04	Any deposit charged to a customer for milk containers shall be entered in the route book as a charge against that customer and shall form part of the outstanding for that route providing that the salesman enters all containers outstanding in the prescribed column.
30,05	For each account in a retail route bock, a master sheet shall be used to display all the pertinent information relating to the account save for any outstanding amounts which shall be entered by the salesman on a separate sheet for that account to the end that the salesman will only be required to change the separate sheet as it becomes filled,
CLAUSE 31
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
31,01	Each Retail Driver Salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer keep his/her route book/records in the manner prescribed by the Employer. All route
■25
books must be complete and balanced not less than once every two (2) weeks. Each Retail Driver Salesman will make due and correct entries therein of all transactions and dealings of and in reference to the business of the Employer.
CLAUSE 32
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
32.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any tine, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected wiih the milk business.
CLAUSE 33
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, TIME OFF, AND SPLIT ROUTES
33.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time waked Tine cards and copies of pay cheque stubs to be made
available to the Union upon request. No emrioyee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show toe fallowing:
(a)	Starting Time
No Retail Driver Salesman shall commence <x be required to commence work before 6:00 am.
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day's work until he has completed all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality cf the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; refueled and checked his truck; balanced his daily load sheet or other records cf goods supplied and sales made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called <r requested by the Company,
33.02	No Driver S alesman shall perform work of any nature prior to recording his starting time nor after recording his finishing tine.
33.03	(a) All Driver Salesmen shall work the principle cf a four (4) day work week
with three (3) days off per week At least two (2) of these days off shall be consecutive.
(b)	Ten (10) hours shall constitute a day's work and four (4) ten (10) hour days
shall constitute a week's work.
All work in excess of ten (10) hours per day shall be paid for at the overtime rate of double time.
26
In the event that any of these Driver Salesmen completes his work in less than ten (10) hours in any one day, he shall be deemed Id have worked ten (10) hours on that day.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours voted on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting fern start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclementweather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays arconditionsnotattributableto the normal workload not included.
33.04	Should a disputearise in respect to the time taken to complete a route or routes, no Driver Salesman, Reliefman, Holiday Reliefman, or Route Foreman shall be subj ect to any change in status until the Union has investigated the mute cr routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute, or an appointee of the Company.
33.05	All suns earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned.
33.06	No driver shall be asked or required to service or maintain trucks cr equipment.
This does not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
33.07	Each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
33.08	All retail and retail combinationmutes shall be loaded or prestacked in an approved manner. A pre-timed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area not later than 7:00 A.M.
33.09	New, inexperienced Driver Salesmen shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period cf five (5) calendar weeks from date cf assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays cr conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
33.10	Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or franwholesale to retail or new,
• experienced Driver Salesmen (Clause 18.02), shall be excluded from the overtime
provisions cf this Clause fix a period cf three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or crnditicns, cr overtime, not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
(c)
(d)
Provisions of this Clause shall be waived if the employee is directed to the new department as a result of a reduction in the vodc force.
27
33.11 SPLIT ROUTES
When a Salesman's route is split, the affected Salesman, Holiday Reliefman and Route Foreman shall receive at least the same wages for a period of three (3) months as the average of the earnings of the route for the twelve (12) calendar months previous to the load being split.
This shall not apply to men who have been in the employ of the Company less than twelve (12) months.
CLAUSE 34
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
34.01	Any sales or deliveries made to any customer in any area must be recorded on the working day following the sale cr delivery as sales on the irute covering this area.
CLAUSE 35
WAGES
35.01	The EftpLcxer shallpay wages to every enpk^ee coveredby this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E" hereunto annexed in respect of the various classifications of work therein contained
35.02	Schedules" A, "B", "C", "D" and "E" shall be deemed to be contamedm and form a part c£ this Agreement.
CLAUSE 36
■28
UNIT VALUES
36.01	For all fluid sales on retail routes:
1-4 Litre Milk
1	- Litre Milk (any kind)
2	- 500 ml. Milk (any kind)
4 - 200 ml. Milk (any kind)
1 - 20 Litre Milk (anykind)
1 - Litre Creamo
1	- 500 ml. Creamo
2	- 250 ml. Creamo 1 -20 Litre Creamo
100 Pak Creamers
Fountain Whip
1 - Litre Whipping Cream 1 - 500 ml. Whipping Cream 1 - 250 ml. Whipping Cream 1-20 Litre Whipping Cream 1 - 500 ml. Sour Cream 1 - 250 ml. Sour Cream 1-2 Litre Sour Cream
Yogurt sleeve 4 oz. yogurt 1 - 250 gr. Yogurt 1 - 500 gr. Yogurt 1 - Kg. Yogurt
Orangp Juice Orange Drink Apple Juice Lemonade 200 ml. Fruit Drink
1 lb. Margarine 1 lb. Butter
1 - 250 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 - 500 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 Kg. Cottage Cheese 13 Oz. Cheddar Cheese Cream Cheese 1 Doz.eggs 1 - Litre Eggnog
4 Units 1 ui 1 ui
1	Unit 20 units
3 Units 1 1/2 Units 1 1/2 Units 60 Units
4 1/2 units
3 Units
6 Units
3	liti±s 11/2 Units
120 Units
2	Units 1 wit 8 Units
1 wit
l/2it«
1	unit
2	units
4	Units
1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 1/4 Unit
1 Unit 1 Unit 1/2 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units 1 1/2 Units
1 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units
29
CLAUSE 37
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
37.01	This Agreement shall be in effect from April 1.1991 to September.30—1993 and
by either Party to the other Party in writing, four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
37.02	This Agreement voids all previous Agreements or Letters of Understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
CLAUSE 38
SAVINGS CLAUSE
38.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subj ect to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary, altered, varied, <x amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made or passed thereunder.
38.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Earties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either E&rty for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. Ifthe Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
38.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the period of the Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Brty of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor, and the E&rty of the Second Brit has hereunto affixed its signature by its CBBaasduly authorized therefor.
DATED AT Victoria, British Columbia, this	day of	,1991.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART	PARTY CF THE SECOND PART
30
SCHEDULE "A"
The following wages shall be paid:
WAGES PER
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT, ETC.
JULY 1/91 APR. 1/92 JAN. 1/93
Classification
A. Assistant Foreman	$21.48
Head Checker	20.34
$21.98	$22.48
20.84	21.34
B. Pasteurizer Class 1 Ice Cream Maker Cottage Cheese Maker Ice Cream Mix Maker
20.51	21.01	21.51
20.51	21.01	21.51
20.51	21.01	21.51
20.51	21.01	21.51
C.	Pasteurizer Class II	20.18	20.68	21.18
D.	Pure Pak Operator C.I.P. Operator Checker and/or Loader Cottage Cheese and/or Ybguct Machine Operator Freezer Operator
Bulk Pack Operator Creamer Operator Bottle Machine Operator
E.	Dairy Worker Packager Janitor
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
20.02	20.52	21.02
19.83	20.33	20.83
19.02	19.52	20.02
19.29	19.79	20.29
F. Summer Help Checker/Loader rfrrry Worker Packager
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
G. Holiday Relief Classifications
A, B, & C All other Classifications
21.11	21.61	22.11
20.62	21.12	21.62
HOUR
JULY 1/93
$22.98
21.84
22.01
22.01
22.01
22.01
21.68
21.52
21.52
21.52
21.52
21.52
21.52
21.52
21.52
21.33
20.52 20.79
10.00
10.00
10.00
22.61
22.12
•31
Any classified vacancies shall be posted to a I low pi ant employees first opportunity prior to using Summer Help. The Ehpfleyer reserves the right (per Clause 10) to assign regular employees to such jets.
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a weekly premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows:
Premiums:
Freezerman (Any employee working fifty percent (50%)or more of his daily drift in the sharp freeze roan) - 400 per hour premium.
A premium of 200 per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride on forklift or tew motor fifty percent (50%)or more of their regular shift.
SCHEDULE"B"
WAGES PER HOUR
JULY 1/91 APR. 1/92 JAN. 1/93 JULY 1/93
Classification
Wholesale Driver Salesman (Ice Cream or Fluid)
$20.34	$20.84	$21.34	$21.84
Wholesale Driver Salesnan -Combination Route (Mik and Ice Cream)  
22.04
22.61
22.98
Country - Overnight - Ice Cream ($1.15 per week extra for Ice Cream TYhgr Salesmen, Holiday Reliefmen, Route Foremen in addition while employed on country-overnight routes).
32-
SCHEDULE "C"
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN, HOLIDAY RELIEFMEN, ROUTE FOREMEN
contract a new Sales Incentive Emgranisrtote introduced based uponfhe Allowing:
1. BASIS FOR COMMISSION
Sales incentive commission to be the basis of remuneration as set out below -
DATE	HOME SERVICE SALES	WHOLESALE SALES
per unit Commission per 4 week period
per Unit Commission
CENTS
CENTS
At Ratification	19.4
January 1,1992	19.8
January 1,1993	20.2
11.0
12.0
13.0
The basis for determining units is unchanged, 2. MINIMUM EARNINGS
Guaranteed Minimum earnings per period are to be provided as follows:
Prior to June 14,1992'	$2,944.15
Thereafter	$2,692.31
Theguaranteedminimum income wi 11 apply when commission earnings fall below the threshold levels for the periods set out above.
3.	GROUP BENEFITS
Coverage is provided with respect to the Life, AD & D, W.I., LTD, Mriiral (MSP) Extended Health (MSA) and Dental Plans, The earnings base for WI and LTD benefits is the earnings of the prior year.
4.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS, SICK LEAVE, FUNERAL LEAVE, JURY DUTY
An employee shall receive 10/2,080 of his previous year's g ross earnings for each day of entitlement.
PENSION PLAN
-33-
5.
Membership i n the Teamsters Local 464 Eteniy Industry BaisicnPlan is included with pensionable earnings being based on total gross earnings.
6.	ROUTE RELIEF DRIVERS AND ROUTE FOREMEN
Remuneration for route relief drivers and foremen vTll be $2.00 Per Hour plus averageroute commission based on a forty hour week.
7.	ROUTE CHANGES
No change in routes (excepting route closures) other than by mutual agreement following discussion between the Parties.
8.	HOURS OF WORK
It is excepted that Driver/Salesmen vaH restrict product delivery and canvassing activities to within the 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m, period.
9. NEW ENTRIES
New and trial period employees shall be paid at a rate of $15,00 per hour. The commission structurewil' ’’	''	1 ’	' ’	' ’
SCHEDULE"D"
DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
WAGES PER HOUR
Classification
JULY 1/91 APR. 1/92 JAN. 1/93 JULY 1/93
Holiday Rdiefman
Semi-Trail erDriver Sier Driver Hauling Truck Driver Special Delivery Driver
$21.11	$21.61
20.52	21.02
20.46	20.96
19.98	20.48
19.98	20.48
$22.11	$22.61
21.52	22.02
21.46	21.96
20.98	21.48
20.98	21.48
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Holiday Relieftnen or Poranen while driving a semi-trailer.
When a pup trailer is added to the unit, the driver will be paid 50 per hour extra per pup axle over the semi-trailer rate while pulling the pup.
Maintenance Staff
Maintenance Man	$21.86
Engineer Class IV	21.86
Mechanic (T ruck)	21.86
Trade Helper	20.17
$22.36	$22.86	$23.36
22.36	22.86	23.36
22.36	22.86	23.36
20.67	21.17	21.67
■34-
SCHEDULE "E"
OFFICE STAFF
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
WAGES PER HOUR
JULY 1/91 APR. 1/92 JAN. 1/93 JULY 1/93
CATEGORY 1
General Clerk
CATEGORY 2
Receptionist-T ypist, Intermediate Clerk, Order Clerk
CATEGORY 3
Comptometer Operator, Computer Operator
CATEGORY 4
Cashiers
CATEGORY 5
Payroll,
Vouchers Payable, Senior Clerk
$15.97	$16.47
16.23	16.73
16.62	17.12
16.80	17.30
17.55	18.05
$16.97	$17.47
17.23	17.73
17.62	18.12
17.80	18.30
18.55	19.05
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
It is agreed that persons employed as Management Trainee a* a Private Secretary will not be required to become a nerfaer cf the Union while erplqyed and working in that capacity.
It is further agreed: That all the provisions cf tins Agreement shall apply to all office staff falling within thejurisdictionof the Union as outlined in Schedule "E" save where amended below.
Nothing in any of the provisions of this Schedule, or in the amendments listed below, shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions cf this Agreement.
-35-
SCHEDULE "E" - CONTINUED
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The standard work week shall be 35 hours.
All employees shall be scheduled to work a nine (9) day fortnight.
All hours worked in excess cf 7 3/4 per day shall be paid at the rate of double time.
All employees shall receive two (2) consecutive days off each week Each vadt shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.
A schedule of time off shall be posted so that employees shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off except where the unforeseen absence cf another employee requires a drifting of office personnel. Any employee required to work on any of his or her days cff shall be paid at double time for a 11 hours worked,
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association
CF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OF THE SECOND PART
It is agreed and understood that the Employer will provide tool insurance for their maintenance staff at no cost to the Employee, covering loss due to fus or theft (as per insurance regulations) to a maximum of $2,000.00.
It is further agreed that the Employer will reimburse these employees for any losses resulting from tool breakage occurring on the job.
A Tool Depreciation Allowance of 10% of the value of tools to airaxiirun of $200.00 per man per year shall also be provided.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
-37-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
Island Barms Dairies Co-operative Association OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
CF THE SECOND PART
It is agreed to and understood that for one employee, the charge to the Union for time served at the bargaining table negotiating wiih. managementfor the renewal of the collective Agreement will be at the base rate and will not include fringe benefits.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
-38-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association CF THE FIRST PART
AND:
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OFTHE SECONDPART
It is agreed and understood that part-time employees who do not work more than fifty percent (50%)of the standard work week for their job classification, as determined in arrears for each calendar quarter of the year, shall re-imburse foe Employer for welfare benefits provided, unless they have opted for no coverage. Advance payroll deductions mil be made for 2/3 of foe monthly pcsnuxns for the benefits chosen by the employee.
PARTY CF THE FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
-39-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OF THE SECONDPART
It is hereby agreed and understood that with respect to the position of Janitor the
following shall apply:
1.	The present incumbent shall receive all negotiated increases for the duration of his employment.
2.	When the present incumbent vacates the position, it shall be posted at die new rate of $14.00 per hour.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
40-
APPENDIX "A"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
I. BASIC PLAN PROVISIONS
This plan shall operate pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following
basis:-
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board cf Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3) to be named by the Union and three (3) to be named by the Employer. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible tor the achinistration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with, the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect firm time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall
not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of ell contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit cf siployees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an Arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Employer shall from time to time provide all infoxmation which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistancerendered by the Employer shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan,
41
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Employer to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employer and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(j)	The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Efcard cf Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k)	The Employers shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a j do classification covered by the Collective Agreement:
(a)	six and three-quarters percent (6.75%) of his gross earnings firm October 1,1990 up to September30, 1992, and
(b)	seven percent (7.0%) of his gross earnings from October 1, 1992.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance vdih the terms of the Collective Agresnent.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his regular earnings shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assets of the Han designated by the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employer shall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Elan during such plan year showing, for each, the regular earnings upon which the Employer's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies oi all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1)	It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be
registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any
■42-
other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.