ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
DAIRYLAND FLUID DIVISION LTD.
and its branches at Calgary,
Medicine Hat, Lethbridge,
Red Deer, Banff and Stettler
hereinafter called the “Company”
AND
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA
hereinafter called the “Union”
(May 1,2001-April 30,2004)
n ' NO A ' nAfi
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DAIRYLAND FLUID DIVISION LTD. and its branches at Calgary,
Medicine Hat, Lethbridge,
Red Deer, Banff and Stettler
and
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA
Article No.
Page No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10. 11. 12.
13.
14.
15.
16. 17.
Intent and Purpose......................
Management Control......................
Employees Included......................
Union Security..........................
Bargain with and Ratification...........
Continuity of Work......................
Seniority...............................
Hours of Work...........................
Wages...................................
Annual Vacations........................
Paid Holidays...........................
Shop Stewards ..........................
Grievance Procedure ....................
Summer Relief and Part-Time Employees
Mutual Interest.........................
Health and Welfare......................
Duration, Termination and Amendments ..
Appendix A..............................
Letters of Understanding ...............
3
3
3
4
4
5 5 8
10
10
12
13
14 16 17 21 23 25 27
Page 2
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: ARTICLE NO. 1 - INTENT AND PURPOSE
1:01 It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain an efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products, to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its Employees, and to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE NO. 2 - MANAGEMENT CONTROL
2:01 Responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively with the Management. Management personnel will not perform duties of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE NO. 3 - EMPLOYEES INCLUDED
3:01 The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all Employees including Route
Foremen of the Company at Calgary, Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, Banff and Stettler who belong to the craft or crafts included in the Union, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall exclude specifically office workers and Employees engaged in any kind of supervision who have the right to hire, discharge or change the status of Employees except for Route Foremen.
3:02 Probationary Employees retained as permanent staff shall be deemed to be on permanent staff as of the date of commencing the most recent period of continuous employment. Seniority provisions of this Agreement shall be effective from the date, subject to the one hundred and twenty (120) days probationary period described in Article 7:02.
3:03 Gender, except where specifically stated to the contrary or where the sense requires the contrary, use of the term “he”, “him”, or “his”, throughout this Agreement will be considered to also mean “she”, “her”, or “hers”.
3:04 Each location noted in Clause 3:01 is considered to be a distinct bargaining unit for the purposes of applying this agreement.
Page 3
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE NO. 4 - UNION SECURITY
4:01 The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for Union membership and dues deductions, which shall be signed by all new Employees on the day on which the new Employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the Union and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment. The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for pension benefits; these forms shall be signed on the day on which the new Employee is hired. All completed copies are to be sent to the Union Office.
4:02 Upon written request of an Employee, the Company will, in accordance with the tenor of the request, deduct the Employee’s initiation fee and monthly Union dues, remitting same, together with a list of the Employees from whom the deductions have been made, to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, on or before the 15th day of the following calendar month in which the dues are deducted.
4:03 The Company agrees to supply the Shop Steward of the Department concerned with a list of the new Employees each month.
4:04 It is agreed by the Employer and the Union that no Employee will make or be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 5 - BARGAIN WITH AND RATIFICATION
5:01 Pursuant to the corresponding Certificates of Certification issued by the Labour Relations Board, the Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the Employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, and will bargain only with the Union, and duly appointed representatives thereof, on behalf of the Employees of the Company.
5:02 This Agreement will be ratified by Union member Employees, whose decision will be final, and neither Union members employed by other companies, nor non-union employees employed by the Company, shall have any voice in ratifying this Agreement, or amendments thereof that may be made in the future.
Page 4
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE NO. 6 - CONTINUITY OF WORK
6:01 There shall be no cessation of work, or slow down of any kind by the
Employees, or lock-out by the Company, during the time this Agreement is in force, or in the process of being renewed or amended.
6:02 No employee covered by this Agreement shall be required to cross any legal picket line.
6:03 The business agent is allowed to visit the Company premises but shall not conduct Union business on Company time.
ARTICLE NO. 7 SENIORITY
7:01 Seniority shall be based on the length of continuous service an Employee has been on the payroll.
7:02 A probationary period of one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Company shall not be obligated to re-hire such an employee. This period may be extended by mutual agreement of the employer and union.
7:03 a) As a general principle, advancement and transfers within the bargaining unit shall be based on seniority, provided that ability and qualifications relative to position requirements are relatively equal.
Positions involving the acquisition of a higher level of skills and competencies, as determined by the Employer (eg. Foreman, Maintenance, Group 1 & 2 Classifications and Drivers) shall be filled on the basis of suitability and qualifications relative to which carry with them a non-mobility period of 24 months unless waived by the Employer.
It is agreed and understood that an employee can not bump into a position that he could not post into, based on the position requirements.
Page 5
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
7:04 a) All approved job vacancies or new jobs, as determined by the
Company, will be posted within five (5) working days of completion of a shift selection. When a vacancy or a new job is created it will be posted, in each department, on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days during which period an Employee, with seniority, may make written application for such vacancy. Employees within the department containing such vacancy will be given first consideration for the vacancy. Any immediate changes to a job that is posted will be made prior to posting.
b)	Prior to posting a vacancy, it is intended that a shift selection based on seniority shall be completed for those similar positions in the applicable department.
c)	The successful applicant will be advised within five (5) working days of the expiry of the five (5) working day posting period. Upon filling the vacancy, the successful applicant will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify for a period of twenty (20) working days following a placement resulting from the successful bidding for a job vacancy, the employee shall be permitted to return to his former job. The Company shall also have the right to return such employee to his former job within twenty (20) working days if he is found incapable of satisfactorily performing the duties of the job vacancy. Should he be returned, the job will not be re-posted but will be filled from the applicants to the original posting, based on the considerations noted in Clause 7:03 a).
d)	The company will maintain a position up to 12 consecutive months for employees on Worker’s Compensation (W.C.B.) or company disability. Employee’s returning to work after 12 consecutive months on Worker’s Compensation (W.C.B.) or disability will be given duties as assigned,’ subject to being capable of performing the work available.
e)	The successful applicant will be selected by the Company and such selection shall be made in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
f)	The Company reserves the right to place wholesale drivers on whatever route(s) it deems necessary.
Page 6
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
7:05
7:06
7:07
7:08
g)	Any employee who bids on any posted vacancy and is successful, shall not bid on any other vacancy for a period of one (1) year, unless it is a higher wage rated classification.
In determining vacancies, promotions, demotions, lay-offs and recall, seniority shall be on a Departmental basis, as follows:
The following departments shall apply:
Calgary
Production Plant and Shipping DSD Drivers/City Tractor Trailer Drivers Home Service Maintenance & Engineering Lab Staff
a)	In the event of a reduction in staff in a Department, the junior Employee of the Department shall be the first subject to lay-off, except, if he has the qualifications (or is able to obtain said qualifications in a reasonable period time) and ability and is capable of performing the work of the most junior employee in the plant/branch with a reasonable amount of training, the latter Employee will be subject to layoff. Notwithstanding the above, no employee with a special qualification or skill rating or licensing requirement will be used to block the layoff procedure, and bumping will take place as if the position did not exist.
b)	If the Company determines that temporary layoffs of less than 60 days are necessary, Clause 7:06 a) (see above) does not apply and no notice is required. Where possible the Company shall provide a minimum of one week notice of lay-off.
The Company agrees to re-hire on a seniority basis, Employees who have been laid off for a period not exceeding nine (9) consecutive months, providing the Employee is capable of performing the duties of the vacancy, with seniority from the first day of employment with the Company prior to being laid off.
A list showing the seniority of each Employee, based on the length of service an Employee has been on the payroll, shall be compiled and kept posted on the bulletin boards. This list shall be revised every three (3) months and posted on the bulletin boards. Any errors shall be reported to the Chairman of the Shop Stewards for correction.
Page 7
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
7:09 An Employee shall lose all seniority rights and his Employee status with the Company shall be cancelled in all respect if he:
a)	voluntarily leaves the Company,
b)	is discharged for just cause,
c)	is laid off by the Company for a period exceeding nine (9) consecutive months.
7:10 Any employee who accepts pay in lieu of notice as stipulated in the
Employment Standards Code prior to the expiry of the recall period or severance will forfeit all recall rights.
7:11 It is agreed that the Laboratory Supervisor shall be allowed to perform bargaining unit work provided it does not result in the displacement of a bargaining unit employee.
ARTICLE NO. 8 - HOURS OF WORK
8:01 A pay period is defined as a fourteen (14) consecutive day period that commences at 2400 hours Saturday.
8:02 a) Regular Employees will’ normally work eighty (80 ) hours per pay period;
eight (8) days, ten (10) hours per day or ten (10) days, eight (8) hours per day, with a minimum of two consecutive days off per week. Scheduled days of the week and hours per day will be determined by the company, based on operational and business needs.
b)	Drivers shall only be paid for actual hours worked but the Company shall endeavour, where practical, to reasonably schedule close to an eighty (80) hour pay period.
c)	Where possible, a draft schedule shall be posted at least two (2) weeks in advance. The schedule shall be subject to change up until 4:00 pm Friday for the following week. The Company will advise employees of any changes after this time. In the event the Company can not provide 24 hours notice of a change in start time, the employee shall receive overtime for those hours worked outside his scheduled shift. In the event the change is four (4) hours or more, overtime shall be paid for the entire shift. This provision shall not apply to employees classified as Relief, part-time or student,
Page 8
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
d)	Where practical, the Company will offer overtime to senior employees available and capable of performing the required work as determined by the Company. In the event sufficient employees are not available, the Company maintains the right to assign employees, commencing with less senior employees where practical. Employees will not be required to work more than twelve (12) hours in a day except in the case of an emergency.
8:03 Overtime at one and one half (VA) the regular rate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled hours per day or per pay period.
8:04 The company shall provide all employees two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods, one in the first half of the shift and the second in the second half of the shift. The company shall provide for a half hour unpaid lunch break.
8:05 Employees required to work any of their regular daily shifts outside of the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. shall be paid a shift differential of: sixty cents (600) per hour for all hours of their regular daily shift worked prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. Shift differential, at one times (lx), shall apply to overtime hours worked provided the employee was working hours that qualify for shift differential.
8.06 Employees required to work on a Sunday shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked on the Sunday.
8:07 In the event any changes are to take place in the Employee’s days of rest,
twenty-four (24) hours’ notice shall be given to the Employees affected by the change (not applicable in cases of emergency, i.e. fire, flood or act of God).
8:08 The Company agrees that an accurate record of hours of work for all
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be kept, and no Employee shall record or be asked to record times other than their actual hours of work. The Company may use mechanical or electronic time clocks for time keeping purposes. All time cards shall be signed by the Employee, and by the Supervisor in charge, and all Employees shall be paid in accordance with the time cards.
Page 9
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
8:09 Call In
Where an Employee is called to work on one of his scheduled days off, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the overtime rate.
An Employee who has left the Company’s premises and is specially called outside of his scheduled hours for emergency work shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, he shall be paid for four (4) hours at his job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is greater.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employee’s scheduled hours or if the Employee leaves after eight hours even though such departure from the premises precedes his regular scheduled end of shift. Employees called in early will have the right to work their regular shift.
In the event that an employee is called in to start his shift early, he shall receive overtime rates for hours worked prior to his scheduled start time and be permitted to complete his regularly scheduled shift.
8.10 All employees required to work in excess of two (2) hours at the end of their scheduled shift will be provided a meal allowance of $7.50. After two (2) hours of overtime employees shall receive a paid fifteen (15) minute break.
ARTICLE NO. 9 -WAGES
9:01 Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix “A” setting forth the wage rates and classifications of all Employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 10 -ANNUAL VACATIONS
10:01 Annual vacations with pay shall be granted to all Employees covered by this Agreement, on the following basis:
After 1 year of continuous service After 4 years of continuous service After 11 years of continuous service After 22 years of continuous service
-	2 weeks
-	3 weeks
-	4 weeks
-	5 weeks
Page 10
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
10:02 Vacation pay will be based on the employee’s gross hourly rate of pay
(including overtime). Summer relief and part-time employees are not entitled to paid vacations, but will receive vacation pay equal to 4% of their gross earnings.
10:03 Vacation will be scheduled on a calendar basis from January to December.
Subject to Christmas operating requirements, the Company will endeavour to approve some vacation time during the pre-Christmas period. Each employee shall take their vacation during the calendar year in which they are entitled to
it.
10:04 a) Those Employees with less than one year, prior to March 1 of each year are entitled to one (1) day for each 208 hours actually worked (vacation time not to exceed 80 hours).
b)	Commencing in the calendar year during which the employees second anniversary falls, vacation may be scheduled throughout the calendar year subject to Clause 10:05.
c)	In the calendar year during which the employees’ 4th, 1 1th and 22nd anniversary falls, the employee qualifies for the additional entitlement and it may be scheduled throughout the calendar year.
10:05 a) Employees on each schedule shall choose their vacation dates in order of seniority based on department/unit guidelines to be posted each year. The senior Employee will choose his vacation date first, and should he decide, in accordance with the selection procedure herein contained, to split his vacation into two periods he shall not make his second selection until all other Employees on the schedule have made their first selection. No Employee, on his first selection, may take more than three continuous weeks vacation during the months of May to September inclusive. The next senior Employee will follow the same procedure and so on down the schedule until all Employees have made their selections.
b) An Employee may take his entire vacation in one continuous period during the months of October to April. However, no vacation may be taken in the period December 14 to December 24, unless operational requirements permit and it is approved by the Company.
Page 11
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
10:06 In the event an employee resigns or is terminated, vacation pay will be determined as follows:
If the resignation occurs prior to March 1 for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings for each week of entitlement from the previous March 1 to the date of termination less any vacation actually taken during the current calendar year. Any vacation overpayment will be deducted from final earnings.
If the resignation occurs after March 1 for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings for each week of entitlement from March 1 to the date of termination plus any vacation entitlement not taken in the current calendar year.
ARTICLE NO. 11 ■ PAID HOLIDAYS
11:01 Employees currently on payroll for more than thirty (30) calendar days shall be entitled to recognized general holidays with pay equal to their regular hourly rate for their scheduled hours of work. In order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work their last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and their first scheduled shift after the holiday and the holiday, if scheduled; unless absent due to illness verified by a doctor’s certificate. Employees who are scheduled to work the holiday and do not, due to a verified illness, will receive the holiday pay but do not qualify for sick benefit.
11:02 The following general holidays are recognized:
New Year’s Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, August Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
11:03 All general holidays are recognized for pay purposes on the actual day on which they fall. Canada Day is the only holiday with an exception (i.e. It is recognized on July 1st except when it falls on Sunday, in which case Monday, July 2nd becomes the holiday).
11:04 Employees who are required to work on a general holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 Yz) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day in addition to their regular days pay for the general holiday.
Page 12
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE NO. 12 - SHOP STEWARDS
12:01 The number of Shop Stewards in a bargaining unit will be agreed upon
between local Management and the Union. All of such Stewards shall be Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority, and shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of such Stewards.
The elected Shop Stewards shall appoint a chairman form among themselves. Their duties shall be to see that the members of the Union abide by the rules and regulations of the Company, the Union, and the terms of this Agreement.
12:02 In order to facilitate collaborative relations, the Company and the Union agree to form a ‘Joint Labour Management Committee’ that shall meet on a regular basis for the purpose of reviewing business and operational plans and to discuss issues and opportunities. Where practical, it is intended that the meetings shall be held monthly during regular working hours.
12:03 The Union will elect and the Company agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee, the number agreed upon between local Management and the Union, whom shall be Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority. A list of Grievance committee members shall be furnished to the Company.
12:04 Grievance meetings with the Grievance Committee shall be conducted at times suitable to the operation of the business, by arrangement between Company Management and the Chief Shop Steward. The Company will pay members of the Grievance Committee at their regular rates for time spent at meeting of the Grievance Committee with Management Representatives during regular working hours.
12:05 Before leaving his job or his Department in connection with any grievance, a shop Steward or member of the Grievance Committee must first obtain permission from the Supervisor of his Department. Should the grievance require such steward or member of the Grievance Committee to go into another Department, he must first report to the person in charge of the Department.
Page 13
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE NO. 13 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13:01 Should any alleged grievance arise as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, such grievance shall be processed within ten (10) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance have originated or occurred, in the following manner and sequence:
FIRST STEP
Between the aggrieved Employee, with the Shop Steward, and his Department Supervisor. The decision of the Department Supervisor shall be given within three (3) working days following presentation of the grievance. Failing settlement, then,
SECOND STEP
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the first step, a meeting will be held between the Shop Steward and the Department Manager. The decision of the Department Manager shall be given within three (3) working days of such meeting. Failing settlement, then,
THIRD STEP
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the Second Step, a meeting will be held between the Union Grievance Committee and a Committee designated by the Company. A staff representative of the Union will be present at the request of either the Company or the Union. A decision under this step will be given within five (5) working days following such meeting. The grievance will be presented in writing at this step by the grieving party. Failing settlement, then,
If the grievance remains unsettled, then within ten (10) working days of the date of the decision, under the third step, the grievance shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration as provided herein.
13:02 The term “working days” for purposes of this Article shall not be deemed to include Saturdays, Sundays and Paid Holidays.
13:03 If the Company wishes to grieve to the Union against any action of the Union, its officers or Members, the foregoing procedure may be followed commencing with the second step.
Page 14
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
If an Employee, who has completed the probationary period, has an alleged grievance that he has been unjustly discharged, he shall notify the Company through the Grievance Committee within three (3) working days after date of separation stating the reason of objection to the discharge and the grievance will be considered commencing with the second step of Article 13:01.
13:04 Should any grievance arise directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the grievance shall be taken up commencing at the second step of Article 13:01.
13:05 Pending settlement of any grievance, the aggrieved Employee shall perform the duties assigned to him.
13:06 a) If the Union and the Company cannot reach a settlement, following the third step of the Grievance Procedure, and upon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to the Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members. The Company and the Union shall each select one (1) member, and the third member within seven (7) days shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two (2) members first selected.
The third member shall be impartial and possess knowledge of Labour Management relations. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board.
If agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days, in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta who shall appoint a Chairman. No person involved directly in the controversy under consideration shall be a member of the Board of Arbitration.
b)	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
c)	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of the contract. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this contract, and shall not depend on, or involve, an issue of contention by either party which is contrary to any provisions of this contract, or which involves the
Page 15
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this contract.
d)	The findings and decision of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
e)	The expense of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties of the Arbitration.
f)	The Company and the Union may agree to a single arbiter, jointly selected rather than a Board consisting of three (3) members.
ARTICLE NO. 14 - SUMMER RELIEF AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
14:01 The Company may employ summer relief and part-time Employees under the
following conditions:
a)	To supplement the regular work force, to provide additional help on an incidental basis to cover work periods and other such time to cover an absent Employee.
b)	Part-time and Summer Relief Employees shall not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement or prevents the hiring or recall of full-time Employees.
c)	Each part-time and Summer Relief Employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay each month Union dues in accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement for those months in which the Employee has earnings.
d)	A part-time Employee employed under the conditions set out in Clauses
a), b) and c) above shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
e)	Part-time Employees will be paid the wage rate as set out in Appendix “A” of this Agreement and should they be employed in classifications covered in Group 1 or Group 2, then the appropriate wage shall apply.
Page 16
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
f)	Part-time Employees shall be given first opportunity to qualify as regular Employees and be placed at the bottom of the seniority list if they meet all qualifications and their seniority date will be the date in which they become a full-time Employee.
g)	Summer relief shall be defined as those Employees hired between April 1st and September 15th of any calendar year for the purpose of temporarily replacing vacationing regular Employees. When a permanent vacancy occurs under Clause 7:04 it will be posted as provided therein.
h)	Seniority will not accumulate during the period between April 1st and September 15th inclusive, but in the event a Summer Relief Employee is retained as a regular Employee after September 15th, his probationary period under Article 7:02 will commence as of September 16th. Should he satisfactorily complete such probationary period, his seniority date will be established as his original date of hire as a “Summer Relief’ Employee.
i)	The Company will maintain in each department a list of part time employees and the total hours each part time employee has worked on a four (4) week basis. The shop steward will be granted access to said information on a “as requested” basis.
ARTICLE NO. 15 - MUTUAL INTEREST
15:01 The Union agrees that it will further the interests of the Company at all times to the limit of its ability.
15:02 Driver Sales Staff shall make every effort to collect cash for N.S.F. cheques.
All N.S.F. cheques over two months old shall be written off the driver’s book.
15:03 a) An Employee promoted under Article 7:04 shall receive the higher rate when he becomes qualified, but such qualifying period for purposes of rate application will not exceed twenty (20) working days.
Page 17
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
15:04
15:05
15:06
15:07
b)	Employees temporarily working on jobs of a higher rated classification shall not be paid the higher rate for the first four (4) hours of work. If however, the employee works at least four (4) hours, he/she shall receive the higher rated pay for the entire day. If he/she shall work in excess of twenty (20) hours in a given week on a higher rated job he/she will receive the higher rate for the entire week.
a)	Any classification not included in this Agreement, any change in classification, or any change in method constituting a change in classification, shall be negotiated between the Company and the Union, at the time it comes into existence. If the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
b)	On any new product or container size introduced for sale, a commission rate shall be negotiated and established between the company and the Union. If negotiations are not satisfactorily concluded, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
Before putting into effect any further curtailment of milk delivery during the life of this Agreement, Article 8 - Hours of Work, and Appendix “A”, Wages and Classifications, shall be reopened for negotiations, and agreement reached on revision of same.
a)	Employees shall be paid bi-weekly.
b)	Commission shall be calculated up to the last working day of a week pay period, and included in the following four week pay period.
c)	All Employees shall be given a statement with each two week pay period pay cheque, showing overtime hours worked, if any, units sold, Home Service and Wholesale, base pay and commissions, and how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any.
Jury Duty or Subpoenaed as a Crown Witness
The Company shall continue to pay an Employee for scheduled hours at his regular wage for time he is away due to being summoned to serve Jury Duty. Within one (1) month of the Employee’s return to work he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government.
Page 18
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
It is understood that the Employee will report to work during regular hours that he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the Court Office if requested by the Company.
15:08 Leave of Absence
a)	Leave of absence to a maximum of six (6) months may be granted to an Employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the Employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business.
b)	If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, a written application shall be made by the Employee to the Company, and if leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing.
c)	Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence, but where leave exceeds one (1) calendar month, the employee will be required to repay all premiums on any benefits to which he is entitled.
15:09 Compassionate Leave
That application for compassionate leave of absence must be made to the Department Supervisor and approved by the Department Manager. In the event of the death of a member of a regular employee’s immediate family, the Company will grant a bereavement leave of up to three (3) days, with pay, if the employee is scheduled to work. An additional leave of absence without pay may be granted based on individual circumstances.
“Immediate family” shall mean spouse, parents, child, brother, sister, grandparents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents-in-law, step mother, step father, step brother and step sister.
15:10 a) Uniforms - Plant Employees
The Company will provide and launder, without charge, designated outer work clothing required by plant, lab and maintenance employees in the performance of their duties. It is understood and agreed that such clothing will be treated with proper care by the Employee and will not be removed from Company premises under any circumstances.
Page 19
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
b)	Uniforms - Delivery Employees
As a condition of employment, all delivery personnel shall wear only Company approved uniforms in the performance of their duties, which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times.
Employees with more than one year seniority shall be provided with a Company uniform consisting initially of a jacket, two shirts, two pair of pants and an outer jacket, if required. Replacement items will be provided as required upon the return of worn out items.
c)	Safety Footwear
As a condition of employment, all plant, maintenance, shipping and truck drivers shall be required to wear company approved safety footwear. Full time employees who have completed their probationary period as of February 1 of each year shall be eligible for reimbursement of up to $75.00 per year (or $150.00 for two years) upon submission of the appropriate receipt.
15.11	Severance Pay
(i)	A regular employee who is permanently laid off due to discontinuance of an operation or lack of work shall receive severance pay (exclusive of notice) on the basis of 1 .0 weeks pay for each year of service.
(ii)	A regular employee in a department affected by permanent lay-offs who would not otherwise lose his employment may apply to voluntarily terminate and receive a separation allowance (exclusive of notice) of 1 .0 weeks pay for each year of service to a maximum of ten (10) years service.
The number of employees eligible for severance under this provision shall be determined by the Company each year.
(iii)	An employee accepting severance shall be considered terminated.
15.12	Disciplinary Notices
(a)	An employee will receive a copy of any written reprimands, incident reports or warning letters placed on his file, with a copy to the Union.
Page 20
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
(b)	Disciplinary notices shall not be referred to after two (2) years of actual work service where no other offence has taken place.
(c)	The Parties agree that a Union representative or, if this is not possible, another Union Employee will be present when an Employee is undergoing disciplinary action.
ARTICLE NO. 16 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company is to pay for yearly medical examination for all drivers compelled by law to take the examination.
16:01 Pension Plan
Effective April 1,1999 contributions to the Teamsters Pension Plan shall be one dollar and five cents ($1.05) per hour for all hours worked (including vacation & holiday pay but excluding overtime). This shall be increased to one dollar and ten cents ($1.10) per hour effective May 1,2001, one dollar and fifteen cents ($1.15) per hour effective May 1, 2002 and one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20) per hour effective May 1,2003. The maximum hours will be 173 per month. Contributions will start on the day an employee begins work for the company.
It is agreed that the Teamsters Pension Plan as administered by Miscellaneous Employees, Teamsters Local Union 987 of Alberta Province of Alberta will be amended to provide the following:
a) There will be no contributions by the Company to the Pension Plan for hours worked by students Employees.
Re: Contributions on behalf of part-time and summer students; the Company will make any contributions on behalf of a part-time and/or summer student as required under the Alberta Pension Act.
Page 21
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
16:02 Dental Plan - see Company Benefit Plan.
16:03 Short Term Disability Plan - see Company Benefit Plan. Effective July 1,
2001 the Company shall be responsible for 100% of the premium costs of the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
16:04 Long Term Disability Plan - see Company Benefit Plan.
16.05 Sick Leave
a)	Full time employees unable to work due to illness may be eligible to receive pay for hours lost to a maximum accumulation of fifty-six (56) hours per calendar year.
b)	An employee who works the complete calendar year shall receive a pay-out of 50% of his accrued sick leave, provided the employee has not received a written warning regarding his attendance in that calendar year.
c)	An employee absent due to any combination of WCB, Wl or LTD in excess of 30 days shall have his sick leave pro-rated for the purposes of any payout.
16:06 Benefit Eligibility
Effective the first day of the month following 960 regular hours worked in a continuous twelve (12) month period, all regular employees (full-time, parttime but excluding summer help) shall be entitled to applicable Health & Welfare Benefits as presently provided by the Company.
Employees on recall or part-time will be eligible for applicable Company benefits (medical, dental and extended health) provided they work a minimum of 50% of regular working hours in the previous period (reviewed quarterly). Where the employee does not qualify for benefits under this provision he has
■ the option of pre-paying these benefits.
Medical Certification
The Company may request that individual employees provide a medical certificate to substantiate an absence or disability, to the satisfaction of the Company, when it suspects abuse or determines that absences are excessive or an unacceptable pattern is developinn.
Page 22
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
16:08 Alberta Health Care
The Company will pay the full cost of Alberta Health Care.
ARTICLE NO. 17 - DURATION. TERMINATION AND AMENDMENTS
17:01 This Agreement shall be in full force and effect as of the 1st day of May, 2001 and continue in full force and effect through the 30th day of April, 2004 and from year to year thereafter except as hereinafter provided.
17:02 Either party may terminate this Agreement on any anniversary date, by notice in writing to the other party, not less than sixty (60) days prior to such anniversary date of this Agreement.
17:03 If amendments are desired by either party to become effective in the next ensuing year, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not less than ninety (90) days before the last day of April in any year, and negotiations on such amendments shall be commenced within twenty (20) days of the receipt of said notice.
Page 23
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
SIGNED AT Calgary, Alberta, this 3 day of	UfT~ ,2001
Signed on Behalf of:
DAIRYLAND FLUID DIVISION LTD.
Signed on Behalf of:
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA Calgary, Alberta
Page 24
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
APPENDIX “A”
WAGES & CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION 1 RATES PER HOUR
Plant Staff
May 1/2000 May 1/2001 May 1/2001 May 1/2002 May 1/2003 New Base
Group 1
Pasteurizer
Machine Operator Automatic CIP Operator Relief Process Operator Laboratory Technician Milk Receiver/Grader
17.18
17.18
17.18
17.18 17.10
17.01
18.18
18.18
18.18
18.18
18.18
18.18
18.54
18.54
18.54
18.54
18.54
18.54
18.91
18.91
18.91
18.91
18.91
18.91
19.29
19.29
19.29
19.29
19.29
19.29
Group 2
Fluid Milk Filler Operator	16.63	16.78	17.12	17.46	17.81
Group 3
Other experienced employees 16.30	16.45	16.78	17.12	17.46
PART TIME
New employees (including summer help and excluding maintenance) shall receive 75% of the job rate for the first year (2000 hours worked) and 85% of the job rate for the second year (next 2000 hours worked). Thereafter, the employee shall receive the job rate.
LEADHAND
“Leadhand” designated by the Company will be paid a lead hand premium of $1.00 per hour over the employee’s posted job and regular rate in recognition of additional responsibilities to direct (including training, related administration) and oversee the activities of a specific work group or Department.
Page 25
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 2 RATES PER HOUR
May 1/2000
Maintenance
Maintenance Mechanic &	20.10
4th Class Engineer*
*Applies to employees in the Maintenance/Engineering Department performing plant maintenance work.
Electrical / Electronic Certification:
A premium of $2.50 per hour shall be paid to Maintenance employees holding PLC / Electronic certifications or equivalency who are capable of performing the required work and actually perform the assigned work requiring these skills.
Mav 1/2001 New Base
22.60
Mav 1/2001
23.05
Mav 1/2002 23.51
Mav 1/2003 23.98
SECTION 3 RATES PER HOUR
Drivers
Wholesale Foreman Wholesale Driver Tractor/Trailer Driver Shunt Driver
Mav 1/2000 Mav 1/2001 Mav 1/2001 New Base
Mav 1/2002 Mav 1/2003
19.20
18.14
17.14
19.20
18.14
17.14
19.58
18.50
17.48
19.97	20.37
18.87	19.25
17.83	18.19
16.62	16.62	16.95	17.28
17.63
Page 26
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: HEAD SHIPPER, HEAD MILK STORAGE MAN AND HEAD CHECK-IN
It is the company’s intention to eliminate the following classifications:
Drivers
Head Shipper
Head Milk Storage Man Head Check In
May 1/2000
17.01
16.63
16.63
Mav 1/2001 New Base
17.01
16.63
16.63
Mav 1/2001
17.35
16.96
16.96
Mav 1/2002
17.70
17.30
17.30
Mav 1/2003
18.05
17.65
17.65
Any employee who is currently paid in one of these classifications will be grandfathered, ie. retain their current rate including wage adjustments, until such time as they successfully bid on or are recalled to another job, at which time they will receive the applicable rate for the new job.
Page 27
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: COST OF ABSENTEEISM
The Company has serious concerns as it relates to the cost of absenteeism abuse and control.
It is the intent of the Company over time to institute plans and programs directed towards the improved management of this concern area.
Page 28
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: ALTERNATE WORK ARRANGEMENTS WHOLESALE DRIVERS
1.	Pursuant to Article 8, the parties acknowledge that “alternate work arrangements” may be necessary in order to ensure the efficient scheduling and operation of the wholesale delivery department and to satisfy customer requirements.
2.	In support of this understanding, alternate work arrangements other than those designated in Clause 8:02 (eg. 12 hours per day) may be utilized.
3.	In all cases the company will schedule and endeavour to maintain routes with an average of 40 hours of work per week over each pay period or work cycle (3 weeks). However, in recognition of daily, weekly, and seasonal fluctuations in volume and time requirements, drivers will be paid for actual time worked.
4.	It is understood that under alternate work arrangements, overtime would only be paid if the hours worked exceed the daily schedule or the total hours worked exceed the scheduled hours in a specific period (eg. pay period or work cycle).
5.	A minimum of two consecutive days off per week will be scheduled.
Page 29
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: HOME SERVICE
The Collective Agreement as it applies to Home Service personnel will be modified as follows:
I.	Commission shall be the sole basis of remuneration for sales to Homes Service and designate Wholesale accounts. Products sold will be converted to a unit basis. The Unit Compensation Rate shall be as follows:
May 1/2000 May 1/2001 May 1/2001 Mav 1/2002 May 1/2003 New Base
Cents Per Unit
Home Service Sales	14.920	14.920	15.220	15.520	15.830
Wholesale Sales	7.420	7.420	7.570	7.720	7.870
The Schedule of Units Structure (commission) is attached hereto. Note: Butter is an exception and is paid at a rate of 50 per unit.
2.	Benefit Program Vacations
An Employee shall receive as compensation two percent (2%) of his previous year’s gross earnings for each week entitlement. (Gross earnings will include vacation, statutory holiday pay and overtime).
Page 30
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Statutory Holidays. Sick Leave. Jury Duty. Compassionate Leave The following rates shall apply when making calculations relative to the above.
Mav 1/2000 Mav 1/2001 New Base
Cents Per Unit
Home Service Driver 18.14	18.14
(& Route Builders)
Route Foreman	19.15	19.15	19.53	19.92	20.32
Note: An Employee may elect to be paid in lieu of vacation for any complete week(s) of vacation in excess of two (2) weeks of his entitlement. The Employee will also be paid the appropriate commission during periods worked as a result of such election.
If an Employee works on a statutory holiday, the Employee shall receive the appropriate commission earned in addition to pay provided herein. Article 11:02 will not apply.
Pension
The Company shall make pension contributions to the union in the amount of nine, dollars ($10.50) for each full day completed with a maximum of forty-two dollars ($42.00) per week. Effective May 1,2001 increase to a maximum of forty-four dollars ($44.00) per week. Effective May 1,2002 increase to a maximum of forty-six dollars ($46.00) per week. Effective May I, 2003 increase to a maximum of forty-eight dollars ($48.00) per week.
3.	It is understood and agreed that the payment of such commission is predicated on a Home Service Salesman’s route being completed daily and/or weekly within the maximum hours permitted under the Alberta Labour Standards Act. In the event a claim is made for payment of overtime, then the route will be revised to eliminate the overtime and any overtime payments will be deducted from the commissions earned.
May 1/2001 Mav 1/2002 Mav 1/2003 18.50	18.87	19.25
Page 31
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
4.	Route Foremen shall be covered by this memorandum, and will be paid at the rate of three dollars and twenty-five cents ($3.25) per hour (maximum of forty (40) hours per week), plus average commission earned. Effective May 1,1992 this shall be increased to $3.50 per hour.
5.	Article 8 - Hours of Work will not apply for Home Service except as provided under Section 3 herein.
6.	Article IQ - Annual Vacations will apply except as superseded by Section 2 herein.
7.	Article 11 - Paid Holidays will apply except as superseded by Section 2 herein.
8.	Article 14:01 (e) will not apply.
9.	Wages and Commissions are described in this Memorandum. Reference in Appendices “A” and "B" are, therefore, deleted.
10.	The job posting provision under Article 7 will apply except, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a driver will be permitted only one (1) promotion in any twelve (12) month period. Likewise, the second sentence of Article 7:04 (b) will not apply.
11.	The Company will continue the past practice of subsidizing home service commissions by .02 cents per unit during the period July 1 to August 31 each year.
12.	As part of its effort to secure the ongoing viability of home service in a declining market segment, the company is considering the implementation of a new route accounting system (scanner). This system would allow drivers to scan products delivered to a customer and would replace the current manual route book accounting system.
As part of the feasibility review and implementation requirements, the provisions contained in Clause 14:06a and Section 14 of the Letter of Understanding Re: Home Service, may be utilized.
Page 32
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
COMMISSIONS
(A) UNIT STRUCTURE - HOME SERVICE
1. Fluid Milk & Cream
1 - Litre Milk (Any Type)
1 - Litre Cereal Cream 1 - Carton/Bag (160) Creamers/Milkers 1 - Litre Whipping Cream
One Unit Two Units Two Units Four Units
Feature Products
1 - Litre Egg Nog/Cordial	Two Units
1 - Carton/Bag (160) Koffee Kreamers	Two Units
1 - 225g Dairyland Aerosol Whip	One Unit
1 - 400g Dairyland Aerosol Whip	Two Units
1 - Litre Mix (Ice Cream, Milkshake, Yogurt) Two Units
Fruit Drink/Juice
1 - Litre	One Unit
Cultured Products 1 - Kg Cottage Cheese 1 - Kg Yogourt 1 - Litre Yop 1 - Litre Sour Cream Cheese
1 - Kg Cheddar, Processed & Other Butter/B utter Oil/Margarine 1 - Kg
Four Units Four Units Four Units Four Units
Two Units
Two Units
3. Ice Cream
1 - Litre
One Unit
4.	Novelties
1 - Dozen	One Unit
5.	Honey
1 - Kg	Four	Units
6.	Skim Milk Powder
1 - Kg	One Unit
G)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(D
(4)
(1)
Page 33
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE; ALTERNATIVE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
1.	Pursuant to Article 8, the parties acknowledge that “alternate work arrangements” may be necessary in order to ensure the efficient scheduling and operation of particular departments and satisfy customer requirements.
2.	In support of this understanding, alternate work arrangements other than those designated in Clause 8:02 (eg. 12 hours per day, 35 to 44 hours per week etc.) For a particular department, work group or individual may be utilized.
3.	In all cases the company will endeavour to schedule and maintain an average of 40 hours of work per week over each pay period or work cycle (eg. 3 weeks). However, in recognition of daily, weekly, and seasonal fluctuations in volume and time requirements, employees will be paid for actual time worked.
4.	It is understood that under alternate work arrangements, overtime would only be paid if the hours worked exceed the daily schedule or the total hours worked exceed the scheduled hours in a specific period (eg. pay period or work cycle).
5.	A minimum of two consecutive days off per week will be scheduled and, where practical, the Company will endeavour to schedule such days to include a Saturday or a Sunday.
Page 34
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: HEALTH &WELFARE BENEFITS
1.	The parties hereby recognize that the provision of Health & Welfare Benefits represents a serious escalating cost to the Company that must be judiciously controlled in order for the Company to continue to provide these benefits.
2.	The parties recognize that it is in their mutual interest to recognize and agree to control Health & Welfare benefits through the following principles:
Provision of a base level of Health & Welfare Benefits Uniformity of benefit plan provisions across all Company operations Standardization of insurers across employee groups Diligent administration by and through the insurers Subrogation by the insurer for rights of recovery
Retention by the Company of any insurance, government rebate (e.g., E.l Premium rebate)
3.	In accordance with these principles, the Company agrees to provide the following Health and Welfare Benefits:
Medical:
Provincial coverage. Premiums paid by the Company.
Dental:
Basic cove	d major restorative @ 60%
Maximum	Premiums paid by the
Company.
Extended Health:	Standard plan, including optical plan of $100/2 years.
Premiums paid by the Company.
Weekly Indemnity:	60% of gross weekly base rate for up to 26 weeks.
Premiums paid by the Company.
Long Term Disability: 60% of gross weekly base rate. Premiums paid by the
employee.
Page 35
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Life Insurance:	1 X base annual wage. Premiums paid by the
Company.
4.	This plan to be effective September 1,2001.
5.	The Company agrees to provide these benefits on the understanding that administration, inclusive of adjudication of claims, is the sole responsibility of the applicable insurer.
Page 36
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY AND REGULAR FULL TIME STATUS
The purpose of this Letter is to set out the process and principles under which an employee becomes eligible for benefits and regular full time status.
1.	The practice with respect to the use of students and part-time employees covered under Articles 7.02,14 and 16.06 shall continue.
2.	Article 16.06 Benefit Eligibility shall be amended as follows:
16.06	a) Full Time Employees
Effective the 1st of the month following 960 hours worked in a continuous 12 month period, employees hired as regular full time (excluding part-time and summer help) shall be entitled to full Health and Welfare benefits as provided by the Company.
16.06	b) Part-Time Employees
Effective the 1st of the month following 960 hours worked in a continuous 12 month period, employees hired as part-time (excluding summer help) shall be entitled to core Health and Welfare benefits (medical, dental and extended health) as provided by the Company.
16.06	c) Full Benefits and Regular Full Time Status
Effective the 1st of the month following 1900 hours worked in a continuous 12 month period, employees hired as part-time (excluding summer help) shall be considered regular full-time and be eligible for full Health & Welfare benefits (including pension, disability and sick leave*) provided by the Company
16.06	d) Core Benefit Eligibility
All benefit eligible employees on recall will be entitled to core Health and Welfare benefits (medical, dental and extended health) as provided by the Company, provided they work a minimum of 50% of the regular working hours in the previous period (reviewed quarterly). Where the employee does not qualify for benefits under this provision he has the option of pre-paying these benefits.
* Note of clarification:
In the first year an employee becomes eligible, sick leave entitlement shall be pro-rated on the basis of 1/12 of the sick leave accumulation for each full month remaining in the calendar year in which full time status is attained.
Page 37
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: HOME SERVICE OPERATORS (HSO’S) - CALGARY
1.	In the event the Company elects to establish ‘Home Service; Operators’, it shall provide the union with ninety (90) days written notice.
2.	HSO’s are intended to be a separate and distinct unit and are considered to be dependant Contractors and must remain members in good standing of Teamsters Local 987. Union dues shall be deducted by the Company and remitted to the Union.
3.	HSO’s will be covered by a Letter of Understanding and required to enter into a ‘standard form’ Franchise Agreement.
4.	Present Home Service employees satisfying the eligibility criteria may apply for an HSO opportunity and if accepted are eligible for ‘Voluntary Severance’ pay.
Any Home Service employee who does not become a HSO maintains his current rights under the Collective Agreement or may apply for full severance.
5.	Under this arrangement, HSO’s receive the right to distribute Company provided and approved products within a specific ‘Home Service’ geographic territory and/or to specific customers. The Company shall make available sufficient products and shall provide Sales, Marketing and other support services.
6.	Employees shall have the option of purchasing or leasing present Company vehicles.
7.	During the ninety (90) day notice period the Company and Union agree to meet and include HSO positions on the same basis as the existing ‘Letter of Understanding Re: Home Service Franchise’ in B.C.
8.	The Company shall continue to pay for the Welfare Benefits for present distribution employees who become RDO's for a period of twelve (12) months based on the current hourly rate to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week. Thereafter, present employees may purchase basic Welfare (medical, dental, extended health, life insurance) benefits by paying the cost of these benefits.
9.	The Company will continue to pay the cost of the pension plan for present employees.
Page 38
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: REGISTERED DISTRIBUTION OPERATORS (RDO'S)
The terms and conditions contained in this Letter are intended to apply to persons
working as Registered Distribution Operators (RDO's) in South/Central Alberta.
PART 1 GENERAL
1.	The purpose of this letter is to establish Registered Distribution Operators (RDO's) in South/Central Alberta.
2.	Any person who desires to become a RDO shall be required to make formal
application and satisfy the ‘eligibility criteria’ as determined by the Company. These criteria shall include but not be limited to general suitability and financial qualifications.
3.	The number of Territories shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
4.	Under this arrangement, RDO's receive the right to distribute Company provided and approved products within a specific geographic territory and/or to specific customers. The Company shall make available sufficient products and shall provide Sales, Marketing and other support services.
5.	(a) Products supplied to RDO's will be at ‘net price’ (with a specified sale price)
such that RDO's will receive a ‘commission or ‘fee for service’ on the sale of each unit.
(b)	Other forms of remuneration may be applied at the discretion of the Company (drop charge, transportation fee, storage fee, etc.)
(c)	All RDO's are responsible for the cost of returns under their control.
6.	RDO's will be required to use the Company’s automated billing and accounting system. The RDO will be charged a nominal fee for the use of the Norand (hand-held) system and/or other automated processes. The Company will carry the accounts receivable.
7.	RDO's are expected to adhere to the reasonable directives and guidelines set by the Company. This shall include responsibility for vehicle parking, hook-ups and loading.
Page 39
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
8.	The Company may terminate without notice any RDO for ‘just cause’ or nonperformance of responsibilities and immediately take back the distribution rights to the territory.
9.	RDO's are responsible for obtaining proper ‘business insurance’, registration, WCB coverage and for maintaining vehicles in a safe operating condition.
10.	RDO's are intended to be covered solely by the terms of this letter and a Standard Form RDO Agreement and must remain members in good standing of Teamsters, Local 987. Union dues shall be deducted by the Company and remitted to the Union.
11.	The terms of this letter are to be appended to and form part of the Collective Agreement. The terms and conditions in the Standard Form RDO Agreement’ is expressly excluded from the Collective Agreement and is directly applicable between the RDO and the Company.
12.	All statutory deductions (i.e., CPP, WCB, Income Tax) are the responsibility of the
RDO.
13.	All RDO's will be required to enter into a standard form 'RDO Agreement’ and shall form part of a separate unit covered by this Letter of Intent.
PART 2: CURRENT DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES
1.	Current distribution employees satisfying the eligibility criteria may apply for available Territories.
2.	The Company will offer ‘voluntary severance’ to those employees awarded distribution rights to a Territory as consideration for separation from their current position.
3.	The RDO's will be required to provide their own vehicle; either leased or owned which must be suitable for the assigned Territory.
4.	The Company shall continue to pay for the Welfare Benefits for present distribution employees who become RDO's for a period of twelve (12) months based on the current hourly rate to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week. Thereafter, present employees may purchase basic Welfare (medical, dental, extended health, life insurance) benefits by paying the cost of these benefits.
Page 40
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
5.	The Company will continue to pay the cost of the pension plan for present employees.
PART 3: NEW REGISTERED DISTRIBUTION OPERATORS:
1.	The general conditions under Part I of the Letter of Intent shall apply to new RDO's.
2.	A new RDO shall have the option of purchasing Welfare Benefits by directly paying the applicable plan premiums.
It is intended that the terms and conditions contained in this Letter of Understanding apply to RDO's and shall take precedent over the Collective Agreement.
Page 41
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: OVERTIME BANKING OPTION
1. Employees shall receive pay at the rate of time and one half (114) their regular pay for overtime worked.
OR
2. Upon written notice of the employee to the Company, the employee may elect to:
(a)	To accrue the overtime hours at straight time and to be scheduled as time off at a mutually agreeable time prior to April 30th each year.
(b)	It is understood that the maximum number of days that may be accrued from banking overtime and Statutory Holidays together is five (5) days.
(c)	Should the Company be unable to provide the time off prior to April 30th each year, the employee shall receive a payout of the amount of hours at time and one half (114).
Page 42
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: TIME WORKED ON A STATUTORY HOLIDAY
1.	Employees who are required to work on a General Holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 %) their regular pay for all hours worked on the day in addition to their regular days pay for the General Holiday.
OR
2.	Upon written notice of the employee to the Company, an employee may elect:
(a)	To be paid straight time for all hours worked on that day and,
(b)	To accrue one (1) day’s holiday to be scheduled at a mutually agreeable time prior to April 30th each year.
3.	It is understood and agreed that the maximum number of days that may be accrued in a calendar year is five (5) days.
4.	Should the Company be unable to provide the time off prior to April 30th each year, the employee shall receive a pay out of the accrued hours at one and one half (11/2).
Page 43