DAIRYWORLD FOODS AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this	day of
,1993.
BETWEEN:	DAIRYWORLD FOODS 6800 Lougheed Highway, Burnaby, British Columbia V5A IW2 (hereinafter referred to as tho "Employer") OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464, of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. (hereinafter referred to as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
00404 (05)
INDEX
CLAUSE 1	UNION SECURITY	1
CLAUSE 2	UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES	2
CLAUSE 3	UNION NOTICES	2
CLAUSE 4	DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.	2
CLAUSE 5	SHOP STEWARDS	3
CLAUSE 6	CONFLICTING AGREEMENT	4
CLAUSE 7	CROSSING OF A PICKET LINEAND	
	RIGHTTO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT	4
CLAUSE 8	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	4
CLAUSE 9	DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES	7
CLAUSE 10	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	9
CLAUSE 11	WELFARE PLAN & PENSION PLAN	9
CLAUSE 12	COMPENSATION COVERAGE	16
CLAUSE 13	PAY DAYS	17
CLAUSE 14	PAY STATEMENTS	17
CLAUSE 15	POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS	17
CLAUSE 16	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS	25
CLAUSE 17	LOSS OF WAGES	25
CLAUSE 18	NEW EMPLOYEES	25
CLAUSE 19	SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF	
	- SEVERANCE PAY 26	
CLAUSE 20	MINIMUM PAY	35
CLAUSE 21	EATING AND REST PERIOD	35
CLAUSE 22	ANNUAL HOLIDAYS	35
CLAUSE 23	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	40
CLAUSE 24	DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND	
	OVERTIME-INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)	42
CLAUSE 25 SHIFT DIFFERENTAL	46
CLAUSE 26 UTILIZATION OF E 3LOYMENT 47 CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES	48
CLAUSE 28 JURY DUTY	49
CLAUSE 29 PEHIOD OF SUMMER SEASON 49 CLAUSE 30 CREDIT ON ROUTES	49
CLAUSE 31 KEEPING PROPER RECORDS 50 CLAUSE 32 PERFORMANCE OF DUTY 51 CLAUSE 33 DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND TIME OFF (DRIVER SALESMEN)	51
CLAUSE 34 WAGES	55
CLAUSE 35 SAVINGS CLAUSE	56
CLAUSE 36 EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT 56 SCHEDULES "A","c“
AND “D“	58
LETTERS OF UNDE ITANDING 64 APPENDIX "A" AND APPENDIX "B"	71
CLAUSE 1 UNIONS ICURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members ofthe Unionwithin fourloon (14) calendar days of their commencing theiraomployment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain, in i:its employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify thi) Union within ten (10) days ofany new employees hiredoi former employees returned to the payroll.
Y .02	It is further agreed: TJkat any person noiamember
ofthe Union shallnot work at occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases cf emergency and then only until a member of th« Union can tie placed on tho job. Where this provisionopontos againstthe efficiency of the plant, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put boforo it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter v<ill he submittedto Arbitration under tho provisions of Clausp 8, Section 8.03.
1.03 That the Union's jurifediction shall bo deemed to include the processing, mamfacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or sucH other products as the Employer may from time to tima Drocess, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
'1.04 This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within! tho Union's jurisdiction arid
such work must be performod by an employee of tho Company whoso products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who woro on March 8th, I960, carrying on such selling and distribution. Subsection 1.04 shall notbedeomed to include salos representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman or Plant Foreman shall not bo requited to bo mombers of tho Union unless working within tho Union’s jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Uniori's princjpLe?. No employee who serves on a committee shalUose his or her position nor bo discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shallallow time off work to any manor woman who is serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation of tho plants or routes, and provided that requests for such timo off are made by officors of tho Union.
CLAUSE 3 UNION NOTICES
3.01	Thu Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for tho Union noticos of direct intorest to tho Employees.
CLAUSE 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES ETC.
4.01	Each of tho employees covorod by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Employer to doduct and pay over to
2
the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union’s bylaws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with thewritten statement supplied in duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to he made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also he made from any employees in the month in which thoy terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5 SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether tho members of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the superintendent or foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such shop steward shall he elected by the Union members in the shop concerned, failing which, a shop steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the shop steward for Union activities.
5.02	The shop steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The shop steward shall report to the Union Officers any violation cf this Agreement.
3
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agroo-mont conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
CLAUSE 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT , .
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member tf tho Union to cross a picket lino which has not boon declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction. The employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom tho Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard lino, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom tho Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard lino, which has not boon declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not bo a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuso to handle, receive, ship or transport any material or equipment affected by a la-bout dispute which has notboon declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any violation of this Agreement must be submitted as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the
4
violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Board of the Union.
0.02 Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or violation of this Agreement shall be subject to the time limits of Section (1) of this Clause and shall be resolved according to the following procedure:
(a)	The employee or the Uniontogetherwith such person or persons as he or the Union maywish, shall take the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an Officer or Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shall discuss the mattorwith tha Employer. Ifasolution is reached this shall be final.
8.03	If tho procedures set forth in (a) and (b) above do not result in a solution being reached within seven (7) days of the first discussion botween an officer of the Union and a representativeofthe Employer, or within such further period by the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify the other Party in writing oftho namo and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receiving thenoticeshallwithin five (5) days thereafter appoint a memberfor the Board and notify the other party of its Appointment.
(c)	The two Arbitrators soappointedshallconferto select
5
a third person to be Chairman and failing for throo days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
(d)	On mutual agreement of the Parties, a single Arbitrator may be used to resolve any dispute.
0.04 The Arbitration Board shall sit, hoar the Parties, settle the terms of the question to be arbitrated and make its award within ten (10) days from the date of the appointment of the Chairman, provided the timo may be extended by agreement of the Parties.
Tlio Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issuo is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board
8.05	If the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, the employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which lie would havo enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an ex-employee should have been rehired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he should have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefits which he would have enjoyed if he had been hired at the proper time, provided that, if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension arid ro-instatomontor date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages pay-
6
able by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenses which the employee has incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted, AND PROVIDED THAT the Arbitration Board, it circumstances are established before it,which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order tho Employer to pay less than tho full amount of wages lost.
8.06	If tho award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction the question shall, attherequestofeitherparty, besubmitted to another Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to and with all the powers provided in this Clause.
8.07	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the Parties in equal shares.
8.00 Without restricting the specific powers hereinbefore mentioned tho Arbitration Board shall have all tho general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	•
(a)	All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days’ notice before being laid off save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an oporation for an unscheduled breakdown A lay off notice may bo extondedupto a maximum of four (4) calendar weeks before being renewed
(b)	Employees shall give the Employer the same notice
(c)	Iheso provisions shall not apply to Part Time, Summer Help and new employees still within their proba tionary employment period (as perClause 19 01 (a))
9.02	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall bedischarged other than for proper cause.
9.03	Tho Employer reserves tiio right to discharge any employee, without notice, for any of the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty or Thbft
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey r lawful order
4.	Absence without oavo
5.	Drinking or const ming/taking intoxicating liquors or drugs during working hours including coffee arid lunch break.
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on ve-hiclos provided "no riders” stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sKk leave privileges
8.	Impairment due tm the improper use of drugs
9.	Wilful abuse of company property
9.04 Any discharged employe® may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require Ire Employer to give him the reasons for his discharge and tho Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing, within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any depute or difference as to whether or not there was propercliuse for the discharge of	
an employee only the reasons so net forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.05	Ifanemployee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that ho has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agrcoment is not re-hired and feels that tie should have beon re-hired, the dispute shall oonstitute a grievance if launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension, to be sottkld pursuant to tho provisions of Clause 8 hereof.
8
9.06	The nature of a suspend on, length cf a suspension
and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall bo so notified immediately
'9.07 All lotters of warning or reprimand shall be removed from an employee's personnel fjlo after a period of five (5) years provided no further disciplinary documentation is on
file.
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the busineis and direct the working forces, including the right to hiite; suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay-off; promite; assign to jobs; transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working forces; td determine the products to bo handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreempnt shall bo intended or is to bo construed in any way to ii lbrfere with the recognized right of the Employer to mana 3 and control the business
It is further agreed that nothint to discriminate against any members or its Executive.
10.03 Nothing in any of the [ in any way limit, void or affec Agreement.
CLAU:
WELFARE PLAN At
n this Clause shall bo usee .nployeo of the Union, its
^visions of this Clause shall the other provisions of this
E 11
3 PENSION PLAN
11.01 Effective the first da! completion of 104 shifts woi month period, the Employer. Welfare Plan for all employe (excluding those listed herei fits:
of the month following the □d in a continuous twelve hall continue to provide a covered by this Agreement er) with the following bene-
(a)	Lilo Insurance in tha sum of $30,000 00 Upon death from any cause whatever
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30 000 00 both occupational and non-occupational coverage, on tho following schedule of losses
NATURE OF LOSS Lilo
'I ho jiighl of both oyos t'ilhor both hands or both feet
Ono hand and orio foot 1 ho sight of one eye and uilliur ono hand or one foot Both tho thumb arid index finger of one hand Ono hand or one foot or tho sight of ono oyo
AMOUNT PAYABLE
Tire Principal Sum Tho Principalsuni
Tho Principalsuni Tho Principalsuni
The Principalsuni
Quarter of the Principal Suni
Half of tho Principal Sum
(c)	Tho following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents. To a
maximum of TPB,000,0(5,
First dependent	- $30,000 00
Each additional dependent	-$ 7,500 00
(ci) Sick benefit covering all employees in thosumof65% oftl in employee's gross weekly bast: rate, fora period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first day in tho event of a non compensable accident and on tho fourth (4th) day of any sickness
Notwithstanding the above, the weekly amounts payable shall bo equivalent to or greater than tho amount payable under tho Unemployment Insurance Commission Program
10
In addition, any employee with over (7)years' senior ity that is on weekly indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumu lated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11 03 (d)
On prosontation of a receipt from the Physician an employee shall be reimbursed up to ton (10) dollars for each Physician's statement completed in each sickness or accident period
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Jjin ployor
i
r v;
Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Associa tion of British Columbia
Medical Travel Insurance benefits as provided for in Appendix A (attached)
Additional coverage of $1,000,000 00 in out of-prov inco Medical Coverage
Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to thosei provided by the Medical Seryices Plan of Britisl Columbia	.	.(l < ’
A Dental Plan providing the fnii™«imn muorann-
100% payment for claims for PlanA (Basic Services)
75% payment of claims for Plan B (prosthetic appli ances crown and bridge procedures)
50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,500 00 per life
(I,) A l.ong lorm Disability Planprovidingabonofitof fifty
(50) percent uf an employees weekly baso rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to ago 65. Tliir, benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by tho Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of I lf) plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/hor own occupation fur a period of two years and/or tho Employer is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, tlio omployco must be unable to perform tho normal duties of any occupation.
V
V
(i)	An Optical Plan to provide $150.00 of coverage each two yeai period applicable to each eligible person.
(j)	If an Employee is entitled to recover damages for loss of income from any government supported or crown agency as a result of personal injuries which are sustained bythocmployooandforwliich heisentitlod to receive benefits undor tho Weekly Indemnity and Long Tern Disability Insurance Benefit Provisions, the carrier will be subrogated to all tho rights of recovery of tho omployco for loss of income to tho extent of the sum of tho benefits paid or payable io him under such provision
Thu carrier may, in connection with its right of subrogation, roquiro that the employee complete a Reimbursement Questionnaire arid execute a Reimbursement Agreement. Should thecmployconotcomplote and return tho required forms within 30 days of issuance Benefits will not be paid until such forms are completed and returned.
It is understood that legal fees in proportion to tlio wago loss settlement aro oxcludod from subrogation.
12
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11 01 shall be borne 100% by (ho employer The employee's portioTToTtlio U I C rebate shall be retained by the Company to offset benefit costs
11.03	Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing on the 1 st of the month following com pletion of the probationary period (Por Clause 1901
(a)) all employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at tho rate of 2 9% to a maximum accumulation of 54 hours per calendar year For the purpose of This Clause, time lost on Weekly Indemnity and Workers Compensation shall be included.
7 v. f	?
employees who accumulate sick leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive such oxcess days accu inOTSfecTin the contract year in cash or as time off at the employee's option inthe following contract year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay Effective August 1, 1984, employees over age 60 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely atthe rate of pay in effect when the days arc earned Each employee shall decide his option by April 30th of each year
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11 01 (d) of this Clause) ot Compensation, employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner
First day of Absence One Half (1/2) day's pay Second day of Absenco - One Full day's pay Third day of Absence - Otic Full day's pay
thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day
13
thoemployea’s ab so nco exceeds fifty-two (52) weeks. Employoos absent due to a workers' compensable accident shall draw on accumulated sick leave to provide a full day's pay on the day of such accident.
Ttio Employer may also request a report from a qualified medical practitioner for any illness of three (3) days or loss if it appears that a pattern of absence is developing.
Employoos with an existing accumulated balance of 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first day of absence. Sick pay shall not bo payable once notice of employment termination has been given unless a physician's statement is submitted.
(c)	It is mutually agreed, the maximum loss of pay up to tho payment data of the sick benefit as per 11.01 (c) on account of absence due to sickness shall be one-half (1/2) day.
(d)	Upontermination ofemploymentforany reasonother than just cause, an employee having completed:
7 years of service will receive 33% of accumulated sick days owing.
14 years of scrvico will rooipvu CG% of accumulated sick days owing.
18 years of service will rocojvo 100% of accumulated sick days owing, up to a maximum 30 days.
(including common-law spouse providing ho or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
11.05 Leave of Absence
Any regular full-time employee may request, in writing, a leave of absence without pay and benefits once every two (2) year period. Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Application for leave must be made within fourteen (14) calendar days of the effective date (except under extraordinarycircumstances). Furtherleavesmaybogranted for compassionate reasons only. Tho terni of a leave of absence period shall not exceed the employee's current vacation entitlement. If a leave <f absence is used for purposes other than for reasons for which it has been granted, this will bo cause for dismissal.
ment.
11.07
(a)	When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation or grievance procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his Welfare Fees and Union Duos so that at all times, the employee shall be protedted to the utmost.
(bj To provide payment fort! e above mentionedwelfare benefits, an employee r ust leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay or havo paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct to the Employer.
(c)	For the purpose of this Clauso only, any employee off ill or on Compensation shall be doomed fo be on the payroll.
(d)	All working timo lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Ernployor, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.08	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer Help) per Clause 29.02
(b)	Part timo employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) cf tho standard work week for their job classification.
(c)	Employees who are not actively at work and who are notin receipt of disability benefits, wage loss benefits or any form of compensation.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employees on compensation are directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to seo if they arc capable cf performing the job held at the time cf injury, and if so. shall he kept on tho payroll.
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall bo given a job of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
Notwithstanding the above, when an employee returns to work following compensation with any limitations on his ability to perform all functions of his job, the Employer reserves the right to obtain additional medical clarification.
16
CLAUSE 13 PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second woek. Pay day shall bo on Thursday when possiblo but no later than Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wagos earned up to and including tho Saturday previous.
13.02	All employees covered by this agreement shall receive an itemized statement of earnings on each pay day.
CLAUSE 14 PAY STATEMENTS
14.01
(a)	All employees will be given a statement with their pay cheques showing the period for which tho cheque is issued, tho base earnings, extra earnings such as Statutory Holiday pay, accumulated earningstodate, accumulated overtime hours, and an itemization of deductions. Premium pay and shift differential will show separately.
(b)	Accumulated sick leave (Clause 11.03 (a)) owing shall be shown on April 1st and October 1st of each year.
CLAUSE 15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS 15.01 Rouies
(a) All new routes, vacant routes and positions shall bo ,. t posted immediately on the bulletin boards at all op-)	! 'erationsinthedistrictconcernedforaperiodof ninety
six (96) hours, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, with wages as per contract schedule,units, hours d
17
work, days off, and any othor pertinent information. There shall he no changes in requirements of posted vacancies during timo of posting.
(U) Any employee desiring the now route, vacant route or position shall rnako application to the necessary manager within the period of posting. An omployco entering the Retail or Wholesale Driver classifications shall cornnience as a trainee in those branches wfioro trainee positions are posted. Application for vacant TRAINEE positions will beacccptedfromem-ployees who have successfully completed the following:
i	- Possess the requisite driving licence qualifica-
tions.
ii	- Pass the company driving examination.
iii	- Possess a satisfactory driving record (Abstract).
iv	- Satisfactory completion of routo familiarization/
suitability assessment.
(c)	There will be a trial period not to exceed threo working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employer can determine if thq successful applicant is suitable, failing which the t former routo or position.
extended by mutual agreen int between the Parties. Any such agreement for c tension shall bo put in writing with a copy sent to I c Union.
(d)
An eitiployeo who success and at his choice reverts to throe week trial period shall the next six calendar montl
lly bids on a posted job is old position within the oso all bidding rights for
18
(0)
(f)
(g)
<h)
(i)
for any driving job due to change or vehicle replacement, the cost of obtaining such license shall be borne by the Employer.
15.02	inside
(a)	On completion of shilts and days oft selection a: outlined in Clause 24.04, all vacancies or promotion: shall be posted immediately for a period of ninety-si. (96) hours excluding Saturdays and Sundays at a operations in the district!concerned. Wages as pe contract schedule, hoursiof work and days off to be oi all postings.
(b)	Any inside employee de firing the vacancy or promotion shall make written application to the Plant Supcr-
19
intondent within the poriocVof posting. Thero will be a trial period not to oxcoed t roo working weeks during which the employoo and/c the Employer cati determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which tho applicant will re' ert to his former position. The trial period may bo o: tended by mutual agreement between the Partios Any such agreement for oxtension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
An employee who successlully bidson posted job and at his choice rovorts to his od positionwithin the three week trial period shall lost all bidding rights for the next six calendar months.
(c)	Any vacancy or promotior for an inside employee, shall result in one posting, ius a maximum of two (2) additional postings.
(ci) The Union shall bo notified in writing in'tho event the vacancy is not posted wit^'i fourteen (14) calendar days.
15.03	Miscellaneous
(a)	In determining vacancies und promotions, seniority shall be on a departmental I asis (exceptas contained olsowhoro in this Clause) Us follows:
(i) Production Department - to include all employ-
(b) Tho filling of vacancies fompositions described under Schedule A (Wages) cf this Agreement - Production Department Classifications A, B, C and D shall be filled on the basis of previous production department experience. Application tor the position of UTILI-TYMAN shall be accepter from employees with previous Plant Process expeif enco. Tho successful employees filling vacancies for specialized classifications of Cheesemaker Cheddar), Choesemakor (Cottage), Buttermakor, ce Cream Maker, DAWS Operator, Utilityman, PasIrurizer.TetraOporatorand C.I.P. Operator shall fu fill a non-mobility period whereby they will not be accepted to other vacant positions.
For the specialized job cla sification of Gheosemaker (Cheddar) and Cheescr aker (Cottage) tho nonmobility period will be thitl^-six months.
Forthespecializedjobdansification of Utilityman, the non-mobility period will b« twenty-four (24) months.
For the specialized job classification of Buttermakor, Ice Cream Maker, Pasteurizer, Tetra Operator and C.I.P. Operator the non rrtobility period will bo fifteen months.
Only those persons who have been in a posted or assigned position for a minimum of six (6) months may apply for new postings or vacancies.
Any employee desiring to change (rom one branch to another in the same department or without reference to department as contained in Section (d) of this Clause may make written application to do so and all such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which transfer is requested.
Transfer request may be submitted only during the periods of January 1st to January 15th and July 1st to July 15th of each year on the appropriate company form. All transfer requests shall become null and void as of December 31 st of each year.
(d)	Applications for vacant positions of Print Machine Operator, Cottage Cheese/Sour Cream Operator, Creamer Operator, Checker and/or Loader (Fluid), Checker and/or Loader (Ico Croam), Dairyworker, Night Watchman, Janitor, Packager, Retail Driver Salesman, and Truck Driver will be accepted without reference to department, other considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal.
(e)	No employee shall accumulate departmental seniority for bidding on a job unless tie is already in a posted position. The employee will, however, accumulate company seniority as per Clause 19.01 (b).
Tho results of all postings to bo announced and the employees affected to bo notified within seven (7) days. A copy of such announcement will besenttothe Union offico.
In the ovont the successful applicant is not assigned
22
to the new positionwithin fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or promotions arc filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employer shall notify an Officer of the Union priorto making an announcement and shall supply them with the names of all applicants for the vacancy or promotion.
Upon request from the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing as to the reason why they wore not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
(I) The time limitforpostingof vacancies and promotions may be loweredin cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(g)	All new or vacant routes or positions must be posted. Any vacancy that occurred because of sickness or accident shall be considered temporary (and shall be filled in accordance with tho provisions of Clause
24.04	provided retraining is not necessary) until such time as medical evidence indicates the employee will not be returning to his former job or position.
There shall be only one employee move due to a temporary vacancy.
(h)	Whore a nowly created retail route or territory has been identified as having a unique or special growth potential, the posting of that vacancy may bo deferred for a period of sixteen (16) weeks. This period, pursuant to 15.01 (a) a nd 15.03 (g), may bo extondod by mutual agreement between the Parties.
(i)	Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new toute, vacant route or positions beforo new employees are hired. Employees on days off, holidays,
23
or off ill shall bo notified of vecancies by the Employer provided the employee, in vriting has requested a change. Applications for vacant positions as outlined in Clause 15 will be accepted from part-time employees for those postings in ineir current district only. Company seniority will be determined as per 19.01
(b).
(j)	Tho Employer shall post 01 the bulletin boards at all operations on January 15th and July 15th of each yeat a listof all employees in the bargaining unit with theit date of commencement of employment and theit current classification. A copy of such list or lists shall be given to tho Union.
(k)	Any classified vacancies shall bo posted to allow planl employees first opportunity prior to using summer help. The Employerroservo; tho right (per Clauso 10) to assign regular employee; to such jobs.
(l)	Tho position of Chargehand for any classification within a sub-department wil be subject to posting as per Clauso 15, but without applying Clauso 24.04 and with tho understanding thal tho Employer will retain the right to determine when fpnd where a Chargchand is required and have the opti m of deciding the necessity of replacing vacated Chargchand positions. Applicants for posted Chare ohand positions shall be restricted to those employee s working in tho areas of responsibility in the Branch where the vacancy exists.
(m)	Any employee unable to otum to their previous position duo to a “disabling condition" that has boon medically certified to the satisfaction of the Company and the Union may bo oxen ptod from departmental seniority restrictions on job postings within their district.
24
B
CLAUS°16
NEW CLASSIFCATIONS
16.01 The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and th6-rate o wages to be paid for any classification ofworkother than t ioso setforth in Schedules “A". “BV'C" and "D".
16.02	In the event that the Ennployer and the Union can not reach agreement concernir i any proposed classification cf work either party may in oke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8 of this Contract. The rate established by mutual agreem ;nt or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17 LOSS OF WAGES
17.01 No employee shall suffer areduction in earnings or rate of earnings because cf the: idoption of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not bo deemed to include overtime earnings.
CLAUSE 18 NEW EMPLOYEES
13.01 New, inexperienced employees (excluding Schedule A Classification F SummemHelp) shall receive twenty-five percent(25%) less than thmirate provided herein, for the first two hundred and eight (20IS) working shifts and fifteen percent (15%) loss than the rate provided herein for the next two hundred and eight (206 working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall include art-time employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employerc vered by Local464, then go toworkfor another Employer^ the same capacity) shall be
considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the rado for a period exceeding Six (6) months.
CLAUSE] 19
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF SEVERANCE PAY
19.01	SENIORITY
cighty-throo (183) consecutive calendar days, shall apply in the case of each now employee, during which time seniority shall notaproly, and an employee may bo laid off without reforem e to seniority and the Employer shall not be obligated to rohirc such employee. The probationary period hall bo extended by any working shifts lost due to a„cidont or illness during tho probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall dato from the date of employment.
(b) There shall bo two sopara .s seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to tho l nion by tho Employer on January 15th and July 1E:h of each year and shall include all employees covered by this Agreement who have complotcd their probationary period.
The first list shall cover all employees other than part-time employees, and shall how tho name, classification, and date of employment of each employeo.
The second list shall cov< r all part-time employees (those employees employed for less than the standard work week for tho joo classification) and shall show the name and classi ication of each employeo arid the number of shifts v jrked for the Employer.
26
Should a part-time employee become full-time that employee shall be transferred to the first seniority list and a date of employment for the purposes of seniority shall be determined retroactively on the basis of one calendar month foreacn 17.3 shifts accumulated.
(c)	Summer Help Employees
The Company may employ summer help employees under the following conditions:
1.	To supplement the regular work force and provide additional hdb, during tho period April 1st to September 15.
2.	Theseemployees will not displace full-time employees.
3.	Each such employer shall, as a condition of continuing employm 'nt, pay for those months in which the emplo so has earnings, Union Dues in accordance \ -ith Clause 4 of this Agreement.
4.	Summer Help emph yees under the condition of “1" above, shall n >t:
(a)	accrue seniority rights;
(b)	beontitlod t> i benefitsnormally granted otheremployeos;
(c)	be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
5.	These employees will be employed under the classification and at -vage rates as stipulated in Schedule "A".
19.02	REDUCTION OF STAFF
(a)	Whenever it is necessary lo reduce the number of employees for any reason *urtatsoe ver the employees
27
shall be considered as laid off and will be rehired in order of seniority provided that tho Employer may apply to tho Union for its consent to waive seniority in any case whero the ability and qualifications of a particularemployee are substantiallysu'poriorto those"; of a more senior employee and provided further that such superior ability and qualifications are necessary for the job involved.
The onus of establishing the matters aforesaid shall be on the Employer.
(b)	A reduction in staff may only be effected by the laying
off of tho least seniorcmployoo in accordancewith the following procedure, recognizing the Departments and Districts listed below.
Departments
1.	Production
2.	Sales and Distribution
3.	Other
Districts
1.	Lower Mainland - Squamish, Vancouver, Burnaby, Dolair and Sechelt.
2.	Vancouver Island - Victoria, Nanaimo and Courtenay.
3.	Central - Williams Lake, Kamloops, Armstrong, Vernon and Penticton.
4.	Northern-Stnithers,Terrace, PrinceRupert and Prince George.
5.	Kootenays - Cranbrook, Nelson, Golden and Revelstoke.
28
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF STAFF DISTRIBUTION
District:	bower Mainland
Classifications:	Class 1 (including Specials)
Class 3 (including Specials)
Class 5
1.	When the Employer eliminates a job process, route or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior (company seniority) employee within the licence classification affected in the division or branch concerned.
Note:Recognizing distinct separate divisions of fluid and icecream, Step 1 shall, if necessary, consist of two moves, first within the affected employee's division, then inthe other division, should seniority allow.
Forthe purposeof this Clause, any employee that has changed positions as a result of the application of Clause 15, shall have his full Company seniority applied to the new position upon completion of the three (3) week trial periodreferredto in Clauses 15.01 and 15.02 of this Agreement.
2.	The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) shall . disalacp the least senior employee in the next lowest
licence classification, if any, inthe branch concerned.
3.	Any driver displaced from Steps 1 and/or 2 (above) shall displace the least senior employee in his licence classification inthe districtconcernedfailingwhich he shall displace the least senior employee in the next lowest licence classification.
4.	Any driver displaced from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee in the district concerned regardless of department.
29
5.	The displaced employee from the above steps
shall displace the least sonior employee on an overall seniority basis, regardless of district.
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF STAFF DISTRIBUTION
District: Vancouver Island, Central, Northern and Kootenays
Classifications:	Class 1 (including specials)
Class 3 (including specials)
1.	When the Employereliminatesajob process, route or position, the employoo displaced shall be the least senior (company seniority) employoo within the licence classification affected in the branch concerned.
Note: Recognizing distinct separate divisions of fluid and ice cream, Step 1 shall, if necessary, consist of two moves, first within the affected employee's division, then in the other division, should seniority allow.
Forthe purpose of this Clause, any employee that has changed positions as a result of the application of Clauso 15, shall have his full Company seniority applied to the new position upon completion of the three (3) week trial period referred to in Clauses T 5.01 and 15.02 of this Agreement.
2.	The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) shall displace the least senior employee in the next lowest licence classification, if any, in the branch concerned.
3.	Any driver displaced from the above Steps 1 and/or 2 (above) shall displace the least senior employee in the branch concerned regardless of department.
30
4.	Any driver displaced from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee in the district concerned regardless of department.
5.	The displaced employee from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardless of district.
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF STAFF PRODUCTION
CLASSIFICATIONS:As per Schedule "A"
1.	Where the Employer eliminates a job process or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior (classification seniority) employee within the classification affected in the department of the plant concerned.
i.o. - Last one in.First one out.
2.	The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) shall displace the leas! senior employee within his department in the Plant concerned, or he may displace the least senior employee in the district, provided the employee in the Plant is seniorto the employee in the district.
3.	The displaced employee from Steps 1 and 2 (above) shall displace the least senior employee within his department in the district concerned.
4.	The displaced employee from the above Steps shall displace the least senioromployeo in the district concerned.
5.	The displaced employee from the above Steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardless of district.
31
Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation duetomnintonnnco orunnchod-tiled break-down shall be by seniority (as per Clause
19.02	(a)) and shall affect only the job classification in the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned.
As in 19.02 (a) of this Clause, the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority and the Union, within the terms stipulated in 19.02 (a),under takes to consider such application.
(c)	Any employoc laid off from a posted position will bo affordable the option to waive tho reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right of recall to that Branch/Plant only. This option must be completed and signed at the time of lay-off from his/her permanent position aridwill provide recall to a vacant position.
The employee shall loavo with the Employer an address and phone number at which tho employee can bo served notice of rehire. The onus shall rest with the employee to maintain a correct address and tolephone number.
jj) An omployeo with more than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an cm ployee in the case of lay off for a period of 18 months	—
(jj) An employee with less than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of a lay off for a period of 12 months
32
(ill) It is undcsrstood that if the employee is not recalled from lay-off for an aggregate of more than 52 shifts from the last day of lay-off then the employee’s period of lay-off shall he considered not to have been interrupted.
Any employee who works an aggregate of more than 52 shifts from the last date of lay-off, within the employee's lay-off period will be entitled to:
1.	Renewal of their right to recall, and
2.	The opportunity to renew the lay-off option previously selected.
Seniority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a notice of recall shall he deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(d)	Employees who leave the bargaining unit but remain in the employ of the Employer, shall retain their seniority for a period not to exceed 183 days from the date they accept such employment. This period may be extended by mutual agreement.
19.03	SEVERANCE PAY	'
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees save for summer help.
(b)	In respect to an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
1,	The elimination of a job process, or
33
2	The introduction of equipmontormcthods which reduces thenuinborof omployocs, provided he has five (5) years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at tho rate paid at tho time of severance
(c)	Employees with two (2) to five (5) yoars of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rato of two (2) weeks cf full pay for each year of service commencing with the sixth (6th)year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeks of full pay.
(d)	Upon termination such employee shall be placed on tho rehire list as provided for in Section 19.02 (c) of this Clause, for a period of four (4) weeks. At tho end of four (4) weeks, tho employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the rehire list or accepting sevoranco pay.
Should he elect to remain on the rehire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has boon providod by the Employer, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
(o) Any employee electing to take severance pay under tho terms sot out above shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement.
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retiremont age shall not be eligible for severance pay.
(f) Severance pay shall bo paid in addition to all other sums owing to tho employee.
34
CLAUSE 20 MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his
days off he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time workod, whichever is the greater	^ j
Overtime may be taken, at theomployeo's option, in money or in_time off at a mutually agreed upon date
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two (2) weeks in time off in a calendar year
CLAUSE 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a meal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE22 ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01	Employees, save for summer help who may, because of tire seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay- off, shall accumulate working time in successive years toward holiday schedule and shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on tho number of months worked.
35
12 months worked 24 months worked 84 months worked 160 months worked 216 months worked 300 months worked
2	weeks holiday or
3	weeks holiday or
4	weeks holiday or
5	weoks holiday or
6	weeks holiday or '/weeks holiday or
4% holiday pay 0% holiday pay 8% holiday pay 10% holiday pay 12% holiday pay 14% holiday pay
22.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employeos with two (2) years or moro service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whicheveristhegreater. Aliemployeoswithseven(7)years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with fall pay or 8% of their annual earnings, whichever istho greater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full pay or 10% of their annual oarnings, whichever is the greater. All employeos with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay or 12% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with twenty-five (25) years or more service shall roceivo seven (7) weeks off with full pay or 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks 4 months if entitled to four weeks
(d)	5 months if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to sovon weeks
in addition to all time worked during the year, provided further the sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and provided such employee worked for his regular Employer during some part of the year.
36
22.03	I wo weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within the months of Octoberto April inclusive, shall bo given the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All employees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their seniority, i.o. length of service. Choice of holidays under each holiday reliefman or wherever possible without reference to the holiday reliefman, shallboasnearlypropor-tionateas possible in terms of seniority. Annual holidayswill constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days does not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periods of the year, save for December 24th to January 2nd at Abbotsford/Dolair production department and the weekimmediatoly preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
22.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 31 st and all vacation selections must becompleted by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise morejunior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
Employees taking all their holidays within the winter schedule shall indicate the perioddesired and shall begiven same on the basis of their seniority.
37
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during tho months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitled/o five (5) weeks or more of annual holidays requesting annual holidays during the months May to September inclusive may ruceivo, at their option three (3)wouks inono continuous period, The remainder of tho holidays to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by Juno 15th and all vacation selections must bo completed by September 1st. It is the omployoo's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees tnny have first choice or holidays may be refusedduring this time slot.
22.06
(a)	In the event tho application of holiday soloction as outlined above results in single weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or hor first choice.
This selection of one week in the summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being soloctod from available time in order of seniority.
(b)	Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after all employees covered by tho schedule have made their first selection, tho employees shall havo tho option of making additional summer period selections in order of seniority.
These additional selections, if any, shall befbr one (1) week periods only and shall in no way limit the selections in order of seniority on the winter schodulo.
38
22.07	Thocompletedlistof holiday periodsforthe months May to September inclusive shall be posted by January 31 st and completed by April 1st of each year, and must also show the dates chosen by employees electing to take holidays in the months October to April inclusive. The completed list of holiday periods for the months October to April inclusive shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
22.08	All accumulated paid time off such as sick days (as per Clause 11), owing for the previous twelve (12) month period ending March 31 may be selected in order of seniority in the same fashion as Annual Holidays and taken during the months of October to April inclusive.
22.09	Each employee shall be entitled to thirty (30) days advance notice of any change of the dates of his annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods provided such change is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the parties involved.
22.10	Itis recognizedthatthe Fraser Valley Milk Producers Co-Operative Association uses April 1st a common anniversary date for computing vacation pay and entitlement.
22.11	All employees terminating their employment shall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%; or 14% of their annual earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled.
22.12	Ice Cream Driver Salesmen shall beginning with the holiday season of 1970, be divided into two (2) groups, as nearly equal in numbers as possible according to seniority. Group one (1) shall contain the senior (based on length of service) Driver Salesmen. Those with less seniority shall be place in order ingroup two (2). Those Driver Salesmen in group one (1) shall be given two (2) weeks (or three (3)
39
weeks as per Clause 22.05) of their annual holidays for 1970 in tho months of May to September inclusive. Those in group two (2) shall be given two (2) weeks (or throo (3) weeks asperClause22.05)ofthoii annual holidays for 1971 in the months of May to Soptoinbor inclusive. The cycle shall then be repeated. Ice Cream Driver Salesmen receiving two (2) or throe (PJwoeks of their annual holidays under tho schedule shall not be allowed to transfor holiday dates, but may elect to take their holidays outside this period.
CLAUSE 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees, save for summer help shall receive ton (10) Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaiincd by either tho Federal or the Provincial Go vernmont with full pay during tho year. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day Dominion Day Thanksgiving Day Good Friday	B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
23.02	Allomployocsshallroccivcone(1 )additionalStatu-tory Holiday with full pay to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employeo.
T his provisioi i shall not apply io:
(a)	Employees whuso term of employment does not exceed tho probationary period (per Clause 19.01 (a)).
(b)	Employees (Summer Help) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall bo entitled to seven (7) days advance notice prior* io receiving Statutory Holidays.
40
23.04	Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holiday cancelledwith less than four (4) days advance notice shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.05	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consent of the Employer and the employee.
T ’ J.
23.06	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible any one required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at double time rate for that day, plus one additional day at straight time will be accrued. Accrued days off shall be tied to regular days off and given to those entitled to same in the months October to April inclusive. Any Statutory Holidays owing as of April 30th each year for the previous calendar year, shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate of double time. Nowholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
The Employer will post a list of time available during which Statutory Holidays owing may be taken. This time may bo selected and will be awarded on the basis of seniority; any
remainin "	.......... '	"	'
seniority.
receive on April 1st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the numbor of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period.
Itis agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by tho Federal or Provincial Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
23.07
41
23.08	An employee shall bo ontitlod to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday oven if it falls on his weekly days off or tirno off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, compensation or lay-off, providing heorsho is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between compensation or sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 24
DAYS AND HOURS WORK AND OVERTIME INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DISTRIBUTION)
24.01	Tho basic work week shall bo thirty-six (36) hours. Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agroecffo by the parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
The basic work week for part-timo employees and students shall bo 36 hours per week, based on any combination of hours per day (maximum 9 hours), up to five (5) days per week
For ice cream production staff tho work week shall be four (4) nine (9) hour shifts or other shifts mutually agreed to by tho Parties
All timo worked in excess of the regular daily shift of nine (9V hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by tho Parties, whichever is applicablo, shall be paid for at doubljMimo
Ovcrtimo may h e taken, at tho employee's option, in money or in timo off at a mutually agreed upon date Employees will
42
make their written declaration once per contract year by the declaration date as to the method of overtime payment. Employees may alter their written declaration once during the declaration period. New employees will make their written declaration at time of hire.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two (2) weeks in timo off in a calendar year.
Noernployco shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
(i)	Hours worked on days off are not included.
(ii)	Shifts must be completed as required.
(iii)	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between regularscheduled shifts, excluding overtime. Thereshall be no split shifts.
All overtime pay will bo calculated on the base hourly rate arid will not include any shift differential and/or premium pay. All overtime will be paid out or taken as time off by April 30th following the calendar year in which it is earned.
24.02	All inside employees and drivers (not driver sales men) working a four (4) or five (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For purposes of this Clause, con socuti vo day s off on Saturday and Sunday are in compliance,
24.03	Employees in the position/classification of UTILI-TYMAN and TRAINEE are excluded from the provisions of this Clause and Clause 24.04 below.
A schedule of time off shall he posted so that inside employees and drivers (not Driver Salesmen) shall have at
43
least seven (7) days advance notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall bo paid at double time for all hours worked. .
Any Statutory Holiday accumulated as a result inchango of days off shall betied to the employee's consecutive days off.
Employees shall receive twenty-four (24) hours notice for change of shifts except for the following reasons:
(i)	Short notice absenteeism of other employees.
(ii)	Reasons as outlined under Clause 9.01 (a).
24.04
(a) Seniority within thojob classification shall be a determining factor in the selection of days off and shift to be worked. Tho Employer shall retain the right at all times to soo that the required numbor of experienced employees is availableon each shift, to ensure proper and efficient operation. If the person with the most seniority is away then the next most senior person has first option on that shift providing it becomes necessary to replace the most senior person with other than regular relief personnel.
For the purpose of this Clause, Holiday Relief personnel shall continue to accumulate classification seniority in the last posted position hold or in the classification they roliovo if different to that held prior to becoming holiday relief. If more than one classification is relieved, the holiday relief person may select which classification inwhich they prefer to accumulate seniority. If tho classifications roliovod chango from year to year, tho Holiday Relief person may oloct to change their seniority accumulation to another classification. Application of tho provisions of this Clause shall bo restricted to tho plant or branch concerned.
44
The provisions of this Clause shall apply to production department employees and to drivers employed in Dispatch.
(b)	Experienced workers regularly working a full shift who
are directed to another shift by the Employer shall be guaranteed a full shift's pay.
24.05	There shall be no plant work done in the ice cream department on Sundays except in cases of emergency or where necessary to supply customer requirements. Should a shift selection not be completed, plant employees will be assigned in reverse order of seniority provided they arc capable of performing the required work.
24.06	Days and Hours cf Work and Overtime - Farm Tanker and Interplant Drivers
(a)	The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Eight(8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day’s work.
All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee’s option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide upto a maximum of two weeks in time off in a calendar year.
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day's work until he has completed
45
all duties including additional pick-ups and/or deliveries if any, required of him by the Company, and without limiting thegenerality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck, refueled and checked his truck; balancedhis daily load shoot or other record of goods supplied or deliveries mado; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
In the event that any of these drivers completes his work in less than eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by tho Parties, which-ovcris applicable, inany onoday, he shall bedeemed to have worked a full shift on that day.
24.07	All sumscarnod byway of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they are oarnod. All premium pay including overtime shall be calculated on the classified base rate.
24.08	Each Driver shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
24.09	All farm and inter.-plant tanker drivers shall be entitled to one-calf (1/2) hourfor lunch during the unloading period. This one-half (1/2) hour period shall he calculated as part of the regular work shift.
24.10	All drivers must submit upon completion of his shift, a completed and properly identified tachometer or recorder card from all vehicles equipped with recording devices.
CLAUSE25 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01	This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding nightwatchinen and janitors. Any omployoo working a daily
46
shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra $1Ji5per hour for all hours worked during the shift
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6 00 a m shall receive an extra $1 65 per hour for all hours worked prior to 8 00,a.m
25.03	Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occur rence, then all times shall be computed arid totalled, and paid for in each pay porpd.
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paid a premium qf,$ 1.65 per hour (in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable) for all hours worked on Sunday
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer Help
CLAUSE 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26.01	Reliefman - A relief dairyworker is an employee who relieves on two or more different job classifications other than his/her own during the work week.
26.02	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
47
26.03
(a) Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) - All employees shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications.
It is rocognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
(b)	Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classification or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworkor shall be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES
27.0t All inside employees shall bo providedwith (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, coveralls or smocks, whichever is applicable, as well as gloves, to those requiring same. These clean clothes will be supplied no loss than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.02	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least once por week. These uniforms shall be Union mado and Union serviced.
27.03	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
Tho Company shall provide a suitable warm coat to all Driver Salesmen working in or out of cold hold trucks.
27.04	All clothing and uniforms to he supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
40
CLAUSE 28
JURY DUTY
20.01	All working lime lost by an employee due to necessary attendance/on^lum Duty or any court proceedings arising out of (Wemploymont shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee
28.02	Any employee on Jury Duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer
CLAUSE 29
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
29.01	The summer season shall bedefined as the time of year between and including the 1st of April and tho 15th of September.
29.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined in Section 29.01, shall be classed as summer help and paidatthe rate applicable, itbeing understoodthatany employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 18.01.
CLAUSE 30 CREDIT ON ROUTES
30.01	Credit on the routes and tho rules and regulations thereof are the sole responsibility of the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate tho credit through their employees. Tho Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous place the rules and regulations regarding credit. The Employer is solely responsible
49
for bad debts providing that the regulations in effect regarding tho granting of credit have been observed by the omployoo and enforced by the Employer.
30.02	Tho Employer shall provide each Retail Driver Salesman with suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by any customer requiring credit. Thecompleted form shall be returned to the Employer for his approval or rejection and such approval or rejection of crodit shall be indicated by the Employer in an appropriate place in the driver's route book records and shall constitute either approval or rejection by the Employer of tho customer's application for crodit.
30.03	If the stated policy of the Employer is notto grantor recognize credit to any retail customer, no Retail Driver Salesman employed by that Employer shall be held responsible for any monies owing by a customer to whom ho has not granted credit nor shall there be any discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the statod policy of the Employer.
CLAUSE 31
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
31.01	Each salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer, keep proper route books and make duo and correct entries therein, of all transactions and dealings of and in reloronco to the business of the Employer insofar as the samo comes under his jurisdiction and shall serve the Employer diligently and according to the bost of his abilities in all rospocts.
50
CLAUSE32
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
32.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention andenergies to tho performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 33
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND TIME OFF (DRIVER SALESMEN)
33.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Time cards and copies of pay cheque stubs to made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or bo asked to record times other than those which show the following:
(a)	Starting Time
No retail driver salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 5:00 A.M. nor make deliveries before6:00A.M.,exceptas mutually agreed between the Union and Employer.
No wholesale driver salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 4:30 A.M. nor make deliveries before 5:00 A.M., except as mutually agreed between the Union and Employer.
(b)	Time on Arrival at the Plant after completion of route (Distribution Department only) before entering driver's room for cashing in purposes.
(c)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to
51
have completed his day's work until ho has completed all duties and additional delivories if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; checked his truck; refueled and checked oil and coolant levels; balanced his daily load shoet or other record of goods supplied and salos made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any mooting or interview called or requested by the Company.
It is understood that employees inay bo temporarily re-assigned to other duties during their shift as re quired provided it does not displace an employee on the job.
33.02	No Driver Salesman shall perform work of any nature prior to recording his starting time norafter recording his finishing time.
33.03	No Driver Salesman shall be required by the Employer to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week.
33.04	Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to comploto n routo or routos, no driver salesman, reliotman, holiday reliefman or route foreman shall bo subject to any change iri status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with tho employee involved in the dispute or an appointee of the Company.
33.05	No driver shall be asked or required to service or maintain trucks or equipment other than fueling vehicles and checking oil and coolant levels. This doos not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
52
33.06
(a)	Each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minuta break in the forenoon and afternoon.
(b)	If overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a further ton (10) minute break immediately following tho standard shift.
(c\ Each Driver Salesman shall take one-half (112) hour for lunch.
33.07	All retail and combination routes shall be loaded or prestacked in an approved manner. A pre-timod departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area not later than 7:00 A.M.
33.08	No Driver Salesman shall be required to write out monthly route books. The Employer undertakes to have route books prepared for each driver salesman in sufficient time to allow for the transference of statements from the current book to the new book.
33.09	Employeesintheposition/classificationofTRAINEE are excluded from the provisions of this Clause.
A schedule of time off shall be posted so that Driver Salesmen shall have at least seven (7)days advanco notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
All driver salesmen in posted positions working a four (4) or five (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive
53
days off oach week. Each week shall mean a calendar wook defined as Sunday through Saturday.
Forico croam driver salesmen tho work woek shall he four (4) nine (Y) hour shifts or othor shifts mutually agrood to by tho Parties.
There will be no change of days off in a week that contains a Statutory Holiday.
All timo worked in excess of the daily shift of nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichovor is applicable, shall he paid for at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in timo off at a mutually agreed upon date.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of fwo weeks in time off in a calendar year.
All overtime pay will he calculated on the base hourly rate and will riot include any shift differential and/or premium pny. All overtime will he paid out or taken as timo of by April 30, following the calendar year in which it is earned.
In the event that any of these driver salesmen completes his work in loss than nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, in any one day, he shall be doomod to have worked a full shift on that day.
All sums earned by way of overtime shall bo paid for in tho pay period following that in which they were earned and will be calculated on the classified baso rate.
33.10
(a) New, or inexperienced retail and combination or wholesaledriver salesmen shall be excluded from the
54
overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5) calendar weeks from date cf assignment to the learning of a route, providing suchovertime is not occasioned by:
1.	Mechanical breakdown.
2.	Delays or conditions or overtime not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
(b)	Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or from wholesale to retail or new, experienced Driver Salesmen (Clause 18, Section 18.02), shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignmentto the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
1.	Mechanical breakdown.
2.	Delays or conditions or overtime not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
33.11 There shall be a route selection by seniority in the event of any significant departmental reorganization.
CLAUSE 34 WAGES
34.01	The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules "A", “B", "C" and “D", hereunto annexed in respeetto the various classifications of work therein contained.
Schedules "A", "B", “C" and “D", shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this Agreement.
55
CLAUSE 35 SAVINGS CLAUSE
35.01	Tho within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall bo interpreted, and, where necessary altered, varied, or amended from time to tinio to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, includingamond-monts thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made or passed thereunder.
35.02	In tho event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or onlorcementoforcomplianco with which hasbecn restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected, thereby shall ontor into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for tho purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Partios do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the disputo to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
35.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any Sections thereof, which arc not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for tho balance of tho Collectivo Agreement.
CLAUSE 36
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01
(a) This Agreementshall be in effect from April 1,1993 to' March 31, 1996, and from year to year thoreaftor, unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by cither Party to the other Party in writing within four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
56
(b) All provisions of this Agreement, shall be fully retroactive to April 1,1993, except where otherwise noted.
36.02	This Agreement voids all previous agreements or totters of understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor and the Party of the Second Part as hereunto affixed its signatures by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATED AT , British Columbia, this day of , 1993.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
57
SCHEDULE “A’
The following wages shall be paid:
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT ETC.
CLASSIFICATION
A.	Foreman D.A.W.S.
Utilityman
B.	Pasteurizer Class 1 lei: Cream Maker
WAGES PER HOUR April 1/94 April 1/95
23.37	23.84
23.19	23.65
23.18	23.64
22.45	22.90
Cheddar Cheesemaker
Cottage Cheesemaker Butter Maker
Tetra Operator	22.27	22.72
C.	Shipper and/or Dispatcher 22.11	22.55
Pasteurizer Class 11 Evaporator Operator (Delair)
Sterilizer Operator (Delair)
Standardizer Operator (Delair)
58
April 1/94 April 1/95
D.	Filler Machine Operator (Fluid)
a 1.78	22.22
Assistant Shipper
Yogurt Machine Operator
C.I.P. Operator
Ice Cream Machine Operator
Lineman Operator (Delair)
E.	Print Machine Operator 21.78	22.22
Cottage Cheese/Sour Cream Operator Creamer Operator
Checker and/or Loader (Fluid)
Checker and/or Loader (Ice Cream)
j)- Dairyworker	21.55	21.98
Packager	20.71	20.93
Night Watchman	21.55	21.98
Janitor	12.12	12.36
General Yard Clean up and Pallet repair	10.10	10.30
59
April 1/94 April 1/95
Summer Help		
Chucker/Loader	10.10	10.30
Dairyworkar	10.10	10.30
Packager	• 10.10	10.30
Premiums:
Freozorman -404; per hour premium
Holiday Relief - 60® per hour over classification relieved
Relief - 45o per hour over classification relieved
Charge Hand -55p per hour ovor classification of which he
is Chargnhnnd.
A premium of 20$ per hour above classified rates provided heroin shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride-on fork lift or towmolor fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
Any employee required to be a First-Aid Attendant shall be paid a premium for the necessary first aid certificate as
follows:
"A" Certificate “B“ Certificate "C” Certificate
■ 70? per hour
-	60® per hour
-	500 per hour
60
SCHEDULE “B'
WHOLESALE SALESMEN AND DRIVERS CLASSIFICATION
WAGES PER HOUR
April 1/94 April 1/95		
Driver Salesman	22.11	22.55
Driver Salesman (Semi-Trailer)	22.50	22.95
Driver Salesman (Combination)	22.31	22.76
Driver Salesman (Combination Semi-Trailer) 22.70		23.15
Route Relief	22.69	23.14
Holiday Relief	22.03	22.47
Route Foreman	23.37	23.84
Semi-Trailer Driver	22.29	22.74
Train Driver	22.53	22.98
Tank Driver	22.24	22.68
Truck Driver	21.70	22.13
A premium of 15® perhourshall be paidReliefmen, Holiday Reliefmen or Route Foreman while driving a semi-trailer.
Driver Salesmen, Route Foreman, Holiday Reliefmen will receive an additional $2.30 per week when employed on Country overnight runs.
61
When a pup trailer is added to the unit the driver will be paid 5p per hour extra per axle over the somi-trailsr rate while pulling tho pup.
SCHEDULE"C"
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN CLASSIFICATION
WAGES PER HOUR
	April 1/94	April 1/95
Retail Driver Salesman	22.01	22.45
Route Relief	22.59	23.04
Holiday Rolicf	22.93	23.39
Route Foreman	23.27	23.74
SCHEDULE“D”		
MAINTENANCE		
CLASSIFICATION		
WAGES PER HOUR
	April 1/94	April 1/95
Chargeharid	26.25	26.78
LoacJhand	25.07	25.57
Journeyman	24.68	25.17
Partsman	23.66	24.13
62
MAINTENANCE
CLASSIFICATION
WAGES PER HOUR April 1/94 April 1/95
Trado Helper	22.15	22.59
General Helper	21.68	22.11
Partsman Chargehnnd	24.24	24.72
Stockrooin & Stores
Shipper/Receivor Chargehand 23.12	23.58
Shipper Receiver	22.15	22.59
Supplies Clerk	22.15	22.59
Assistant Shipper/Receivor	22.02	22.46
Dairyworker	21.68	22,11
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RETAIL SALES DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT
It is hereby agreed and understood that the following administration cf Clause 15.03 will be deemed appropriate with rospoct to the appointment of employees to routes vacated due to lengthy illness.
On the occasion of a route vacancy created by an employee who experiences an illness or accident which will require that employee to be absent from work for a lengthy period of time, tho Company will assign a Trainee to fill the vacant route. That Trainee will remain on that route until such time as the incumbent employee returns to full and active duty. On return to active duty cf the incumbent employee, the Trainee will again be eligible for re-assignment to other routes.
DATED AT , British Columbia, this day of , 1993.
PAIilYOF MIL FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: Hours of Work
The Parties acknowledge alternate work week arrangements may be necessary in order to ensure the efficient operation of particular departments and satisfy customer requirements.
In support of this understanding the Union agrees to give full consideration to bona fide requests for altornato work week arrangements (e.g. 12 hours perday) fora particulardepart-ment, work group or individual throughout the term of the Collective Agreement.
It is intondod that any request for alternate shift arrangements must be submitted in writing to the Union in order to ensure proper documentation and consideration.
DATED AT , British Columbia, this day of . 1993.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Overtime Accumulation
Tho Parlies hereby agree that in those operations (i.e. Lozells, Armstrong, Abbotsford, Annacis) subject to temporary shutdown and lay-off, employees may accumulate up to a maximum of four weeks in timo off in a calendar year, provided two of those weeks are used during the period of temporary lay-off.
Any portion of the additional two weeks accumulate not used during periods of temporary lay-off shall be cashed out.
DATED AT , British Columbia, this	day of
, 1993.
party ofii it host part pari yof tub second part
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is hereby agreed and understood that effective June 1, 1994, tho Company shall remit5e per hour worked on behalf of ail benefit rated employees (as per Clause 11) to the Teamsters Local 464 Education and Industry Enhancement Fund.
DATED AT	, British Columbia, this day of
, 1993.
PAHT Y OF Tl IE FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: LAY-OFF CALL-IN PROCEDURES: LOWER MAINLAND OPERATIONS
In order to rocognizo seniority and facilitate the officient layoff and call-in of omploycos within the "Lower Mainland Operations", tlio following ternis shall be effective.
1.	Articlo 19.02 is amended so that an employee who accepts lay-off from the plant or operation, shall be placed on tho Lower Mainland Lay-off List on the understanding ho or she remains available to accept assignments as required, in accordance with the "Guidelines covering Laid-Off Employoos", as established by the Employer.
2.
(a) Article 19.02 (c) is amended so that the “Rightof recall to tho Branch/Plant" and "tho opportunity to renew the lay-off option" previously selected under 19.02 (c) 2 (page 33) are both deleted.
(b)	In lieu of the foregoing amendments a laid-off employee may apply in accordance with the job posting procedure for any subsequent job posting that may arise based on Company seniority.
3.	It is hereby agreed that in the case of lay-offs and the application of the "Reduction of Staff' provisions under Articlo 19.02 (a) consent to waive seniority will not ho unreasonably withheld by the Union.
4.
(a)	Itisintendedthatthe employerwill schedule employ-
ees for call-in the following week based on available information as of noon each Thursday.
68
(b)	Where practical, employees on lay-off will generally be called in to Lower Mainland assignments in order of Company seniority provided they are "available at the time the assignment is scheduled" and are capable of performing the assigned work in a manner that is satisfactory, as determined by the Employer.
(c)	Whore an employees assignment is concluded prior to completing the assigned work that week, he/she will be placed back on the lay-off list and beeligible for further assignments in accordance with 4 (b).
5.	It is agreed by the Employerthat the "assignmentand scheduling” of laid-off employees will be mado in "good faith".
6.	It is agreed by the Union that except in the absence of "good faith", grievances of either an individual or policy nature will not be applicable.
7.	It is understood by the Parties that nothing in this Letter of Understanding will prevent the Employer from utilizing or assigning employees with specific skills (e.g., Class 1 Drivers licence) in a manner deemed necessary by the employer.
8.	Employees who have previously achieved benefit status and are subsequently laid-off and subject to recall shall:
j) Receive credits as days worked for time lost due to scheduled holidays, compensable accidents (W.C.B.) or maternity leave (for the purpose of this Clause only) and,
ii) Have the option of continuing without interruption their basic medical (M.S.P.) by paying the monthly premium.
69
0. Vacation & Statutory Holidays
"Part-time and laid-off employees shall receive "vacation pay" and "statutory holiday pay" on a "pro-rata" basis each April in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
Scheduling of time-off for vacation purposes must be dona in advanco through the employees supervisor.
DATED AT , British Columbia, this	day of
, 1993.
PAR IY OP IHE rillST PART PARTY Of THE SECOND PART
70
APPENDIX “A1
MEDICAL TRAVEL INSURANCE
Effective on tho first (1st) day of the month following the completion of the probationary period (as per Clause 19.01
(a)) provision for the following benefits shall be avallablo for member employees and their registered dependants resident in the Province of British Columbia:
A.	Where in the opinion of the attending physician treating a member employee and/or his registered dopon-dants, adequate treatment is not available locally, transportation by scheduled air or rail will beprovidod to and from the nearest localo equipped to provide tho required and recommended treatment by a physician and surgeon within two months of referral but said transportation will not be provided to points beyond Vancouver, B.C.
B.	Where necessary, and at the request of the attending physician, provision for transportation of an attendant in connection with the aforementioned transportation of any employee or his registered dependants.
C.	Also, where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities are available, provision forassistanctfregarding accommodation limited to commercial facilities for patient and/or attendant, before and after medical treatment and which shall be limited to a total of seven (7) days at a maximum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day.
D.	It is agreed that the maximum allowable claim by any individual covered by the above provisions shall be limited to fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per eligible person each two year period effective October 1,1988.
fi
APPENDIX "B'
TEAMSTERS LOpAL UNION No. 464 JOINTLY TRUSTEED PENSION PLAN
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT DAIRYWORLD FOODS.
I. OPERATION OF THE JOINTLY TRUSTEED PLAN
This plan to be operated pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:-
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. Those persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon
72
received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees arc deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an arbitrator by a Judge appointed by tho Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(fj The Employers shall from time to time provide all information which is required fortho administration cf the Plan and shall assist and cooperate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Employers shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution cf thoTrust Agreement andestablishmontof the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Employer to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund arid further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (exceptas provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employers and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(j)	The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer
73
the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k)	The Employer-shajl be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fundas herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employeeworking in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement-
fa) Eight percent (8%) of their gross earnings from Oct. 1. 1993.
(b)	Eight point five percent (8.5%) of their gross earnings from April 1,1994.
(c)	Nine percent (9.0%) of their gross earnings from April 1, 1995.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordancewith the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Itisundorstood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the firstday following achievement of benefit status whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
Contributions along with a list of employees forwhom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his earnings shall bo forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assots of the Plan designated by tho Trusteos. A copy of tho listofemployees shall also be mailed to tho Administrator of tho Plan.
74
Such payment shall be made to the Custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employer shall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the earnings upon which the Employer's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and Actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1)	ItisintendedthatthoPlanandTrust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee Pension Plans.
75