SOURCE	da.		
EFF.	o<\		to
TERM.			31
No. OF EMPLOYEES		35	
NOMBftE D'EMPLOYfS			
AGREEMENT
between
ELLISON HILLING COMPANY and
UNITED FOOD E COMMERCIAL YORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO CLC LOCAL P 661
LETHBRIDGE. ALBERTA
1993 - 1994
NOV 191993
OOM-SLOk
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement made this 10th day of September, 1993, and ratified by the Union on the 10th day of September, 1993.
BETWEEN:
ELLISON MILLING COMPANY LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA hereinafter cal led "The Company”
of the first part
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION aff i I iated with the AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOUR CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS and THE CANADIAN LABOUR CONGRESS, LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA hereinafter cal led “The Union”
oft he second par t.
The
July
parties hereto mentioned agree to changes 19&9 as fol lows:
to the col lective Agreement dated
CLAUSE 1:	Term of Agreement
This Agreement shal I take effect and be binding upon the parties hereto from the 10th day of September, 1993 and terminati.ng the 31st day of December, 1994.
- 2 -
CLAUSE 2:	Purpose of Agreement
	The purpose of this Agreement is to define and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of employment and wage rates for al 1 employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement. It also sets out the responsibilities of each of the contracting parties along with the rights and privileges of an employer - employee relationship. It is intended by both parties that the relationship be harmonious during the term of the Agreement but that if any problems should arise pertaining to the employer -employee relationship, said problems will be settled amicably by reference to the provisions of the Agreement.
CLAUSE 3:	Recognition
	The Company recogn i zes the Union as the bargaining agent for all employees, as set out in the certification certificate issued by the Department of Labour of the Federal Government of Canada.
CLAUSE 4:	Relationship
	(a) There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by the Company or any of its agents against any employee because of membership in the Union, and the Union wi 1 1 not coerce employees into membership or distribute propaganda or transact any other business of the Union on the Company’s time other than .that provided in this Agreement. The Company wi 1 1 supply a bulletin board for the convenience of the Union in posting of Union activities. However, all such postings will be submitted to
Management for approval before being posted.
3
(b)	The Company and the Union agree to co-operate in the operation of a joint Labour-Management Production Committee composed of an equal number of representatives of the Company and its employees. This Committee will be governed by rules as outlined and mutually agreed upon. The purpose of this Committee shall be to provide ways and means of improving production and efficiency and promoting fuller understanding and confidence between Management and employees.
Th s Comm ttee will consist of the following Union employees appointed by the Union:
Feed .Mill Flour Mill F I our Warehouse Maintenance
1 employee 1 employee 1 emp oyee 1 employee
These employees will meet with an equal number of Company Management employees at least twice yearly to serve the purpose of this Committee.
(cl Both parties recognize that most work, under normal circumstances, shall be performed by the Union members; however, at times, due to heavier than normal workloads, training, emergency situations, and/or unexpected customer orders, it may be necessary, in order to maintain efficiency and/or customer service, to have supervisory personnel performing work which may not be part of their normal duties.
4
CLAUSE 5:
CLAUSE 6:
CLAUSE 7:
Management Rights
The Union acknowledges that, subject to express provisions in this Agreement, it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to manage i ts plants; to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to direct the working force, including the right to hire, suspend or d i scharge for cause; to assign and re-assign employees to jobs; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the product to be handled, produced, and processed or manufactured; to schedule production and processing and product ion met hods or handling of its product. The Company agrees that no special privileges nor treatment wi I I be allowed to relatives of other employees of the Company.
No Strikes or Lockouts
During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action which wi I I stop or interfere with production or services, and that if such collective action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions of the Agreement and return to work and perform the duties in the usual manner. The Union further agrees that, should a strike be called because of failure to negotiate a new agreement, the licensed elevator employees, the Watchers, and the Engineer and/or employee responsible for boiler and sprinkler maintenance will not be called out.
Hours of Work & Conditions of Overtime
(a) This paragraph is intended to define the normal hours of work and is not to be construed as a guarantee or limitation of the number of hours to be worked per day, or for any other period of time, except as specifically provided in this Agreement.
The normal work week will consist of forty (401 hours, Monday to Friday, 7:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. daily except for employees on continuous shifts who will commence at 7:00 A.M. Monday; each shift wi I I work at least five (5) shifts with the regular week ending at 7:00 A.M. the following Monday. This clause for continuous shift employees will not take effect in a 17-week period in the months of July, August, September and October when the work week will commence at 11:00 P.M. Sunday.
The regular work week day wi I I consist of eight (8) hours. Al I hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week shal I be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rates except for work performed on Sunday which will be at two (2) times the regular rate for hours worked. Al I hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day shal I be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rates excluding shift premium, however, daily and weekly overtime shall not be compounded.
The normal shift will be on a weekly basis from days to nights to afternoons for lead operators and millers, and the normal shift rotation for second millers and others on continuous shifts will be on a bi-weekly basis.
The above does not apply to the Feed Plant which normally operates two (2) eight (8) hour shifts per day starting at 11:00 P.M. Sunday each week. The, norma I shift rotation for the lead operator is weekly and for the second operator is bi-weekly. Should the Feed Plant operate on a continuous weekly basis the shift hours and rotation will be the same as the Flour Mill.
All hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at one and one-half (l-l/21times the regular rates up to and including seventy-two (72) hours per week, and additional hours shall be paid for at two (2) times the regular rate. Al I hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rates.
Other work schedules may be established by the Company from time to time to meet the needs of the business. The employees will be advised of changes in these work schedules as much in advance as possible and usually prior to 3:00 P.M. Friday for the following week. It is agreed that changes to the work schedule wi I I be necessary from time to time to permit crew to be shifted to periods of peak work demand and for other reasons. This is especially true in the Feed Mill but, in any event, shift schedules will be set by 3:00P.M. Friday for the following week and wi I I usually be fixed subject to usua I layoff notices and weekly guaranteed employment provisions as indicated elsewhere in the Agreement.
The Union agrees that, due to the needs of the business, it may be necessary to introduce rotational extended work schedules with longer work days and longer periods, of time off and non-concurrent work days and varying starting days. In the event that this type of schedule is introduced it is agreed that Saturday (1—1/2 X normal rate) and Sunday (2 X normal rate) premiums will no longer be applicable to those employees working these schedules. Additionally, these new schedules will be worked for at least one complete shift rotation schedule or the premiums and rules covering the existing conditions and hours of work will apply.
7
(b) Choice of employees to work overtime during the regular work week shall be decided by seniority and ability in the department for
i
which the overtime is required. The extension of a shi fit shall not
I	.	I;
exceed four (4) hours or a total of twelve (12) consecuf i ve h o u rs
i
work. Choice of employees to work overtime on the 6th and 7th days of work wi I I be on the basis of seniority and .abi I ity in that department. If al I personnel in the department are ‘called in for the overtime, each employee will work the overtime shift that corresponds to the regular shift worked all week in the department. All overtime shall be voluntary subject to going down the seniority list of the department in which the overtime is to be worked, but in the event nobody volunteers, the least senior employee or employees in the plant will be required to work providing they have the abi I ity to perform the work required. Departments for the purpose of this clause shall be Feed Mi I I, Flour Mill, Flour Warehouse and Packing, Terminal Elevator, Maintenance, Bakery M i x and Miscellaneous.
(c)	Employees required to lay off part of any shift in order to report for duty on another shift shall not be penaI ized by losing pay for hours not worked on the regularly scheduled shift. This does not app I y where emp I oyees are required to report back within the same twenty-four (24) hour period. Employees required to work a split shift will be paid one and one-half (l-l/2)times their regular rate for the second part of the split shift.
8
(d)	Extra or casual employees shall not be assigned to work to the exclusion of regular employees who have been laid off, provided
such employees can perform the required work. , Extra or casual
' 1 ; .
employees will be ‘defined as someone performing ’Workthat is
• il
temporary in nature and not regularly required or is of an unexpected or temporary nature. If the work being, performed by an extra or casual employee’ lasts beyond forty-five (45) consecutive work days the employee performing that work will be considered to be an employee on probation.
Regular employees who are being laid off are to be given twenty-four (24) hours notice before being laid off (whether for a short term layoff or longer term layoff) and twenty-four (24) hours notice as to when they are expected to return to work. In the case of a long term I ayof f (more than one (1) week) regular employees with one (1) or more years of service will be given one (1) day layoff notice for each completed six (6) months of service with the Company. The Company shal I be exempt from giving such notice i) due to the inabi I ity to operate the plant because of f foods, power failures, storms, fire, freeze-out, or it) due to disciplinary act ion.
(e)	All vacancies over six (6) days that the Company plans to f i I I or vacancies involving training positions of two (2) weeks or more shall be posted.
(f)	An employee instructed and assigned to relieve a foreman temporarily will be paid ten (10%) per cent increase in his own rate for the number of hours worked up to eight (8) hours per day provided the said employee relieves for at least three (3) consecutive days. Neither daily nor weekly overtime will apply under this clause.
9
(g)	Employees assigned temporarily to lower rated positions shall not have their current rates reduced. Employees assigned temporarily to higher rated jobs will be,, paid fhe • higher rate. Temporary assignees (Millers and Oilers) will earn temporary rates for shutdowns; and earn temporary rates for holidays provided the temporary assignee works both sides of the holiday.
(h)	Should an employee be requested to return to work after completion of a regular shift with notice given prior to leaving the plant, the employee shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at time and one-half (1-1/2) rate. This does not apply to an extension of a regular shift.
Should an employee be requested to return to work after completion of a regular shift without notice, or should an employee be requested to work on an unscheduled day without notice, the employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours work at time and one-half (1-1/2) rate, except for Sunday which will be paid at the double time rate for the actual hours worked, but in any event will not receive less than six (6) hours pay. The employee shall be through when the supervisor decides the work is completed. This paragraph does not apply to an extension of a regular shift.
In the case of a call-in before or after a regularly scheduled shift, the employee wi I I be given the option of leaving the plant after working eight. (81 hours or working the balance of the shift at the straight time rate.
10 -
(i)	Employees shall be granted a ten (lO)minute rest period during each four (4) hour half-shift worked. The time for each rest period wi I I be designated by the supervisor in charge of each department. Employees shall not leave the work premises during these rest periods or during paid lunch periods. Employees violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action by the Company.
(j)	In addition to the straight time rate, a premium of half (1/2) the straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday and, in addition to the straight time rate, a premium of the straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday. This paragraph is subject to mutually agreed exceptions.
For the purpose of this Agreement, all days are defined as twenty-four (24) hour periods commencing at 7:OOA.KI.
(k)	An employee reporting for work for a regular shift, or on an unscheduled day at the request of a supervisor, shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or in lieu thereof four (4) hours pay at the applicable rate.
(l)	If an employee is unable to report for work for any reason, the employee or someone from home wi I I phone his or her supervisor before the shift commences or immediately thereafter advising the reason, so the supervisor can arrange or plan accordingly.
11
CLAUSE 8:
(m)	Overtime hours actually worked under paragraph (bl may be accumulated at the option of the employee on the same basis as overtime pay, but in lieu of overtime pay may be taken as accumulated time off at a time suitable to the employer. However, such accumulated time must not exceed ten (101 working days and must be taken by December 31 each year or the employer must pay the employee by the end of January the following year for the number of hours accumulated. Unless advised otherwise overtime worked will be paid. Advice to accumulate vacation in lieu of overtime wi I I be submitted to the Payroll Supervisor in writing in advance of the time cards being picked up for the pay period involved.
Wage Rate and Payment
(a)	Wages are to be paid in accordance with the rates as set forth in the Wage Schedule attached to this Agreement. However, when an employee is transferred to a higher rated classification, the rate for said employee may be continued for a period of thirty (30) working days or such longer period as the Company may deem necessary for the said employee to learn the work before raising the rate, but said period shall not exceed a total of ninety (901 working days. This paragraph wi I I not apply to Mi I lers whose work requires ski I I and responsibility.	A Second Miller fully
responsible for a shift will receive twenty-five (25?) cents per hour over the Second Mi I ler rate for the first ninety (90) working days in relief. After the Second Miller has worked ninety (90) working days in relief, the Second Miller in relief will receive, the Miller rate while relieving the Miller. However, when the Second Miller goes back to the Second Miller responsibilities, the rate of pay will revert back to the Second Miller rate.
12 -
The starting rate for new employees will be four ($4,001 dol lars per hour below the rate listed for the appropriate classification in the Wage Schedule attached. Such new employees wil I receive a minimum of one ($1,001 dollar per hour increase for each nine (91 months of service until the ’full rate ‘I istedin the Wage Schedule is attained. Journeymen or Journeywomen will be exempt from this clause.
Any grievance under this paragraph will be dealt with under Clause 13.
(b)	Wages are to be paid every second Friday and pay cheques are to be distributed to the employees at noon every second Friday for the period ending the previous Friday. However, if a Friday payday falls on a Holiday as defined by this Agreement, cheques are to be distributed by 4:00 P.M. on the Bank day preceding, providing this al lows three (3) full days for the Company to prepare the payroll. Where there are fewer than three (3) full days for preparation, pay cheques are to be distributed at noon the first Bank day after the Holiday, and notice of such payment wl I I be posted on the bul let in board.
(c)	As of the date of rat if icaton, a premium of fifty-five (55;) cents per hour will be paid to employees working the afternoon shift and a premium of eighty (80;) cents per hour wil I be paid to employees working the night shift. Watcher and relief watchers will not be paid any shift premiums.
Shift premiums are to be excluded in the calculation of daily and weekly overtime.
-13 -
CLAUSE 9:
(d)	The Management of the Company and’ three (3) or more members of the Union Executive or their duly appointed representatives shall constitute a committee to hear written applications for, changes in classifications and/or wage rate submitted by an empIoyee or by the Management. The Committee shall meet four (4) times during the year, namely the end of each quarter, if any appl icat ions are made at least three (3) days prior to the last day of March, June, September and December. Any changes in classification and/or wage rate shall be by agreement between the Committee and the employee.
(e)	Any employee who, due to physical or mental condition,
becomes unable to perform normal work duties may be classified as a handicapped worker and as such may be given special work duties and a special wage rate corresponding to the limitations of the handicap.	Such wage rate shall be decided upon by mutual agreement
between the Company and the Union.
Paid Holidays
(a)	The Union and the Company recogn izes the following eleven (11) paid holidays:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, 2nd Monday in June, Dominion Day, Civic (August) Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
The Company will provide an additional paid holiday if and when such a holiday is declared by the Federal Government.
14
(b)	Subject to the exception hereafter set forth, employees shall be paid for the above named holidays on the basis of eight (8) hours at their regular rates. A day in lieu of the actual paid holiday may be substituted by mutual consent between the Company and the Union,
(c)	In order to be eligible for paid holiday payment, an employee must meet the following conditions:
il must have been employed for thirty (30) working days and must have Company earnings the scheduled work day preceding and following the paid holiday, and
ii) must have Company earnings for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the paid holiday. Company earnings are defined as regular wages, vacation pay, Company sick leave (if any), wage indemnity or Workers’ Compensation. An employee absent from work and receiving weekly indemnity or Workers’ Compensation benefits for the day of paid holiday will receive the difference between eight (8) hours at the employee’s usual rate of pay while at work and the amount received for wage indemnity or Workers’ Compensation for the holiday involved.
(d)	Any employee not qualified for paid holiday pay shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for work performed on such holiday. Any employee qualified for a paid holiday and required to work on such a day will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for hours worked plus eight (8) hours straight time for the paid holiday.
15 -
CLAUSE 10:	Annual Vacation
(a)	Vacation entitlement will be determined by the employee’s service anniversary date. Employees who, on that date, have accumulated unbroken service on the payroll, shall receive 'a vacation with pay as follows:
After one years service.......................2 weeks
After five years service......................3 weeks
After fourteen years service........................4	weeks
After thirteen years service	(earned
from August 1, 1991 to July	31, 1992)............4	weeks
After twenty years service...................5 weeks
The vacaf ion year wi I I start after July 31sf each year. If an employee’s vacation entitlement changes as a result of a service anniversary during the current vacation year, the vacation entitlement will be adjusted proportionate to the days of service in the current vacation year over three hundred and sixty-five (365) multiplied by the increased number of working days ent i t I ement in the above schedule rounded to the nearest full day more or less.
Vacation pay shal I be two 12%) per cent of the employee’s earnings for the vacation year or forty (40) hours pay at the basic straight time rate for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is to the advantage of the employee.
(b)	In cases where an employee is absent for more than sixty (60) days during the twelve (12) month period ending July 31st of the current year, vacation pay for such employee wi I I be reduced by one-twelfth (l/12th)for each month of absence beyond the sixty (60) days.
16
(c)	Employees who have not completed one (1) years service by July 31st of the current year, but have more than three (3) months continuous employment, shallreceive an amount equal to four (4%) per cent of their earnings.
(d)	Employees who leave the service of the Company for any reason during the vacation year shal I receive vacation pay based on the employee’s earnings since the preceding July 31st.
(e)	Vacation wi I I be al located on the basis of seniority within the department but on a two-tiered rotation each year with each employee taking their turn for preference on the basis of seniority. Each department will be divided into two (2) equal tiers of seniority. In the case of odd numbers the middle person wi I I be al located to the group of closest seniority. Each year the most senior employee of the previous year’s tier will drop to the bottom of the tier for the purpose of choosing vacation as provided in this paragraph. An employee would be limited to choosing up to three (3) consecutive weeks of vacation during prime vacation time, that is, that time when school is out including Christmas week, with their first pick. Each employee, in turn, would choose up to three (3) weeks of their preference for vacation time within the department. Fourth and subsequent weeks wi I I be similarly al located as to preference on the same basis. Vacation time accumulated under paragraph 7(m) wi I I not be scheduled using this process. The time for all vacations will be subject to Company approval consistent with the necessity of plant operations and other work.
17 -
(f)	Vacation entitlement will be established by years of employment as at July 31st each year.	The vacation year wi I I be
from January 1st to December 31st each year. Every employee wi I I take their vacation entitlement in the calendar year following the date of entitlement. Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year. Blank vacation schedules for each department will be issued no later than October 1st each year for orderly scheduling of vacations for the fol lowing calendar year. The deadline for selection of vacations in accordance with paragraph 10(e) will he November 15th, after which time the preference wi I I be given based on seniority until November 30th. After this dat e, v a c a t i o n will be scheduled on a first come first served basis until all vacation dates are established, but in any event, vacations must be scheduled by December 15th at the latest.
Once se I ected, each employee wi I I take their vacation on dates shown on the schedule except for unforeseen extenuating circumstances. I n such cases, the rescheduled vacations must also be taken at a time approved by the Company.
CLAUSE 11:	Seniority
(a)	There will be no seniority acquired by employees during the first ninety (90) working days of employment, but after that number of days have been worked, seniority shall date back to the original date of employment. Emp I oyees • w i thouf s e n i o r i ty are not obligated to recall by the Company, and may be dismissed without recourse.. No seniority will be acquired by extra or casual employees who work less than ninety (90) days in a calendar year. Recall period will be equal to the length of service.
18
(b)	In all cases of increase or decrease in staff, temporary lay-off or the calling back to work, promotion or demotion, the principal governing factor will be seniority, provided that the supervisor is satisfied the employee has the ability to perform the job satisfactorily within a reasonable period of time.
(c)	I f any employee is absent from work ‘because of accident or sickness, the employee shall not lose seniority rights, but if an employee is absent from work for any other reason, without the consent of the Company, the employee shall lose seniority and may be dismissed. However, in the event that the employee is not dismissed from the Company and returns to work, the employee will regain seniority after a probation of ninety (90) days.
CLAUSE 12:	Leave of Absence
(a)	The Company may grant leave of absence, with or without pay, to an employee for a legitimate personal reason. An employee who is absent with such permission shall not be considered to be laid off and the seniority of the employee shall continueto accumulate during the absence.
(b)	Union business shall be considered as good cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company as long as substitutions or adjustments can b-e made so as not to interfere with the normal operation of the plant.
19
(c)	By mutual agreement between the Company and the employees, compassionate leave with pay will be given for up to three (3) consecutive working days, including the date of fihe funeral, for a death in the immediate family’. An employee may take an’ additional two (2) days leave of absence without pay to attend a funeral in the immediate	family if approved by the employee’s supervisor.
Immediate family means employee’s spouse, children, brothers, sisters and the parents of either employee or employee’s spouse, and providing the employee attends the funeral. A leave of one (l)day with pay (day of the funeral ) and two (2) days without pay wi I I be al lowed	in the event of the death	of a brother-in-law,
sister-in-law, or grandparents, providing the employee attends the funera I.
CLAUSE 13:	Grievance
(a)	A Grievance Committee, not to exceed three (3) in number, to be decided by the Union, who sha I I be regular employees of the Company, shal I be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of the’ Committee.
(b)	Shop Stewards, consisting of one (11 member from each of the major departments in the plant, shal I be elected by, the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel. Each Shop Steward shall have at least six months service with the Company.
20
(c)	Grievance work carried on during the regular working hours of the employee members involved shal I be paid for so that they wi I I not lose pay as a result of such activities. If the Management elects to meet with the Grievance Committee at a time other than regular hours, time spent by members of the Committee present at the meeting will not count towards overtime.
(d)	The Union acknowledges Union members have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons wi I I not leave their regular duties without first obtaining permission from their immediate supervisor. It is understood by the Company that the supervisor will grant permission to a Union member to leave his or her regular duties as soon as possible after the application for such permission is received. It is clearly understood that Union members will not absent themselves from their duties unreasonably to deal with grievances of employees.
(e)	It is agreed that al I grievances must be dealt with as soon as possible. To encourage this, any grievance must be f i led by an employee within ten (10) working days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the employee. The fol lowing procedure shal I be applicable progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
Step 1: between the grieved employee, the Shop Steward and the Department supervisor;
Step 2: between the grieved employee, the Chief Steward and/or President and the Operations Manager;
Step 3: (does not apply in the Flour Mill or Grain Terminal) between the grieved employee, the Union Grievance Committee and the General Manager — Feed Division.
Step 4: between the grieved employee, the Union Grievance Committee and the General Manager, El I Ison M i 11 i n g Company.
- 21 -
(f)	Grievances must be presented in the first step in writing.
(g)	When a grievance	which affects the rate of pay of any
employee is not amicably disposed of within seventy-two (72) hours, but subsequently is settled satisfactorily, and as a result of such settlement the wages of the employee arencreased or decreased; such increase or decrease shal I be made retroactive to the date on which the grievance was first submitted in writing.
(h)	If an employee is dismissed and feels unjustly dealt with, they may within not more than seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of notice of dismissal, inform the Grievance Committee who shal I, in turn, notify the Company within twenty-four (24) hours in writing. The dismissal shall then be termed as a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure herein, beginning with the second step. If, subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, the employee shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for the time lost at the regular rate of pay, or such I esser compensat ion as may be agreed upon.
(il Should there at any time arise a question of grievance involving interpretation of this Agreement, either on the part of the Union or Management, upon which no settlement can be reached, such a question shall be referred to a Board of Arbit-ration constituted as follows:
One representative named by the Union;
One representative named by the Company;
A third by mutual agreement of the two parties, who shall be
Chairman.
22 -
In the event of failure to agree upon the third party, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of Canada. The decision of the majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding on all parties involved for the life of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision's inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(j)	The Union and the Company shall be each responsible for one-half (1/2) of the expenses of the fees payable to the third arbitrator.
(k)	If either the Company or the Union al leges violation of the Agreement through the actions of officials of either, the complaint may be dealt with through Grievance Procedure.
CLAUSE 14:	Safety and Health
(a)	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the working hours and lunch breaks at the plant, including protective devices and first-aid supplies and equipment. The employees agree to observe the rules of safety and cleanliness on the Company’s premises. Every effort possible will be exerted by both parties to eliminate accidents and sickness.
(b)	It is mandatory that all plant employees wear CSAapproved footwear. The Company will pay one-half (1/2) the cost of .such footwear upon presentation of notated CSA approved purchase receipt up to a maximum of Sixty ($60)dollars per year. A maximum of one-half (l/2)the cost up to a maximum of Sixty ($60) do I I ars p e r year wi I I also be allowed for re-sol !ng footwear in lieu of purchasing new footwear.
- 23 -
It is agreed that failure to wear CSA approved footwear will result in the following disciplinary action:
1st Offence 2nd Offence 3rd Offence 4th Offence 5th Offence
-A warning
-	1 day suspension without pay
-	1 week suspension without pay
-	4 weeks suspension without pay
- subject to dismissal at the discretion of Union and Management.
These regulations apply to all plant employees (excluding those who have appropriate doctor certificates).
(c)	Hard hats (feather or bump) supplied by the Company must be worn at all times in designated areas of the plant.
For those who do not conform with this clause:
1st Offence 2nd Offence 3rd Of fence
4fh Offence
CLAUSE 15:	Union Security
-A warning
-	1 day suspension without pay
-	1 week suspension without pay at
discretion of the Safety Committee
-	Subject to dismissal at the discretion
of Union and Management.
(a)	It shall be a condition of employment that any eligible emp I oyee who, at the date of this Agreement, was a member in good standing or becomes a member after this date, shall maintain such membership during the term of the Agreement.
- 24 -
(b)	It shall be a condition of employment that any eligible new employee at the conclusion of thirty (30) working days, either join the Union and maintain membership or pay the normal Union dues for the duration of this Agreement. Employees coming under this section who work less than ten (10) hours in any calendar week wl I I not be subject to deduction of dues for that week.
(cl Upon receipt of written author 1 zat ion forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, and effective as long as such authorization has not been revoked by the emp I oyee, the Company agrees to deduct from the bi-weekly pay of each employee, Union initiation fees and dues. Al I such sums deducted, together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and the amounts thereof and the weeks for which such deductions were made, shall be handed to the secretary of the Union not later than the last day of the calendar month in which such deductions were made.
(d)	Employees returning to work following layoffs, leaves of absence, or who are being re-emp toyed sha I I be required to pay the normal Union dues following completion of thirty (30) working days.
CLAUSE 16:	Weekly Guaranteed Employment
(al The Company agrees to guarantee weekly employment on the following basis:
Employees with three (3) years service - guarantee of forty (401 hours of work including the first (1st! day of the work week.
- 25 -
(b) This guarantee is subject to the foI lowing terms and condi t ions:
(II Shift premiums, overtime pay including week-ends, will not be considered in calculating the guarantee. In other words, the guarantee wi I I be. calculated at straight time rates.
(2)	Paid holidays form part of the guarantee if observed in
the employee’s normal work week.
(3)	It is agreed the employees will perform whatever work is assigned to them. If the employee declines the work then the Company is relieved from its responsibility to that employee for the week involved as a result of this guarantee.
(4)	If an employee is late or absent from work due to vacation, sickness or leave of absence on a scheduled day or on a called in day, the guarantee will be reduced by the hours lost because of such absence.
(5)	The Company wi I I not be responsible for this guarantee
in cases of plant breakdowns, acts of God or force ma jeure.
(cl This guarantee only applies if an employee performs some work in a given work week.
26
CLAUSE 17:	Genera I
(a)	The Company agrees to maintain a bul let in board in a conspicuous position where i t can be seen by the emp I oyees, and agrees that all notifications pertaining to this Agreement and conditions hereof, may be posted on the bulletin board by the Company and by the officers of the Union as provided under Clause 4, paragraph (a) of this Agreement.
(b)	This Agreement has been entered into in good faith by the contracting parties. Each party agrees that it will not make any unfair or false use of this Agreement, or make any false or untrue or misleading statements or representations regarding its contents, or any of its provisions.
(c)	The Company agrees to maintain a fringe benefit package as summarized in brief and attached. Some of the costs of these benefits are paid by the Company and some costs are shared by the employees. How these costs are paid and shared is also shown. The Company agrees these benefits will be maintained through the duration of this Contract.
CLAUSE 18:	Plant Closure
In the event that an employee with more than one (1) ful I year of service loses his job due to the permanent closure of the pl.ant, such employee sha I I receive severance pay of one (1) weeks pay at the employee’s regular rate of pay for each full year of service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of severance pay entitlements.
Payments will not be made:
I) To employees who are discharged for just cause;
ii)	To employees who voluntarily	resign;
iii)	To employees who retire;
Iv) To employees who accept an offer of employment by the Company in another unit of its business; vl	When the plant is closed as a result	of	any	strike,
walkout, work slowdown or	work cessation	or	job
act ion;
vi ) Where close down results from war, insurrection, government action, act of God or any such force ma jeure;
vii) To employees who do not continue to work in a satisfactory and normal manner as long as required.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunder caused their
SEALS TO BE AFFIXED under the hand of their officers this ~) day of , 1993.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART:	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART:
ELLISON MILLING COMPANY	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL P661
W. HOLT
G. DICKIE

D. WlCKENHEISER
ELLISON MILLING COMPANY
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL P 661 WAGE SCHEDULE
OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS	*Sept 1/93	Jan. 1/94
FLOUR MILL		
MILLER	$ 18.19	$ 18.55
SECOND MILLER	16.20 .	16.52
MAINTENANCE		
JOURNEYMAN		
(ALBERTA TRADE CERTIFICATION CERTIFICATE)	18.19	18.55
MILLWRIGHT (NON-JOURNEYMAN)	17.30	17.65
MILLWRIGHT HELPERS	15.92	16.24
FLOUR WAREHOUSE		
LEAD PACKER & BAKERY MIX LEAD OPERATOR	16.75	17.09
SHIPPERS	16.10	16.42
WAREHOUSE OPERATORS	15.99	16.31
LEAD PACKER, SMALL SIZES	15.26	15.57
PACKERS & BALERS, SMALL SIZES	14.64	14.93
FEED MILL		
LEAD OPERATOR	16.75	17.09
SECOND OPERATOR	16.04	16.36
WAREHOUSE WORKER & FEED MILL OPERATORS	15.93	16.25
TERMINAL ELEVATOR		
ASS 1STANT	16.75	17.09
ELEVATOR LABOURER	15.33	15.64
MISCELLANEOUS		
TRUCK DRIVER	16.26	16.59
WATCHERS	15.41	15.72
REL1EF WATCHERS	14.66	14.95
C LEAN ER/UTI LIT Y	14.41	14.70
# Retroactive pay of 2% of total pay excluding shift premiums January 1,1993 1993.gh September 25, 1993 which basically makes these rates effective January 1,
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 1993 & 1994
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS
LIFE INSURANCE
This insurance is carried with London Life Insurance Company. The amount of each employee’s life insurance is $30,000. Ful I-time employees become eligible for insurance on the completion of six months of continuous active service. This insurance also includes a total and permanent disability benefit and an accidental death and dismemberment benefit. The Company provides each employee a group insurance booklet describing this Plan in more detail.
MONTHLY COST EMPLOYEE	COMPANY
Ni I	Fully paid by
ALBERTA HEALTH PLAN	Sept 1, 1993
Coverage to employee and members of family. Single	$10.50	$19.50
Coverage effective first of month following Family	21.00	39.00
completion of 30 working days. Benefits from any licensed medical doctor for all office, home and hospital cat is. Covers sickness, health examination and non-occupational accidents, ora I surgery, optometric services, pediatric and osteopathic services and chiropractic services.
HOSPITALIZATION	Sept 1, 1993
Blue Cross with Supplementary Hospital and Single	$ 8.01	$14.89
Other Services Group Contract. Class 81 for Family	16.05	29.80
single employees, Class 82 married without dependents or family with children to age 21. Coverage first of month following completion of 30 working days. Benefits of private room, if available, any Blue Cross hospital in Alberta or maximum $40 per day in co-operating hospital outside Province; ambulance service, naturopathic services,
TOTAL
Company
$30.00
60.00
$22.90
45.85
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 1993 & 1994
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Cont1 d)
MONTHLY COST EMPLOYEE	COMPANY
appliances, clinical psychologist service, dental repair to natural teeth damaged by accident, drugs and home nursing, al I subject to a general deductible of $15and individual services deductibles and maximums.
Supplementary Blue Cross coverage under "Group Outside Canada Emergency Health Plan” is covered for all employees as well.
VISION CARE
Will provide $100 every two (2) years for Single $ .68	$ 1.27
the purchase of eye glasses for employee and Family	2.05	3.80
immediate family.
WAGE INDEMNITY
You will receive a weekly income if you become totally disabled as a result of a non-occupational accident or sickness not covered by Workers’ Compensation, provided you are under the care of a licensed physician.
Telephone contact with a doctor does not constitute treatment within the meaning of the Group Policy.
The amount of the weekly indemnity benefit is shown in the schedule of amounts below.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
66.7% of the employee’s regular weekly earnings, including basic earnings together with regular overtime and bonuses which form part of regular remuneration, with a maximum a-mount of benefit not to exceed 2/3rds of the maximum insurable earnings in effect under the Unemployment Insurance Regulations as at
1993 — Single or Family: $ 2.44	$ 2.44
TOTAL
$ 1.95 5.85
$ 4.88
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 1993 & 1994
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Cont'dl
MONTHLY COSTS EMPLOYEE	COMPANY
the commencement of disability. Amounts of weekly indemnity which are not integral multiples of $1.00 are rounded to the next higher dollar.
You become eligible for different amount of weekly indemnity if your earnings class changes. Changes are made on the date notification is given to the Insurance Company, or, if you are not at work on that date, on the date you return to work.
The payment of a weekly income will commence on the first day of disability if you are disabled by an accident or on the fourth day if disabled because of illness. Payments continue as long as you are disabled, up to a maximum of 26 weeks for each period of disability.
Benefits are not payable for pregnancy, childbirth, or resulting complications.
A disability resulting from the same case as a previous disability will be treated as a continuation of that disability unless you have completely recovered and have been back at work for a continuous period of at least 30 days.
TOTAL
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 1993 & 1994
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Cont'd)
MONTHLY COSTS EMPLOYEE COMPANY
Wage indemnity to be paid where no sick leave available or after sick leave is completely used. No waiting period where paid following sick leave payment of 3 days. Wage indemnity payments will not overlap Unemployment Insurance benefits and/or sick leave payment or vice versa.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
Coverage of 50% of employee's regular earn-	$ 9.94	$ 9.93
ings to maximum of $600 per week after weekly indemnity and U.I.C. benefits. Qualifications for coverage subject to policy wording. Premiums shared 50% Company and 50% Employee.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Required by Provincial Workers' Compensation Act. Administered by Workers’ Compensation Board. Coverage for employee for injury or death sustained from occupatonal accident.
Coverage automatic first day of employment,	Nil	$	2.04
except for farm employees. Benefits - 90% of	per $100 of
previous year’s net income while away from	payroll
work, plus all medical expenses, hospital!2a-	(1993 rate)
tion, drugs, dental, glasses, clothing, etc.
Pension for spouse- and dependent children up to 18 years in event of death subject to applicable terms and conditions.
TOTAL
$19.87
$ 2.04
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 1993 & 1994
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Cont'dl
MONTHLY COSTS EMPLOYEE COMPANY
SICK LEAVE
Effective the day of ratification (August 31, 1987) of a previous Agreement . the old sick leave plan was terminated and no further benefits have accrued. Benefits earned and not used up to August 31, 1987 will be retained by each employee until used up in the manner provided in the Plan. The Plan then ends.
PENSION PLAN
For each year an employee participates in the Pension Plan the employee will be entitled to a pension of 2% of annual earnings. The final pension at retirement will be 2% times the number of years an employee is a member of the Plan times the average of the best five of the employee’s final ten years earnings, subject to a maximum of 70%. Optional forms of pension and other details of the pension plan are fully described in a Pension Booklet provided by the Company.
YEARLY. COST EMPLOYEE 5% of Gross Earnings
The Company Death Benefit, Total and Permanent Disability Benefit, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit and Pension Plan as negotiated between the Parties shall continue and remain in effect for the life of the Agreement or unless terminated by ‘the mutual consent of both parties to this Agreement. It shall be a condition of employment, that al I new full-time employees participate in this Plan.
TOTAL
COMPANY Balance of the cost
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 1993 & 1994
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Cont’d)
DENTAL PLAN
A basic dental plan will be provided. The plan will provide coverage of 100% basic dental, 50% dentistry and 50% orthodontics.
			EMPLOYEE	COMPANY
		Single		
September	1, 1993	Shared	35%	65%
		cost	(Per Month) $10.27	$19.08
		Family		
September	1, 1993	Shared	35%	65%
		cost	(Per Month) $26.56	$49.34
TOTAL
100%
$29.35
100%
$75.90