Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd.
AGREEMENT
Between
DAWN FOOD PRODUCTS (CANADA), LTD.
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIALWORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNON LOCAL 342P-2
Pcc IEII ?1R,
'Jl ' ' 2 3 2006 M
A.F.L • Cm- C.L.C.
EFFECTIVE
MARCH I £005 TO FEBRUARY29, 2008
I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE#
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE.............................................. 2
ARTICLE 2 -SCOPE................................................. 2
ARTICLE 3- RECOGNITION..........................................  3
ARTICLE4 - RELATIONSHIPS......................................... 4
ARTICLE 5 • RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS..................... 4
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SHOP........................................... 5
ARTICLE 7 •CHECK OFF............................................. 5
ARTICLE 8 • NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS.............................. 5
ARTICLE 9 -GRIEVANCES............................................ 5
ARTICLE 10-ARBITRATION........................................... 8
ARTICLE 11 -SENIORITY............................................ 9
ARTICLE 12- LEAVE OF ABSENCE.................................... 12
ARTICLE 13 • HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME REGULATIONS. SHIFT BONUS. AND
GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS............................ 13
ARTICLE 14 • ANNUAL VACATIONS................................... 23
ARTICLE 15 - OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS....................... 25
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS..................................26
ARTICLE 17-SEVERANCE............................................ 26
ARTICLE 18- SCHEDULESATTACHED TO AGREEMENT...................... 27
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATIONOF AGREEMENT............ 28
SCHEDULE "A" JOB CLASSIFICATION & WAGE RATES.................... 29
NOTES RE: SCHEDULE A.............................................31
SCHEDULE "B" PENSION & BENEFITS..................................33
LETTER(S) OF UNDERSTANDING...................................... 38
INDEX............................................................44
2
AGREEMENT
entered into the 18th day of January, A.D. 2006.
BETWEEN	DAWN FOOD PRODUCTS (CANADA), LTD.
on behalf of its Flour Mill, situated in the City of Saskatoon, in the Province of Saskatchewan
Hereinaftercalled THE COMPANY
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
on behalf of its Local 342P-2, an unincorporated voluntary associationof employees, affiliatedwith the American Federationof Labour, Congress of Industrial Organizations and the Canadian LabourCongress, representing the employees of the Company,
Hereinaftercalled THE UNION
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 ■ PURPOSE
1.1	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide machineryfor the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 • SCOPE
2.1	This agreement applies to all employees of the Company in its Saskatoon Flour Mill Plant except:
Office Staff, Laboratory Staff, Shift Milters, Grain Buyers and persons with authority to hire or discharge and persons the Union and the Company mutually agree are performing confidential duties on behalf of Management.
3
2.2	The Company will supply the Union for Information purposes, names, job titles and principal responsibilitiesof supervisory and management personnel.
ARTICLE 3 ■ RECOGNITION
3.1	The Company aOkl'iOwledges that the employees in the unit described abbve have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent, and racognlzes the Union or Its successor as such for all employees in the said Unit.
3.2	Negotiating Committee
a.	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than Three (3) employees, plus the Unit Chair and Chief Steward of the Local, and will recognize and deal with the said Committee with respect to any matter which properly arises from time to time during the term of this Agreement, and the said Committee will co-operate with the Company in the administration of this Agreement. The Company shall be kept currently advised of the names of the Negotiating Committee members.
It is agreed that only one employee from each department may be absent at any one time on the activities of this committee, excluding the Unit Chair and Chief Steward, unless mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
b.	it is clearly understood that the Negotiating Committee is a separate entity from the Grievance Committee and will deal only with such matters as are properly the subject of negotiations, including proposalsfor the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the propertime.
3.3	a. The Union acknowledges that members of the Negotiating Committee and Union
officers have regulardutles to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons wl not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permission of their Manager. Such permission shalt not be unreasonablywithheld. When resuming their duties, they will also notify their Manager. In the event the Manager is absent, notification shall be given to the Leadhand.
b.	Members of the Negotiating Committee will not absent themselves from regular work unreasonably and in accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate a maximum of three (3) such employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company at their regular rate of pay. As far as possible, meetings of the Committee will be held during regular work hours. It is understood that where such meetings are held outside regular work hours at the Company's request, the Company will compensate employees for time spent at such meetings at their regular rates of pay. Time paid for in this manner shalt not apply to daily and weekly overtime. Where practical, shifts for night shift employees, who are members of the Committee, will be rearranged to permit their attendance at the meetings.
4
ARTICLE 4 • RELATIONSHIPS
4.1	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of the employee's membership in or connection with the Union, and that membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
4.2	The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives, and there shall be no solicitationfor membership, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during an employee’s working hours.
TICl 5 - RESERVATION OF MAI 11GEMENT RIGHTS
5.1	The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and that it is the exclusive rightof the Company to:
a.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
b.	Direct its working forces and assign duties, to hire, transfer, promote, demote and to suspend or discharge employees for just cause, to decrease or increase the working force of the Company subject to the right of the Union to invoke grievance procedurewhere an employee feels they have been unjustly dealt with.
c.	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, method of manufacturing, schedules or production, kinds and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its preducts, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated inthe productsto be produced.
5.2	It is understood and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employee's bargaining agency, as evidence of good faith, the Union assumes responsibility for its members in their relations with the Company, and will use its best efforts to have the employees’ responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and in spirit.
5.3
The Company also agrees to carry out the terms of this contract in letter and in spirit.
5
ARTICLE 6-UNION SHOP
6.1	All employees within the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union and maintain such membership in good standing. New employees shall sign the Union application for membership immediately upon being hired.
ARTICLE 7-CHECK OFF
7.1	Upon receipt of written authorization from any employee forWarded through the Financial Secretary, the Company agrees to deduct from the employee's pay on each pay day of each calendar month, the Union dues and a^^ments for the current month. The Union initiation fee will also be deducted upon receipt of the writen authorization referred to above. The Company agrees to remit the total sum of the amounts so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Union within one week of issuance of month-end.
7.2	\M'len, because no wages are due the employee on the date scheduled for deductions and deductions cannot be made, deductions will be made on the next pay where wages are due. The Company agrees to indicate, on the check-off list, the reasons why no deduction was made for such employee.
ARTICLE 8 ■ NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
8.1	During the term of this Agreement the Company agres that it will not cause or direct any lock-outs of its employees, and the Union agrees there will be no strikes or other collective action that will stop or interfere with production, and any dispute or alleged grievance will be resolved through the grievance procedure contained in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCES
9. I The provisions of this artide shall not prevent any employee from discussing with the immediate supervisor any grievance or misunderstanding in an effort to settle the same before invoking Step One of the Grievance Procodure. Hewever, the Union shall not be bound by any decision made before the Grievance Procedure has been applied.
'9.2 Grievance Committee • The Union agN:tes to elect or appoint a Grievance Committee from among regular employees of the Company, to deal with questions which are referred for settlement through the steps of the Grievance Procedure. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied by the Unionto the Company.
9.3	Grievance Procedure • It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible. Any disputes, disagreement or complaint arising out of the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this agreement shall be dealt with in the following manner.
STEP 1
The employee shall take the griev^MGe up with the Department Shop Steward who, with or without the aggrieved employee, shal discuss the grievance with the Department Manager conoemed. The Chief Steward may accompany the Department Steward in this step. If a satisfactory uttlement is not reached within two (2) working days, the mattershall be progressed to Step2.
STEP2
The Grievance Committee shall take the matter up, in writing, with the Operations Manager, and if following this stage, the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee(s) concerned two (2) working days, or within any longer period of time which may be mutually agreed to between the two parties, the grievance shall be progressed to Step 3.
STEP 3
a.	The grievance shall then be taken up at a meeting of the Grievance Committee, the Location General Manager, or a designate, at which meeting a Representative or nominee of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union may be present if requested by either the Company or the Union.
b.	The Location General Manager, or a designate will submit a decision to the Union in writing within five (5) working days of the meeting held to discuss the matter or within such longer period as may be mutually agreed upon between the two parties.
c.	lf,at Step 3, a settlement to the satisfaction of both parties is not achieved, then either party may, within a further twenty-flve (25) working days, request that the grievance be referred to a Board of Arbitration referred to inArticle 10.
9.4	General
a.	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by or on behalf of an aggrieved employee in respect to a specific action of which there is a complaint within fourteen (14) calendar days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the Grievor. A grievance submitted by the Grievance Committee shall be processed commencing at Step 2 of the procedure.
b.	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from among its regular staff, a reasonable number of stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representative of the Company. The Unionwill supply the Companywith a list of Stewards.
7
c.	Union Stewards and Grievance Committee members will not absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with disputes or grievances of employees, and in accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate such employees for time spent in handling grievances of employees, at their regular rates of pay. Union Stewards will not leave their regular duties without first receiving permission from their Department Manager, or in their absence the appropriate Leadhand or Shift Miller, and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their duties the employees will notify the Department Manager, or in their absence the appropriate Leadhand or Shift Miller.
d.	At any stage of the grievance procedure including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to conferwith the necessary witnesses.
e.	In the event of a written warning, suspension, or dismissal, the Company's action will be confirmed in writing to the employee, with a copy to the Department Shop Steward and a copy to the Unit Chair or Chief Shop Steward stating the specific reason or reasons for the discipline.
If after having received a written warning or suspension, an employee has no further infractions for a period of one (1) year, his or her previous disciplinary record shall become void.
f.	A claim by an employee that they have been unjustly discharged from their employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company office within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 2 will be omitted in such cases. Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the Managements action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
g.	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, they shall have the right to interview a Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
h.	During the term of this agreement, meetings of the Grievance Committee with Management shall be held whenever requested by either the Grievance Committee or Management. The terms of Article 3, Section 3.b., outlining compensation to employees attending meetings of the Negotiating Committee shall similarly apply to employees attending meetings of the Grievance Committee.
8
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION
10.1	a. When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, it shall
make such request in writing addressed to the other party of this agreement and at the same time name a nominee. Within 5 working days thereafter the other party shall name a nominee. The two nominees shall immediately attempt to select by agreement an arbitrator as a Chairperson of an Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such Chairperson within a further period of 5 working days, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for Canada to appoint an impartial Chairperson.
b.	If the company and the Union mutually agree, the Board of Arbitration can be comprised of a single arbitratorwith the same jurisdiction and authority.
The single arbitrator will be chosen by mutual agreement of both sides, and if no agreement is reached one will be appointed by the Minister of Labour for Canada.
10.2	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in any attempt to negotiate or settle a grievance that is referred to arbitration or who has any direct affiliation with either Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd. or the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
10.3	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties, willjointly bearthe expenses ofthe Chairman ofthe Arbitration Board, if any.
10.4	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all the previous steps of the Grievance procedure, unless the parties hereto have mutually agreed to forego any or all of the preceding steps.
10.5	The Arbitration Board established under this article shall not have authority to alter or change any ofthe provisions ofthisAgreement or insert new provisions.
10.6	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties thereto, and the decision ofthe Board or a majority ofthe Arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
10.7	Where time limits appearing in this article have been violated by either party to the agreement such violations may be referred to the Arbitration Board and the Board shall be authorized to rule on questions arising out of such violations.
10.8	The Arbitration Board appointed pursuantto the provisions of this Agreement shall have the power to confirm a discharge penalty referred to it or substitute for discharge such other penalty as it deemsjust and reasonable underthe circumstances.
9
ARTICLE 11- SENIORITY
11.1	a Until an employee has completed sixty (60) days of actual work with the
Company, accumulated over a continuous period of six (6) months, they shall be considered a probationary employee. Commencing with the day after they have completed this probationary period, an employee shall be granted seniority retroactive to their most recent date of hiring and their name shall be entered on the seniority list as a regular employee.
b.	If there is doubt about an employee being able to qualify during the probationary period, their probationary period may be extended by an additional twenty (20) days of actual work by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee. Any further extension of the probationary period of up to a maximum of twenty (20) working days may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee.
c.	As part of the probation process the company will assess the job performance of the employee on probation. If prior to the conclusion of the probation period the employee fails to meet the expected performance standards, the company may discharge the employee at its sole discretion as long as it is not done in bad faith. Such discharge may be subject to the grievance procedure.
d.	Seniority shall be defined as an employee's accumulated over-all service since their most recent date of hiring in the Company's employ. The Company and the Union agree that the principle of plant seniority shall apply in situations where seniority is a consideration.
e.	Employees promoted to a management or supervisory position at the Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd. Saskatoon operation shall be allowed up to six (6) months in which they can return to the junior position in their original department at the positions rate of pay without loss of seniority. Employees will be allowed to avail themselves of this clause once only over the course of their employment at Dawn Food Products(Canada), Ltd.
11.2	a In the event of any reduction in the working force or lay off, probationary
employees shall be laid off before any employees with seniority are laid off provided these employees have the lmni&dlate qualifications and are capable of satisfactorily performing the work available. No employees shall be on lay off status while a junior employee is employed, subject to the senior employee having the Immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performing the work available. If there is any disagreement between the Company and the Union regarding an employee's immediate qualifications and capablllty of satisfactorily performing the work available, the matter shall be discussed between the Company and the Union. The Company may extend the trial period to thirty (30) days of actual work.
10
b. If an employee is laid off from his department, but has enough seniority to prevent being laid off from the plant, that employee will fill the position of the employee that was laid off from the plant.
If two or more employees are laid off from their department(s), but they have enough seniority to prevent being laid off from the plant, those employees will fill the positions of the employees that were laid off from the plant. The most senior employee will have the first choice for the vacant positions available and the second most senior will havethe second choice, etc. until the affected employees have been assigned to the positions available.
These placements are subject to the senior employee having the immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performing the work available.
11.3	Subject to all other conditions of this seniority article of the agreement, when reducing or increasing staff, the Company and the Union agree that the principle of plant seniority shall govern. In cases of recall from layoff, the Company shall have met its obligations under this article if it has attempted to reach the employee by phone as per the telephone numbers posted on the Seniority List, or given to the Company in confidence.
It will be the employee's responsibility to advise the Company if they are available at some different telephone numbers. The Company agrees that in the event of a temporary lay off, reasonable notice will be given to the employee whenever possible. The tentative production schedule for the following week will be posted on Thursday, p.m. Employees temporarily laid off or transferred from their position shall retain their rate of pay and shall revert back to their former position once such position becomes available.
11.4	The Company shall maintain and post every three (3) months, a Plant seniority list, and in addition, a seniority list for each of the following departments: Flour Mill, Bakery, Packing Roorn, Warehouse, Maintenance and Elevator.
11.5	All vacancies shall be posted for a period of five (5) calendar days, so that employees desiring the vacantjob may apply. The Union shall be informed within ten (10) working days, afterclose of applications, who the successful applicant is.
Filling of vacancies shall be based on qualifications, ability and seniority. Vacancies will be filled inthe following manner:
a.	The employees with Plant Seniority in the department in which the vacancies occur, and who apply on the posting, will be awarded the job.
b.	Should there be no applicants from within the department in which a vacancy occurs then the job will be awarded to the senior applicant applying on the posting.
11
If there is any disagreement between the Company and the Union regarding a senior applicant's qualifications or ability the same trial procedure shall be followed as is outlined in Clause 2, above.
If after up to thirty (30) actual working days, ai? employee is not satisfied with the new job, they shall be returnedto their former position, or if after up to thirty (30) actual working days the employee doesn't prove satisfactory they will be returned to theirformer position, afterdiscussionwith the Union.
11.6	V\then it Is necassary to move employees from one dassification to anotherfor a period of one week [five (5) working days] or less, the Supervisor in charge may make appointments in a manner most convenient to Plant efficiency and minimum disruption to the work schedule3 In effect at that time. Every consideration will be given to Plant seniority, but it will not necessarily bethe governing factor.
11.7	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken and all seniority rights forfeited (including the Company's obligation to rehire) for any of the following reasons:
a If the employee voluntarily quits.
b.	If the employee is discharged and is not reinstated pursuantto the provisions of the grievance procedure.
c.	If the employee is laid off and fails to repart for work within three (3) working days of being requested to do so without furnishing a reasonable excuse for such failure to report or without securing leave-of-absence.
d.	Employees with less than two (2) years service have been laid off for a period equal to their length of seniority, with a minimum of six (6) months.
e.	Employeeswith two years or more service have been laid off for more than two (2tyears.
f.	If an employee is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without securing approval for the absence, unless the employee can demonstrate that iswas unreasonableto expectthem to be at work.
Leave of absence for reasonable cause, granted by the Company, shall not break the continuity of an employee's seniority rights and an employee granted leaveof absence shall return to the position held priorto the absence or to one of equal rating providing the employee is capable after a fair trial of handlingthe job.
Employees absent from work because of sickness or acoident shall be obliged whenever it is reasonably possible to notify the Company their approximate length of absence.
12
ARTICLE 12 ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1	The Company may grant leave-of-absence, without pay, to any employee for legitimate personal reasons and any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and seniority shall continue to accumulate during the absence.
Union business will be considered a good cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company, and seniority shall accumulate during such leave of absence. It is agreed that not more than one employee from any one department or a maximum of three employees from the Plantwill be granted such leave of absence at any one time.
The Company agrees to' notify the Secretary of the Union when extended leave of absence is granted to an employee. This does not apply when leave of absence is granted for anything up to a forty-eight (48) hour period.
12.2	The maximum period for which leave of absence without pay may be granted shall be three (3) months except when the leave of absence is for the purpose of handling the affairs of the United Food and CommercialWorkers Union.
12.3	It is the employee's responsibility to make contact with the Company to confirm their date of return. Should an employee fail to return to work at the expiry of the leave of absence or alternately fail to seek renewal of the leave of absence, they shall be considered to have terminated their employment with the Company.
12.4	a. Maternity/Parental Leave without pay and without los in seniority will be
granted and administered according to the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
b.	Employees must give a minimum of two (2) weeks notice of their return to work date.
13
ARTICLE 13 • HOURS OF WORK. OVERTIME REGULATIONS. SHIFT BONUS. AND GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
13.1	NORMAL ggET HOURS
Day Shift Afternoon Shift Night Shift
13.2	SHIFTWORK
The Company agrees to rotate shift work.
First Shift Second Shift Third Shift
Starting
Time
7:00 am. 3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m.
Quitting
Time
3:30 p.m. 11:30 p.m. 7:30 a.m.
7:00 am. 3:00p.m, 11:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.
In cases where management wishes to change starting and quitting times for the schedules in clauses 13.1 and 13.2 on other than an individual temporary basis, such change may be affected by agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.3	NO^RMAL LUNCH PERIODS
Employees on normal shifts will be allowed one-half hour for lunch between (Day shift) 11:00 o’clock and 11:30 am, (Afternoon shift) 7:00 o’clock and 7:30 p.m. (Night Shift) 3:00 o’dock and 3:30 a.m. without pay. Employees on shiftwork, when on a twenty-four (24) hour basis, wil be allowed time for lunch with pay.
On shift work it is understood lunch periods must be staggered in order that the mill be manned at all times and production continued. Lunching and smoking will be confined to time and areas designated by the DepartmentSupervisors.
13.4	REST PERIOD
The Company will grant a rest period of ten (10) minutes in the first half and Ten (10) minutes in the second half of each shift, the periods to be assigned at the discretion of the Department Supervisors. Rest periods will be considered as ten (10) minutes in the rest area.
Employees working on normal shifts will be granted seven (7) minutes to wash and change priorto quitting time. Employees working on shift work must remain on duty until their relief takes over.
14
13.5	NO REDUCTION IN REGULAR SHIFT HOURS
An employee who is notified that they will be required to work the shift immediately
following a regular shift shall not have the hours of work of the regular shift reduced.
13.6	REPORTINGALLOWANCE
An employee who reports for work at their normal time and who is sent home because
no work is available, shall be paid for one-half the number of hours normally assigned
on that shift or day.
13.7	OVERTIME REGULATIONS
a.	Overtime at the rate of one and one-half the regular rate shall be paid for ail times worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one day, and in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week, and on an employee's assigned days off.
b.	In addition to straight time rate, a premium equal to straight time, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday. Sunday is considered 7:00 a.m. Sunday to 7:00 a.m. Monday.
Similarly, in addition to straight time rate, a premium equal to one-half (1/2) the regular rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday. Saturday is considered 7:00 a.m. Saturday to 7:00 a.m. Sunday.
c.	No employee shall be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours, and when Saturday, Sunday or General Holiday time is payable, no overtime premium payments will be computed twice on the same time.
d.	Daily and weekly overtime, to the maximum permitted under the Federal Labour Code, shall be assigned to the employee with Plant Seniority in the Department with the exception of the Maintenance Departmentwhere daily overtime shall be assigned to the senior employee on the job provided, however, that in all cases the person assigned overtime is capable of performing the work required, and is readily available inthe case of short periods of overtime.
In each instance, the Company will make a reasonable effort to excuse an employee from working overtime where such employee so requests.
e.	An employee shall be entitled to weekend overtime or overtime scheduled for any general holiday, if that employee worked the weekday such overtime was issued or ifthat employeeworked the weekday priorto such overtime being worked.
15
All employees must confirm their availability for weekend overtime by Thursday 10:00 am. of the week that the overtime ocurs. Employees off sick on Friday of that week, do not qualify for that weekend overtime.
An employee who books one or more weeks of vacation commencing on Monday shall not be eligible for weekend overtime or any overtime falling on any general holiday untilthat employee returns to work from vacation.
Employees not posted In a department and work less than the-full week in another department are not entitled to overtime in that department before posted employees in the department. It is understood that employees who work in another department for a full week will be eligible for overtime in that department but not their home department.
f.	An employee required to work prior to or after their regular shift shall receive the applicable overtime rate for all such hours of work.
g.	When overtime hours are required by the Company, overtime will first be offered (up to 8 hours) to the senior qualified employee in the department. After all employees in the department have been offered overtime on this basis, the senior employee in the departmentwill then be offered overtime in addition to the 8 hours. After all employees in the department have been offered overtime on this basis, the overtime will then be offered to the seniorqualified employee in the plant. Under no circumstances will an employee be permitted to work twenty-four (24) hours.
h.	Employees asked to work a double overtime shift, will choose from the remaining shifts and positions that were not selected inthe first round.
i.	When overtime is celled for in a department, employees on overtime will exercise their senlolrty afterthe regular employees have exercised theirs.
13.8	OVERTIME LUNCH
If an employee is scheduled to work overtime for more than two (2) hours after completing a regular shift or works more than two (2) hours on a call back which runs into his regularshift, and he works the rest of the shift, such employee will be allowed a meal break on Company time and the Company will pay the cost of the meal. This clause dees not apply when the overtime work has been scheduled by the end of his shift the day before or earlier.
13.9	GENERAL HOLIDAYS
a	The following General Holidays shall be observed:
16
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Saskatchewan Day (first Monday in August), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and three additional holidays to be mutually agreed upon by the parties to the Ageement.
The three above unnamed General Holidays to be observed as mutually agreed to between the Supervisor and the Employee, may be taken on an individual employee basis.
Should an additional Statutory Holiday be declared, one of these general holiday days would apply.
The senior employee will be given preference if a date requested conflicts with other requests.
b.	Employeeswho qualify for each of the above thirteen (1) General Holidays shall be paid for eight (8) hours attheir regular rate of pay.
c.	If an employee is required to work on any of the thirteen (J) designated General Holidays, they shall be compensated for such work at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times their regular rate of pay in addition to the holiday pay referred to in item b. above. If an employee is required to work more than their normal eight (8) hours on the above General Holidays, they will be reimbursed at a rate of two (2) times the normal rate of pay for those hours in excess of eight (8) hours.
d.	An employee is entitled to general holiday pay if they have worked during the work week immediately proceedingthat in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week immediately following that in which the General Holiday occurs.
Temporary employees hired over the Christmas period will only be eligible for holiday pay according to the Canada Labour Code.
The exception to the above is that new employees to the company will not receive retroactive pay for holidays before their date of hire.
e.	Al of the holidays named in a. above shall be observed on the day proclaimed in any Saskatoon Civic Proclamations. Failing such Civic Proclamation, the holiday shall be observed on the day mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company.
f.	New employees will be entitled to one General Holiday if they are hired prior to June 30,h of the year.
17
13.10	SHIFT BONUS
Employees working on the second shift shall recoive a bonus of eighty (80) cents per hourover and above the rate of thejob.
Employees working on the third shift shall receive a bonus of one hundred and ten { 11 O) cents per hour over and abovethe rate of the job.
Employees working weekends on the second and third shift shall recoive the shift bonus in addition to all other entitlements.
13.11	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
An employee required temporarilyto perform a higher ratedjob shall be paid at the rate of the job while so doing, but if required to temporarily work at a lower rated job, shall keep their regular rate.
13.12	EMERGENCY CALLS OR CALL BACK
An employee celled out to do a specialjob shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rate. Overtime rates shall be at one and one-half (1.5) the regular rate, except for Sunday, which is paid at double (2) the regular rate.
An employee called beck for an emergency during the night shift shall be allowed a reasonable period of rest before returning to work on their day shift.
In such case, the start of their regularshift shall be delayed by no more than the number of hours actually worked during the night shift, plus a one-half (1/2) hours allowance for travel time. The employee shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but shalt be paid as iftheyworkedtheirfull shift.
In the alternative, if reasonable, the employee may elect to remain at work following completion of the emergency work and commence their scheduled shift for that day. If the employee made that election, the employee’s scheduled shift for that day would be paid their regular rate of pay for the usual duration of their shift. (i.e. If the employee is on a four (4) hour cell in from 3:00 am to 7:00 am, the employee’s shift would commence at 3:00 a.m. and end at 11:00 a.m.) This would not constitute a change in the employee’s posted work schedule.
\Mien the Company elects to have a Maintenance employee on call, the task shall be rotated through the crew, and will be paid at the rate of two dollars and thirty cents ($2.30) per hour. The on-call employee will respond to the cell.
18
13.13	PAYMENTOFWAGES
Payment of wages will be through direct bank deposit by noon of every second Thursday.
The normal payroll week shall be from 7:00 a.m. Monday to 7:00 a.m. the following Monday. Sunday shall be considered the last day of the week.
13.14	NOON HOUR - WEEKENDWORK
When a complete eight (8) hour day shift is scheduled on Saturday or Sunday in the Maintenance Department, Packing Room andWarehouse, lunch hour shall be limited to one-half (1/2) hourwithout pay and the shift shall end at3:30 p.m.
Alternately, basis mutual agreement of Management and Union, the following shifts may be worked in the Maintenance,Warehouse and Packing Departments:
Dav Shift	Afternoon
Shift
Starting Time	7:00 a.m.	3:00 p.m.
Quitting Time	3:00 p.m.	11:00 p.m.
15 minutes lunch period (with pay)
1 O minutes rest period in the first and second half of "8-hour' shift.
NO "seven minute" wash and change period will be allowed on these shifts.
13.15	EMPLOYMENT HOURS GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to provide a guaranteed number of hours of work on a calendar year basis to employees as follows:
a.	1,400 hours to employees with ten (10) years seniority as at January 1 of each
calendaryear.
The above guaranteed hours of work shall be reduced an equivalent to the number of hours an employee is absent or paid for due to:
a.	Illness as provided bythe Short and Long Term Disability Plans:
b.	Accident covered by Workers' Compensation;
c.	Personal leaves of absence;
d.	Time lost due to a strike or lockout;
Vacation and Statutory Holidays:
e.
19
f.	Leave to attend Unton Business.
Application:
1.	An employee must have ten (10) years seniority as at December 31 of the celendaryear in which the guarantee isto apply.
2.	The Guarantee shall not apply on a pro rata basis in case of termination.
3.	The determination of hours worked will be derived by dividing the gross earnings as indicated on the employees' T4 by the employee's weighted average wage rate.
4.	For the purposes of the Guarantee, employees will be deemed to have worked for al hours which they could have worked had they elected to use their seniority rights.
13.16	NOTICE OF LAYOFF AND SHIFT CHANGES
The Company will provide twenty-four (24) hour notice of layoffs or shift changes exduding those that result from unplanned absences, i.e. sickness, compensation, compassionate leave.
Notice will be given to the employee such that one complete work day (7:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.) separates the notification from the beginning of the day that the shift change/layoff takes effect. Notice given by 8:00 a.m. will be deemed to be given prior to the start of the day shift.
If notice is not given, the employee will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for the first shift worked on the new schedule or paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of notice of layoff.
Employees requesting time off will be required to do so far enough in advance that the Company cen fulfill its obligationto give noticeto affected co-workers.
13.17	4 ON-4 OFF SCHEDULE a. Schedule Conditions
The Company may implement a rotating4 On - 4 Off, 12-hourshift schedule on the basis rl day shift and night shift. This 4 On -4 Off Schedule shall operate on a 28 calendar day cyde with a maximum of 13 cydes per year. Employees affected shall be regularly scheduled to work on the basis of the following normal shift rotation of the cyde:
20
4 day shift 4 off shift 4 nightshift 4 off shift
28 Calendar Days
The above Schedule may also be applied on the basis of one (1) shift per day to provide twelve (12) hour shift coverage for a day shift only rather than twenty-four (24) hour shift coverage on a working day.
The following specific provisions shall apply to the operation of the 4 On- 4 Off schedule and these conditions supercede other provisions of this Agreement.
b.	Schedule Cycle
The normal work cycle for operations on the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule shall be 28 calendar days and shall commence on the first Monday in each cycle. The normal work day shall be 12 hours. The normal work week shall alternate between 48 hours per week for fourweeks, comprised of four 12-hour shifts in a seven-day period, and 36 hours perweek for four weeks, comprised ofthree 12-hour shifts in a seven-day period. These hours shall be averaged to 42 hours perweek, everyweek.
c.	Overtime
Authorized work performed in excess of an average of 40 hours per week, or in excess of the normal work day of 12 hours per day, or on an employee’s scheduled days off shall be termed as overtime and paid at the premium rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium. On an employee’s second and third scheduled days off, overtime shall be paid at the premium rate of two times the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium. The assignment of overtime work shall follow the provisions set forth in Article 13.7(d) of the collective bargaining agreement. Except that for the 4 on 4 off shift it shall be assigned to employees by seniority who are on their days off: These overtime assignments will be made with due regard to avoiding extending an employee’s work day and providing a rest break between shifts of at least eight (8) hours.
d.	Emergency Calls or Call Back
An employee working the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule called out to do a special job which is not continuous with their regular work shift, on any day, shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate. Except that for the 4 on 4 off shift it shall be assigned to employees by seniority who are on their days off.
21
e.	Shift Bonus
Employees working the 4 On • 4 Off Schedule shall receive a bonus of ninety (90) cents per hour over and above the base hourly rate of the job.
Employees working the 4 On - 4 Off day shift only shall receive a bonus on sixty (60)cents perhour over and above the base hourly rate of thejob.
f.	Rest Period
The Company will grant three rest periods of to minutes each during the full 12-hour shift to employees working the 4 On • 4 Off Schedule. Employees working the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule will be allowed time for lunch with pay. Rest periods are to be assigned at the discretion of Managementto provide relatively balanced rest periods throughout the shift.
g.	General Holidays
i) The Company agrees to recognize the General Holidays set forth in Article 13.9(a) of the collective bargaining agreement. General Holidays are observed on a shift day basis rather than a calendar day basis. Employees working the 4 On -4 Off Schedule and who qualify for these General Holidays shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay. However, if the Company decides not to operate on a General Holiday, employees who were scheduled to work their regular shift on that General Holiday shall be paid for twelve (12) hours at their regular rate. An employee is entitled to General Holiday pay i fthey have worked during the work week immediately proceeding that in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week immediately following that in which the General Holiday occurs.
il) For employees working the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule, where a General Holiday falls within an employee's vacation period, such employee will be entitled to an additional eight (8) hours of vacation with pay for each General Holiday.
iil) For employees working the 4 On • 4 Of Schedule, if an employee is required to work on any of the designated General Holidays, they shall be compensated for such work at the rate of one and one-half times their regular rate of pay in addition to the holiday pay referred to in Section 8 above. If an employee is required to work more than their normal 11 hours on the General Holiday, they will be reimbursed at a rate of two times the normal rate of pay for those hours worked in excess of 12 hours.
22
jv) The company will not require employees to work between December 24 8:00 p.m: to December25 8:00 p.m. unless there is a pressing necessity to do so. These hours will be recognized as Christmas Day.
h.	Vacation Scheduling
Vacation entitlement will accumulate on the basis of total hours of entitlement, per Article 14 of the Agreement. That is, one week of vacation entitlement will be equal to 40 hours. Vacations shall, whenever possible, be granted during the period preferred by each employee, considering the requirements of the plant operation. Plant seniority shall govern the selection of vacation period.
1.	Severance Allowance.
Severance allowance according to Article 17 will be calculated based on 80 hours pay for each year of service at the employee’s current regular rate of pay.
j.	Notice Requirements
The Company shall provide the Union with a schedule of working hours, for those employees working the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule. Should the requirements of the business necessitate a change in such schedule, the matter will be discussed with the Union including number of employees affected and the expected duration of the schedule. The Company agrees to give the Union at least two .(2) weeks advance notice of the implementation, alteration, or cessation of the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule. Such notice will be one (I ) week for employees working the 4 On - 4 Off Day Shift only Schedule. If such notice is not provided, the affected employee will be paid time and one-half their straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first change. However no employee shall be required to start a new shift without twenty-four (24) hours notice. An employee will be compensated for any loss of regular pay if the employee is scheduled less than forty (40) regular hours in a week due to the implementation, alteration, or cessation of the 4 On - 4 Of Schedule.
k.	Assignment of E_________to 4 C l - 4 Off Schedules
4 On - 4 Off Schedule shall be worked for a minimum of one (1) complete rotation of twenty-eight (28) days. Inthe event the 4 en - 4 Off Schedule is not required as a basis for operations for all employees within a Department, senior qualified employees within a Department will be offered the first opportunity to work the 4 On - 4 Off Schedule. Ifthe positions are not filled by senior qualified employees, the remaining positions will be filled through assigning the junior qualified employees within the Department. In the event an employee wishes to exercise their seniority to change their shift, the Company will move the
23
employee at a time that will have the minimum effect on employees and operations.
l.	Implemei ti of An Shi1
In the .event of an implementation of anothershift, the employee who bids on a job will revert back to their previous position in the event that this shift is discontinued within a period of three (3) years. it is understood that all employees affected bythe original bids will also revert to their previous position.
m.	Foq< id/or f___________
Fogging
The make-uptime for a fogging day will be a day scheduled for mill cleanup or on a repairday. This make-up day will be rescheduledto be continuous with the employee’s regular shift. The schedule will be posted in advance so that the employee is aware of when this make-uptime occurs.
The pay rate for this make-uptime will be one and one-half (1 1/2) times the normal rate of pay, exdusive of shift premium.
Fumigation
For an employee that is being affected by more than two days for the fumigation, the first .two days will be scheduled as abeve for fogging. The third day may be chosen by the employee for mill dean up or repairs. If this make-up time falls on the employee’s second and third scheduled day off, overtime shall be paid atthe premium rate of two times the employee’s regularstraight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium.
Any of the above make-up days areto be scheduled and worked within the calendar year.
13.18	MUTUALAGREEMENT ON OTHER SCHEDULES
Through mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, other alternative schedules or variations of the above schedules may be implemented and the agreed conditions applying to such schedules shall be incorporated in this Agreement through Letters of Understanding.
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
All employees cevered by the Agreement shall be granted annual vacetions at their regular rate of pay in aiccordancewith the following provisions:
24
14.1	Three (3) weeks vacation to employees in the year inwhich they accumulate one (I) or more years of service. Effective January 1,2006: four (4) weeks vacation earned in the year in which they accumulate nine (9) or more years of service; five (5) weeks vacation earned in the year in which they accumulate seventeen (17) or more years of service; six (6) weeks vacation earned in the year in which they accumulate twenty-five (25) or more years of service. Vacations are taken in the year they are earned.
a.	Employees shall be entitled to one (1) additional week of vacation to be taken in the year in which they accumulate their 35th and 40th year of service.
14.2	Vacation pay will be made on the following basis:
a.	For each week of vacation entitlement two (2) percent of the employee's gross earnings for the current year or forty (40) hours at the employee’s current classification rate, whichever is greater.
b.	Employees who worked less than sixteen hundred (1600) hours in the calendar year for which Vacations are granted shall be paid for Vacations at the ratio that their hours of work bear to sixteen hundred ( 1600) hours.
c.	Employees who were away from work due to illness or accident shall have their vacation pay calculated and paid on the following basis only when they return to work. Credited hours for the purpose of vacation pay according to sub-clause
b.	above for an employee absent on LTD and WCB will be accrued to a maximum a. fifty-two (52) weeks and earned at the employee's vacation entitlement rate.
d.	Gross annual earnings shall include any income the employee may have received from the Workers' Compensation Board or from the current insurance provider.
14.3	Vacations shall, whenever possible, be granted during the period preferred by each employee, considering the requirements of the plant operation. Completed vacation scheduleswill be posted by May 1st each year. There shall be no carryover of vacation entitlementfrom one calendaryearto the next.
14.4	Plant seniority shall govern the selection of vacation period. Senior employees in each department shall be given preference.
14.5	Should an emergency arise, either personal or in the Plant operation, whereby an employee is required to forego or curtail their vacation temporarily, every effort will be made to rearrange the vacation for a mutually satisfactory period.
14.6
a.
Vacation entitlement is to be used in %-day or full-day segments only.
25
b. All vacation entitlement is to be used up before any request for leave without pay will be entertained. Requests for leave without pay must be made to your Department Manager, and specify the date and duration of the requested leave. The Department Manager shall have final and binding authority in determining whether leave without pay will begranted.
ARTICLE 15 ■ OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
15.1	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
Compassionate Leave of up to three (3) consecutive days will be granted to any regular employee in the event of a death in the employee's immediate family. Such regular employee will be paid their basic straighttime rate for the scheduled hoursthey normally would haveworked during such leave. lmmediatefamily shall be defined to include the employee's mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, and grandchildren.
15.2	JURY DUlY
When an employee is on jury duty or appears as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay the difference between jury duty pay or pay as subpoenaed witness and the employee's regular pay for the time lost. Ifan employee is summoned forjury duty or as a subpoenaed witness but does not actually serve on a jury or does not serve as a subpoenaed witness, they will be paid for time lost upon the presentation of a voucher from the Sheriff or other Court Officer confirming attendance in Court. It is clearly understood this compensation by the Company will only apply when an employee is serving on a jury or as a subpoenaed witness on days when they normally would be drawing the regular rate of pay at the Plant. It does not however, cover periods during which an employee would be laid off dueto short-time operations.
15.3	INJURY COMPENSATION
In case of an occupational injury to an employee while on the job, which necessitates the employee leaving the plant for medicaltreatment, hospitalization, or convalescent at home after treatment, the Company agrees to pay a full days' wages at the employee's regular rate for the day on which the injury ocouired regardless of the time the employee left the plant.
It is the responsibility of all employees to report all work related injuries to their supetvisor as soon as practical.
26
ARTICLE 16 ■ GENERAL PROVISIONS
16.1	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the Plantfor the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activities. All such notices must be signed bythe properofficers of the Local Union.
16.2	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during their hours of employment and will also provide first aid kits, adequate lockers, and locker rooms. Time will be allowed for changing clothes and equipment necessitated by a change from one job to another and extreme changes in working conditions will be discouraged, providing it does not interfere with the normal efficient operation of the Plant.
The Company, in its discretion, will provide leather work gloves, and back supports, in addition to other safety equipment as required underthe Canada Labour (Safety) Code, at no cost to the employee.
Millwrights, Millwright Trainees, and other employees whose duties are connected with Plant machinery operation and maintenance will provide adequate tools for the performance oftheir duties.
ARTICLE 17 ■ SEVERANCE
17.1 a. In the event of termination of employment on account of the permanent closure of the Flour Mil or a major portion, or a Department of it, and the Company has not offered alternative employment for which the employee is capable and qualified within the Flour Mill, then provided the terminated employee has one year or more of continuous service with the Company, the Company will pay to the terminated employee a severance allowance equivalent to two week’s pay for each year of service at the employee's current regular rate of pay.
If a displaced employee is. offered alternative employment in a lesser paid position than the one held at the time of displacement, their wages shall not be reduced for a period of one (I) year.
b. When an employee’s position is eliminated, he will have the option of selecting another position within the department or he may select the position held by the least senior employee in another department, providing he possesses greater plant seniority than the incumbent in the position.
lfthe senioremployeewhosa positionwas eliminated selects a postion within the department, the person thatwas bumped will have the same opportunity to select another position within the depa rtm ent or bump the position held by the least senior employee in another department.
27
When more than one position is eliminated, the senior person that has either had their position eliminated orwho has been displaced from their position by a senior employee shall have the first opportunity to select their position.
Thejunior employees that are laid off from the department, but that have enough seniority ,to prevent being laid off from the plant, will displace the junior employees in the plant. The most senior employee will have the first choice ofthe vacant positions available and the second most senior will have the second choice, etc., until all affected employees have been assigned to the positions available.
These placements are subject to the senior employee having the immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performingthe work available.
The bumping as outlined above will be limited to two (2) individual moving into any one department and one (I l)oving into the elevator. The bumping limits referred to in this provision may be waived by mutual agreement with the the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee.
ARTICLE 18 - SCHEDULES ATTACHED TO AGREEMENT
The following Schedules attached hereto shall form partofthis Agreement:
SCHEDULE A - Job Classifications and Wage Rates
SCHEDULE B -	Pension and Benefit Plans
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
Apprenticeship Maintenance Hours
New Payroll System Adjustment & Vacation Step Pay
Cameras
Contractors
28
\ t.	19 -TERMINATE OR ICATION OF i R :	f
This a greement ill ecome effective tt 1st day f March . and rem ii in effect until the 29 day of Febrl 2008 and tt ft f year to n i s either r j ves notice , t n : tt 9 ;! 'Party that	t: are 5	» tt the Party intent to
1 ia the	ement.
Notice that amendments are required or that either Party intends to terminate the Agreement must be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement or of any annual period, thereafter. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shal remain in full force and effect.
SIGNED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewanthis / 4/- day of lv'f ^ ^	,2006.
DAWN FOOD PRODUCTS	UNITED FOODAND COMMERCIALWORKERS
29
SCHEDULE "A"
JOB 5 CATIONS AND WAGE RA tt
CLASSIFICATION	March 1, 2005 | March 1, 2006		March 1,2007
I			
Flour Mill			
General Duties	20.55	21.16	21.80
Assistant Miller	22.21	22.87	23.56
			
Bakery			
Lead Hand	22.21	22.87	23.56
Bakery Mixer	21.85	22.50	23.18
Bakery Helper	20.93	21.56	22.20
			
Packing Room			
Lead' Hand	22.21	22.87	23.56
Small Package Line- Operator	21.33	21.97	22.63
Packer Class I	21.08	21.72	22.37
Bag Person	20.99	21.62	. 22.27
Bag Room Helper	20.61	21.23	21.87
Packager	20.61	21.23 ■	21.87
			
Warehouse			
Lead Hand	22.21	22.87	23.5&
Checker	21.55	22.19	22.86
Forklift Operator	21.14	21.77	22.42
Receiver	21.14	21.77	22.42
Warehouser Utility	20.93	21.56	22.20
Ingredient Handler	20.94	21.57	22.22
Warehouser	20.63	21.25	21.89
Caretaker	20.58	21.20	21.83
30
CLASSIFICATION	March 1, 2005	March 1, 2006 March t, 2007	
			
Maintenance			
Millwright Lead Hand	24.26-	24.98	25.73
Millwright Sheet Metal	23.97	24.69	25.43
Millwright			
- After 1 year	23.96	24.68	25.42
- First ' Year	23.44.	24.15	24.87
Millwright Trainee			
- 4th Year ■	23.19	23.88	24.60
- 3rd Year	22.67	23.35	24.05
- 2nd Year	22.16	22.82	23.50
-1st Year	21.55	22.19	22.86
Maintenance ' Helper	20.58	21.20	21.83
Power Engineer	21.29	21.93	22.59
			
Elevator			
Lead Hand	22.21	22.87	23.56
Binner	21.16	21.79	22.44
Grain Cleaner	21.19	21.82	22.48
Relief Elevator Person	21.38	22.02	22.69
(Shoveller	20.76	21.38 22.02	
31
NOTES RE: SCHEDULE A
1.	Employees hired after ratification
Employees with less than one (1) year's service shall be paid at five dollars ($5.00) per hour under the regular rate for the classification. On each anniversary date of their hire, their rate shall increase by one (.10) dolfer/hour relative to the clasSlflcatlon rate, until it reaches the regular rate.
2.	A temporary Shift Miller shall receive eighty (.80) cents an hour over the highest rate in the departmentfortimeworked in such position.
3.	The Company will supply uniforms to employees upon completion of the probationary period. Probationary employees will have access to the use of Company coveralls. The Company will pay the cost of the uniforms and coveralls, including laundry and repair.
Effective each January, each employee who has attained seniority will receive an annual allowance for approved safety footwear, which will be prorated during the employee's first year of service. This allowance will be increased to one hundred and fifteen ($115.00) dollars effective March I £005.
Parkas will be supplied bythe Company on an "as needed" basis.
4.	Wages for new positions and/or revised positions shall be the subject of negotiations ^between the Company and the Union.
5.	An additional two ($2.00) dollars per hour premium will be paid to a qualified Millwright designated by the Company to perform PLC programming and PLC/Instmmentation troubleshooting. An employee designated by the Company to perform part of the function will receive a premium of one ($100) dollar par hourwhile performingthe work.
6.	Temporary Employees
The Company shall have the right to hire such number of temporary employees sis it reasonably determines to be required during the period May 1"‘ to December 318 Temporary employees will be paid a rate of $11.20 per hour effective January 1,2006.
Temporary Employees shall not gain seniority status. Temporary Employees are not eligible to participate in benefit plans.
In the event that a Temporary Employee is brought beck as a regular full time Employee, and completes the probation period, then their seniority date will reflect their accumulated actual time worked since their most recent date of hire as a Temporary Employee.
32
7.	Employees who obtain Journeyman papers in trades, an IAOM Diploma, or other diplomas that apply to Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd. operations and are approved by management, will receive fifty-five (55) cents per hour over their normal classification rate. Effective January 18, 2006 Journeymen tradesmen shall have their premium increased to$1.00 per hour.
8.	An additional thirty (30) cents per hourwill be paid to employees who have completed a
second approved trade or other diploma approved by management and applicable to their positionwith Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd.	.
33
SCHEDULE "ET
PENSION AND BENEFIT PLANS
The Company agrees to provide a Pension Plan and a Benefit Plan. The provisions cf the Pension Plan are contained in the most current edition of the master policy title,	Foods
Defined Benefit Pension Plan. The provisions of the Benefit Plan are contained in the most current edition of the master policy issued by the current insurance provider.
A summary cf the terms and conditions cf the Pension Plan and Benefit Plan are listed below. If there is any conflict between this summary and the respective master policies, the master policies shall govern.
PENSION PLAN
1.	ELIGIBILITY- Eligible employees may elect to join the Pension Plan upon completion of ninety (90) days of continuous service. However, employees mustjoin the Pension Plan upon completion of twelve (12) months of continuous service as a condition of employment.
2.	CONTRIBUTION - Employee 4.2% of pensionable earnings. Company 5.2% of the employee's pensionable earnings.
BENEFIT PLANS
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days cf service within a six (6) month period.
2.	BENEFIT
a Employee •	(2) times regular annual earnings to a maximum benefit of
$50,000.
b.	Spouse -$3,000 - effective January 1, 1997.
c.	Dependent Child -$2,000 - effective January 1, 1997.
3.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH - The Principle sum to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
4.	ACCIDENTAL DISMEMBERMENT • Depending on the type of dismemberment, an amount uptothe principlesum to a maximum benefit of$50,000.
5.	PREMIUMS - Company paid.
34
6.	$3,000 PAID-UP CERTIFICATE - The Company agrees to provide a $3,000 paid-up
certificate upon the employee's retirement or on the employee attaining age 65, whicheverfirst occurs.
DENTAL PLAN
1.	ELIGIBILITY- Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Company paid.
-	Covers employees and eligible dependents.
3.	BASIC COVERAGE - 80% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
4.	RESTORATIVE COVERAGE - 60% ofcurrent Dental Fee Schedule.
5.	ORTHODONTIC- 30% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
Forfurther informationcheck your Dental Plan booklet or consult your immediate supervisor.
VISION PLAN
The Company will provide a vision care package subject to the following conditions:
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Company paid.
-	Covers employees, spouses and eligible dependents.
3.	COVERAGE
a.	The purchase of lenses, frames, and contact lenses if prescribed by an optometrist oropthamologist will be covered.
b.	Maximum of two hundred ($200.00) dollars per covered person every twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
c.	Reimbursement will only be provided for the first-time purchase of corrective lenses, or when required due to a change in prescription.
d.	There will be no reimbursement'^ items are lost, broken, ordamaged.
There will be no reimbursement if the cost will be picked up by another sourca such asWCB.
e.
35
f.	Reimbursementwill not be made for sunglasses or other lenses not required for correction ofvision.
g.	The insurance providerwill reimburse once pertwelve ^ monthsthe full cest of an examination for employee and dependents by a licensed opthamologlst or optometrist, provided no portion of the cost is covered by the Government Health Plan.
COMPANY SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
1.	Company paid.
2.	Employees entitled to payment of wages during sick leave shall be paid at the regular rate of pay that would apply ifthe employee had not been absent on sick leave during the period oftime covered bythe employee’s accumulated sick leave credits.
3.	Benefits commence the first day of disability and expire on the thirtieth (30th) day of disability.
4.	Extended sick leave benefits will be provided in the amount of 66 and 2/3rds percent of regular earnings to a maximum earnings ceiling of the Unemployment Insurance Commission program at the time of disability for:
a. The period of absence due to sickness in excess of a two-week waiting period in any one illness.
-orb. Wlere sick leave credits exceed two weeks, extended sick leave benefits shall commence atthe expiration ofthe employee’s sick leave credits.
Extended sick leave benefits payable in any one illness shall cease on the thirtieth (30) day of disability.
Benefits under this provision are reinstated immediately on return of an employee to work following an illness.
5.	Employees eligible for Worker's Compensation benefits are not eligible for benefits underthis plan.
6.	SICK LEAVE CREDITS
a. Sick leave credits are earned at the rate of 1 1/4 working days per month of continuous full-time employment to a maximum of twenty-two working c^^.
36
Sick leave credit accumulation during the probationary period will be recognized upon successful completion of the probationary period for sick leave from that time on.
b.	Once an employee has earned twenty-two working days of sick leave credit, no further credits are required for full coverage underthe Company Sick Leave Plan.
c.	Sick leave usage is not deducted from accumulated sick leave credits.
7.	a. Any employee suspected of abusing the Sick Leave Plan, after a review of their
record, such employees shall be requested in the presence of the Unit Chair or Chief Shop Steward of the Local Union, that a Doctor's Certificate will be required, if possibleto acquire, in order to qualifyfor sick pay.
b. Unless notified as per above an employee will be required to produce a Doctors Certificate after two (2) days of absence due to illness or accident.
8.	After three (3) incidents of absence in a calendar year, sick leave allowance payments for the first day of any subsequent illness may be withheld at the discretion of the Company.
9.	Absenteeism will be assessed by each Department Manager, Unit Chair, Chief Steward, and/or others on a monthly basis. Incidents of absenteeism considered excessive will be followed upto determinewhether progressivediscipline is warranted.
WEEKLY INCOME PLAN (WEEKLY INDEMNITY)
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	BENEFIT - 65% of weekly earningsto a maximumofseven hundred and fifty ($750.00) dollars orthe Employment Insurance Maximum benefit amount, whichever is greater.
Benefits commence on the 31' day of disability, and end on the 119th day of disability.
3.	PREMIUMS - Employee paid.
LONG-TERM DISABILITY PROGRAM
I _	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	BENEFIT - 65% of regular monthly earnings to a maximum monthly benefit of $3,000.00.
Benefits commence on the 120thday of disability.
3.	PREMIUMS- Employee paid.
37
All employees are required to join the Group Life Insurance and Disability Insurance Plans as a condition of employment upon completion of ninety (90) days of continuous service.
Ail co^pondence relating to the terms and administration of the Long Disability Plan, lnlcuding premium rates, will be copied and forwarded to the Union.
Ol/f8/06
39
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Letter of Agreement Apprenticeship
Ibis Letter of Agreement sets forththe agreementthat has been reached between Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd and the United Food and Commercial Worl<.ers International Union, Local 342P-2 in respect of the terms of the Apprenticeship This Letter of Agreement shall be considered as formingpart of the Collective A^eement and be binding on both the company and the union and shall remain in force for the life of the current Collective A^^ment
1. The Apprenticeship Program shall be that program as provided	time to time by the laws of the province.
2.	The Company will have sole discretion as to whether !Or not the need exists for an apprentice. . •
3.	Apprentice vacancies will be posted at the company’s discretion, for a poriod of five (5) calendar days, so that employees desiring the vacantjob may apply.
4.	The selection of apprentices, course content of training programs, evaluation of apprentice performance, or matters related to the Apprenticeship Pro^gram as regulated by gove^ment regulations shall be the sole discretion ofthe Company,
5.	Those accepted as apprentices will agree to remain as employees with Dawn Food Products (C^anada), Ltd for a poriod of at least two (2) years followingthe successful completion of their apprenticeship program and will not bid oim of the Maintenance dep^iment duringthattime period. Shouldthey not remain with the Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd Main^tenance dep^iment for this ^ period, they.will be responsible
Products (^^^), Ltd.
6.	In completingthe required school terms each apprentice will be provided a m^imum of one (1) failure for the entire apprentice program. Upon incurng their second (2n") failure the individual will re^m to their pre-apprentice program dep^iment.
Individuals will not be responsible for repayment of the program costs if they incur a failure, and	to their pre-apprentice program dep^iment, so long as they remairi
^W:th.Dawn Food Products (C^anada), Ltd for aperiod'of at least two (2)years follo^wing their re^m to their pre-apprentice pro^am dep^iment.
01/18/06
7.	Rates ofPay: Individualsparticipating in the apprenticeprogram will be paid as per x classification entitled “Millwright Trainee” in Schedule ‘A’ of the Collective A^coment It is understood that those employees enrolled in their first year ofthe apprentice program will be paid at the “1st Year'’ of the Millwright Trainee classification, those in the second year ofthe program atthe “2nd Year'’ Millwright Trainee classification, and etc.
8; While an apprentice is absent thejob due to attendance at an approved gov^ernment apprentice school they will be deemed as being on leave of absence.
9.	For each week an apprentice is absent from thejob due to attendance at an approved gove^ment apprentice school, the company shall pay the apprentice forty (40)	at
their straight time rate less any allowance paid to them by the gove^ment (including E.I.). Costs incured such as testing and enrollment fees, not covered by the gove^ment, shall be paid by the Company.
I O. Any cost involved	accommodations or travel will be the responsibility of the
employee.
II	.Should an apprentice fail to pass the school term examinations andis permitted to rei: the ^me, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the apprentice as provided herein while they are repeating the school term.
12. The apprentice shall not progress to the next pay level until they successfully comple the examinations and any requirements necessary to progress to the next level ofthe apprentice pro^am.
Dated this / i day ot	. 2006
United Food and Commercial Workers
international thim, Local 342P-2
40
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Letter of Agreement Maintenance Hours
This Letter of Agreement sets forth the agreementthat has been reached between Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd and the United Food and Commercial Wobe^ Internationa! Union, Local.342P-2 in respect ofhours ofwork in the Maintenance Dep^artment,
This Letter of Agreement shah be considered as fonningpart of the Collective Agreement and be binding on both the company and the lmicn and shall remain in force for the life of the curent Collective Agr^ment.
1. The persons required to operate this	are at least one (1) electrician and one ( 1)
• mechanic with a maximum of 50% of employees involved allowedto be on the 8 :00 ^ to 4 :3 0 p.m. ^ft.
2.	Employees must apply for the new hours of operation and if they meet the requirements they will be granted the shift by seniority.
3.	The employees involved wil. not change shifts daily, weekly, monthly or on a seasonal basis.
4. If any problems arise from this alternative	which ^cause conflict between members involved and the CollectiveAgreement and/or the Company, the shift shall be removed and will revert back to the original shift as per the Collective Agreement.

Uhited Food and Commerciai Workers
Intemationai Uhion, Locai 342P-2
01/18/06
't »
LETTEft OF AGREEMENT
Letter of Ag rement New Payroll Sysstem Adj^ustment and Vacation Step Pay
1.	In June 1996 the employer adopted a new payroll system, which necessitated a one time adjustment paymentto employees, to ensute continuation of earnings. This money \was paid out as an advanco (^wPa\yrol System Adjustment), to be repaid bythe employee upon termination of employment
2.	On January 1, 2001, the vacation policy \was changed, s^pecifically: employees are new requiredto use their vacation time in the year it is earned, notthe following year. As a result, an agreementwas reached that each employee who takes a Vacation Step after December 31, 2000 is entitled to one week of vacation pay, on termination.
A ‘Vacation Step” is defined as each additionalweek ofvacation entitlement abeve 3 weeks that is earned by an employee. Vacation entitlement earned underthe provisionsof section 14.1 (a) (35 and 40 bonus) is not a vacation step.
3.	UFCW Local 342P-2 and Dawn Foed Products (Canada), Ltd agree to settle all of
outstanding ar^inte, as follows:
•	Each active employee who has taken a Vacation Step between ^December 31, 2000 and Dumber31, 2006 will be paid one week of vacation pay at their rate of pay in effect on the payday that the payment is made.
• Each employee received a	Payroll System Adjustment advanco will have that amount deducted from their pay.
4.	Paymentsto be deducted and made, arid retroactive pay increases paid, on the same regular pay day, within 1 month, of ratification. Each Eir:npl0yee wh^ advanco has been deducted, and/or who has been paid this vacation pay, will have a letter(s) to that effect inserted into their personnelflle.
5. There will be employees who	an advanco, but are not ewed a vacation step payment their advanco will be deducted from their retroactive increase.
6.	Article 14.1 of the collective agreementwill be amended effective January 12006: vacation steps will ocur inthe years that employees accumutate 9, 17, and 25 years ofservice (currently 10, 18, and 26 years).
United F obd and Commercial Workers
International Union, 342P-2
01/19/06 12:25 PM
J.
Letter of Agreement Cameras
This Letter of Agreement sets forth the agreement that has ^be reached between Dawn Food Products (Canada), Ltd and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 342P-2 in respect of cameras.
This Letter of Agreement shall be eonsidered as fonning part of the Collective Agreement and be binding on	the company and the union and shall remain in force for the life of
the curent Collective Agreement.
1. The company agrees that camera stuVeillance will not be used to monitor employee productivity in the work place.
Dated this ft day of	_____> 20o6
United Food and Commercial Workers International Uhicn, Local 342P-2
01/18/06	9:44 PM
4 '3
LETTER Qf MMW
Letter of Agreement Contractors
This Letter of Agreement sets forth the agreementthat has been reached between Dawn Food Products (Cai^nada), Ltd and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,	342P-2 m respect of contractors.
This Letter of Agreement shall be considered as forming part of the Collective Agr^ment and be binding on ^both the company and the	and shall in force for the life of
the curent Collective Agreement.
1. When the company elects to employ the services of a contractor on site, the unirn may request, and will receive, an explanation of the work.
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 342P-2
01118/06	9:45 PM
44
INDEX
PAGE#
Arbitration (Article 1 O)............................................................. 8
Bulletin Boards (Article 16)..........................................................26
Check Off (Article 7)................................................................. 5
Clothing And Tools (Article 16, Notes Re: Schedule A)............................26, 31
Compassionate Leave (Article 15}......................................................25
Dental Plan(ScheduleB)................................................................34
Emergency Calls/Call Back (Article 13)................................................17
Footwear (ScheduleA Notes}............................................................31
4 On - 4 Off Schedule (Article 13}....................................................19
Fumigation- 4 On/40ff Shift (Article 13}..............................................23
General Holidays (Article 13).........................................................15
Grievances (Artide 9)................................................................. 5
Group Life Insurance (Schedule B).....................................................33
Guarantee Of Employment Hours (Article 13}............................................18
Hours Of Work (Artide 13).............................................................13
Job Classification (Schedule A).......................................................29
Jury Duty (Article 15}................................................................25
Leave Of Absence (Article 12).........................................................12
Letterof Agreement..................................................................  38
Apprenticeship.................................................................38
Maintenance Hours..............................................................40
New Payroll System Adjustment & Vacation Step Pay..............................41
Cameras........................................................................42
Contractors....................................................................43
Long Term Disability Program (Schedule B).............................................36
Lunch Periods (Article 13}............................................................13
Management Rights (Article 5)..........................................................4
Maternity/Parental Leave (Article 12).................................................12
Negotiating Committee (Article 3)..................................................... 3
Notice Of Layoff and Shift Changes (Article 13}.......................................19
Overtime (Article 13).,...............................................................14
Payment Of Wages (Article 13) ........................................................18
Pension Plan (Schedule B).............................................................33
Probationary Period (Article 11)...................................................... 9
ReportingAllowance (Article 13).......................................................14
Rest Periods (Article 13).............................................................13
Scope (Article2)...................................................................... 2
Seniority (Article 11)................................................................ 9
Severance (Article 17)................................................................26
Shift Bonus (Article 13)..............................................................17
Weekly Income Plan (Weekly Indemnity).................................................36
45
PAGE#
Temporary Assignment (Article 13)...............................................17
Temporary Employees (Notes Re: Schedule A)......................................31
Termination Or Modification C£ Agreement (Article 19)..........................28
Vacancies (A^rtlcle 11 )......................................................  10
Vacations (Article 14)........................................................  23
Vision Plan (Schedule B).......................................................34.
Wage Rates (ScheduleA)..........................................................29
Workers’ Compensation (Article 15)..............................................25