“LO C>«^L/0
SOURCE	CLo.
trF.	5lJp7 !p^ °l ^! IX 31 '.15.5 .SJ A&
term. ' No. Cf HWP!.OV£E. D'£AVI.OyS	
AGREEMENT
between
ELLISON MILLING COMPANY
and
imied woo t comcm. wcpkeps ummicm. lnion
AFL-CIO CLC LOCAL P 661 LETHBRIOE. ALBERTA 1191 r 1992
MOV 131991
#ootf5koS
hEMCfRANDUAi Of AGREEMENT
Thl* Agreement made thl* kth day of Quty, 1991, and ratified by the. Union on the kth day of. July., 1991.
BETWEEN:
ELLJSON MLLJNG COMRANU LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA heneinaflen called "The Company."
of the fln*t pant
and
UNITED FOOD AND COmERB/AL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION affiliated with the AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOUR CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS and THE CANADIAN LABOUR CONGRESS, LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA
heneinaflen called "The Union"
of the second pant.
The pantie* heneto mentioned agnee to change* to the collective Agreement doled $uly 1k, 1989 a* follow*:
CLAUSE 1:	Team, of Agneement
Thl* Agneement *hall take effect and be binding upon the pantie* heneto fnom the kth day of ffuly, 1991 and terminating the 31*t day of December, 1992.
CLAUS& 2:	Runpo*e of Aoneement
The punpo*e of thl* Agneement 1* t o define and maintain *ali* factory working condition*, hour* of employment and wage rate* for all employee* who are *ubyect to tie provision* of thl* Agreement. Ot al*o *et* out the re*pon*ibtlLtie* of e a c h of the
- <? -
contracting panties along. with Ike. rights and privileges of- a n employer - employee relationship. 3t is intended b y both panties that tie relationship be harmonious during the term of. the Agreement but that if a n y problems a ho old arise pertaining t o the employer. -employee relationship, a aid problems wilt b e -settled amicably b y reference to the provisions of the Agreement.
CLAUS&	Recognition
The Company recognises the Union as the bargaining agent for ail employees, as set out in the certification certificate issued by the Department of Labour of the Federal government of Canada.
CLAVS& 4:	Relationship
la) There Ahail be no cLLacrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by the Company or any of its agents against any employee because of memberAhip in tie Union, and the Union will not coerce employees into membership or distribute propaganda or transact any other business of the Union on the Company's time other than that provided i n this Agreement. The Company will supply a bulletin board for tie convenience of the Union in posting of Union activities. However, all such postings will b e	submitted to
Management for approval before being posted.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree to co-operate in tie operation of a yoint Labour-Management Production Committee compos ed of an equal number of representatives of the Company and its employees. This Committee will be governed by rules as outlined and mutually agreed upon. The purpose of this Committee shall be to provide ways and means of improving production and efficiency and promoting fuller understanding and confidence between Management and employees.
3
CUUS6 5:
CLAUSE 6:
This) Committee, will consiiAt of. tie {.allowing. Union employees appointed by the Union:
heed frill Fioun frill Flown WanehouAe frainlenan.ee
1 employee 1 employee I employee I employee
TheAe employees will meet with an equal numben o{ Company franagement employees at ieaAt twice yeanly to Aenve t i e pwnpoAe o{ this) Committee.
franagement lights)
The Union acknowledges) that, Aubyed to ex.pn.es.)A pmoviAiors in this) Agneement, it is) the exclusive {junction and night o{ t i e Company to manage its) plants); to maintain onden, discipline and e{{lclency; t o dined the wanking {once, including the night to hlne, s)u)pend on dischange {on cause; to aAAign and ne-aAAign employees) t o yob*; to ineneasse on decneasse the wonking {once; to ddenmine the pnodud to b e handled, pnoduced, and pnoceAAed on manu{aduned; to Achedule pnodudlon and pnOceAsiing and pnodudlon methods) on handling o{ its) pnodud.	The Company agnees) thd n o
s)pedai pnivileges) non tneatment will be allowed to nelatlves) o{ othen employees) o{ t i e Company.
No Stnikes) on Lockouts)
Owning the tenm o{ this) Agneemedt, the Company agnees) that it will not caus)e on dined any lockout o{ id) employees), and the Union agnee) that theme will be no AtnikeA on othen collective action which will Atop on inten{ene with pnodudlon on AenviceA, and that i{ Auch collective action Ahould b e	taken, it will irsinud id)
membenA t o canny out the pnovis)ionA o{ the Agneement and netunn to wonk and pen{onm the dutleA in the uauoI mannen. The Union {anthem agneeA that, Ahould a Atnike be called because o{ {aliune to negotiate a new agneement, the licersed elevdon employees), the WatchenA, and the Cngineen and/on employee nenponAible {on boilen
4
CLAUSE 7:
and tpninhlen maintenance mill not be called out.
dount of Wonk & Conditions of- Oveniime
La) Thlt panagnaph 1a intended to define tie nonmal hount of. monk and 1a not to be continued oa a guarantee on. limitation of tie mtmben of haunt to be wonked pen day, on fon any othen penlod of time, except at tpeclflcally pnovided i n IAIa Ag/ieement.
The nonmal monk week mill contLtt of fonty (10) hount, Monday to Fnlday, 7:00 A . M . to 1:00 P . M . dally except fon employeet o n contlnuoUA thlflt who mill commence at 1 I: 00 P.M. Sunday. Each, thlft mill monk at leant five (5) thlflt mlth the negulan monk week ending, at 1 1:00 P. M. the folloming Sunday.
The negulan monk week day mill contltt of eight (8) hount. All hounA monked i n excett of fonty (10) hount pen week that! b e paid at one and one-half 11-1/2) timet tie negulan nalet except fon monk penfonmed on Sunday which mill be at two (2) timet the negulan note fon hounA monked. ALL hount monked in. excett of eight 18) hount pen day thall be paid fon at one and one-half ( 1-1/2) timet the negulan natet excluding thlft pnemlum, homeven, daily and meekly oventime thall not be compounded.
The nonmal thlft will be on a meekly batlt fnom dayt to nlghtt to aftennoont fon lead openatont and millent, and the nonmal thlft notation fon tecond millent and othent o n contlnuout thlflt mill be on a bi-meekiy batlt.
The above doet not apply to the Feed Plant which nonmally openatet two (2) eight (8) houn thlflt pen day tiantlng at 11:00 P.M. Sunday each week. The nonmal thlft notation fon the lead openaton It meekly and fon the tecond openaton 1a bi-meekly. Should the Feed Plant openate on a contlnuout weekly batlt tie thlft hount and notation mill be the tame at the Floun Mill.
AH hount monked in excett of fonty (10) hount pen week that! be paid at one and one-half ( 1-1/2) timet the negulan natet up to
- 5 -
and including. Aeventy-two (72) hounA per week, and addLU.Lon.ad ho mi a Ahall be paid (.on at two (2) times) the neguian note, a b hounA wonked in exceAA of eight (8) hounA pen day Ahall be paid (on. at one and one-hat( ( I - 1/2) times) tie negutan nates).
Othen wonk Achedules) may be eAtabitAhed by the Company (nom time to time to meet the need) o( the buAineAA. The employees) wLLL be advisied o( changes) in theAe wonk AcheduleA cla much in advance as) poAAibie and uAuaily pnion to J: 00 P.D. Fniday (on the (oiiowing week. Jt is) agneed that changes) to the wonk Acheduie wilt b e neceAAang (nom time to time t o penmit anew to be Aht(ted t o peniodA o( peak wonk demand and (on othen neaAonA. ThiA La eApeciaily tnue in the Feed Dill bat, in. any event, Ahi(t AcheduieA wiit b e Aetby 3:00 P.M. Fniday (on the (oiiowing weak and wi i l uAuaily. be (i.x.ed Au.by.ect t o UAuai iayo(( noticeA and weekly guananteed employment pnovis)lonA cla Indicated elAewhene in the Agreement.
lb) Choice o( employees) to wonk oventime dunlng the negutan wonk week Ahall be decided by Aenionity and ability in the department (on which the oventime is) nequined. The extension of a Ahift Ahall not exceed (oun (l) hounA on a -total o( twelve (12) conssecuiive hounA wonk. Choice of. employeer to wonk oventime on ihe 6th and 7th dayA of wonk will be on the baAlA of Aenionity and ability i n that department. 3( ait penAonnei in (he. depanimen ( one called in (on the oventime, each employee will wonk the uvenlime Ahift that connes)pond) to the neguian Ahift wanked ail week in the deportment. All overtime Ahall be voluntary Aubyect to going down the Aenionity lis)t of tie department in which the overtime La to be wonked, but in the event nobody volunteenA, the leaAt Aenion employee on employees) in the plant will b e nequined to wonk pnovlding they have the abiU^fy t o _ perfonm the wonk nequined. Departmenta (on the punpoAe of thesclauAe Ahall be Feed Dill, Flour Dill, Floan Wanehoure and .^-'Packing, Tenminal Slevaton, Daintenance, Bakery Mix and DiAcellaneouA.
(c)	ImployeeA nequined to lay. off pant of any Ahift in onden to nepont fon duty on another Ahift Ahall not be. penalised by Inning pay fon hounA not wonked on ihe negulanly Acheduled Ahift. T/iLa
- 6 -
doeA not apply wkene emptoyeeA one. nequined to nepont back within, the. aame twenty.-f.omi (2b) houn pentad. Employees nequined to wonk a Aplit Ahlft will b e paid one and one-hatf ( 1-1/2) time* thein neguian note fon the second pant of the Aplit Ahift.
(d)	Extna on casual employees that! not be aAAigned to wonk to the ex.clmion of neguian employees who have been tatd off, pnovtded Auch emptoyee can penfonm tie nequtned won-k.
liegulan emptoyeeA who one being Laid off one to b e given twenty-faun (2b) hoLui4 notice befone being fold off (wkethen fon a 4hont team Layoff on longen tenm Layoff) and twenly-foun (2b) hounA notice 04 to when they one expected to netunn to wonk. 5n the cane of a tong tenm Layoff (mane than one ( 1 ) week) neguian emptoyeeA with one (1) on none yeanA of Aenvice wilt be given one ( 1) day Layoff notice fon each compteted aIx (6) monl/iA of Aenvice with the Company. The Company 4hatt be exempt fnom giving 4uch notice 1) due to the inability t o openate the plant became of ftoodA, powen faltuneA, 4tonmA, fine, fneeye-oul, o	n	it) due to diAclptlnany
action.
(e)	Alt vacancies oven 4ix (6) dayn that the Company plan4 t o fill on vacancleA involving tnalnlng poAitiortA of two (2) week4 on mone 4kali be po4ted.
(f)	An employee imtnucled and a44igned t o nelleve a foneman temponanily will be paid twenty-five (25%) pen cent incneane in hlA own note fon the numben of houn4 wonked up to eight (8) houn4 pen day pnovided the 4ald employee nelievcA fon at leant thnee (3) conn ecutive day4. Neithen daily non weekly ovenllme will appty unden thin dame.
(g)	EmptoyeeA aAAigned temponanily to towen noted po4ition4 Ahull not have theln cunnenl nateA neduced. EmptoyeeA aAAigned temponanily to hlghen noted yobA will be paid the hlghen note.
(h)	Should an employee b e nequeAted t o netunn t o wonk often completion of a neguian Ahlft with notice given pnion to heaving the
- 7 -
plant, tie empioy.ee shall be paid a minimum of. two (2) houns at time and one-half (1-1/2) note. This does not apply to an extension of. a negulan a hi ft.
Should a n employee b e nequested to netunn to monk aften completion of a negulan shift without notice, on should an employee b e nequested to monk on an unscheduled day without notice, the employee shall be paid a minimum of faun Ik) boons monk at time and one-half (1-1/2) note, except fon Sunday which will be pa-id at the double time note fon the actual boons wonked, but i n any event will not necelve less than six (6) boons pay. The employee shall b e thnoogh when the supenvlson decides the monk is completed. This panagnaph does not apply to an extension of a negulan shift.
On the case of a	call-in befone on aften a	negulanly
scheduled shift, t i e employee will b e given t i e option of leaving the plant aften wonking eight (8) boons on wonking the Balance of the shift at the stnalght time note.
(1) Employees shall b e gnanted a fen (10) minute nest penlod dunlng each foun (k) houn half-shift wonked. The time fon each nest penlod will b e designated b y the supenvison in change of each depantment. Employees shall not leave the monk pnemlses dunlng these nest penlods on dunlng paid hunch penlods. Employees violating this pnovislon shall b e subject to disciplinany action b y the Company.
(f) On addition to the stnalght time note, a pnemlum of half (1/2) the stnalght time note, exclusive of shift pnemlum, shall b e paid fon all monk penfonmed o n Satunday and, in addition to the stnalght time note, a pnemlum of the stnalght time note, exclusive of shift pnemlum, shall be paid fon all wonk penfonmed or Sunday.
This panagnaph is sub fed to mutually agneed exceptions.
ion the punpose of this Agneemenl, all days one defined as twenty-foun (2k) houn penlods commencing at 11:00 P.M. the pnecedlng day.
- 8 -
CLAUSE 8:
(hi An employee nepontlng {.on. wonk {on. a ne.guJ.cui Ahl{t, on on an unAcheduled day at tie nequeAt o{ a AupenvlAon, Akalt b e given a minimum. o{ {oun Ik) kounA monk on i n lieu theneo{ {oun Ik) kounA pay. at ti e applicable note.
(1)	1{ a n employee 1a unable to nepont {on monk {on any neaAon
the employee on Aomeone {nom home will phone klA on ken AupenvlAon be{one the Ahl{t commenceA on Immediately thenea{ten advlAlng the neaAon, ao He AupenvlAon can annange on plan accondlngly.
(ml Oventime kounA actually wonked unden panagnaph (b) may be accumulated at t i e option o{ t i e employee o n the Aame baAiA oa oventime pay, but in lieu o{ oventlme pay may be taken oa accumulated t i e o{{ at a time Aultabte to t i e employee. Howeven, Auch accumulated time muAt not exceed ten 110) wonking dayA and muAt b e taken b y Decemben 31 each yean on the employee muAt pay the employee b y the end o{ $anuany t i e {allowing yean {on t i e numben o{ kounA accumulated. UnleAA advlAed othenwiAe oventlme wonked will be paid. Advice to accumulate vacation in lieu o{ oventlme will Be Aubmltted to the faynoli SupenvlAon in wnltlng in advance o{ the time candA being picked up {on the pay penlod involved.
Wage Hate and Payment
(a)	WageA me to b e paid in accondance with the nateA oa Aet {onth i n the Wage Schedule attacked to tklA Agreement. Howeven, when an employee 1a tnanA{enned to a hlghen noted claAAl{lcatlon., the note {on Aald employee may be continued {on a penlod o{ thlnty 130) wonking dayA on Auch longen penlod cla the Company may deem neceAAany {on the Aald employee t o leann the wonk be{one nalAing the note, but Aald penlod Akall not exceed a total o{ ninety (90) wonking dayA . ThlA panagnapk wilt not apply to MitlenA wkoAe wonk nequlneA Aklll and neAponAlbitlty. A Second Mitten {ulty neAponAlbte {on a Aht{t will / receive twenty-{lve (25<t) centA pen koun oven the Second Mitten note {on t i e {InAt ninety 190) wonking dayA i n nelle{. A{ten the Second Mitten kaA wonked ninety (90) wonking dayA in nel!e{, the Second Mitten in nelle{ will /receive tie Mitten note white nelteving the Mitten. Howeven, when the Second
- 9 -
Flillem goes back to the. Second flUllem mesponsibililies, tie mate of. pay will mevemt back to the Second Millem /late.
The *tamtlng note fan. new employee* will b e	thn.ee ($3.00)
doilam* pen houm Below the mate lifted fom the appmopmlale clas*lflcatlon In tie Wage Schedule attached. Such new employee* will mecelve a minimum of one ($1.00) doilam pen houm incmease fom each * lx (6) month* of *emvlce until the full mate ll*ted i n the Wage Schedule l* attained. journeymen om jounneywomen will b e exempt fmom thl* clau*e.
Any grievance undem thl* pamagmaph will b e dealt with undem Clause 13.
(b)	Wage* ame to be paid evemy *econd Frnlday and pay cheque* ame to be dlstmlbuted to the employee* at n o o n evemy *econd Fmlday fom the penlod ending, the pmevlou* Fmlday. Howevem, If a Fmlday payday fall* on a Holiday a* defined by thl* Agmeement, cheque* ame to be dl*tmibuted By 1:00 P.M. on tie Bank day pmeceding, pmovidlng thl* allow* thmee (3) full day* fom the Company to pmepame the paymoll. Wheme theme ame fewem than thmee (3) full day fom pmepamatlon, pay cheque* ame to be dl*tmibuted at noon the flm*t Bank day cftem the Holiday, and notice of *uch payment will be po*ted on the bulletin boamd.
(c)	A* of the date of matlflcaton, a pmemlum of fifty-five (55<t) cent* pern houm will be paid to employee* wonking the aftemnoon *hlft and a pmemlum of eighty (80$) cent* pern houm will b e paid t o employee* wonking. the night *hlft. Watchem and melief watchem* will not be paid any *hlft pmemlum*.
Shift pmemlum* ame to be excluded in tie calculation of dally and weekly oventime.
Id) The Management of the Company and thmee (3) om mome membem* of the Union Executive om thelm duly appointed mepme*entatlve* *hall constitute a committee t o heam wnitten application* fom changes i n cla**lflcatlon* and/o/r wage mate *ubmitted By an employee om by the
- 10 -
Management. The Committee. ahall meet {Loan. (i) timeA diming the yean, namely the end of each qjuanten, if. any appilcatlonA ane made at leaAt thnee (3) dayA pnion to the laAt day of Planch, $une, September, and December. Any changeA in claAAification and/on wage note Ah ail Be by agreement between the Committee and the employee.
(e) Any employee who, due to physical on mental condition, becomeA unable to penfonm nonmal uionk dutieA may be claAAified oa a handicapped monken and oa Auch may be given Apecial monk dutieA and a Apecial wage note conneAponding to the limitationA of t i e handicap. Such wage note Ahall be decided upon by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
CLAUS&, 9- Paid HolidayA
la)	The Union and the Company necogni^eA the following eleven 111) paid holidayA:
New yean'a Day, Qood Fniday, Victonia Day, 2nd Monday in Quite, Dominion Day, Civic (AuguAt) Holiday, Laboun Day, ThankAgiving, Pemembnance Day, ChniAtmaA Day and Boxing Day.
The Company will pnovide an additional paid holiday if and when Auch a holiday 1a declaned by the Fedenal Qoveminent.
lb)	Subject t o the exception heneaften Aet fonth, employeeA Ahall be paid fon the above named holidayA on the baAin of eight 18) hounA at thein negulan nateA. A day in lieu of the actual paid holiday may be AubAtituted by mutual conAent between the Company and tie Union.
I c)	On onden to be eligible fon paid holiday payment, an employee
muAt meet the following conditionA:
i) muAt have Been employed fon thinly 130) wonking dayA and muAt have Company eanningA the Acheduled monk day pneceding and following the paid holiday, and
11 -
11) must have Company eannlngs fon at least fifteen (15) days duning the thinty i 30) calendan days immediately, p/ receding the paid holiday. Company eannlngs one defined oa negulan wages, vacation, pay, Company -lick leave (if any), wage indemnity on. (Menken 's Compensation.
A n employee absent fnom wonk and necelving weekly indemnity on Wonken ‘s Compensation benefits {Lon the day o{L paid holiday will / receive the dlfLfLenence between eight 18) houns at t i e employee's usual note o{L p a y while at wonk and the amount necelved (Lon wage indemnity on Wonken's Compensation {Lon the holiday involved.
(d)	Any employee no-t qualified {Lon paid holiday pay shall be paid
one and one-ha& (1-1/2) times the negulan note {on wonk pen{onmed o n such holiday. Any employee qualified {on a paid holiday and nequlned to wonk on such a day will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the negulan note {on houns wonked phis eight 18) houns stnalght Lime {on tie paid holiday.
CLAUS& 10:	Annual Vacation
(a)	Vacation entitlement will b e detennedi b y the employee's senvice annlvensany date. EmployeeA who, on that date, have accumulated unbnoken senvice on the paynoll, shall necelve a vacation with pay as follows:
Aften one yeans senvice....................2 weeks
Aften five yeans senvice...................3 weeks
Aften founteen yeans senvice...............4 weeks
Aften thlnteen yeans senvice leanned fnom August 1, 1991 to {fuly 31, 1992).. . . :4 weeks Aftez twenty yeans senvice.................5 weeks
The vacation yean will slant aften Quly 31st each yean. Of an employee's vacation entitlement changes as a nesult of a senvice annlvensany duning the cunnent vacation yean, the vacation entitlement will be adjusted pnopontlonate to the days of service in
12 -
the cunnent vacation yean oven thnee hundned and Aixty-five (365) multiplied by tie incneaAed numben of. wonking days) entitlement in the above schedule /rounded to tie neaneAt full day mone on test4.
Vacation pay Ahail b e two (2P/a) pen cent of the employee' a eanningA fon the vacation yean on fonty (40) hounn pay at the bassic Atnalght time note fon each week of vacation entitlement, whicheven is) to the advantage of tie employee.
(b)	3n cates) whene an employee it abtent fon mone than tixty (60)
days) duning t i e twelve ( 12) month penlod ending July 3	1 At of the
cwinent yean, vacation pay fon Audi employee will be /reduced by one-twelfth (1/12th) fon each month of abtence beyond the tixty (60) day.
(c)	Employees) who have not completed one ( 1) yeant tenvice by July 31 tt of the cunnent yean, but have mone than thnee (3) month) aontinuouA employment, Ahail necelve a n amount equal to foun (1%) pen cent of thein eanningA.
(d)	Employees) who leave the tenvice of the Company fon any neat on duning the vacation yean Ahail necelve vacation pay baAed on the employee1 4 eannlngA Aince tie pneceding 'July 31 At.
(e)	Vacation will be allocated on tie boAin of Aenlonity within the depantment but on a two-tlened notation each yean with each employee taking thein twin fon pnefenence on the bas)is) of Aenlonity. Each depantment will be divided into two (2) equal tienA of Aenlonity. On the caAe ofodd numbenA t i e middle penAon will b e allocated to the gnoup of cloAeAt Aenlonity. Each yean the moAt Aenion employee of the pnevious) yean'a then will dnop to the bottom of the then fon t i e punpOAe of chooAing vacation cla pnovided i n this) panagnaph. An employee would be Limited to chooAing up to thnee (3) coriAecutlve weekA of vacation duning p/time vacation time, that is), that time when Achool 1a out including ChnlAtmaA week, with thein finAt pick. Each employee, i n tunnwould chooAe up to thnee (3) weekA of thein pnefenence fon vacation time within t i e depantment. Founth and AubAequent weekA will b e Aimilanly allocated oa to
- 13 -
CLAUSE 11:
preference on tie same basis. Vacation time accumulated under paragraph 7(m) will not b e scheduled using this process. The time for ail vacations wilt be subject to Company approval consistent with the necessity of. plant operations and other work.
If) Vacation entitlement will b e QAtabliAhed B y years of employment oa at $uty 31'it each yean. The vacation yean, will b e from January 1st to December. 31 'it each yean. Eveny employee will take thein vacation entitlement in t i e calendan yean following, the date of entitlement. Vacation periods shall not be accumulated fnom yean t o yean. Blank vacation schedules fon each department will be issued no later, than October 1st each year fon onderly scheduling of vacations fon t i e following calendan year. The deadline fon selection of vacations i n accondance with paragraph 10(e) will b e November 15th, after which time the pnefenence will b e given based on seniority until November 30th. After this date, vacation will be scheduled on a first come first served basis until all vacation dates are established, but in any event, vacations must be scheduled by December 15th at the latest.
Once selected, each employee will take thein vacation o n dates shown on tie schedule except fon unfoneseen extenuating circumstances. On such cases, the nescheduled vacations must also be -taken at a time appnoved by the Company.
Seniority
/a/ There will be n o seniority acquired b y employees during the first ninety (90) working days of employment, but after that number of days have been worked, seniority shall date back to the original date of employment. Employees without seniority m e not obligated to recall by the Company, and may be dismissed without recourse. No seniority will be acquired b y students or part-time employees.
(b) Jn all cases of increase or decrease in staff, temporary lay-off or the calling bach to work, promotion or demotion, the principal governing factor will be seniority, provided that the supervisor is satisfied the employee has the ability to perform the
- 1k
CLAUS&12:
yob aatiA(actonily within a /,ie.aAon.able. pentad o( time..
(c)	3{L any employee La abAent (nom wonk becauAe of. accident on.
ALckneAA, tie employee Ahall not loAe Aenionity ntghtA, but i( an employee La abAent (nom monk (.on any othen neaAon, without t i e coriAent o( tie Company, the employee Ahall loAe Aenlontty and may be diAmLAAed. Howeven, in the event that tie employee La not diAtniAAed (nom the Company and netwuiA to wonk, the employee will negain Aenionity a(ten a pnobation o( ninety 190) dayA.
Leave o( AbAence
(a)	The Company may ynant leave of abAence, with on without pay,
to an employee {on. a legitimate penAonal neaAon. An employee who La abAent with ouch penmiAAton Ahall no-t be conAixLened to be laid o(( and the Aenionity o( the employee Ahall continue to accumulate duning the abAence.
lb) Union buAineAA Ahall be conAidened oa good cauAe (on leave o( abAence and Auch leave o( abAence Ahall be gnanted by the Company oa long oa AubAtitutionA on adyuAtmentA can Be made ao oa not to inten(ene with the nonmal operation o( tie plant.
(c) By mutual agreement between the Company and the employeeA, compaAAionate leave with pay will be given (on up to thnee (J) conAecutive wonking dayA, including the date o( tie (unenal, (on a death in the immediate (amily. An employee may take an additional two 12) dayA leave o( abAence without pay to attend a (unenal in tie immediate (amily i( appnoved by the employee'a AupenviAon. immediate (amily meanA employee'a ApouAe, childnen, bnothenA, AiAtenA and the panentA o( eithen employee on. employee 'a ApouAe, and pnovLding the employee aitendA tie (unenal. A leave o( one ( 1) day with pay (day o( the (unenal) and two (2) dayA without pay will Be allowed i n thevent o( the death o( a bnothen-in-law, aIaten-in-Law, on gnandpanentA, pnoviding the employee attendA the (unenal.
- 15 -
LAUSC 1):	Qrievance
(a) A Qrievance Committee, not to exceed three (3/ in number, to be decided by the Union, who shall b e regular employees of. the Company., shall be elected by tie Union in a maruten de-t^imined by them, and the Company shall be kept Informed of the pen.4onn.eJ. of tie Committee.
lb) Shop Stewards, consisting of one t1) member from each of the major departments i n the plant,shall be elected by the Union in a manner, determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel. Cach Shop Steward shall have at teast six months service with the Compaq.
I c) Qrievance work carried on during tie regular working hours of the employee members invotved shall be paid for so that they wltt not tose pay as a result of such activities. If the Management elects to meet with the Qrievance Committee at a time other than regular hours, time spenl by members of the Committee present at the meeting will not count towards overtime.
ld)	The Union acknowledges Union members have regular duties ta perform on behalf of the Compaq, and that ouch persons will not leave their regular duties without first obtaining permision from their immediate supervisor. It is understood by the Company that the supervisor will grant permission to a Union member to leave his or h e n regular duties as soon as possible after the application for such permission is received. It is clearly understood that Union members will not absent themselves from their duties unreasonably to deal with grievances of employees.
le)	Ot is agreed that all grievances must b e dealt with as soon as possible. To encourage this, any grievance must be filed by an employee within fen 110) working days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the employee. The following procedure shall be applicable progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
- 16 -
Step 1: between, the grieved employ.ee, the Shop Steward and the Department: supervisor;
Step 2: between, t i e grieved employee, the Chief. Steward and/o/r fresident and the Plant Superintendent;
Step ): between the grieved employee, the Union grievance Committee and the general Manager. An outride Union representative may be called If so desired.
(f)	Grievances must be presented In the first step In writing.
tg) When a grievance which affects the rate of p a y of any employee Is not amicably disposed of within seventy-two (72) hours, b u t subsequently Is settled satisfactorily, and as a result of such settlement the wages of the employee are Increased or decreased, such Increase or decrease shatl be made retroactive to the date on which the grievance was first submitted in writing.
(h) If a n employee Is dismissed and feels unyustly dealt with, they may within not more than seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of notice of dismissal, Inform the Grievance Committee who shall, i n turn, notify the Company within twenty-four (21) hours i n writing. The dismissal shall then be termed as a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure herein, beginning with the second step, df, subsequently, It Is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, the employee shall b e reinstated i n his or h e n former position and shall b e compensated for the time lost at the regular rate of pay, or such lesser compensation as may be agreed upon.
(l)	Should there at any time arise a question of grievance
involving Interpretation of this Agreement, either o n the part of the Union or Management, upon which no settlement can be /reached, such a question shall b e referred to a Board of Arbii/iation constituted as follows:
One representative named by the Union;
One representative named by the Company;
A third by mutual agreement of the two parties, who shall be Chainman.
- 17 -
On the event of failune t o a§Aee upon the thind panty, h e *hail be appointed by the MinLiten of. Laboun of Canada. The d e & i o n of the mayonity of the Boand of Anbitnatton *hall b e binding on att paA.ti.eA involved fon the Life of tht* Agneement. The An.bLtn.atl.on Boand a kali not b e authoni^ed to m a k e any. decLiion* incon*i*tent with the pnovi*ion* of thiA AgAeement.
IJ.) The Union and the Company a hail be each neAponAibie fon one-half l1/2) of the expenAeA of the feeA payable to t i e thlnd anbitnaton.
Ik) Of elthen the Company, on the Union aliegeA vtotatlon of the Agreement thnough the action* of offlclalA of elthen, the compiaint may be dealt with thnough Qnievance Pnocedune.
CLAUSE. 1b:	Safety and Health
la)	The Company /shall make neaAonabie pnovLiionA fon tie safety and health of the empioyeeA dunlng the wanking hounA and lunch bneak* at the plant, including pnotecllve device* and fin*t-aid *uppile* and equipment. The employee* agnee t o ob*enve the nule* of *afety and cleanllne** on tie Company '* pnemLie*. Eveny effont po**lble will be exented by both pantieA to eliminate accident* and *ickne**.
lb)	Ot in mandatony that alt plant employee* wean CSA appnoved footwean. The Company will pay one-half (1/2) the co*t of *udh footwean upon pne*entation of notated CSA appnoved puncha*e neceipt up to a maximum of Sixty ($60) dollan* pen yean. A maximum of one-half 11/2) the co*t up to a maximum of Sixty ($60) dollan* pen yean will alno b e allowed fon ne-*oling footwean i n lieu of punchaAing new footwean.
Ot i* agneed that failune to wean CSA appnoved footwean will neAult in the following di*ciplinany action:
1*t Offence - A wanning
2nd Offence -	1 day *u*pen*ion without pay
- 18
3'id Offence -	1 week suspension without pay.
kth Offence -	4 weeks suspension without pay.
5th Offence - subject to dismissal at the discretion of. Union and Man.ag.em.ent.
These regulations appty to ait plant employees l excluding those who have appropriate doctor certificates).
(c)	Hand hats (feather on. bump) supplied by the Company must be
wonn at alt timers in designated areas of the plant.
Fan. those who do not confonm with this clause:
1st Offence 2nd Offence 3nd Offence
kth Offence
A wanning
1 day suspension without pay 1 week suspension without pay at discnetion of the Safety Committee Subject t o dismissal at t i e discnetion of Union and Management.
CLAUSE 15:	Union Secunity
(a)	Ot shall be a condition of employment that any eligible employee who, at the date of this Agneement, was a member in good standing on becomes a memben aften this date, shall maintain, such membership during the term of the Agreement.
lb) It shall be a condition of employment that any eligible new employee at the c o n & i o n of thinly (30) working days, either foin the Union and maintain membership on pay the normal Union dues for the donation of this Agreement. Employees coming under this section who work less than fen (10) hours in any calendar week will not be subject to deduction of dues for that week.
(c) Upon receipt of written authorisation forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, and effective as Long as such authorisation has not been revoked by the employee, tie Company agrees to deduct from the bi-weekly pay of each employee, Union initiation fees and
- 19 -
CLAUS& 16:
dues. AU such /Slum deducted, iogethen with a necond of those from, whom deductions wene made and the amounts theneof and the weeks fon which such deductions wene made, -shall be handed to the Secnetany of the Union not latex, than the last day. of the calendan month In which such deductions wene made.
Id) Employees netunnlng t	o	wonk following, layoffs, leaves of
absence, on. who one being ne-employed shall be nequlned to pay the nonmal Union dues following completion of thinly (JO) wonklng days.
Weekly Quananteed Employment
(a)	The Company agnees to guanantee weekly employment on the
following basis:
Employees with thnee (J) yeans senvlce - guanantee of fonty (10) houns of wonk Including the flnst (1st) day of the wonk week.
lb)	This guanantee Is subject to the fallowing tenmus and
conditions:
(1)	Shift pnemiums, oventime pay Including week-ends, wilt not b e consldened i n calculating t i e guanantee. On othen wonds, the guanantee will b e calculated at stnalght time nates.
(2)	Paid holidays fonm pant of the guanantee If obsenved i n
the employee's nonmal wonk week.
(J) Ot Is agneed the employees wilt penfonm whateven wonk Is assigned to them. Of the employee declines the wonk then the Company Is nelieved from Its nesponsibility t o that employee fon the week involved as a nesult of this guanantee.
(it) Of a n employels late on absent from wonk due to vacation, sickness on l e a v e of absence on a scheduled day on on a called in day, the guanantee will be neduced by the houns lost because of such absence.
- 20 -
15) i - he Company. will not b e nesponsible jton this guanantee
i	n	cases of ptant bneakdowns, act* of. Qod on fonce
mayeune.
Ic)	This guanantee only applies if an employee. penfonms some monk
in a given monk week.
CLAUSE 17:	Qenenal
(a)	The Company agnees to maintain a bulletin boand i n a conspicuous position whene it c a n be seen b y the employees, and agnees that all notifications pentalnlng. to this Ag/ieement and conditions heneof, may be posted o n the bulletin boand by tie Company and by the officens of the Union as pnovided widen Clause h, panagnaph (a) of this Agneement.
(b)	This Agneement has been entened into in good faith by the contnactlng panties. Each panty agnees that It will not make any unfaln on false w e of this Agneement, on make any false on untnue on misleading statements on nepnesentatlons neganding its contents, on any of its pnovisions.
(c)	The Company agnees to maintain a fninge benefit package as summaniged in bnlef and attached. Some of the costs of these benefits ane paid b y the Company and some costs ane shaned b y the employees. how these costs ane paid and shaned is also shown. The Company agnees these benefits will be maintained thnough the donation of this Contnact.
CREMMDCR OF PAQE LEFT INTENT3ON ALU BLANK)
- 21
ON WOTN£SS WM£ft£OF the pan.ti.e-i hereto have heneunden caused thein 5 CALS TO D£ AFFOXED unden the hand of thein offtcen-) thLi kih day. of. QuXy, 1991.
p/my of th£ fopst part:
£LUSON MOLLONQ COMPANy
PAnry of th£ sfcond tart.-unoted food and comEncoAL
WORKERS ONTEPNATOONAL UNION LOCAL P661
zrmimaz—

ELLISON M3LL3NQ COMPANY UNJTED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 9 661 WAQE SCHEDULE
OCCUPATIONAL CLASS0F5CATEJ0NS	*July 7/91 'Jan. 1/92
FLOUR MULL
MUIR	$ 17.06	$ 17.83
SECOND MUIR	15.20	15.88
MAINTENANCE		
JOURNEUMN		
(ALBERTA TRADE CERTIFICATION CERTIFICATE)	17.06	17.83
MUM3QHT (NON-JOURNEUMAN)	16.23	16.96
MLimjQHT HELPERS	1k.9b	15.61
FLOUR WAREHOUSE		
LEAD PACKER & BAKERU MX LOAD OPERATOR	15.71	I6.k2
SHIPPERS	15.10	15.78
WAREHOUSE OPERATORS	15.00	15.68
LEAD PACKER, SMALL SIZES	1k. 32	1k. 96
PACKERS & BALERS, SMALL SIZES	13.73	1k. 35
FEED MULL		
LEAD OPERATOR	15.71	I6.k2
SECOND OPERATOR	15.05	15.73
WAREHOUSE WORKER & FEED MULL OPERATORS	1k. 95	15.62
TERMINAL ELEVATOR		
ASSISTANT	15.71	I6.k2
ELEVATOR LABOURER	1k. 38	15.03
MSCELLANEOUS		
TRUCK DROVER	15.25	15. 9k
WATCHERS	1k. k6	15. 11
RELIEF WATCHERS	13.75	1k.37
CLEANER/UTO LOTU	13.52	Ik. 13
Retroactive. pay. o f k-1/2% ofL total pay. excluding. thlfLt premium* January 6, 1991 through July 6, 1991 w h i c h basically make* the*e rate* elective January 6, 1991.
OUTLINE of emldjcc welfare plan dupinq 1991 & 1992
SHCW3NQ BENEFITS AND COSTS
ftONTHUJ COST
UFE INSURANCE	EMPLCLEE	COWAW
This iiviun.an.ce. Li ccuinied with London Life	Nil	Fuily paid b
3niiun.an.ce Company. The amount of. each em-p l o y e e 'si Life insiunan.ce Li $30,000. Fuli-Lime employee* become eligible fon insun-ance on tie completion o f * lx. month* of contlrmou* active *envice. Thl* in*unance al*o include* a total and penmanent disability benefit and an accidental death and disimembenment benefit. The Company pnovide* each employee a gnoup in*unance booklet describing this flan i n mone detail.
ALBERTA HEALTH PLAN	$uly 1, 1991
Covenage t o employee and memben* of family. SingleS 9.10 Covenage effective fin*t of month following Family 18.20 completion of 30 wanking day*. Benefit* fnom any licensed medical docton fon all office, home and ho*pital calls. Coven* *ickne**, health examination and non-occupatlonal accident*, onal *ungeny, optometnic *envice*, pediatnic and o*teopathic *envice* and chl-nopnactlc *envice*.
HOSPITALIZATION	Augu*t 1, 1991
Blue Cno** with Supplementany Ho*pital and S i n & e $6.99	$12. 98
Othen Senvice* Qnoup Contnact. Clas* 81 fon Family Ik. 00	26.01
*ingle employee*, Cla** 82 mannled without dependent* on family with chlldnen to age 21. Covenage fin*t of month following completion of 30 wonking day*. Benefit* of pnivate noom, if available, any Blue Cno** ho*pital in Albenta on maximum $L0 pen. day i n co-openatlng ho*pital outside Pnovince; ambulance senvice, natunopathlc 4 envices,
$16. 90 33.80
TOTAL
Company
S26. 00 52.00
S19.97
10.01
OUT UNO OF &1PLW6C W&D-AR& 9LAN 0UR3HQ 1991 & 1992 SHQMNQ BENEFITS AND COSTS (Coni'dl
MONTHUJ	COST
CDPiDJCC COMPAW
appliances, clinical psychologist senvies., dental nepaln to natunal teeth damaged by accident, dnugs and home nwislng, all dub-&e& to a genenal deductible of. $15 and individual services deductibles and maximums.
Supplementany Blue Cnoss coverage unden.
"Qnoup Outside Canada Cmengency Health Plan"
Is covened fon all employees as well.
WAQC OHOUmOTy
You will necelve a weekly income If you be-	1991 - Single on Family:
come totally disabled as a nesult of a non-	$1.88	$ 1.88
occupational accident on sickness not covened by Wonkens ' Compensation, pnovlded you one unden t i e cane of a licensed physician.
Telephone contact with a docton does not constitute tneatment within the meaning of t i e Qnoup Policy.
The amount of the weekly Indemnity benefit Is shown In the schedule of amounts below.
weeKLy iHoewm benefit
66.7% of the employee's negulan weekly cannings, including basic cannings togethen with negulan oventime and bonuses which fonm pant of negulan nemunenatlon, with a maximum a-mount of benefit not to exceed 2/3nds of the maximum insunable eannlngs in effect unden the Unemployment Onsunance Regulations as at the commencement of disability. Amounts of weekly Indemnity which axe not integnal multiples of $1.00 one nounded to the next hlghen dollan.
TOTAL
$ 3.76
OUTLINE. OF £fflLW££ WELFARE "PLAN DiTiUNQ 1991 & 1912
SHOUTING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Corut 'dl
hONTHUJ COSTS EMNJUEi COtWANU ~ TOTAL
You become eligible fon dlffenent amount of weekly indemnity, tf youn eannings das a chxmges. Ch.ang.eA cuie made on the date notl-ftcatton La gtven to the Onsunance Company., on, Lf you one not at monk on that date, on the date you netunn to monk.
The payment of a weekly, income wLtt commence o n the finst day of disability Lf you ane disabled by an accident on on the founth day Lf disabled becaaAe of lUneAA. Payments continue oa long cla you one dtAabled, up to a maximum of 26 weekA fon each peniod of disability.
Benefits one n o t payable fon. pnegnancy, chitdbLnth, on. nesulting complications.
A disability nesulting fnom tie Aame case as a pnevious disability will b e tneated oa a continuation of that disability unleAA you have completely necovened and have been back at monk fon a continuous peniod of at least 30 dayA.
Wage indemnity to b e paid whene n o Aich leave available on. aften Aick leave is completely used. No waiting peniod whene paid following sick leave payment of 3 days. Wage indemnity p a y & will not ovenlap Unemployment Onsunance benefits and/on Aich leave payment on vice venAa.
OUTLINE OF (MPLDJLE WELFARE PLAN DUPING 1991 & 1992 SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS (Coat'd)
MONTHUJ COSTS
emplduee companu
LONQ TCm DJSABULJTy BENEFIT Covenage of 5(ff° of empJ.oy.ze.'s aegulan eann-ings t o maximum of $600 pen week aften weekly indemnity and U.3.C. benefits. QuaJJ.fJcati.onA fan covenage subject to poJJcy wo tiding.. Pne-miums 4h.OA.zd. 5CP/° Company and 5(f/° Employee.
womens' compensation
Pequlned b y Pno vincJaJ Wonkens' Compensation.
Act. Adminlstened b y Wonkens' Compensation Boand. Covenage fon employee fon injuny on death sustained fnom occupatonai accident.
Covenage automatic finst day of employment,	HU
except fon fanm employees. Benefits - 9CP/o of pnevious yean ‘s net income while away fnom wonk, plus alt medical expenses, hospitalisation, dnugs, dental, glasses, clothing., etc.
Pension fon spouse and dependent chUdnen up to 18 yeans in event of death subject to applicable tennis and conditions.
SICK LEAVE
Effective the day of notification (August 31,
1987) of a pnevious Agneement the old sick leave plan was tenminated and no funthen benefits have accnued. Benefits eanned and not used up to August 31, 1987 will b e netained by each employee untU used up in the mannen pnovided in tie Plan. The Plan then ends.
$ 2.62 pen $100 of payno-U. (1991 note)
TOtAL
$ 2.62
outline of empiwee welfare plan duping 1991 &1992
SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS! Cont'd)
TENSION VLAN
yEATUJJ COST
ion each year an employee. particlpateA in the Pension Plan the employee will be entitled to a pension of 1/ of annual eamingA. The final pension at retirement will be 2% time*
EMPIDUEE 5% of Q/104-)
CCMPANy Balance of the
coot
the number of yearA a n employee Ia a member of the Plan timet the average of the bett five of the employee 'a final ten yeaAA eam-ingA, 4u.bf.ech to a maximum of 70%. Optional fonmA of penAion and other detailA of the penAion plan one fully deAcribed In a PenAion Booklet provided by the Compaq.
The Company Death Benefit, Total and Permanent DiAability Benefit, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit and PenAion Plan oa negotiated between tie Partie* Ahall continue and remain in effect for the life of the Agreement or unleA4 terminated b y the mutual content of both partleA to this Agreement. It Ahall be a condition of employment, that all new full-time employee* participate in this
Plan.
(THIS SPACE LEFT INTENTJON ALU BLANK)
OUTLINE OF EM? LEVEE WELT Am ?LAN DIMING 1991 & 1992
SNCW3NQ BENEFITS AND COSTS (Coni'd)
DENTAL PLAN
A basic dental plan will be provided. The plan will provide coverage of. 10Cf/o basic dental, 5CF/o dentistry and 5CP/a orthodontics.
	Single	EMPLCVEE	COMfANy	tOiAL
August 1, 1991	Shared Cost Family.	35% (Ter Month) $ 8.82	65% $16.38	10CF/o $25.20
August 1, 1991	Shared Cost	35% (Ten Month) $22.79	65% $9-2.31	10CP/o $65. 10