00466 (06)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUBJECT	CLAUSE	PAGE
Acting Coordinator	2	49
Arbitration				20-26	10
Benefit Approval			32	14
BENEFIT PI.ANS		
Dental Plans 			B-19	47
Group Life 			B-22	48
Illness and Accident 			B-17	45
Long Term Disability 			B-20	47
Medical and Hospital Plan			11-IB	46
Pension Plan			U-21	48
Vision Care Plan 			B-23	48
Bereavement Pay			B-9	38
Bulletin Boards			42	22
Check-Off			51	26
Coordinators 			41	22
Discipline and Discharge 			27-30	12
Grievance Committee 			13	8
Grievance Procedure			14-19	8
Guaranteed Work Plan	 Holidays		11-11	40
(Recognized Plant) 	 Hours ofWork		B 6	35
(Normally Assigned Hours)		29
Job Opportunity			B-15	43
Job Raies 			45,46	24
Jury Duty			B-8	38
Lay-Off			34,38,39	14-17
Leave of Absence 			40	17-21
Letters of intent		58
Lunch Periods 			B-l	30
Management (Grievance Procedure) .. .		31-32	13
Negotiating Committee			8	6
SUBJECT	CLAUSE	PAGE
New Jobs			B-16	44
No Strikes or Lockouts 			6	5
Overtime Regulations 			B-5	33
Payment of Wages			B-10	39
Plant Closure			53	27
Probation 			33,34	14
Purpose 			1	3
Rate Protection			47-49	24
Rates			C-4	49
Recall			37-39	15
Recognition			3	4
Relationship			4
Redesign			30
Reporting Allowance			B-3	31
Reservation of Management Rights . . .		7	5
Rest Periods			B-2	31
Safety and Health 			43	23
Safety Shoes 			B-13	42
Scope 			2	3
Seniority Probationary Employees . . . .		33-3G	14
Settlement Pay			C-l	49
. . _ 		 Skilled Trades		B-7	37
Job Identification			C-3	49
Stewards (Qualifications, etc.) 			9-12	7
Student A New Hire Rates			C-5	50
Technological Change			44	23
Termination or Modification 			52	27
Time and Attendance 			B4	32
Tool Allowance			13-14	43
Transfers -Permanent 			36(a)	15
Temporary			36(b)	15
Union President			6
Union Security 			50	25
Vacation Plan		. . . .Sch “D"	25
Wage Bonus			B-12	42
Wage Rates A Job Classifications ....		C-6	51
■2-
< :< >i .UK :ti v !■: A(; lUiKM uni'
isktyykkn
111I-: QUAKliK OATS COMPANY CjP CANADA LIMITIil), Peterborough, a Company existing linden the laws of ihc Dominion ol'Cnnmla, licicinalier called "die Company”,
of (lie hirst Pail mill
TlliiCANADIAN AUTO WOKKIiKS I.OCAI, ld%, representing (Iic employees of Ihc Company, licrciniiHer culled “the Union",
of Ihc Second I’tjil
Whereas Ihc Union has established id the satisfaction of the Company that the majority of the employees of die Company in die anil hereinafter s|iccilied have become njembers ol Ihe Union, and dial il is therefore cut it led to rcprescnl the employees in the lierc-inaller described unit us the collective bargaining agent.
l'imposr,
I. The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations helweeli the Company and its employees and to provide machinery lor Ihc prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, amino establish and maintain salisfaclory work hip, conditions, lionrs and wapes for all employees who arc subject to the provisions of this agree-nicnl.
SCOI’K
2. This apreement applies to all employees of the Company in its Peterborough Plant except:: Office Staff, Duality Assurance Inspectors, l.ahoralory: Technicians, lixecutive Oliiccis, Sales Ueprescnlatives, tDepartment Managers, Coordinators and any confidential.employee or employees
who act in a supervisory capacity or who have autliorily to exercise discipline over employees on lieludf ol'lhc Company.
The Company will, if requested, supply the Union with a list of employees holding supervisory |K>sition and will indicated by appropriate job titles the nature and extent of their authority.
Tito Company will supply the Union every two months with the following information:
1,	Employees who arc in the Bargaining Unit regardless of whether or not they paid dues in the month.
2.	Employee name, joh classification and hourly rale.
4.	Employees transferred into or mil of the Bargaining Unit.
4.	Employees status (i.c.: I&A, l,TD and WCIi).
5.	Layoff and recalls and the date of occurrence.
6.	Name and addresses of new employees.
RECOGNITION
.1. The Company acknowledges that the employees in the union described above have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent, and recognize die Union as such for all employees in the said Union.
The use of the masculine gender in Ibis Agreement shall lie considered also to include Ihe feminine.
RELATIONSHIP
4. Ttic Company agrees dial (here will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership in, or connection with, the Union, and Ilia) membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible io join, will not be discouraged.
4
The Union agrees that there will bp no iniiini<!;itton. inlciicr cnee, ivslrainl or coercion exencised or practised upon employees of the Company hy an*' of its members or repre-seniattves and lha! there will be up solicitation fonnember-ship, collection of dues or other Union aelivity on die premises of Ihe Company during an employee’s working hours.
NONTRIKKS OK LOCKOUTS
(\. The Company agrees that it will n<H cause or direct any lockout of its employees and the Union agrees that there will he no strikes or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production, and lhal if any such collective action should he taken, the Union will icfpudinte such an ac!ion hy its members through a display notice published in the local daily newspaper as soon as possible after the occurrence and it will instruct its members to earri’ out the provisions of the Agreement and return to work and xniorm their duties in the usual manner.
UKSUKVATION OK MANAOlt.MKNT UKH1TS
7.	The Union acknowledges that it isi die exclusive (unction of the Company to:
(a)	Mainlaiu order, discipline am efficiency.
{!>) Hire, discharge, transfer, proipole, demote or discipline employees, provided that a chum ol'discriminalory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance, and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(e)	(lenerally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, aid without restricting the generality of the foregoing to lelermine the number ami location of plains, the products to he manufactured, method of manufacturing, schedules of production.
kinds and locations of machines- and Idols lo be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, ilic engineering and designing of its products, and the control of materials and parts io be incorporated in die products
produced.
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The Company acknowledges die light of the Union loappoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not mom than live employees, plus a National Representative lor the Union and will recognize and deal with tins said Committee with res[>ec( io any matter which properly arises from time lo time during (lie term of this Agreement, and the said Committee will co-operate with the Company in the administration of this Agreement. Such employees in the Negotiating Committee may be appointed or otherwise selected finmi any area or department within the plant and there will he no limitation as lo how many from one department may he selected.
it is agreed that either the Company or the Union may luing to (he process any consultant (hat might assist (he parlies by providing information as long as it is pre-arranged by belli panics.
It is dearly understood that die Negotiating Committee i.s a separate entity from the Grievance Committee and will deal only with such matters as are properly the subject of negotiations including proposals fdr the renewal or modification of this Agreement a! the proper time.
The Company will pay the costs of the meeting mom lor the first lONcgoliations meetings, and the cost will he split thereafter be! ween the Company land the Union.
UNION PRESIDENT
Hie Company will make all reasonable effort io accommodate
(he Union President. Where possible, the Union President will be scheduled io the dny shifl.
STKWAUUN
9.	Tlie Company acknowledges the ribht of the Union to
appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of Stewards io assist employees in presenting their grievances io the rep rcsentiitives of the Company. Tlie dumber of such Stewards and the /one within which each 011L' is io function is as follows:
Department llot Cereals ('old Cereals Shipping Maintenance Milling and Elevators Laboratory Heady to Hal
Number of Stewards
2
2
2
I
i
In the event that the Union is mmole to appoint a /one Steward horn within a department, a temporary Steward may he appointed for a period not exceeding 90 days. The Union will notify the Human Resources Office of the temporary appointment.
QUALIFICATION OF STKljVAUDS, FTC.
10.	Tlie Union agrees that employees shall not he eligible io serve as Officers of the Union until Ihcv Have been for a least three months immediately preceding nominations, a member in continuous good standing and no employee shall tic cligihlc to serve as Stewards in committee members until after they have saved their probationary periods.
11.	Tlie Union acknowledges that Stewards, members of Committees and Union officers h;|ve regular duties Io perforin on behall of the Company aiuluhal such persons will not
leave llieir regular duties witliout obtaining the permission ol' llieir supervisor or immediate supervisor, and will give any reasonable explanation which may be requested with respect io llieir absence.
12.	It is clearly understood that Stewards and other Union Officers will not absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order io deal with the grievances of employees, or with oilier Union business; and that in accordance with this understanding the Company will compensate such employees tor time spent in negotiating with the Company, in handling grievances of employees, at their regular rate of pay and that this does not apply to time spent on such matters outside of regular working liurirs.
GRIEVANCE COMMIITKK
13.	The Grievance Commitlee ithall he composed of the Union President, or in his absence the Union Vice-President, the Chief Steward, or in his absence the Assistant Chief Steward and the Steward who isrepfesenting the employee. Tlie grievor or the Coordinator may be available at all steps of the grievance procedure, at the request of cither the Union or the Company.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
14.	it is the mutual desire of the parlies hereto that grievances of employees shall he adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until lie lias first given his Coordinator an opportunity of adjusting his grievance, and if an employee has any opinion or question which he wishes to discuss with the Company he shall lake the matter up with his immediate Coordinator, and he will be accompanied by the Zone Steward of his choice, when available, 11 be requests such assistance.
L'lie Union and the Company agree that grievances not entered into under the grievance procedure within 10 working
iliivs alter the grounds of the grievance occurred. shall not he processed. II is also mutually agreed Mini when either parly decides not to process the grievance further, the parly so deciding will advise the other patty in writing. It is further understood (hat the above lime liiinil shall not apply in those instances involving an error in an letnployee pay.
Where an employee is caller to a meeting {fact finding) where discipline may result, he n ay lie accompanied l>y the steward of his choice, if he requests such assistance.
15.	II such grievance is not settled lo the satisfaction of the employee concerned within one I) working day or within any longer period which may he miulually agreed upon at the time, the following steps of the grievance procedure may he invoked in order.
S I Ml' NO. I
16.	The /one Steward or the Chief Steward, shall stale the grievance of the employee (or employees) in writing and shall deliver a copy to the immediate Coordinator of the employee concerned. After such discussiion as is necessary (he Coordinator shall stale his decision or his refusal lo make a decision in writing with appropriate reasons, and deliver a copy to the Human Resources Manager and to the /one Slcward and the Chief Steward wit tin one (I) working day or a lime mutually agreed upon.
STKI* NO. 2
17.	Within two (2) working days after flic Coordinator has delivered his wiittcn decision to the /.c nc Steward and the Chid Steward, the following procedure \ all he followed:
The grieva nee shall he considered |U a meeting of (lie Union (iricvancc Committee and if unrcsi Ivcd, shall he taken up til a meeting between the /.one Steward and IheCIrievor with the Department Manager, the (irievor*} Co-ordinator.
If the Grievance is not settled within (2) working days, or within any longer period which may be mutually agreed upon at the time, after the Grievance Committee has met with the Management, then the Grievance shall lie taken up at Step
No. 3.
In the event that any party fails to comply to the time limits referred in Step No. I, and Step No. 2, the other party may process the grievance to the next step of the grievance procedure. Ity mutual undasianding the parties may agree io extend the time limits at a ly step of the grievance procedure.
STIil' NO. 3
IX. A meeting shall lie held lictwecn the Grievance Committee and the I’lant Manager and/or the Operations Services Manager/Manul'acuiring Manager, Human Resources Manager, ai d Oepamiienl Manager.
At this meeting the National Representative of the Union or his nominee may he present if his presence is requested hy either the Company or the Union. If the grievance is not there settled lo the satisfaction of both parties within a |x:riod of two (2) working doys or within any longer period as may lie mutually arranged at the time, then at the request of either patty to this agreement die grievance may be referred to arbitration. All limes as set out in the Grievance I’roccdurc and Arbitration may he extended hy mutual agreement tielwcen the Company and the Union, in writing.
IV. If arbitration is io be invoked, the request for arbitration must he made in writing within ten (10) working days after the grievance lias been dealt with in .Step No. 3,
AUIIITKATION
20.	When either party requests that a grievance lie submitted i0 arbitration they shall make such requests in writing addressed io the oilier party to this agreement. Within ten (10) working
10
days ihereafter, the parly who initialed the grievance shall submit a letter to the oilier party giving the name anil address of its nominee to the arbitration boprd. With five (5) working days thereafter the other party shaljl respond in a letter giving the name and address of its nominee to the arbitration board. The two arbitrators so nominated shall meet within 10 working days, and if within 2 working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt h, select by agreement a ('hnirmnn of an Arbitration hoard.; II they mu unable to agree upon such a Chairman within a further period of 50 days they may then request the Minister of lfabour for the Province of Ontario to assist them in selecting in impartial Chairman.
21.	No person may he appointed as ap arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate :>r settle the grievance.
22.	Uadi of the parlies hereto will ben the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the pa ties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the A bit rat ion hoard, if any.
2d. No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
24. 'The Arbitration hoard shall not Ire authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement nor to alter, modify or amend any pari of this agreement.
24.	A When a grievance which affects an employee’s pay is settled,
the settlement may be made retroactive for a period as agreed to by the conferring parlies nr by a majority decision of a hoard of Arbitration, but in no ease will the settlement be made retroactive for a period greater Ilian two months prior to the last date on which (lie grievance was presented in writing to the Company.
25.	The proceedings of the Arbitration Hoard will be expedited by the parties licreto, mid (tie decision of Hie majority of such hoard will he final and buttling upon die parties hereto.
:essary witnesses, and
ace
bo discharged for rea
Any employee on the senibrity list is entitled* prior to the imposition of suspension dr discharge, to he notified at a meeting with management of the reasons for considering such action, 'flic employee shall be accompanied by the Zone Steward of his choice, whrn available, i I he requests such assistance, wlio shall lie advised in advance by management of die time and place of the meeting.
Employees shall he notifiedltn writing of the grounds Tor suspension or discharge. The Chief Steward and Zone Steward shall receive copies within one (I) working day of the action.
The employer shall provide he employee, the Chief Steward and the Zone Sieward witl copies of any written warnings affecting the employee. A ty reply by the employee shall become part of ins record It is understood that ujxhi an
12
employee arises lo work lor ihe Company. I'urllier action on lliis mallei will commence at Step No. 2 of the (iiievimcc Procedure.
2‘J. Sneh special grievances may lx; settled hy any arrangement which is just anil eijiiitahle in Ihe opinion of the conferring pm tics. If the Union anil the Company I'ail lo resolve the grievance ami ihe mailer proceedso an arbitrator, an employee who so is reinstated shall receive lull compensation including all benellls and wages (includ ng premiums) provided it is consisieni with the arbitrator’s c :eision.
20.	When an employee has been dismissed without notice he shall have the right to inleivicw In Steward for a reasonable period ol lime before leaving the piani premises.
Records of discipline shall be removal from the employee’s file and shall not he used against h n or her. for any purpose, after two (2) years have expired f in the dale the discipline was taken.
Prior to ihe dismissal of an employee on (he seniority list the Company will meet with the Unit i lo provide rationale for their decision.
MANAUKMKNT
21.	It is understood dial the Management may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union iricvancc Committee any complaint with respect lo the eumducl o( the Union, its Oldens. or Stewards; and tha if such complaint by Management is not setded to Ihe nulual satisfaction of Ihe ennfciiing parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referral to arbitration in the same way as die grievance of an employee.
22.	During Ihe term of this Agrecmedl, meetings of Ihe Union executive with Management slmjl he held whenever Ihe
Union Committee submits in agenda of the business lo k* transacted and give 24 hours notice of the meeting.
SKNIOUITY 1'KOHATIONAUY KMI'UOYUKS
3.1. An employee will Cc considked on probation until he or she has worked 3h() hours. / l that time ho or she will lx: approved as a regular employee. Approval lor benefit purposes will commence the ijrsl of the month following the completion of 360 hours wi -kcd.
34. (a) New employees shall lave no seniority during the first 30 days worked. However, after working 30 days employees will lie placed on the plant-wide seniority lists and such seniority shall dale from Ihu date of their employment. Seniority is defined as the length of continuous service in the j’ctcrlxmuigli Plant.
(b)	An employee with seniority may apply plant-wide seniority when there is a reduction in t1»e working force so long as it does not i revenl the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who arc qualified to do the work whiel is available. "Wxk which is available” may include work in any department.
(e) An approved employep shall nol Ct laid olf prior io a probationary emph,j ee unless such probationary employee possesses it killed Trade and is a permanent employee of the Maintenance department.
(d) The Company reserves the right io decide die work assignment of empk /ces who excieisc section (b) Clause 34.
(c)	The Company shall repare and submit to the Chiel Steward and the n >rding Secretary of the Union, revised copies of tlu ant-wide seniority lists quarterly each year, and one ' I (>e posted on the main bulletin Hoard.
.VS. The soninrily provisions of this Agreement shall nol apply lo students spa ilicii!ly hired as sunniier help, Such employees, when hiial shall he required lo acknowledge ilieir lemporary slams hy signing a form provided lor this purpose by the {’ompany.
II an employee originally hired as siniinier help should ai a later dale desire to become a permanenl employee, the Company reserves the right lo accept or reject his application at that time. If the Company agrees lo allow such an employ ee lo convert to permanenl status his seniority shall date from the lime his stains is changed.
d(>. (a) A permanent transfer is when an employee is transferred to another job or receives a job under Clause Hid Job Opportunity and there is no intention of returning the employee to his former job. I employees affected will he so nntilied. ami will remain on their permanent jobs unless their job is eliminated or hy provision of Clause Hid or Clause .V>(hj or hy discharge from the Company.
(h) In ease of lemporary transfer for less than 30 working days, seniority need nol he followed. At the lime .such a lemporary transfer is affected, the Coordinator will indi-ealed to the employee involved the expected duration of the transfer. An employee so transferred will return to his regular job on completion of the period indicated if he so desires.
I,AYOI'’l' AND UKCAU.
37. Where it is neees\aiy to increase the working force of the employees, seniority will he the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the ('ompany from seem ing a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
In the event of the lay olV or recall of an employee with less than otic year's seniority die Company may, il'llio difference
IS
in seniority is 12 days or Iqss, tuy-nIT or recall wiiluml following die seniority list.
3X. The (Company will not boob iged io follow the seniority rules wIkjo nnlifying employees (I a lay-olT of two working days or less duration.
The Company will cndeavolir io minimize the scheduling of a lay-off under this clause w cncvcr practical. 'Hits provision shall be used in the event n an emergency or in the case of scheduled urea or total plant shutdowns, but shall not he used I’or the purposes of scheduling short work weeks of over two consecutive weeks. M'cxten led short work weeks arc necessary, Iny-olT will he mode ii accordance with Clause 34(1)).
39.	(a) Probationary employees who are laid off will he
retained on the Company Seniority l.isl for a period of three months.
i:or the purpose or l yolT and recall only, u regular employee who is laid offshall retain recall rights foi. a period equal io the seniority attained at the time of layoff or two(2) years, whichever is greater. While on lay off', all regular employees will continue io accumulate seniority for a nuiximu in of one (I) year with no loss of past seniority. Unless employees report io work within 7 working days after b ing requested to do so, duty will forfeit their claim to i -employment in the Company’s discretion. Imiploycc so requested to return to work must notify the Company within two (2) working days ol receiving such noli whether they intend io return oi not. All emplo :cs must keep the Company informed as io their ci 'em address and telephone nmii-l)cr. Notice of recall ill lx: considered received when the Company commit cates such notice by registered mail to the Iasi knov i address of the employee. In instances where the loinpany communicates such notice, but is unable t( mlact (he employee or receives no reply fro111 the on oyce, confirmation that notice has been given will lx upplied in writing io the Chief
Steward and the Recording SVerclary.
(h) In lay-oils oilier Ilian (hose wnneemed under Clause dX llie Company svill provide llie Chief Steward and Recording Secretary with lliclnames of those em|)loyees to he laid off within 2 days irior to a lay-off and will provide the names of those rehilled on the day of recall.
(e) Any employee while working for die Company, who is away ihrec Cl) eonseeutive dips and fails to report his or her absence during that pqrind without satisfactory explanation will he subject lo discipline up to anti including possible termination.
(d)	...........................................
following lay-off. When the first day of a month occurs during the last work week (!>f an approved employee subject to lay-off, such employee shall receive Company paid henclils for only the balance of lhal mouth. Approved laitl-olf Employees may purchase Company paid henelhs for ii period of up to one year alter lay-off.
40.	Special I .cave of Absence
The Company may grant leaves oMhscnco without pay to any approved employee lor legitimate personal reasons and any person who is absent with permission shall accumulate scnioiity during such leave, up in a period of six mouths, except elsewhere provided. Who e a leave of absence is planted for a period greater than stix months, the employee shall not continue to ‘accumulate seniority after six months from the dale the leave commences" he or she shall, however, ivlain die seniority accumulated to lhal date for the duration of 11is nr her leave. All rajuesls for leaves of absence nm.xl he made in writing ami teplied to in w|iting.
l.l1'.AVI'. OK AHSKNCK
I'l
I employees on special leavi (a) and (b) below, who to li/.c such leave of absence i fail io report on the conclus he subject io discipline up lion from the Company.
Employees on special leave full cost of any benefit pi must make arrangements premiums prior io departin
(a) heave of Absence lor
Subject Io the conti approved employees, department and not Plant at any one lime, granted it leave of ah maximum period for business. It is general granted is the amount unusual circumstance Company, an employ prior io die end of th iclurning employee, j perform the required previously held, suhjc the extension or retie made in the normal n
It is explicitly undersi above leave does not;
or absence of two d; require three working ualing circumstances three day notice in gi days or less.
I'absence, except as provided ii
noB other ■■{dB&BBfl or who
i of such leave of absence, may lid including possible lerniina-
llabscnce are responsible for the ts to which they stibscribc and illi the Payroll Department lor on sue!) leave of absence.
Inion Business
gencies of Company business, ol exceeding two from any on** ore than five in total from the |xm three weeks notice, shall be nice without pay lor a specified c purpose of attending to Union ' understood the amount of leave f leave io be taken. However, in upon thirty days notice io the ; who wishes to return Io work leave granted may do so. .Such nvided that he can satisfactorily rfork, will he placed on the job to liis seniority. Application for II of ii leave of absence may lx? nncr.
:kI that, .subject Io (h) below, the iply to election activities. Leave s or less under this clause will ays notice, hi the case ol’exien-tho Company may waive the tiling a leave of absence ol vo
Aii employee who is grained a leave of absence for Union business will, ivccivi ,vage ami benelil coverage from llie Company. 1 he C npany will then submit to ilie Union on a monthly has s expenses incurred for the period of llie leave and will i >e reiinluirsetl no laier Ilian one week afler the bill has Ipoen submitted.
(b) l.oave of Absence lor Public] Office
An approved employee who lias been officially nominated as a candidate for Municipal, Provincial or I'edcntl Public Office will, i|jpon three (3) weeks notice, l>e granted a leave of absence without pay ami without toss of seniority for campaign purposes for a period of no longer than the ofiicial pfescrilvd campaign period.
Any approved employee elected to a Municipal, Provincial or I Vdcral Public Office, which requires the full time services of the e nployee. will, upon three weeks, notice. In.* granted a( leave of absence without pay and wilhoul loss of senljoriiy fur the term of office to which lie is eleeled.
IC l.cave of Absence for Sickness or Injury
An employee exercising his light under this clause must provide two weeks notice ofihis desire to return to work and must satisfy the Compaq^ Physician that he is capable or reluming to work. In the ease of an employee whose period of sickness or injury exceeds the lime limits of this clause, the Company will consider the medical condition of (he employee as it may relate to his employment with the Company ami may at its discretion reinstate the employee. \n employee who is away from work on a leave of abs mee for sickness or injury will eoiuiuue to accumulate eniorily.
(d) Maternity I<eavc of Al
Tube eligible lor mate cc with at least 13 wei cd date of delivery, ’
I lea I lb Nurse a certitu practitioner stating tl expected to oceur.
The Company will gi weeks immediately | delivery and until th expected date of dclivi
Where an employee's because of her phys requirements, the pre-absence may be altcrei ion of a legally efuati employee who has her of absence extended d the pregnancy, may qit; the Illness ;ind Aecidci
The employee shall pr (Company, a certificat respect io bet safety ai any employee wlio eo shall he reinstated am mulatcd during her le Iwo weeks notice prior of absence, of her des reinstate the employee
An employee on an at of absence shall contin coverage paid by the t maternity leave of nbst
jnee
ily leave of absence an employ's service preceding the estimat-II present io the Occupational e by a legally qualified medical date upon which delivery is
tt a leave of absence up Io 17 seeding the cxfxxtlcd date of dale of delivery, or after the v.
latlh and safety are endangered ail condition and/or her job alal and/or post-natal leave of ifter receiving the written opined medical practitioner. Such re-natal and/or post-natal leave ; Io complications arising from ify tor benefits as defined under Plan.
luce, when so requested by the of her physical condition in health as referred io alxive and plies with the alxive procedure »iven credit for seniority accu-
c.	'llic Company will require i the employee’s pre-birth leave : io return Io work, in order io
mrized unpaid maternity leave ! io receive her existing benefit mipany during the term of her
eu.
(e) Marenl.il Leave of Absence
The Company will pram up iu 22 weeks unpaid parental leave following the hirlh of a child or the coming, of an adopted child into a parent'k custody, care and control lor Iho l it si lime. Moth parkins are eligible to lake 22 weeks.
l;or a natural mother, parenial leave eonnnences when pregnancy leave, ends or whjpi the hnby Him ironies into her ctislody, care and control.
Lor lathers and adoptive pnenls. parental leave must commence within 35 weeks, alter the hirlh or alter the child first comes into the custody, care and control of a patent.
1-niployces must give two weeks written notice prior to the commencement of the leave and the same before the dale leave is to end.
Seniority shall accumulate during such leave. An employee on an authorized parental leave shall continue to receive existing benefits coverage paid hy (lie ( oinpany.
(f)	Maternal and Adoption I .cave
An approved employee whose wife gives birth to a child or an approved employee who legally adopts a child shall receive, as lime off, the day of birth or the day the child is brought home or the day the adopted child is officially placed in the home. Where such a day falls on a day whore he is both regiflarly scheduled and available. I dr work he shall he compensated for K hours pay at Ids regular straight time Wise rale for the day.
21
CKNKRAI, PROVISIONS
41.	Coordinators
A non-bargaining unit employee of the Peterborough Plan! who transfers Into the bargain mg unit will do so wiLhout toss of seniority, but will he uiublc io exercise posting rights under clause IMS Job Opportunity for a period of one year after such a transfer. The m tsfer of micIi an employee will not result in the layoff of any bargaining unit employee and will not occur while any barpjiining unit employee is laid off.
Any employee hereafter pen lanently transferred to u supervisory or other ixisitioti whiqn is excluded from coverage of this agreement shall upon s ich transfer, lose all seniority rights in the bargaining unit <in the day in which such transfer becomes effective.
N o Coordinator or ircrsonncl alxive the rank of Coordinator will undertake to do any wor|c which is normally done by an hourly paid employee* cxcep
(a)	Instruction of new emp oyees or employees assigned io new jobs.
(b)	When qualified hourly workers arc not readily avail
able.
(e) In .in emergency.
11111,1,DTIN HOARDS
42.	'('lie Company will provide bulletin hoards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout he plant for the convenience of posting notices of Union activities. Two Inillctin boards loi. the exclusive use of the lb ) will be installed in u mutualty agreed location, in a non ] diiclion area. All such notices must be signed by the pm • officer of the Union and submitted to the Human Rest ees Manager or his authorized
representative for approval and polling.
Siil'd;v ami Health
43.	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during their hours of employment as outlined in the Ontario Occupational Health and Safely Act.
"('linages to the Workers’ Compensation Act, Hill 162, in conjunction with the I Inman Rights /'el, set up a mechanism for the return to work of employee? who have been disabled through illness or accident, wlicl'ier work related or otherwise.
The Company agrees to establish a Modified Work Committee to he comprised of 3 Union and 3 Management representatives. The mandate of the Modified Work Committee will he to facilitate thuabove mentioned return to work process. This will he accomplished through one or a combination of modifications of me employee's regular job, same department • different job, different department - differ cut job, composite job, project wiv k or level entry jobs. The #3 I Elevator will be idenliiied as a evel entry job”
Tailing the above process, at the equest of the Company or the Union, representatives of both parties will meet to evaluate job opportunities for ntndilici work when a job posting becomes available through: attrition, an employee posting om of a job, or through the creation o a new job.
Technological Change
44.	In the event of the installation of new equipment that will resitli in the reduction of the working force the Company will, in advance as lar as practical before (lie installation of sucl) equipment meet with the tin on and provide them with data regarding the proposed insini at ion, number and classification of employees likely to l>o alTeeletl by the change.
23
The (Jnion acknowledges that in no way does (lie foregoing impede the ri^ht of the Company lo make technological changes and that such changes may lie made at the sole discretion of the Company.
In the event an employee is permanently transferred io a lower rated joh as a result of Technological Change such an employee will continue to receive this regular joli rate lora period of three months.
HOURS ANI) OTHER WORKING CONDITIONS
A Schedule “B" ami appendix thereto respecting the hours of work, recognized plant holidays, overtime conditions and rates and ccr tain other working conditions or rules governing the same.
JOII RaiTEN
45.	Kmployees shall he paid theapplicable joh rate provided for in Schedule "C” - Schedule of Rales, for jobs they perform when they become qualified.
employees working on a higher rated job for 4 hours or more in it day/shilT shall he paid Ihq higher rate for all hours worked in that day or shift.
46.	“Qualified” as used above shall mean, ability io perforin the job without instruction or assistance.
RATH PROTECTION
47.	Rate Protection is designed io protcel an employee’s “regular rate” in the event that lie is transferred to a lower rated job for reasons other than demotion or at the employee's request. The “regular rule” is established when tut employee is permanently transferred lo a joh as defined in Clause 36(a) of this agreement ami has become qualified for the job as defined in Clause 46.
24-
Provided the above conditions «(rc inei, an employee n<ms-I'cnvtl lo a lower ratal job shall minimum his regular job rale
for a period of 30 working days.
48.	No subsequent transfer ol’ less han live (5) working days (return in excess ol' four (4) boors is return for a day) shall interrupt or renew the 30 workinj day rale protection.
49.	If a transfer Jo a lower rated job \s made at the request of die employee, he shall receive the lower rate immediately.
VACATION 1*1 .AN
A Schedule ”1)’* for the vacation privileges of employees and the
conditions upon which (he same are planted.
UNION NKClJftITY
30. (a) The Company agrees that it shall he a condition of employment that any employee who, al the date of this agreement, was a member <4 the Union in good standing, or who Incomes a member after that date, shall maintain such tnembershili during the term of this agreement.
(h) Any employee lo whom Clause (a) of litis article applies may resign from member.'hip in the Union between October 15 and November J, 1007 both dates inclusive, and his employment shall it t thereby he affected.
Sneli employees, however, will be required lo continue to pay union dues for the deration of this Agreement. Employees in the bargaining unit, who al any time have Ik'Cii members of The Canadian Auto Workers, l.oeal 1090 shall be required to p,<y union dues for the duration of this Agreement. )Io\ 'ever, such employees shall not be required to become members of the Union in onler to remain in Ihc employment of the Company.
(c)	New employees hired subsequent io Hie .signing of ibis Agreement ami remaining in die employment of die Company shall, sign an authorization io cheek off union dues ;uul such check-off shall continue in effect for the duration of the Agreement. However, such new employees shall not lx: required io Ixxomc members of the Union in order io remain in the employment of the Company.
(d)	No employee shall be subject io any penalties against his application lor membership or lor reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may lx: provided in the Constitution and bylaws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall he practised to umi|>cl or influence an employ :c to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practised or permitted with respect io employees who are or who become members of the Union.
(0)	If an employee asscris that he has been unfairly deprived of membership in tlte Union, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall he dealt with according Io the Grievance Procedure established by (his agreement.
(1)	Employees who arc recalled and return io work after lay-off shall automatically pay union dues lor (lie current month in which they tire recalled, provided they had previously been in the employ of the Company and were subject to Union dues.
(g)	An information form shall be supplied by (he Union to be distributed io new employees by the Company.
CIIKCK OKI'1
51.	On receijrt ol instructions in writing from any employee forwarded through (he Secretary of (he Union, the Company agrees to deduct the regular weekly Union dues from an
26
employee's pay, and in remit the Ijotal sum of the amounts so deducted together with a list of lull employees from whom such deductions have hecn made Ihroughoul lo the Mnaneial Seereiai y of the Union on u weekly basis.
TKKMINATION OR MOilHHCATION
52.	The Agreement shall continue in effect until the 51st day of October 1997 and unless either pluly gives notice in writing lo the puny thin amendments tire; required, or lhai the parly intends lerminaling the Agreement, then il shall eonlinne in effect until the .list clay of Octohcir 1998 and soon from year to year thereafter.
Noliee that ameiulmeiits are rcipiircd, or that either party intends to laminate the AgrccniciM, tmisi lx; given at least 30 days prior to the 31st day of October 1997, or at least 30 days prior lo the expiration ol any annua! period thereafter.
The parties herein agree lo meet for the purpose of negotiations within 10 days after the giving of such notice, and if, as a result of such negotiations, the, parlies fail to negotiate a new agreement or modification of the present agreement prior to the 31st day of October 1997 following the dale of such noliee, then this Agreement shall!remain in force under the provisions of the Ontario Labour delations Act.
PLANT CLOSURK
53.	The Company shall advise the U on as soon as possible of a total Plant Closure. Such noliee tail be in writing and indicate Ihc reason for the action.
The Union and the Company w meet immediately lo discuss the contemplated shutdown villi a view io providing a process lo assist employees so el eled.
THIi OUAKI'K OATS COMPANY OP CANADA I.IMITGD

IllliC A N A D IA S AUTO WORKKRS - LOCAL 19%
Dale: Sept. 11/96
- 28
SCIIKDHI.K ir
HOURS Of1' WORK, OVKKTIiVlK RKOUUATIONS,
shut bonus, ounurai. wouhino condition, kto.
NORMALCY ASSIONUD IIODUS:
The normal hours of work shall In: lorlV hours per week, consisting of live eight hour days, Monday llm ugh h'riday inclusive:. The foregoing shall noi lie amsirual as a gt' uniitec of a minimum mun-hcr of hours nor as a limit on the Coi ipany lo schedule hours in excess of the normal work day or the normal work week.
The Company agrees to post normal spirting and quilling limes for each department or sections within a department uni later than 2:00 pan. Thin sday of the previous week. Kkccpl in the event of unforeseen eireumslanecs an employee's shift) as posted shall remain con-slant throughout the week.
The first shift will Marl between the hours of 10:00 pan. and 12:00 aan.. The second shift shall start helv en the hours of 6:00 aan. and K:()l) n.m.. The third shift will star, between the hours of 2:00 pan. and 4:00 pan.. The appropriate si ill bonus will apply.
I he Stationery Engineers' 12 hour shill shall Ik* recognized exclusive of the normal hours of work and die overtime provisions pertaining to payment over 8 hours. Bereavement Bay, Jury Duty and Illness and Aecident shall accommodate the 12 hours shift.
Notwithstanding a provision pcilaimne to the introduction of a modified work schedule, exclusive of he norma! work week and normal overtime regulations may ho in plemenled. When Ihe normal hours of work including attainable scheduled overtime do nni enable the Company to meet prm action requirements, the Company with the Union and those ei ployecs affected will consult lo determine a work schedule dial i ay enable us to meet those production requirements.
24-
hi<di:.sk;n ci.au,si<:
•l lio Company and (lie Union recognize Ilia inevitability of change anil the need fnv an operative approaches in dealing will) Ih' effects of change in the workplace.
"Ilia Company and Union faal a pm cv of redesigning ilia way in which our systems operate is necessary and as such, support redesign cITorts lor the long term viability of the organization. Teams comprised of hourly and salaried personnel may he formed mid challenged to analyze systems within our o|)eration. with die goal of providing recommendations lor improvement, io the Improvement Team. Should any such recommendations exceed the boundaries of this Collective Agreement the Company and Union Negotiating Committees (L.A.M.A.) shall work together in good faith lo resolve said issues.
Through these process redesign efforts self directed business units tire encouraged and etui he implemented whom they can lie properly trained, supported and compensated. Hourly personnel will nol tx: responsible for hiring, Tiring, job elimination or discipline of other hourly personnel or salaried staff.
Innovative changes shall nol give any employee a seniority advantage over tiny more senior employee in determining preference for joli opportunity, lay off or recall.
And finally nothing in litis clause shall prevent die Union or the Company from carrying out its traditional and eontraclual obligations.
Ill I.IJNCH I’KHIODS
employees working on shifts lor which unpaid lunch periods are scheduled will he allowed time lor lunch without pay. Such employees shall lie notified of the time of their lunch period when they are notified of their assigned shift.
ill)
On shills where unpaid lunch periods arc uni possible or practical. employees will be alloyed thiily ininules lor lunch with pay. The foregoing shall lie inclusive ol'11 ml period ol' lime from when an employee lc;|ves his work station until he relimis to same.
It is understood that lunch periods may be shivered in order lo maintain conlimious pmducMi. However, no employee shall be reijiiired to lake his lurch period earlier than three hours alter his shift starts, nor liter than five hours afler the start of the shift. employees working a continuously scheduled two or three shift opcrnliofn will he entitled lo a pair! lunch period until such time that they are scheduled to a second week, day shift nperuliun where it is possible and practical to receive an unpaid lunch period. At that lime an unpaid lunch period will he scheduled.
bunching and smoking will he confined lo limes and areas designated by the Coordinator.
U2 ki:st muons
The Company will grant a rest period of 10 minutes in the first half and 10 minutes in the second half of each shift, the l>criod to he allotted al the discretion of the Coordinator.
1U KKPOUTINO ALLOWANCK
An employee who repen ts for work at his normal lime, unless otherwise notified, shall be provided with at least four hours work at the employee’s correct irate of pay. If no suitable work is available Ihc employee-shall he paid one-half the number of hours normally assigned on that shift or day. In ease of forced shutdown or employee work stoppage, the same does not apply.
The foregoing shall not apply in res|)ccl lo any employee returning from vacation who fail* to ascertain from the work schedules posted on department bulletin hoards as lo which
shift ho or she is to report lo work.
The Company will continue it’s present practice of trying lo notify till employees as io when lo return io work.
114 TIMK ANI) ATI'I’.NDANCI1'.
Limployccs sire expected to report lor work and he at their work assignments on time. When an employee is unahlc io report lor work lic/she will notify his/her Coordinator half an hour, or as soon as possible before his/her starting time. 'Ilic company realizes extenualing circumstances may occur dial result in an employee not being able lo repon lor work at the start of his or her scheduled shill. In such rase the employee should notify his or her Coordinator as soon as possible.
Umployccs will card in at the Ixxrking terminal using their own card only. If an employee is one or two minutes laic, no deduction is made, h'rom Ihrce Lo liftcen minutes laie a lull fifteen minutes is deducted, and thereafter in a similar way Ity fifteen minute periods.
Note: Penalties will be levied against the total of regular assigned hours or from Ihe total of overtime hours according lo the period in which Ihe lateness occurred, i.e. employees who are laie during regular assigned hours shall not suffer penalties by way of deductions from overtime hours worked.
I'ail me I o card in or out will be penalized fifteen minutes pay lor each missed hooking. If Ihe arrival hooking is missed then the employee must card in and old upon departure.
Carding out early without approval of Coordinator will he penalized fifteen minutes pay.
Overtime worked must he approved by the Coordinator and initialled hy the Coordinator on the Time and Attendance report.
32
lunployees on shift work will remain on their assigned jobs limit properly relieved or until the end of their regular shift.
B5 OVKUTIMK KK(aJhATIONS
1.	Overtime shall he paid at tlio rate of one nntl one hall limes the regular straight time rate fonall work:
a. inexecss of eight (X) hours in one day or shil'i as defined in Clause h
h. for all hours outside the normally scheduled hours of work provided the employee completes his regular shift except as provided hy Clause 4.
e. lor all hours in a re-schedtded shift (as defined in Schedule "\\" - midnights, days or afternoons) which have been changed at Company reijuesl with less than 16 hours notice.
d.	no overtime or premium payments will lx: computed twice on the same horns worked, but the highest single premium shall apply'.
e.	Idr all hours worked on Saturday except as provided hy Clause 2.
2.	Overtime shall be paid at a rate of double lime the regular straight lime for all work in excess of twelve (12) hours within the period of a day as defined In Clause ,C and for all hours worked on Sunday.
An employee who is working on a Saturday and who has completed X consecutive hoiks worked shall be paid at a rate of double time the regular straight time rale for all work pei formed over the first X hours.
2. A day. when mentioned in the Agreement, is understood to be the 24-hour period, beginning at cither l():0()p.m.. I l:()0p.ni.
or 12:00 midnight, depending upon what schedule til'shifts die employee is working on. h is also I'unher understood when an employee is rcrgiircd D split Ids orhcrcighl (8) hour shill the hours worked on the second shill shall lie paid at overtime rales
When overtime is required, Ihe Company will oiler it in the following manner:
(a) I'irsl, io employees scheduled io and working on the job;
(I,) Secondly, to employees working on Ihe jolt;
(e)	Thirdly, io Ihe qualified employees who relieve on the joh as part of the relief schedule;
(ci) Next, when practical, io employees (Misled Io the joh hut not working on the joh at that time;
(e) lb oilier departmenl employees qualified io do the work
(|) 'lb other employees in the plain who am qualified Io do Ihe work
When seeking employees io perform overtime work, the Company will make every reasonable effort to fairly distrilv ale overtime amongst qualified employees who are willing to do Ihe work. When (hem are multiple incumbents the Company will ask the senior employee first, ami rotate through all Ihe icniaining iucumhcnls, following in seniority, until all employees have liccn given an o|iportumly tit overtime. 'file amount of overtime scheduled for any employee will lie held williin the limits of Company policy (a maximum tolal of 12 consecutive hours worked including straight time) when: reasonable and practical. Only in the event that no allurnulivc qualified employee is readily available will the Company require the ineuinlienl or temporarily assigned employee Lo work Ihe overtime.
.14-
I. If ;m employee is ulT work (Hie to illness or authorized absence other than al the employee's request in a sliil'l, lhal time I hill he would otherwise ha\ e worked will lie tounied as lime worked for die purpose of e ileulaling his eight (X) hours for the day in which the lost tim< occurred.
5.	The ('onipany will notify employees who may he required to work scheduled overtime on Sa urdays and/or Sundays not later than Thursday of the wee . in which the overtime is required. In the cvenl of unfor seen overtime on Saturday and/or Sunday Incoming necess.ny, the Company agrees to notify employees who may he r Ljnireil to work, as soon as possible.
6.	An employee required to work on any Ueeognized Haul Holiday, as provided for in (‘lame IHi shall he compensated for such work al the rale ol lime md one half his regular rale of pay in addition to the X hour.1 Recognized Plant Holiday pay.
7.	An employee working 2 hours ol overtime following his regular S hour shilt will receive a p; id lunch period on addition he/she shall he paid lor ihcir nor nally scheduled lunch periods during his/her regular X hour diifl.
X. Tinployecs called out lo do a special job shall he paid I limes for hours worked (uol less than an amount equal to A hours al regular rate). In cases v here the work extends into the employee's regular shill, pay will reverl to siraiglil lime for those hours worked on his regular shill, subject to applicable provisions of die paragraphs thovc. Note: A call-out for a special joh is one requiring skills not available and may involve more than one emergency repair.
lib ui*;co(;ni/i:i) plant iiom|>ay.s
I he plant holidays recognized by the Union and the Company arc
as follows:
New Year’s Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day 4 Floating Holidays
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
August Civic Holiday
In (he first year of the contract Hie lour Floating I lotidnys will he: December 27th, December 28lh, December 2()th, 1995 and August 30th, 19%.
In the second year of the contract the four Floating Holidays will
be;
December 27th. December 30lh, and December .list, 19% with (he 4th floating holiday lo he jointly determined by the Company and the Union.
•Stationary Engineers wurking on Christmas Day or New Years Day will he paid ai double time lor all hours worked.
Haeh employee shall, for each of these recognized Plant Holidays, be paid lor X hours at his straight time base rate provided:
(a) he has over 30 days service
(1>) he completed his reguhjrly assigned shift immediately prior io, and immediately following such holiday or has an authorized leave of absence immediately prior io, or immediately following such holidays will not cause the employee to lose the holiday pay.
(c) an employee may further qualify for holiday pay it
(lj his absence IVunji his regularly assigned shift before and/or after the holiday was due io death in the immediate fm^ily
Note:	Immediate family included Mother, Father, Wile, Husband,
own Child, Brother, Sisieri Father in-l.aw, Molher-in-I.aw, Sister-in-l .aw, Brolher-in-taw, Grandfather, (rrandmother,
Niece or Nephew, Step-Mot icr, or Step-bather, Son-in-l.aw. Daughler-iii-l .aw. (ban children and (Iramlparents-in-I.aw.
(2)	he worked some lime in the week previous lo or following Ihe holiday and his absence I'rom his regularly assigned shift before and/or alter die holiday resulted from him being hospiiali/ed or personally ill and lie it able lo furnish proof of his illness in the form of a Doctor’s Certificate.
It is understood that i i no ease will an employee be paid both Illness a ut Accident bcnclit and holiday pay for the same day. However, such an employee will not reedve less than an amount equivalent to his holit ay pay.
(3)	he reports for his regularly assigned shift before or after the holiday bt t fails to complete it because be is sent hoi to by Management due to illness. An employee ccqiiired to work on any such recognized Plant 1 loliday shall be compensated for sueii work ai the rate of lime and one lull his rale of pay in ’ddilinn to Ihe X hours recognized Plant I loliday nay
117 SHUT BONUS
The third shift shall receive a shi I bonus at 3% ol’lhe base rate and Ihe first shift shall reeeis: a shift bonus at 4(/r of Ihe base rale.
It is agreed dial payment of shift premiums applies It) hours worked during the first shift or third shift. However, for tin employee to qualify for the prem uni in a shift oilier than his regularly scheduled shift, the employee must work for over an hour in the other .shift.
1st Year 2nd Year
Ihl	3rd
.(W	.31
.'in	.32
1*7
UK JURY DUTY
When ail employee is called liy tlie drown io serve on a jury or is subpoenaed as a wimissdie Company shall paythodil'
I'erenee between the fee i..~ivcd from die crown and die
employee's regular daily rale excluding shift or other premiums up to X hours |>cr day with a maximum or40 hours per week provided:
(a) the employee furnishes pi oof of service
(h)	provides the Company with al least 4X hours notice ol when lie is io report
(c)	returns io work if he is called and not kepi
(d)	such duty falls on n regularly scheduled work day the employee would have worked.
(I is expressly understood tha| false claims for jury duly pay may result in disciplinary aclilm up Io and ineludiug possible termination from the Company, limployie shall mean an approved regular full lime employee of the Company.
Ill) IlliUl'.AVKMI'.NT l*AY
An employee absent from work solely due io a death in his or lua immediate family during jieriiRls when lie or she is both scheduled and available lor work, may receive three (3) days pay lor lost lime during the |x:riod lietween the death end three fJjealeiular days following the funeral lor the purpose 01' attending the funeral, travel io and from same, or time na|uircd lor making funeral arraugemeuis. In die event of Ihc death of the employee's spouse or child he or she may receive live (5) days pay for the lime lost during the peruxl lietween the death anti five (.3) calendar days following the funeral for purpose* previously outlined. In the event of the death of an employee’s mother or father, the employee may receive a fourth day’s leave with pay io abend Io business affairs uris ing from the bereavement. This leave must lie taken within 30 days following the funeral, Payment shall lie made on the following basis:
3X
Suill employee will he paid his straight time basic rate excluding shill or other prcmitiips. lor his scheduled hours he normally would have worked during such leave. Il is expressly understood dial die deicnmhaliou of the length of such leave shall he solely the right vf the Company. Hmployees who are on scheduled vacation at die lime of die death of a family member will he able to t .lend their vaealion the mnn-hcr of allotted bereavement clay . with pay.
Immediate relative in respect id die foregoing shall mean an employee's mother, father, hi her, sister, mother-in-law, lather-in-law, son-in-law, daugl r-in-law, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law and gra Iparents. Employees shall mean an approved, regular ll-linie employee of the Company. It is further understood that a leave of absence, of one clay with pay may lx* granio t to an employee for the purpose of attending the funeral of liis grandparents-in-law.
mo paymknt oi- wacks
Weekly by ehec|ue and ul points convenient to employee's place of work.
Hmployees on the day shill Id receive their pay cheques Thursday lorenoon. lanployoi s on the afternoon shift to receive their pay cheques Wedne ;day evening. Cheques to be given to employees on the first •.liil’t before the end of their shift Thursday morning.
Vacation pay will be paid in idvauce to employees who request it ddays in advance of commencement of vaealion.
A normal payioll week shall he (from 10:00 pan. Saturday or I 1:00 pan. Saturday or 12:(X) midnight Saturday (depending upon the schedule of shifts the employee is working) to the corresponding time the following Saturday.
I’aymciil will be fur the week ending the previous Saturday.

HI I GUARANTIED WORK PLAN
’Hie Guaranteed Work Plan shall continue in effect until October 'list, 1997, except that!in the event o!‘failure looperate the plant or any department thereof due to a work stoppage, it shall be suspended during the period of such stoppage. Those reluming io work:after the stoppage will not he eligible for inclusion under thfc Guaranteed Work Plan until the month following their rctuijii.
t. Tlie Guaranteed Work Plau applies to till approved hourly employees actively on the payroll, guaranteeing a definite numher of hours or work per itionih.
2.	Eligible Employees - All present approved employees shall be entitled to the benefits of this plan. Approval lot benefits under the Guaranteed Work Plan will commence the first of the month following the completion of 360 hours worked.
3.	Hours Guaranteed While Actively on Payroll - The Company guarantees eligible employee.' while Ihey are actively on the payroll, I SO hours of work in i ich month, Cor which they will he paid their full hourly rate >r base rate. This is approximately eighty-five (xjrecni of he present base time of forty hours per week.
4.	Information Concerning (he Operation of the Plan a. 'l ime of Payment
Guaranteed time will In calculated mice a month and will he included in the my for the last pay pciitnl of each mouth.
11 Work Requirements
In order that an approve employee may Ixi eligible lor the benefits of the plan he or she must work al least some part of the month I <r which the guarantee isbeing applied.
In the case of an employ : who returns from layoff any-
40
lime in the week in which the 15th til' (lie inonih falls or :myi init* alicr Ihe 13th of Ihe mnntlK I ho Cuaianlced Work Plan shall nni ii[ii>ly to (lie nioiHli in which ho returns. However, such an employee shall he guaranteed eighty-live percent of the normal working hours remaining in that month based on a forty hour week.
An employee working in a'month in which lie is eligible lor (itiaiaiuccd 'l ime may he allowed to complete the full week at the end of the month, although Ihe last day of the month may occur before the end of that week without renewing his claim or (itiaranlecd Time.
e. Absence
If any approved employee* is absent from his m her work for personal reasons, ickness or otherwise, or by reason of accident, the gua mteeil lime will he reduced hy the number of hours of such absence.
(I. Discontimialinn of Payments
I-or (he purposes of this phut, as for all oilier Company benefits, any employee who is not recalled for work within the period of retention on the seniority lists as governed by the labour agreement and dating from the dale of his lay-olT, or who!, upon demand fails to reenter the employ of Ihe Company, shall not be eligible for benefits under this plan. Should he later be recalled or return to work, he shall he treated as a new employee and therefore must fullil again Ihe requirements noted in Section 2. The same shall apply should an employee obtain full lime employment elsewhere.
No further payments under this plan will be made to employees who leave the employ of the Company voluntarily. who are. discharged for cause, or who are laid off because of the destruction of the plant or accident thereto, or to it's machinery, or because of the failure lo oj>craie the Plant, or any department ihereof, due to a
41
work stoppage, or because of the permanent closing of a plant or department.
e. 'IVansl'cr ol Kmployecs
The (Company policy of transferring employees from one department to another under die terms of the contract will not be change ! by this plan. If an employee does not accept the woik resulting from such transfers, he may he denied the benefits of this plan.
I. Vacations and Holiday
An approved employee m vacation or on a Recognized Plant Holiday will Ik; considered as being on the (iuarantecd work basis, which shall include his or her vacation or holiday linu
It 12 WACK BONUS
The employee new Wag the Stub Fiscal Year, Julj
The employee new Wag lor the Company's fiscal 31, 19% and January I,
m.i mn’KCTiVKFoon
The Company agrees li $75.00 per year to appr. basis. Such subsidy will the maximum upon pres proof of purchase of safe
Approved employees ms safety shoes during the e subsidy exceed .$75.00 ii annual credits from the I
uis Plan shall be provided for J95to December 3 1,1905.
ius Plan shall remain in effect {January l, 19% to December to December 31, 1997.
k
/idc a safely shoe subsidy of employees on a calendar year aid for the amount spent up to on by employees of receipt or oes.
rchase more than one pair of ar year but in no case shall ihe first year. In the second year ear in whole or in part, can l>c
accumulated min ihe second year lo a maximum ol' $ 150.00. It 14 TOOL ALLOYVANCK
A tool allowance ol‘ up lo a maximum ol' $300.00 oyer (lie Icon of ihe contract will ho paid lo approval Maintenance employees in or above Maintenance tirade Two. for the purpose of buying anil replacing look
Kadi Mainienanee Tradesman wiill receive a $300 allowance lo spend on small tools for plat maintenance over the two year contractual agreement. The allowance will be spent on a quarterly basis commencing January 1st, 1994.
iti5 ,ioit omnmiMTY
The parlies reengni/.e that any employee desirous of advancing to a mine preferable job has (be oppoilunity of doing so.
Permanent jobs which need lo lx* filled shall lx* posted in each Department of Ihe Plant for a period ol three working days. An approved employee may indicate bis or Iter interest in such a job by completing a job oppoilunity for provided by Ihe ( ompany.
A peuuaneni job is one which nepds to be filled for more than 30 working days. Openings liny have to be filled for more than 30 working days as a result < T illness, vacation and leave of absence need not lx: postal.
In Ihe event that an employee wlio holds a posted job is laid off for more than four months the Company will, if requested by cither the ('ompany or Ihe l tiion, post the job provided there is a business need. The iilcumhcnt will reinin his/her posting, until there is a successful applicant.
An employee may be Ihe successful applicant of a job posting once in a h month pci iod.
43
The positions or First Miller, Lair "Inspector, and all Maintenance Jobs with the c» ■option of Maintenance Grade II shall not be posted and will e considered progression jobs. All Package Persons and Cif 'ml Labour jobs shall not be posted.
The positions of Package Line Jlility, Manufacturing IJlilily, Milling Utility and PermaiKin Moor Leader will be posted when vacancies arise, howeVc to (ill these positions, skill, ability, reliability, adaptability efficiency, initiative, conduct and physical fitness of the cm doyens shall he the governing factors and where lltese things me etpial, plant-wide seniority will be the governing factor- On an overall assessment of these qualifications a junior i .lploycc must lx: belter quiili-v,,.a im W-	ran- -iLr mr employee.
The parties agree in the basic ifrineiplc dial seniority anti performance will be the key cl’ sidcialions when considering opportunities lor advnnccniei In cases of promotion, demotion, upgrading or transfers employees, the skill, ability, reliability, performance and induct shrill lie the governing factors and where these are er tl, plant-wide seniority will Ire the governing factor.
Interviews with candidates II ob postings will lx: conducted on the basis of nlanl scnioril
'lire successful bidder’s nan for each job posling will Ire ixrstcd on the bulletin board.
The Chief .Steward will rccci a copy of a list of employees in Job Classifications, lo be rvisetl anti sent out evety six month, commencing in Janui ' of each year.
Itlft NEW .lOIlS
I. New jobs will menu only pe ament jobs. A permanent job will lie one thal lasts for mo than 30 working clays. After 30 working days lire Compar will establish a rate and advise
44
the Union in writing. II*there is a disagreement in ihc rale sel. line Union will nolify the Company in writing within 10 working days from the date they receive written notice front ('ompany that the rale is set, otherwise the matter wilt be considered selded.
2. II the Company and the Union cannot agree on a rate for a jolt, the matter will be presented to a committee consisting of die Union Steward olthe Department involved, plus the Chief Steward, the President, and the (.'ompany representatives. If they cannot resolve the disagreement, then the matter will he presented to a mutually acceptable, nrhitralor, whose decision will Ik* binding. It is understood that an nrhitralor when establishing the rale for a New Job shall place the New Job rale in one of the existing (Iradejs as defined in schedule “C" Job Classification ami Wage Pales.
If I he Company fails to notify the Union within 30 working days of the creation of a new job the \ Inion reserves the right to serve notice of their disagreement under the foregoing clause.
VVKM AKi; AND ItKNKl I I IM.ANS
The Company shall establish the plants scl out in this Agreement. The ('ompany is responsible for the a< ministration and application of such plans. Details of the plans ire outlined in booklets, as amended and cadi employee will l>e p ovided wilh copies. A Joint ('ompnuy/Uuion benefit committee sh ill be established.
It 17 IM.NKSS AND ACCIDENT Pl.AN
The Company's Illness and Accident Plan will continue in force tor the. life of this Agreement, wit It benefits amounting to seventy-live percent (75*4 ) oi an employee’s regular base rate times •!() hot ns for approved employees who qualify under the plan for the periods Inal follow. Your maximum
Ixmcfit in any consecutive 12 your length of service.
Y^ars of Service 3 mns. In live years 5 years to 10 years 10 years or more
math period will depend upon
Maximum Benefit
13 weeks 20 weeks 26 weeks
Benefit under this Plan will payable under the Unemp (Company paid portion of lii four weeks prior to integrs Insurance Sick Benefit. I employee is on the U.I.C. PI ordinalcd bone fit compiis Supplementary (Jncmploymc percent (75%) of an einployt The regulations governing ill
This plan is suhjcct io appi Insurance Commission legist
The Company will provide a able for any employee (|ital i fj Accident Plan who lias appli and has not received his or Ik: fifth week.
fully integrated with those nent Insurance Aet. The an will be paid for the first n with the Unemployment mg the [xo'iod an eligible he or she shall receive a cool U.I.C. Sick Pay and tanefil totalling seventy-live regular rale times 40 hours, an shall prevail.1'
II tinder the Unemployment it.
ii Of $350.00 per week avail-lor the Company Illness and hr IJIC Illness and Accident 1C payment by the end of the
Should your approved claim der the Illness and Accident Plan, exceed fifteen (15) working days, your three (3) day waiting period will he waived
1118 MKDICAL AND HOSPITA .PLAN
The Company agree to pay the Cull premium cost of flic Ontario Hospital Insurance (Mandaid Ward) Plan lor till eligible approved regular employ ccs who join tlie plan and their dependants.
The Company agrees to pay ic lull premium cost of the
-46
Quaker (iroup Health Plan lor all eligible approved regular employees who join llic plan ami llieir dependiinls, The Quaker (iroup Health Plan includes benefits under ihe Quaker Major Medical Plan and $ueh heneliis as are in effect Oelohei l. I%h under Ihe Ontario Health Insitrance Plan.
\\v) duntamm.an
PTfective November I, l(Wi dental plancovcrago will he pro vided lor all eligible approved regular employees and their dependanis according to Ihe |<W.S Ontario Dental Association l-'ee Schedule.
PTlcclive NovcmiIht I, IWh dental plan coverage will he pro vided lor all eligible approved regular employees and their dependanis according to the IW» )ntario Denial Association Ire Schedule.
The premium cost of the dental plan will he fully paid by the Company. Details of the plan an!' outlined in a booklet provided by the Company.
mo m>n<; tkrm disakii.ity
'Hie Company's Long Term Disjmilily Plan will remain in force for the life of (his agrccnicw, for all eligible approved regular employees, Ihe cost of which will he borne by the employee.
ITlective l ehrnary ?.\. IhKII die (mmpnny will guarantee the payment of Ontario Health Insurance and Health care Heneliis Plan premiums on liehal >f employees who are out on I .ong Term Disability heneliis.
I he (‘ompany will notify the Unidm on Ihe cancellation of an employee's I.TD heneliis.
Details of the plan are outlined in a booklet provided by the (’ompany.
47
1121 PENSION PLAN
The Company Pension Plan for hourly employees shall Ct in effect ami will be governed in text as filed with the Pension Commission of Ontario.
H22 CROUP LIKE insurance
The Company shall provide a (iroup Life Insurance Plan for all eligible approved regular employees. Details of the Plan are outlined in a booklet provided by lltc Company.
\m VISION CARR PLAN
A Vision Care Phut will be in effect for all eligible approved regular employees and their dependants. Details of the Plan will be provided by the Company.
sciiKniii.icc”
scukimh.k ()!•' U,vn:s Cl Si: ITl.l'.MI.NT PAY
liadi employee who was on tin: payroll November I, ld95 nod who i.s still on the payroll i n the dale of signing is u> reecive full retroactivity lor all w; tes, and premiums lor their time worked. Knipluyecs ah.senl trough sickness or temporary lay-off may qualify for scllleimcnl pay on relurn to work depending on when they return.
C2 ACTINC COOUDINATOU
A premium ol twenty-live eenls t 50) per hour is to be paid to an employee who is appoinlct as Ailing Coordinator lor the period that he works as an Acting Coordinator. An employee so appointed will he s bjeel to llte conditions of (’louse 41 of this agreement during the period of liis oppoini-ment. Such an employee will he lippoinled to Iho position of Acting Coordinator for a cnnlim >us periotl not exceeding sixty (hO) calendar days. In the event of extenuating circum stances (prolonged illness, vncnlidns. etc.) this period ol time may be extended.
< skiua:i)Tuai)i:s-.i()» idkiniikication
The wage rales of lltose employees employed in the area shall he governed by the Company's policy ciuillcd “Maintenance Jolt Identification IM-S” as amended to date.
<M I IKS
KlTedive November I. IW5 all rales are u> he increased 2% Kffcctive November I, IV% all rales are to l>e incteaseil 2%.
A1)
C5 STUIJKNT AM) NKW M1RI0 RATIOS:
All stalling rales shall he $5.00 below ihc established rale of the job, willi the exception of maintenance trades. The rale shall he increased on llie employee’s anniversary date by $1.25 each year over a period of four (4) years until the job rale is reached.
.Students hired specifically as Summer Help are to receive a rate of $0.00 per hour below the rate of Grade One (I). It is agreed Unit the provisions of this Collective Agreement apply to Summer Help with exceptions as noted in the Summer Help hiring policy.
50
waok ratios .mu classipication
I • ITcc*t ivc Nov 1/06
(il\A!>l{ ONI’.
$17.14
$17.47
(‘old Cereal C 'leaner Oeneral Labourer I ,ah I lelper Lino 15 I Vi son I .inc 21 Person Package Person I .ini* I IVrson I .ini' 4 Person Line 16 Per.son I .ine 22 IVrson I .inc 5 IVrson
(iKAI)L TWO	$I7,2X	$17.64
tt 4 Llcvalor Operator 1/ 5 Llcvalor Operator Pre-Sweet Tank Person Hutching Plant 'lank IVrson Kccoiulitionci
Service and Relief - Shipping Janitor A: Relief Pallet Station RTL I lol Cereal Cleaner KTL Cleaner
Cold CV.real Cleaner /Ih/Nili Llooi Janitor
Mullets IVrson Maintenance Cleaner
Effective Nnv I AW
Effective
Nov lAM
GKADHTHUKL	SI 7.40
Bruit Job
I.iuc f Bellamy Operator Line 22 lidson Operator Barline Prison 0|>oriitor Reclaim Operator Barline Assistant Baler Operator RTK Belt Inspector
GRADE l'OLR	$17.62
Slitter Opcralor IVe-Swcet Inspector Bar Line Prcinixcr Line 16 Blender Opcralor Distributor
Line 7/18 Assistant Operator Harvest Crunch Pre-Mixers Line 6/1) Assistant Operator Prc- Mixer Bulk Packer
Line 16 Assistant Operator Line II Assistant Operator Line 17 Assistant Operator Line 4 Assistant Operator Rran Sterilizer Oat Tank Person Line 15 Assistant Operator Line 21 Assistant Operator Line 22 Bat tell Operator 1.0.0. Relief
Service & Relief Hot Cereals Line 30/31 2nd Assistant Operntoi Milling/Elevator Cleaner Lino 5 Assistant Operator
$17.75
$17377
iWa-livc
\w l/<J5
tiKADI- I-IVI'	SI7.X4
Pretuix Plain Kchd'
Line 20/21 I si Assistant Opcraior I.inc 2 Bellamy Operator Making Mix Rdicf Mnllei Cooker
Cold I'ercnl/Mailinc Support Person Line 5 Opcraior I ine 7/lX Operator MulTcl Pucker Operator Supply Person
Weigh Person
l.inc I Opcraior
Line 3 Operator
I .inc 15 Operator
Line 4 Opcraior
Line 21 Operator
Siaudc Opcraior ami Repair
Symp Tender I larvcsi (Yinicb
Mar Line Wrapper Opcraior
Mar l.inc Wrapper Opcraior KelieT
Line 16 Operator
l.inc 22 Operator
Line 22. Blender Operator
I.Q.O. Pre-Mixer
Mar I /me Syrup 'lender
Makesliop Inspector
l .ah Inspector
Jones Machine Opcraior Mullets
liflective
Nov l/%
fllK.20
LITcclive
Nov 1/95
GKALJliSIX	.$I7.‘-I.‘5
Syrup 'lencler/Shoeling Tithlc - KTIi
Lino 17 Operator
Line 11 Operator
Lino 6/9 Operator
Mullet Machine Operator
Gun Operator
Hulk IJnloadcr
Hin/Slahline Operator
GUADLi SI2VP.N	$IX.I5
A.1 System Operator Hulk Loader
Jones Machine Operator - RTK Checker
Hallclizcr/h'orktruck Operator Mill Grinding Operator
GKAUR LIGHT
.. System I’lnnl Operator
.iRADIi N1NH
Lxlrudcr 0|>crator
$IX/I9
$IX.93
LtTectivo Nov 1/96
$ I X..31
$18.51
$IX.X6
$19.31
GkAUli TLN
$20.13
$20.53
Kl'l'cclive
Nov 1/00
UTILITY
RTI- IJlilily		$ I Till
Manufacturing Utility		SIX.3I
Package I.inc Utility Operator		s ix.:i i
Milling Utility		■SI 0.31
Hlevator Utility	SIS.40	SIX.86
Shipping Utility l-LOOIt UiADliU 20c above highest rale in group	SIS.IS	SIX.SI
MILLliKS RATU		
2nd Millci		$ Id.I4
IM Miller		SI 0.31
MAINTI-NANCIi		
Maintenance I		$17.47
Maintenance II		■SI7.7S
Maintenance III		$IX.2()
Maintenance IV		$18.51
Maintenance V		SI0.3S
Maintenance VI		SI0.X3
Maintenance VII		$21 ,OS
Maintenance VIII		S2 1.43
IIOII.LR ROOM		
Ml Hass		S20.62
2nd Class		$21 .OS
Maintenance Engineer		$21.OS
Chief luigincer		$2 1.57
SCHEDULE “D”
VACATION PHIVII.Koks OK KM IM.OYKI'.S ANI) THE CONDITIONS Ul>01\ WHICH SAME ARK (iUANTEI!
Annual vacation privileges for employees shall he allotteil oil the basis of the following schedule:
1.	Employees who by August 31 si of any year will have accumulated service on the payroll of one full year (365 calendar days) provided dial the service record shows that the employee has not been off the payroll at any one time more than thirty (30) consecutive days, Sundays and holidays included, during the entire period while accumulating this credit for service, shall he entitled to two (2) weeks vacation.
limploycc: who have been employed on and after September I >1 in any year shall receive vacation credit computed to June 30lh the following year. Those employed in any year between January 1st and March 3l,xl shall receive vacation credit computed io June 30th of that year.
employees, who in any year will have accumulated seniority of live (5) years or more shall receive three (3) weeks vacation.
Employees who in any year will have accumulated seniority of ten (1(1) years or more shall receive four (4) weeks vacation.
Employees who in any year will have accumulated seniority 01 eighteen (18) years or more shall receive live (5) weeks vacation. Employees who: in any year have accumulated seniority of twenty-six (26) years or more shall receive six (6) weeks vacation.
2.	An employee who is eligible for vacation shall lie paid vacation pay at 2% of his previous year’s earnings (exclusive of wage bonus) for each week of vacation, or 40 times his regu-
56
lar hourly rale lor each week, whichever is the greater.
II an employee vuUmtaiily quits oi is discharged IVom service lor cause, he shall receive only sijch vaealion credits as shall he determined by the Uinploymciit Standards Ad,
4.	Vacations may he given al any time during the year subject to 1 he demamis of business, I lowevcr, each department should make a sincere effori lo grain vacalions al the lime wanted by ihe employees, giving the longest service employee preference.
5.	When a holiday as provided lor i 116 falls duiing an employee's vaealion, ihe employee may' liter accept pay lor the holiday nr a day off in lieu of the toliday which is mutually acceptable lo Ihe employee and l : Company.
U. An employee who has eompleici i years service and is eligible lor .1 weeks vaealion or mom nay hold I weeks vaealion credit over, lo be taken some tint in the first lour months of Ihe following yeai.
7. Time spent on sick benefits, l.oi Term Disability Mencius, Workmen’s Compensation Mon benefits and any oilier approved heave of Absence, shal >e considered Jo lx; equivalent of time spcnl in service in Milling the active employment reqiiiretnenis.

l.liTTIillS Ol1’ INTUNT
1.	Re: Hold Over of One Week’s Vacation
2.	Re: Administration of Clause UI5 Job Opportunity
3.	Re: Severance Pay
4.	Re: Technological Change
5.	Re: [xxigTerm Disability
6.	Re: Changes to r.xisling Jobs and New Jobs
7.	Re: Maintenance Job Identification
8.	Re: Uridge Retirement Plan y. Re: 'Idol Allowance
10.	Re: Parental Leave
11.	Re: Summer Student Hiring
Letters of Intent to be considered as part of the Collcctivi Agreement.
58
I of I I
Canadian Auio Workers Local 19%
Attention: Mr. (iniryjiogei's President,
Canadian Amo Workers 1 I9%
Dear Mr. Ungers:
UI•; .HOLD OVIiU_OJil>N[i WLLKSJACATION INTO THJi HOLLOWING YLAR
Ii is understood (hat an employee who eReels to hold one weeks vacation over to he taken some lime in i|ic first lour months of the following year, may because of sickncsn or extenuating circimv-.stances, delay taking his or her one week vacation until the first week immediately following his or her neturii.
Yours truly.
.f. K Perkins
HUMAN UhSOUUCUS MANAGI-U PIOLRttOUOlKill PLANT
59
2 or 11
Canadian Auto Workers Local IWfi
Attention: Mr. Carry R a o -President.
Canadian Auto Workers Local l‘M>
Dear Mr. Rogers:
RL: I IIli ADMINISTRATION OP CI.AUSL UIS ■IQH OPPORTUNITY
“If the Company decides not to appoint the applicant with the most seniority lo the posted position, hefore the decision is announced the Company will meet with the Union and outline their reasons lor making the decision.
11'agreement is reached at this time that the applicant is unsuitable, the Company will then consider the next senior applicant and so on until the final decision is made.”
Yours truly.
.1. I;. Perkins
HUMAN KKSOIJRCLS MANAOI'.R PHTliUHOROUOH PLANT
(.0
3 of !!
Canadian Auin Workers l.oeal PJ%
Allcnlion: Mr. Harry Rogers President,,
Canadian Aulo Workers I.ocjtl JW6 Dear Mr. Rogers:
SKVKRANCr; PAY POLICY
Quakers’ Severance Pay Policy is intended to provide a form of financial alleviation lor approved employees who have their employment terminated due to the elusion of the plant or the permanent closure of a section of the plant.
It is intended that the provisions of the Severance Pay Policy shall he inclusive o! any severance required by law. I lowever, payments under the Severance Pay Policy are not intended to include payment in lieu of notice as required under die employment Standards Act.
An employee whose job is icnninaicd due to the aforementioned reasons may elect to remain on the Plant Seniority I «isl for possible recall in accordance with the applicable recall provisions of the Collective Agreement. In this event, the company will withhold any applicable payment of Severance Pay during the temporary lay-off period ami into the indefinite lay-off period until such lime as the employee requests payment.
An employee receiving Severance Pay shall receive vacation pay as prescribed under die lunplnymenl Standards Act.
AI
2
II is understood that when and i I such payment is made it will constitute a complete break in sendee lor the employee and lie/she shall forego any and all claims and/or recall rights with Quaker. It is understood that payment will be calculated at (he employ se's regular rate excluding shift and/or other premiums, at die lime the reduction occurred.
Severance Pay will lie paid to eligible employees in accordance with die folowing:
* I-10 years	I wks. pay per year of service
(and pro rated months) to 10 yrs.
PLUS “II- 10 years	1.5 wks. pay for cadi year of
service from 1 I io 10 yrs
PLUS 20 -i years	2 wks. pay for each year of
service with 20 yrs. and over
Severance Pay shall be paid io a maximum of 52 weeks
Yours Truly,
J.K Perkins
HUMAN KRSOUKCLS MANACiHK PKTKRIJOkOUGII PLAN'!'
62
4 or 11
Canadian Auio Workers I.ocal IW6
Altemioii: Mr. (larry Rogers President.
(anadiati Auln Workers Locjii J Wi
Dear Mr. Rogers:
TKCHNOroCICAl.CMANCK
In Ihe event of Technological Change as Helmed in Clause 44 oftlie Collective Agreement Ihe Company w II, along with complying with ll>e provisions of ibis clause, provide employees wilh ihe following information:
-	the nature of ihe change
the proposal lime frame in winch the Company promised ihe change
ihe approximate number, classification and location of employees likely lo be effected by the change
-	information regarding die new and changed jobs dial will be available on completion of ihe Technological Change
It is also the intent of die Company where new or greater skills are required, because of Technological Change, that die Company will provide die necessary training for those employees so affected.
il is Inithei agiecd that any employee losing ilicir posted job through technological change, who aie still in the employ ol die Company and have not posted on another job. will have ihe right, for a period of one year from die date of the change, lo post hack
63 *
5 nl' I I
r,'in;i(li;ui Amu Workers I meal l')%
Allcnlion: Mr. (lurry Roy.'is I'resident.
(laiiiiiiinn Aiitp Workers I .ncril 1‘AJfi Dour Mr. Ropers:
Kli: l.(JN(i I'l'RM DISAHII.ITY
I'liillicr lo our understanding eiinccrniii{< those employees on I .imp Term I risuliilily, I ;ml writing lo apd'nin our existing policy ol eunlinuing those Irciicllls that they lire now receiving.
Such hemTils will he retained as loop us the employee remains on I .imp Term Disability.
Yours truly,
John l;. Rerkins
HUMAN RliSOHKCliS MANACIIiR ITTlikllOROIKill I’I .ANT
(iS
0 ol' I I
Canadian Aulo Workers Local iy%
Attention: Mr. (lurry Rollers President,
Can at l i an Auto Workers Lo ca 1 1666 Doin' M. Rogers:
Rli: Cl lANCiliS TO 1-X1STINC JOKS AND NliW JOUS
In keeping with ihc spiril of both Pay Fquily legislalitm noil internal equity, il is our intention to emleavour io determine jolt classi-l icalioii by a syslent of job evaluation.
Only new or substantially altered existing jobs will he eligible lor job evaluation.
if a job is deemed eligible lor evaluation, it will Ire evaluated by a joint uninn/nianugeinonl committee using a point factor system its used for Pay fiquity purposes.
This letter will not alter the recourse available io the Union in clause n 16 New Jolis, hut will provide method of evaluating new jobs.
Yours truly,
J.P. Perkins
HUMAN RliSOlJRCIiS MANACilili PF.TP.RHOROUCIII PLANT
■ 66
7 of II
Canadian Aulo Workers Local il)%
Attention: Mr._(iarry Rogers Pres ideal,
Canadian Auto Workers l-‘>c;}l I Wb Dear Mr. Rogers:
\t\[: MAINdJ-NANlT; JOI(_lDDNTII'’l(:ATI()N, I\m
'Hie following identities wage rales and provides a brief dcserip-l inn of employee (jiiali licm inns necessary to at loin a specilic grade level.
Maintenance I
any routine job within the maintlmnnce department requiring hide or no skill;
Maintenance II
employee in progress of acquiring skill or knowledge in the building trades;
-	a slarling apprentice:
Maintenance III •
•	employee wilh the basic knowledge of construction trades; apprentice 1st anniversary date
Maintenance IV •
•	employee competent in all building trades;
-	works with minimum direction l!rom supervisor; apprentice 2nd anniversary dale
Maintenance V -
employee in the building trades who demonstrates a high level of ability:
67
2
-	newly hired skilled tradesman possessing an Ontario Certificate of Qualification;
-	apprentice who has completed the course, but lias no certificate
ccrlilicd technician or technologist Maintenance VI -
-	certified skilled tradesman completing probation
-	apprentice completing required course work and fulfilling time requirements under the contract of Apprenticeship
Maintenance VfI -
-	certified skilled tradesman completing three months in Maintenance Grade VI
-	Maintenance Stationary Engineer
-	Stiitionary Engineer 2nd Class
Maintenance VIII >
-	fully certified electrician
-	enhanced mechanic
APPKKNTICKS.nl I1PKOGKAMMK
The following will lie a supplement lo the Skilled Trades Job Identification:
1.	The Company shall post a notice of vacant jiosilions in the apprenticeship programme on all bulletin boards. 'Hie notice shall tie posted for a period not less than live (5) working days.
2.	A committee comprised of (wo management and two Union members will review all applications received and select appropriate candidates for testing.
6H
X The candidates selected liom cadi review shall be required to write a (i.A.T.Il. 'lost ami the candidate receiving the highest score on the Test shall be offered i|te position.
SKILLS PROCRAM
The Company reserves the right to limit'the mnnlrer of employees who will be compensated for certain courses will) all rec|iiests for course credential recognition to be approved by the Company prior to course commencement.
h is also recognized that Maintenance employees holding a second certified trade, recognized technologist nir technician diploma in an aiea benciicial to the Company will lie {•ompeiisntcd basal on the following schedule:
-	technologist % 0.60 above job tale
-	technician $ 0.45 alxwe job rate
• second ticket $ OJO above job rale
Academic courses ivigiircd to satisfy ihu above listed programs will be determined by a Joint Union/Mapagcmenl Maintenance Skilled Trades Committee.
Il is agreed that a senior mechanical or electrical journeyman will not be laid off prior to a junior technician or technologist.
Yours truly.
John K Perkins
HUMAN KhSOimi’KS manac;i:i< I’HITKlIOKOlKill 1*1 .ANT
69
H of 11
Canadian Amo Workers Local 19%
Attention: Mr. OaiTv Rotters President.
Canadian Auto Workers l-nciil 1996 Dear Mr. Rogers:
ItRlIHIL RKTIRKMUNT PLAN
Any full-lime hourly employee ill the I'eterlximtigli Plant, between the ages of 55 and 65, who elects early retirement and who qualifies under one ol' the following categories, shall be entitled to receive bridge Retirement payments in accordance with tile earnings chart on this page.
These payments will commence coincident with his/her early retirement, and terminate on the lir.sl of the month following his/her 65th birthday.
bridge Retirement payments will lie in addition iothc pension benefits payable under the Retirement Plan lor hourly employees and will apply exclusively to hourly employees at the Peterborough Plant but will not apply to employees in receipt of LTD bcnelits,
11 is understood thill eligibility under the terms of this Early bridge Retirement Plan will terminate coincident with the termination of tlio current Collective Agreement.
AGE	EARNINGS PER MONTH
55	$2(10.00 per month to age 65
It is understood that payments under this plan will cease should Hie employee die prior io attaining the normal retirement age of 65.
70
Alsu ;i (AY/t joint survivor option bridge payment of $120 per month sluilI he provided to the retirees' spouse in the event of his nr her death and will eontiinie until the tfliree would have reached the aye of 6.S.
It is further understood ihot this plan will not apply in the event of a plant closure lull bridge payments heiiip pai<l to employees who have previously retired will continue to lie honoured.
J.K Perkins
HUMAN RKSOUKCI-S MANACil-K PI-TI-RHOROUCill PLANT
0 oc II
Canadian Auto Workers Local 19%
Attention: M.. Carry Rogers President.
Canadian Auto Workers Local 19%
Deni' Mr. Rogas.
Mi: TOOL ALLOWANCE
A ton] allowance fund will lx: administered by (lie Tradesmen who will be responsible lor accumulating a list of tool requirements, recording who made the request, ensuring dial the distribution of funds is fair, and that the total budget is maintained.
When the Tradesman leaves the Company (through retirement, resignation, termination, etc.), or iflhis agreement is ever terminated, the Tradesman will pay the Quaker Oats Company of Canada Ltd. $1.00 for the tools that they possess.
J.F. Perkins
HUMAN RESOURCES MANA(i/ilt PETERnOROlKil I PLANT
72
10 ol 1 l
Canadian Auln Workers Local IWf>
Attention: Mf. Carry Uppers Preside nt.
Canadian Aulo Workers Local I9JJ6
Dear Mr. Rogers:
Kill l>ARIJN'miJiPAVH
The agreement to change pertaining to Parental Leave will be contained in this letter.
The Company will giant up to 22 weeks .unpaid parental leave following the bird) of a child or the coming of an adopted child into a parent's custody, care and control lor iht first time. Roth parents are eligible to take 22 weeks.
pnr a natural mother, fathers and adoptive parents, the parental leave must he completed prior to one year from the dale ol the birth of the child or after the baby first comes into the custody, care and control of the parent.
Pmploycc must give two weeks written notice prior to the commencement of the leave and the same before the date leave is lo end.
Seniority shall accumulate during such leave. An employee on an authorized parental leave shall eoniinue to receive existing Ixmciiis coverage paid by the Company.
J.K Perkins
HUMAN RKSOURCRS MANACRR Ph’TUUBOKOlKill PLANT .
72-
11 of I I
Canadian Auto Workers Local 1990
Attention; Mr. Garry Rogers President,
Canadian Auto Workers I1996
Dear Mr. Rogers:
Rtf SUMMER STUDENT I11R1NC
A Joint Company-Union Committee lias been established io review the criteria Tor hiring summer students for Riant hourly positions. The Committee recognizes the high cost of post-secondary school education and wishes to help defray these costs for the soils and daughters of Quaker employees.
In the event all regular employees have returned from layoff and Hie Company has a need to hire students, the following process shall apply;
college or university students who arc attending school or who have made application io attend school may apply
sorts and daughters of Plant employees will Iw given firsl preference
a." it minimum age requirement, students must have turned 18 sometime in the current calendar year
jobs will bo available between Victoria Day and Labour
Day
preference will be given to one student per family students will be hired for one summer only
74
7
wages sh«i!I bo $6.00 below the rale of grade I
benefits \. " ‘ _ f t . Lmployces Standards Act
recognized Plant Holidays will he paid
applications (resumes) lo he submitted to Human Resources Deparimenl no later Ilian April 30, of die current calendar year
the Committee will review applications and tjualilial candidates shall lie randomly selected hy lottery as jobs become available
.1.1'. Perkins
HUMAN RLSOURCUS MA.W1UR PIH’liROOROUCill PLANT '
-7<
17939768