AGREEMENT
Between:
TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED 3013 Turner Road Abbotsford, BC V2S 7T9
and:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL CIO CLC LOCAL 1518 4021 Kingsway Burnaby, BC V5H 1Y9
Duration: July 1, 2000 - June 30,2003
nrid&C, Lio)
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL....................................................1
ARTICLE 2-SCOPE......................................................  1
ARTICLE 3 - RELATIONSHIP.............................................. 1
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT.................................................2
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION.............................2
ARTICLE 6 - WAGES.............-....................-.............-.....3
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK..............................................4
ARTICLE 8 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS.........................................8
ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS..................................................7
ARTICLE 10-SENIORITY...................................................
ARTICLE 11 - SAFETY ANJ3. HEALTH......................................11
ARTICLE 12-SEVERANCE PAY............................................. 11
ARTICLE 13 - JURY DUTY............................................... 13
ARTICLE 14 - MEAL ALLOWANCE........................................   13
ARTICLE 15-WORK CLOTHING............................................-.13
ARTICLE 16 ' BEREAVEMENT LEAVE........................................14
ARTICLE 17 - SERVICE PAY PLAN.....................................„...14
ARTICLE 18 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS........................................14
ARTICLE 19 - AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE......................16
ARTICLE 20 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...................................   17
ARTICLE 21 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT..................................  19
SCHEDULE “A"...........................................................20
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 9* DAY OF JANUARY , 2001-
Between:	Topitoich Nmri Limited
3013 Turner Road, Abbotsford, B.C. V2S 4NS
(hereinafter referred to aa the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
And:	United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, AFL CIOCLC
Local ISIS, Industrial Sector 4021 Kingsway, Bumaby, BC V5H 1Y9
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 • GENERAL
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide a satisfactory means of settling any differences or grievances which may arise and to establish and set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE
2.01	This Agreement appliesto all employees of the Company in the Abbotsford Distribution Centre where Local 1518 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union has been duly certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board, except those employees excluded by the certification.
ARTICLE 3 - RELATIONSHIP
3.01	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised' cr practiced by the Company or any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership in or connection with the Union and that membership in the Union by employees who are eligible to join will not be discouraged.
C8QS000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001) RBAyr USWA 2962
Page 1
07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
3.02	The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation, Interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practiced upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives. No employee shall conduct Union activities during his working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement without first securing permission from the Company.
3.03	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees and the Uhicn agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action, which will stop or interfere with production until the dispute is dealt with under the Grievance Procedure.
3.04	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall also be considered to indude the feminine except where specifically indicated otherwise.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to (a) Mdriain order, discipline and efficiency.
'(b) Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, and demote employees; provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer; or a claim that an employee has'been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	Generally ta manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be iraruEacturad, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kind and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
(d)	It is understood' and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employees' bargaining agency, as an evidence of good faith, the Union will use its best efforts to have its members',responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and spirit.
(e)	The Company may bring forward at any meeting with the Union Committees any complaint
with respect to the conduct of fee Union, its officers 'or its Committeemen affecting the relationship between the Union and the Company so that a satisfactory mutual understanding may be reached by the ccrferring parties.
4.02	The Company also agrees to cany out the terms of chis contract in letter and spirit.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION
5.01 The Company acknowledges feat the employees in the unit described above have selected the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent and reoognizes the. Union as such for all employees in the said unit.
C8DS000 Distribution Centra (02/27/2001) RB/wr US WA 2*52
Page!
07/01/2000 » 06/30/2003
5.02	The Company apes that all employees now members of the Union and all employees who become members of the Union shall remain members in good standing of the Union while employed by the Company during the life of this Agreement, as a Condition of employment.
5.03	Since the Union is recognized as the bargaining agent for all employees, as defined in Article 2, and in order to promote harmony among all such employees, it is hereby provided that all new employees shall become members of the Union. The Company shall be kept informed, in writing, of the amount of the monthly Union dues and the Union entrance fee as set by the Union Constitution, By-law cr by decision of a regularly constituted local Union meeting.
5.04	New employees will not be subject to compulsory check-off until they have been in the employment of the Company for thirty (30) days of actual work, unless they become members of the Union before that time. After thirty (30) days worked, payment of Union dues is a condition of employment.
5.05	Subject to the other provisions of this Article, ail employees to whom this Article applies shall give the Company written authorization for the deduction and remittance of the Union dues aforesaid, in a form satisfactory to the Company.
5.06	Upon receipt of an authorization in writing by an employee affected, forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of each such employee the Union entrance fee and Union membership dues once each calendar month and such deductions shall be remitted promptly to the Fiftgpcial Secretary of the Local Union.
5.07	The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability arising out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon check-off authorization supplied by the Union or far the purpose of complying with any of the foregoing check-off provisions.
5.08	There shall be no contracting out of work presently performed by members of the 'bargaining unit without the mutual agreement of the Ccnpany and the Union. The Union agrees not to arbitrarily withhold such agreement in any case where the Company proves beyond a reasonable doubt that it is economically justifiable to contract out In particular, but not so as to restrict the generality of "the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to contract outwork of a nature which it..has in the past contracted out, and work in the future which, in its opinion, is of such a type as to be incompatible in nature or uneconomical with work presently being performed by members of the bargaining unit. "The Company agrees to provide the Union with reasonable notice of its intention to contract out work.
ARTICLE 6 -WAGES
6.01	Wages shall be paid in accordance with Schedule "A" of this Agreement which is attached hereto and forms a part thereof.
6.02	If an employee meets with an ,accident while at work during his shift making him incapable of completing his shift he shall be paid for the balance ofthe shift ar his regular rate of pay. Employees who are incapable of completing their shift due to sickness, shall be paid for the balance of the shift at the applicable Accident and Sickness Plan pay percentages.
CSOSOOO'Distributjon Centre (02/27/2001) ROW uswa 2»s2
Page3
07/01/2000.06/30/2003
6.03	When an employee is temporarily transferred to another job, he shall receive the rate of pay applicable to the job to which he has been temporarily transferred, except where the rate of pay is less than char paid on his former job. In such cases, the employee shall receive the rate of pay of his former job. However, if the transfer is of a permanent nature, which shall take into consideration seniority, the employee shall receive the rate of pay applicable to his newjob. If this be lower than his former rate, he shall be paid the higher rate for ten (10) days before reverting to the lower rate.
6.04	Transfers to lower paid jobs shall be referred to a joint Union Management Committee before an anployee's raie is reduced.
6.05	When a job category is to be established, eliminated cr absorbed into a classificationby the Company, it is agreed that the Company shall advise the Union of the proposed change at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such change for the purposes of discussing with the Company,the personnel and the rate of the jcb. Any disagreement under this Clause concerning rate cf pay, seniority, ability arjob posting shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure - Article 21.
6.06	Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained in the Company's employ sjiall not lose the credit for their days of experience it computing their pay rates and shall resejve the rate forthejob classification being filled.
6.07	The Cpmpany agrees to make every reasonable effartto continue established pay periods.
6.08	Employees promoted or permanently transferred Ko another classification shall be paid the starting rate for their new classification for the first thirty (30) working days, after which the top rate for the job shall apply, subject to Article 6.03.
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK
7.01	The standard hours of work shall be:
Abbotsford Distribution Centre
(a)	Eight (8) hours in any oiie (1) day, forty (40) hours in any one (1) week worked on a schedule ofMonday to Friday or Tuesday to Saturday, subject to Article 7.01(d).
(b)	The Company shall schedule the hours and days of work and post them outlining the starring and finishing times of ail employees. Any time worked outside the schedule of hours shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rates. The senior employees shall have the choice of schedule of hours far their department or classification if they are capable of doing thework-Such choice of schedule of hours must be exercised at time of posting, when a vacancy occurs in the same classification or at six month intervals from the date of the posting.
(c)	The schedule of hours and days may be changed Dm time to time as required to meet the needs of the business but such changes shall not be made effective until notice of three (3) working days has been given to the employees concerned unless changed by irutual agreement-
CB05000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
RBAwruswxzwz'
Page4
07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
Any changes in the schedule of hours will be discussed and agreed to by the local Union Committee.
A Tuesday to Saturday work week may apply to two (2) plant personnel for the purpose of sales.
7.02	Employees in the manufacturing plant working the afternoon or night shift shall work seven and a half (7 Vt) hours per day and thirty seven and a half (37 '/$) hours per week with a lunch period of half (Vi) an hour on Company time for a total paid time of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
The Company agrees to pay a premium of forty cents (40^) per hour io all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours of 4:00 PM. to 12:00 midnight and a premium of fifty cents (50p) per hour to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the'hours 12:00 midnight and 8:00 A.M.' Such premium shall be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
7.03	When it becomes necessary for any overtime to be worked, such overtime shall fiist be offered to the senior,.qualified employee regularly employed in the depanment where the overtime is to be worked. Failing to get sufficient employees in this manner such overtime may be offered to qualified employees in other departments on a seniority basis.
The Company and the Union agree ta establish a list of qualified employees for ail classifications. Such list to be revi^d and posted September 1st and March 1st each year.
7.04	All employees worked in excess ofthe hours mentioned in Article 7.01 of this Agreement shall
be paid at overtime rates of time and one half (1 Vi) of the regular hourly rate for the first two (2) hours of overtime and double (2x) die regular rate thereafter.
^ Any employee called into work and capable of adequately performing his work shall be guaranteed a minimum of
(i)	four (4) hours' pay if the employee commences work;
(h)	tyvo (2) hours' pay if the employee does not commence work:
at the appropriate rates of pay.
7.05	Any employee called in off schedule for emergency work shall be paid one (1) hour's travel time at regular overtime rates and shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at their regular overtime rate. Seniority shall not necessarily apply for an occurrence endangering Company personnel, .property or assets.
7.06	All employees shall have two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest intervals during each day without deduction in pay, with rest periods to be provided in the time schedule.
7.07' Employees may elect to bank hours of overtime at appropriate time and a half (1 W) cr double (2x) time hours. Employees can bank up to a maximum of five (5j days per quarter. Employees must elect prior to January 1st and July 1st of each calendar year whether they wish to bank their eligible hours each quarter.
CB05000 Distribution Centre (02/27/20b1)
RB'/wr U5WA2952
Pages
07101/2000 - 06/30/2003
Employees may talcs this banked overtime only at ernes mutually agreed by the employee and the plant manager/supervisor. Three (3) weeks' notice will be required prior to any banked time being taken unless otherwise agreed. Banked overtime will be taken in the quarter in which it originated, or no later than the aid of the following quarter. Borticns of banked overtime must be taken in increments of riot Less than four (4) hours and not more than five (5) days at any time providing that the four (4) hours taken are after four (4) hours worked and by mutual consent-. Unused time will be paid out at termination, or on the first pay date following the end of each three (3) month period unless the employee chooses a carryover. Carryover will be for a maximum cf three (3) months from the end of any quarter at which time hours will be paid out
ARTICLE 8 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	Statutory holidays will be paid far at the employee's regular rates on the followingbasis:
(a)	Em ployees with less than thirty (30) days worked with the Company. None.
(b)	Employees with thirty (30) days or more worked shall be entitled to pay for up to ten (10) statutory holidays. When any of these holidays falls on a Sunday, the day observed by the Provincial government shall be considered the holiday.
(c)	Number of hours paid shall be the employee's regular shift hours provided the employee has earnings in^he pay period in which the holiday falls or is observed.
8.02	Statutory Holidays referred to above are as follows:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	ThanksgivingDay
Victoria Day	Remsrbranoe Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
B.C. Day	Boxing Day
8.03	Any Statutory Holidays'not specifically mentioned in this Agreement declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments, shall form part of this Agreement and paid forasprovided.
8.04	If an employee is absent on his scheduled work day before a Statutory Holiday or his scheduled work day immediately following a Statutory Holiday, payment for the holiday is left to the discretion of the Management.
8.03	All employees who work On Sundays shall be paid fir such work, double their regular hourly rate. Employees who may be required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid double their regular hourly rate for all hours worked plus any pay they may be eligible fir under Article 8, 8.01.
8.06	Statutory holidays which fall on or are observed on an-employes's regular day off,shall he paid for on
the following basis:
(a)	Regular shift hours pay at the employee's regular rates, or
C805000 Distribution Centre (02/Z7/2001)	Page 6
RB/WT uswa 2912	07/01/2000 - 0813012003
(b)	A day or days off with pay to be taken at a time mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company.
8.07	An employee who-is absent for reasons of sickness or accident during the period in which a statutory holiday occurs shall receive pay fir such statutory holiday at the applicable Workers' Compensation Board cr Weekly Indemnity perc&ntages as is applicable.
ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS
9.01	Vacation eligibility, length of vacation and rata of vacation pay shall be calculated on the following basis:
Cut-off date for establishing vacation entitlement shall be January 1 st each year.
Eligibility for current year vacation entitlement shall be based on the employee's number of working days in the year vacation is earned, a complete year shall be 182 or more working days.
Length of vacation and/or percentage of vacation pay to be based on number of years of seniority.
A week of ^vacation eligibility shall be defined as forty (40) working hours, not including statutory holidays.
9,02	If an employee has completed one (1) full year of service as at January 1st in any year he shall bo eligible fortwo (2) weeks vacation with pay.
All employees who have been in the employ of the Company for less than one (1) year as at January 1 st of each year shall in that year be given holidays at the rare of five sixths (5/6) of a day for each one (1) month's work in the previous year provided the employee is still on the payroll of the Company.
9.03	(a) If an employee has worked one hundred eighty two (182) or more days in the year vacation is
earned, the followingvacation schedule shall apply:
Yean of Seniority
Weeks of Vacation Eligibility
Three (3)	Three (3)
Eight (8)	Four (4)
'Fifteen(15j	Five(S)
Twenty-three (23)	Six (6)
9.03-	(b) An employee net completing 182 days of actual work shall be eligible for vacation as per the
above scale, but shall be paid vacation pay as per Article 9.06(b).
9.04	Any employee who is eligible for more than three (3) weeks vacation shall be allowed only three (3) weeks of their vacation during the period June 15 to September 15 unless mutually agreed otherwise.
C805000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
RB/WrUSWA33$2
Page 7
07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
9.05	Employees qualifying for an additional weeks vacation as per the previous schedule will be grantedthe additional week on the basis of their individual anniversary date,
9,06	(a) Employees shall receive vacation pay based on the rate that has been gained by permanent
posting at the time the vacation is taken. The earned race c£ pay fur temporary transfers of more than thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the time vacation is taken, for vacation
purposes, shall be considered regular rate.
(b) Employees covered by Article 9 not completing 182 eight (8) hour working days in the previous calendaryear shall receive vacation pay equal iothe greater of:
1)	average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year times current rate cf pay, calculated as follows:
a) employees with 182 or more working days shall be paid based on average daily hours on actual number of days worked
employees 'with less than 182 working days shall be paid based on average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year
2)	two percent (2%) afthe employee's previous year’s earnings for each week cf eligible vacarion asperihc scale set oui in Article 9.03.
9.07	Personnel may tak^fheir vacations at times nutuaUy agreed upon by the employee and the Distribution Manager. A list to be submitted to the Distribution Manager by February 1st of the current year. Vacations as far as possible shall be staggered so as not to deplete Warehouse Personnel and cannot be taken more than thf«« (3) weeks at any one time unless mutually agreed otherwise. Employees not submitting a holiday list by February 1st shall lose seniority preference in selection of vacation rime. All vacarion tine due must be commenced by October 31st and completed by Deaenber 31st of the current year unless mutually agreed otherwise in writing.
9.08	Any employee who leaves the service of the Company on his own accord cr is dismissed for cause, shall be paid for any unused holiday credits in the year in which the employee quits or is dismissed for cause, in accordance with the applicable percentage as outlined above, This will not apply to layoffsby the Company or retirement, in which case normal paid vacations will apply.
9.09	■ For each seven (7) days' vacation, vacation pay shall 6s at the rate.of forty ,(40) hours pay per Article
9.06(a) or two percent (2%) cf the previous year’s earnings, whichever is greater. Employees will be paid lhe3r vacation pay on the day prior to proceeding on vacation for the period of vacation being taken. Upon application by the employee vacation pay will be paid in advance. Any advance issued under this clause will be forthe employee's full vacation pay entitlement.
9.(0 In the case of employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Company for one (1) year or more, timo spent by an employee while on Workers' Compensation or off work due to a . non-compensable accident or sickness, up fo a maximum of eleven (11) months, will be counted as rime worked in computing vacation allowance.
9.11	No employee shall be allowed to take his holiday pay and work his regular vacation period for the first three (3) weeks of his vacation, entitlemtuc, Vacation weeks in excess cf three (3) in any year may be
/C
C8Q5000 .Distribution, Centre (02/27/2001)	Page 8
RB/wr USWA 2952	07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
taken in the form of vacation pay rather than paid time off, such election to be made after die three (3) weeks vacation have been taken.
9.12	If one of the ten (10) statutory holidays stipulated in Article 8, 8,02 hereof falls on a week day within the vacation period assigned to or chosen by the employee, the employee may be required to take such holiday with pay outside his vacation period.
9.13	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee, in multiples of one week, by direct deposit. Anything less than one week shall be included in the regular pay cheque.
9.14	Permission fir leave of absence without pay for personal reasons must be obtained as follows:
(a)	leave of absence without pay for one (1) week, or less, may be authorized verbally by the Distribution Manager,
(b)	leave of absence without pay for more than one (1) week, must be applied for and approved in writing by the General Manager.'
In no case will leave of absence exceed a three (3) menth period. Under no circumstances will leave of absence be granted to allow an employee to accept bother position temporarily, or venture into business for himself. When an employee is on leave of absence without pay for more than twenty (20) working days, the employee shall pay a pro rated total premium for benefit plans-
ARTICLE JO - SENIORITY
10.01	For the purpose of seniority, employment, promotion, demotion, layoff and rehiring, all employees covered by the terms of this agreement shall be included in one seniority group.
10.02	An employee's seniority shall date firm the date upon which he entered the enploy of the Company. However, employees shall have worked ninety (90) days within a period of twelve (12) months before their names are placed on che seniority list. Employees not on the seniority list shall not have recourse to the Grievance Procedure if dismissed on grounds of unsuitability. Layoffs of less than twelve (12) months by the Company shall not break continuity of seniority.
10.03	Any employee within the bargaining unit promoted or transferred outside 'ofthe bargaining unit shall not retain his job classification but shall be allowed to retain his seniority for a period of four (4) months. During such period the employee shall have the right Io revert to the bargaining unit voluntarily or on instruction by Management.
10.04	The Company will supply to the Committee each January, a seniority Usl Such list shall show name, classification, and Union seniority date, Said seniority list shall be posted on the bulletin board and revised every six (6) months. The.Company further agrees to send a copy of all revised seniority lists to the Union Office at 4021 Kingsway, Burnaby, BC V5H1Y9.
10.05	If an employee is absent from work because.of accident or sickness he shall not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to the absence, having regard to his capacity. In the case
C8050CK)' Distribution.Centre (02/27(2001)	Page 9
RBAur USWA2952	07/01/2000 - 06/20/2003
10.06
10.07
10.08
of such absence other than layoff, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reason for his absence and the length of time he expects to be away.
When an employee failsto return to work when recalled, or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company, a double registered letter will be mailed to the last known address of the employee, and if within two (2) days after delivery of such notice to the employee's last known address, fails to report fir work or give reasonable cause for not reporting, he shall be considered to have quit his position voluntarily and his existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. .When such notice is sent to such employee, a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently Ko the Union. In rehiring, the last employee laid offshall, subjectto the above provisions, be the first rehired.
Provided that an employee has the ability to perform the work, the last employee hired shall in the case of layoff be the first laid off. In rehiring, the last employee laid cff shall, subject to the above provisions, be the first rehired. In cases where it is Decessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior enployee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled- However, should the senior enployee subsequently report within the requited time, he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled.
(a)	Vacancies other than temporary, holiday relief, sickness relief or authorized leave of absence, shall, be pasted on the notice board for four (4) working days. The vacancies shall be filled on the basis of seniority and ability and awarded to the employee who has submitted a written applicatior^ao the Distribution Manager. Ability being acceptable within reasonable standards, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. When the vacancy being filled requires the employee to be the holder of a valid license or certificate the Ccmpany need not rely on the above seniority provision. Employees so promoted or transferred shall be given reasonable tine in which to qualify, up to thirty (30) days and failing will be returned to their former position. An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident or vacation not exceedingthirty (30)days af the rimeihe vacancy was posted, shall receive equal consideration provided the employee makes his request within three (3) working days after his return to work. No employee shall be awarded more than two (2) postings in any calendar year unless mutually agreed otherwise.
(b)	I nthc case of planned, extended, temporary transfers for such reasons as vacations, sickness, or authorized leave of absence, the basis c£ transfer shall be made by seniority for the senior qualified employee. The senior qualified employee within the location will be offered the transfer first and so an down the applicable seniority lists, until by ibis process a temporary vacancy has been filled.
Should the vacancy notbe filled by this procedure, then the basis oftransfer shall be the junior qualified enployee. The word "qualified" as used in this clause shall be interpreted to mBan "ability to perform the werk without assistance". The procedure as outlined above shall be applicable for the initial transfer and subsequent transfers, if necessary, shall be by appointment.
(c)	Employees temporarily transferred shall retain their existing classification until permanently transferred by way of posting, but shall be paid in accordance with Section 6.03.
CB05000 Distribution Caitre (02/27/2001) RB/wmjswaissz
Page10
07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
10.09
Unplanned, short term, temporary transfers for vacation relief, sickness or accident relief, or authorized leave of absence, of less than one (I) week, (five (5) working days) need not be made by seniority.
10.10	(a) The Company shall supply application forms for employees co use for job postings. Any employee who applies for jcb postings shall fill out duplicate copies, with one copy to be submitted to the Chief Steward and the other copy to the Distribution Manager.
(b) Job postings that differ in regular qualifications than that previously required on the job, shall be subject to discussion with the Union Committee before being posted.
Successful applicants’ names, where applicable, shall be posted with the application within three (3) working days of the expiry date of the posting.
Classified employees shall not be required to perform work outside their posted niaggifiraHm when work Is required within their classificatim or as otherwise mutually agreed.
10.11	An employee to be chosen by the Union To attend Union business outside of the location may be granted leave of absence without pay not exceeding thirty (30) days upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, such agreement not be unreasonably withheld, The Union shall give the Company a written notice of one (1) week before exercising this prerogative. Upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, the number of employees as referred to in this clause may be increased.
ARTICLE 11 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
11.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and equipment to protect the employees firm injury shall be provided by the Company. Where such protective devices and equipment are provided by the Company, such devices and equipment must be used by the employees as determined by the Safety Committee.
11.02	The Union agree? that it will cooperate with the Company in enforcing safety rules and policies. 'The parties shall establish a standing safety committee at each mimufacmring location. Meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held once each month, preferably prior to the regular monthly nieeting of the Local Union.
11.03	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged far refusal to work on any job, or in any work place or to operate any equipment where it is determined by a representative of the Safety Committee that the situation is unsafe or unhealthy-
ARTICLE 12 - SEVERANCE PAY
12.01	Any employee who is terminated by the Company after completion of twelve (12) consecutive months of continuous employment, unless dismissed for just cause, shall be entitled to severance pay equal to the greater of
C805000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
RB/wr USWA 2952
Page 11
07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
(a) two (2) days wages at his; regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work for each completed ir of employment, or
^ nve (5) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work-
12.02	Should it become economically necessary to close the entire location cr a particular major Section or Sections of the said location, on a permanent basis, or to reduce the staffon a permanent basis and it is not reasonably expected that those affected will be re-employed in this or any other of tho Conpany' s operations, subject to Article 12.02(d), a separation allowance Will be paid to such employees subject to the following;
(a)	They have five (5) or note years' seniority.
(b)	They are presently employed by the Company or are accumulating seniority.
The closing is not brought about by var, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
Employees shall have the option to receive severance pay or transfer to another location. Said cpticn shall be exercised within ninety (90) days of the dare of closure or date of permanent layoff. In the last year of employment the employee’s severance pay shall be prorated.
The scale Jpr severance allowance shall be the greater of:
1.	Severance pay calculated as per 12.01.
2.	Severance pay based on the following fomula;
Number afyears of service minus (-) 3 (x 2 weeks pay)
Examples:
Five (5)yean service: Seven (7) years service: Ten (10) years service: Twenty (20) years service: Thirty (30) years service:.
( 5 - 3) x 2 ( 7 - 3) x 2 (10-3)x2 (20-3) x 2 (30-3)x2
4 weeks pay 8 weeks pay
14 weeks pay 34 weeks pav 54 weeks' pay
An employee shall have the option to remain on the payroll and the seniority list for possible recall. In this event, the-Company shall hold the severance,allowance until the employee is recalled or ninety (90) days, whichever is sooner: If the employee.is recalled within the foregoing period, no .severance allowance shall-be payable, ' If.the- employee is not recalled within ninety (90) days, the severance allowance shall .be paid by the'Company forthwith,
For the purposes-of this Section, the location, Section (r Sections .shall be deemed to be closed on a permanent basis, when it or they cease to. operate fix a period of ninety (90) days:
12.03	Employees who receive severance pay under the provisions of this Article shall, .in doing so, terminate both their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights or
C805000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
"R8/WT U8WA2SH
Page 12
07/0112000 >.06/30/2003
privileges under this Agreement or under any other Labour agreement or agreements between the signing parties.
12.04	Individualized Statements: The Company agrees to provide each employee with a statement outlining their layoff date, severance pay, outstanding vacation pay and all other accrued benefits entitled to them under provisions of the Collective Agreement and this Memorandum.
12.05	The Company agrees to provide each employee with a letter of employment at the time of severance, identifying dates of employment and position held.
ARTICLE 13-JURY DUTY
13.01	An employee who is summoned for jury duty or who receives a summons or subpoena to appear as a witness in ,acoun proceeding, other then a court proceeding occasioned by the employee's private affairs, shall be granted leave of absence with pay for the required period of absence, and ail jury or witness fees received by the employee shall be remitted to the Company.
ARTICLE 14 - MEAL ALLOWANCE
14.01	(a) I f an employee is required to work more than two (2) hours past his eight (8) hour or ten (10)
hour shift, jhe Company shall pay the employee five dollars (55.00) to purchase a meal, or up to ten dolors (510,00) upon presentation of a receipt or reasonable facsimile thereof. The Company shall gTant the employee a meal period of up to one (1) hour duration without pay.
Each employee who is required to layover away from his domiciled point shall be compensated for the reasonable cost of a hotel room and for regular meals during the layover period upon presentation of a standard Company expense report with receipts. Acceptable meal costs are considered to be in the range of five dollars ($5.00) for breakfast and lunch,, and ten dollars ($10.00) for dinner.
(b) . An employee working a twelve (12) hour shift shall qualify for a meal allowance of up to .ten dollars (510.00) upon presentation of a receipt or reasonable facsimile thereof.
ARTICLE 15 -WORK CLOTHING
15.01	The Company shall supply coveralls and rain-pear where agreed to between local management and the local Union ernmitbee, It is mutually agreed that where such apparel is provided fir the employees' use, such apparel trust be worn. Provisions of this clause only apply to employees after attaining seniority.
15.02	Ttie Ccrrpany agrees to reimburse employees with seniority covered by'Wage Schedule "A", in permanent classifications up to one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($123.00) per calendar year on proof of purchase of safety footwear that meets C.S.A, standards for.a manufacturing environment. This clause subject to Article 11.01.
C605000 Distribution Centre (OZ/27/2001j	Pago 13
RB/WT USWA »«	07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
ARTICLE 16 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
16.01	After thirty (30) days worked an employee shall be granted in the event of a death of a member of his immediate fknily, bereavement leave on any of his three (3) normal working days that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the day of the death. Immediate family shall mean parents, spouse, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, and grandparents.
A day off with pay to attend the funeral will be granted if the funeral is not within the three days immediately followingthe day of the death, total leave notto exceed three (3) days.
ARTICLE 17 - SERVICE PAY PLAN
17.01	Service Pay Plan - Employees with twenty-five (25) years of service with the Company cr more shall be eligible for payment under this plan. Payment shall be based on one hundred dollars (SI 00.00) for each year of service. The total sum shall be payable upon termination of employment.
17.02	An employee within the bargaining unitmust retire at reaching sixty-five (6 5) years of age.
ARTICLE 18 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
18.01	After thirty (30) days worked, employees shall have the option of joining the existing Medical Services Plan and Medical Services Association extended benefit plan. Total cost of these pians to be paid by the Company.
18.02	The Company shall provide ai Accident and Sickness Plan to provide a benefit of seventy five percent (75%) of gross weekly earnings payable first full day of accident, first full day of sickness, fifty two (52) week benefit period. Total cost of the Plan to be borne by the Ccrrpany.
Gross weekly earnings shall be defined as fixty (40) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay, except where an employee has been on lay off anytime in the four (4) weeks immediately prior to the date of disability, gross weekly earnings shall be calculated based on average weekly hours worked in the three (3) months immediately prior to the date of disability. In no case shall the benefit be calculated on less than twenty four (24) hours at the eiplqyee's classified rate of pay.
18.03	Em^iujces absent due to illness or accident over three (3) months, shall be required to notify the Company each thirty (30) days and report his progress. A maximum of twelve (12) months' sick leave will be granted and after this time, if the employee does nor report for work, he loses his classified job. Failure to report from time to time, as required under this Section, will cause an employee to lose his classified job status with the Company. It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that weekly indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the Employer. If payment of valid, claims is not made by the insurance company within, three (3) weeks from the time that the Ehplc^er receives the completed application, the Employer shall then pay to the claiming,employee, an amount equal to his entitlement. Payments made by the Employer fix claims later found to be invalid or payments made by the Employer which are later paid by the carrier, shall be returnable to the Employer-
GB05000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001) RBAwrusWAara
Page 14
07/01/2000 - 06/30/2003
Where there is a question as to the validity of an employee's claim often 0°) or more working days, it shall be referred to a specialist in the field of concern. Said specialist to be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. The cost of the evaluation shall be paid for fifty percent (50%) by the employee and fifty percent (50%) by the Company. If the specialist rules in favour of the employes the employee portion of the evaluation shall be reimbursed directly to the employee. The decision of the specialist shall be final and binding on all parries.
18.04	Where an employee submits a claim to the Workers' Compensation Board, which would, were it not for the existence of Workers' Compensation, entitle the employee ta weekly indemnity benefits under this Section, and such claim is disputed or delayed by the Workers' Compensarion Board, the employee may subiit a claim for, weekly indemnity benefits. If the Workers' Compensation Board later accepts responsibility for the payment of such disputed or delayed claim, then weekly indemnity benefits received are to be reimbursed to the Employer. At the Ettplqyer's option, the employee, with the full support and cooperation of the Company and the Union, will pursue the appeals procedure under the Worked Conpensation Board.
18.05	Dental Pian - The Ccmpany agrees to participate in the U.F.C.W, Local 1518 Dental Plan on the following basis: The Ccnpany will contribute forty-four cents per hour for each straight hour timo worked by all Errployees in the Bargaining Unit. Paid vacation and statutory holiday pay shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of this clause. Such contributions shall not exceed seventeen dollars and sixty cents ($17.60) per Employee par week.
If it is determinedly actuarial advice that different contributions are required to maintain benefits under die plan, then 'the contributions shall be changed in amounts and on dates determined by such actuarial advice.
The terms and conditions of the plan shall govern coverage for Employees of the Company
18-06 Life insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee in an amount of forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00). Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee with a death benefit equal to the life insurance amount and a standard dismemberment schedule.
18.07	All benefits under Article 18 are effective upon completion of thirty (30) days worked after date of employment for all permanentfUll cime classifications. Accident and Sickness. Long Term Disability, and AD&D coverage ceases immediately upon termination or lay c£f- Extended Health, Dental and B.C. Medical coverage expiras at the end of the month in which termination or lay off occurs. Life Insurance expires thirty (30) days after termination or lay off.
18.08	The Company shall pay the appropriate premiums for all employees who have worked an average of twenty four (24) hours per week in the previous month. Employees on short term lay cff, or temporarily on short hours, may maintain B.C. Medical, Dental, Extended Health, Life Insurance, and AD&D coverage by paying a pro rated share of the premiums For up to three (3) months.
The Company agrees Co maintain benefit premium payments for employees off work for illness or injury fora period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
C805000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)1
RB/wr U3WAZSS2
Page 15
07/01/2000.06/30/2003
18.09	The Company agrees to reimburse employees to a maximum of fifty percent (50%) perclaim towards the cost of providing medical certification when same is required by the Company or its insurance
carrier.
18.10	The Company agrees Ko provide a long-term disability plan to provide a benefit of fifty percent (50%) of an enplcyee's regular earnings subject to the following conditions:
1. Benefits commence upon the expiration of weekly indemnity benefits.
2- Benefits continue for one (1) year while unable to perform own occupation and to age sixty five (65) if prevented from performing any occupation.
3.	Benefit reduced by C.P.P., W.C.B. and I.C.B.C. disability benefits-
4.	Maximum benefit two thousand dollars($2,000.00) per month.
5.	Coverage to exclude pre-existing conditions at date of coverage. A pre-existing condition is one that existed before a member became insured. No benefit is payable if a disability is related to a preexisting condition and begins within ninety (90) days of the member becoming insured. An employee must be free firm all drugs and medications associated with that condition for ninety (90) days either before or after the effective date of the policy. This exclusion does not apply if the member after becoming insured has been actively working tir (12) twelve conseoutive months with no absence related to the pre-existing condition.
Cost of the above plan to be paid one hundred percent (100%) by The Company.
18.11	The Union reservesjhe right to have the employees voce on participating in the U.F.C.W. Education Fund and the Compdrty agrees to administer the deductions.
18.12	Effective December 1, 2000, the Company shall increase their pension contribution by thirty-five cents (35yt) per hour.
18.13	Vision Care: The Company agrees to provide Vision Care in the amount of one hundred and fifty dollars (5150.00) every two (2) years to each employee.
18.14	The Company, where permitted by applicable legislation, shall be entitled to a refund of the amount of disability benefits paid under this plan, if responsibility for a disability is due to another party. The Company has full rights to subrogation (right or recovery) regarding damages for loss of income, which have .been or may be .reimbursed by the other party (i.e-, -automobile insurance, workers' compensation, etc.)
ARTICLE 19 - AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
19-01 The Company will provide the Union with two (2) months' notice of intention to introduce automation equipment or a technological change which will result in displacement or reduction of personnel.
19.02 jEmplpyees becoming redundant due to new equipment cr technological change shall beeligibie for
retraining to qualify them for the operation of such new equipment. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without less of pay to the affected employee(s).
C805000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001) RBVr USWX3S52
Page 16
D7/01/Z000 • 06/30/2003
19.03	In cases where retraining of employees is not practical or where other positions within the Company are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment or shall elect to remain on the seniority list. An employee on recall under chis Section shall receive all the benefits he had accrued to the date of being placed on the recall list Such benefits to be paid at the end of the recall period or at such earlier time as he may elect to terminate,
19.04	Employees whoso services are terminated because of automation or technological change shall receive a separation allowance in accordance with the scale outlined in Article 13, Section 13.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01	(a) A standing committee shall be mainrained in each location in the following manner:
The Union shall elect from time to time, firm its members at the Distribution Centre, a standing committee of up to two (2) employees which shall represent the Union for all purposes of this Article. For the purposes of chis Article, any grievances with the exception of
20.06	(b) shall be filed by the grievor within a period of twenty (20) working days after the grievance has occurred or when it becomes known.
It is agreed between the parties that under the application of Article 20.01(a), the timelimits referred to herein may be waived by mutual agreement between die parries or by an arbitration board.
(a) Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as working days wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
(cj	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular day shift working hours,
(d)	The Company recognizes the right of the Grievance Committee to process any grievance that is
brought to their attention or to pursue matters affecting relations.between the Canpany and the employees as they relate to the terms of the Collective Agreement. For the purpose of this Agreement a grievance is defined as any difference between the parties, concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement
20.02	The employee shall first discuss his grievance with his Shop Steward. If the Shop Steward is unable to settle the grievance with his foreman within two (2) working days, it shall be processed to 20.03.
20.03	The Chief Shop Steward will present a,written grievance to the Distribution Manager who shall call a meeting within two (2) working days to discuss: the grievance with the Union Committee and the aggrieved employee or employees, if desired. Failing a satisfactory settlement of this Section within three (3) working days, it shall be referred to 20.04.
20.04	The Union Committee shall take the matter up with a Committee designated by the Company. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired. Failing a satisfactory settlement of this Section within five (5) working days or otherwise mutually agreed, it shall be referred to 20.05.
C80500Q Distribution Centre (02/27/2001) RB/wtusWazmz
Page 17
07/01/2000 ■ 06/30/2003
20.05
In the event that the grievance is nor satisfactorily settled by these methods, it shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration to be set up in the following manner:
(a) The Company and Union shall appoint one (I) member each who shall then get together and
endeavour to appoint a Chairman satisfactory to both parties. Failing agreement, they shall apply to the Canada Labour Relations Board ko name a Chairman, farther requesting that such appointment be made within seven (7) working days.
The Board, thus set up, shall decide its own method of procedure provided, however, that both parties are given ample opportunity of presenting their case. The Board shall render its decision and the majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties.
(b) The Company shall pay all the expenses of its nominee and the Union shall pay all the expenses of its nominee. The expenses and compensation of the Chairman shalt be divided equally between the parties.
20.06	(a) The Ccnpany must give the Chief Shop Steward notice in writing af the suspension or discharge of any employee and the reasons on the day such action is taken.
(b)	If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of written notice of dismissal, notify both the Grievance Committee and the Ccnpany in writing. The dismissal in question shall then constitute ^'grievance and shall be dealt with as such.
(c)	If, subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall then be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated as may be deemed fair in the circumstances.
20-07 When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement, the wages of an employee are adjusted, such adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in the earnings was made. If the date cannot be established, then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid or such other dare as may be agreed upon.
20.08	Stewards shall have the right to investigate cc adjust grievances on domicile premises on Company time without loss of pay. The Steward 'shall obtain permission from the Distribution Manager or his delegate before leaving his work which permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
20.09	When the Ccnpany deems it accessary to discipline an employee, they shall have the Union Steward present. In the case of suspension or dismissal, the Union Steward and Chief Steward shall be present.
20.10	A written warning will be disregarded after twelve (12) calendar norths, providing there has been no other written wahiing, suspension, or other progressive discipline in that period.
In order for the warning to be disregarded, the enployee must work eighty percent (80%) of his available hours within the twelve (12) calendar nmtii period or the twelve (12) calendar month period shall be extended until the eighty percent (80%) rule is met.
C8O5000. Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
RB/wr uswazssz
Page 18
07/01/2000 - 06/36/2003
20.11	The Company agrees to keep the Union Committee informed of the names of the individuals responsible for directing the working force and the Union 'agreesto keep the Company informed oftlie members of the individual Safety and Grievance Committees.
ARTICLE 21 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 2000 to the 30th day of June, 2003 and thereafter from year to year unless at any time within the four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry of the AgrestEnt, written notice to contrary Intention is given by either party to the other party.
Wage increases effective as per dares on Schedule "A". All other amendments effective dace of ratification.
22.02	The parties hereto agree to commence negotiations within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice, if no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in farce up to the time a subsequent agreement is 'reachedor until negotiations are discontinued by either party.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY TOPNOTCHNUTRI LIMITED 3013 Turner Rcfed, Abbotsford, BC
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, Local 1518 4021 Kingsway, Burnaby, BC

Ross

ner, Executive Vice President
C806000 Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
RB/wr uiSWA agsa
Page 19
07/01/2000-06/30/2003
SCHEDULE “A
Effective	December 1,2000		July 1,2001		July 1,2002	
	Starting Rate	After 30 days worked	Starting Rate	After 30 days worked	Starting Rare	After , 30 days worked
Labourer/ Warehouseman	17.85	18.10	18.10	18.35	18.35	18.60
Forklift Operator	18.86	19.11	19.11	193?	19.36	19.61
Seed Equipment Operator	18.86	19.11	19.11	19.36	19.36	19.61
Working Foreman	19.62	19.87	19.87	20.12	20.12	20.37
C80S000.Distribution Centre (02/27/2001)
RB/wr USWAasw
Page 20
07/01/2000 - 00/30/2003
INDEX
A
O
Accident and Sickness Plan..........
Accidental Death and Di$memberment.„.
application forma...................
AUTOMATION.,-.......................
B
banked overtime---—------------------
bargaining agent....................
bargaining unit...__...._...........
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE...................
C
Classified employees,...............
contracting out.....................
D
Denial flan.........................
discipline..........................
DURATION OF AGREEMENT...............
E
emergency work......................
extended benefit plan..........—....-
G
GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE..................
H
HOURS CF WORK.......................
/' '
Individualized Statements...........
J
job category________________________
job postings________________________
JURY DUTY.
L
Labour Relations Board..............
layover...________._________________
leave of absence without pay........
letter of employment.........-......
(Lifc insurance.....................
list ofiuailfi®1 employes_
long-term disability plan...........
M.
MANAGEMENT..........................
meal allowance......................
medical certification—.—............
Medical Services Plan...............
.... j. 6 	3 ..j—14 	1 1	overtime	 P pay periods.—	—					 permanent layoff—	 premium R recall...,,..,,,			—		 rest intervals					 S safety and health								„4 				 12 	5.9 	-.10.1Z 16 			3 	11
	3			ti
	safety foocwcar,„					13
	IS	safety ruins and policies			 SCHEDULE A						-		U 	...»		20
	schedule ofhrun and davs		.4
-,..-.19	srrspp., ,, ..."						—,-l
	seniority.			9
	5	seniority date		-	—		— — seniority list						...9 »mH.iHwnun9| 12.
	14	seniority rights			
	separadon allowance				1Z 17
	Service Pay Plan		
17	severance allowance	-		
	severance pay 			a	-	- statutory holidays.			—			 		6.7,9
	4	subrogation	_	-	-			-	16
	13	T TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 				-	16
	temporary transfers								-.7,10
4	Transfers-to lower paidjobs 		 				4 	„	4
	Tuesday to Saturday work week—			-5
—13	V	
	Union dues			—				3
	unused holiday credits				8
		13	V	
U .13	Vacancies 					
	IS	Vacation eligibility	-	-							7
<	vacation pay							...				7,8,9,13
	Vision. Cwe	 	t 			—	16.
	w ■	
	2 ii	Wages					-			3
	witness	:			-			-13
.M	WORK CLOTHING			-13
		14	Workers' Compensation.—	—				7.8,15
N
no discrimination.