AGREEMEN T
BETWEEN:
TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED
32885 Ventura- Avenue, Abbotsford, B.C.
V2S 5B5
SOURCE	.	
EFF,		0*7 C> (
TERM.	°13	b<b 3a
N:<a. OP j EMRCmtS l L L		
NOM'JRP I; j D'HMPLOYfs |i ^		
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION. LOCAL 1518 #700 - 4211 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6
ARTICLE	INDEX	PAGE
1	GENERAL	2
2	SCOPE	2
3	RELATIONSHIP	3
4	MANAGEMENT	4
5	UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION	5
6	WAGES	7
7	HOURS OF WORK	9
8	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	12
9	VACATIONS	13
10	SENIORITY	18
11	SAFETY AND HEALTH	22
12	TOOL REPLACEMENT	22
13	SEVERANCE PAY	23
14	JURY DUTY	25
15	MEAL ALLOWANCE	25
16	WORK CLOTHING	25
17	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	26
18	SERVICE PAY PLAN	26
19	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	27
20	AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	30
21	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	32
22	DURATION OF AGREEMENT	35
■ OCT 22 )993
oo in (oGCd
2
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 4th day of March A.D., 1993
BETWEEN:
TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED
32885 Ventura Avenue, Abbotsford, B.C. V2S 5B5 (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAT, WORKERS UNION. LOCAL 1518 tt700 - 4211 King sway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide a satisfactory means of settling any differences or grievances which may arise and to establish and set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE
2.01	This Agreement applies to all employees of the Company in the following Plants:
Abbotsford Plant	Armstrong Plant
Duncan Plant
where Local 1518 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union has been duly certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board, except those employees excluded by the certification.
ARTICLE 3 - RELATIONSHIP
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by the Company or any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership in or connection with the Union and that membership in the Union by employees who are eligible to join will not be discouraged. The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practiced upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives. No employee shall conduct Union activities during his working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement without first securing permission from the Company.
The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action, which will stop or interfere with production until the dispute is dealt with under the Grievance Procedure.
Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall also be considered to include the feminine except where specifically indicated otherwise.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4.01
The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, and demote employees; provided that
a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause maybe the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kind and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
(d)	It is understood and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employees' bargaining agency, as an evidence of good faith, the Union will use its best efforts to have its members' responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and spirit.
(e)	The Company may bring forward at any meeting with the Union Committees any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers or its Corimitteenen affecting the relationship between the Union and the Company so that a satisfactory mutual understanding may be reached by the conferring parties.
5
A.02
ARTICLE 5
5.01
5.02
5.03
5 .04
The Company also agrees to carry out the terms of this contract in letter and spirit.
- UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION
The Company acknowledges that the employees in the unit described above have selected the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent and recognizes the Union as such for all employees in the said unit.
The Company agrees that all employees now members of the Union and all employees who become members of the Union shall remain members in good standing of the Union while employed by the Company during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of employment.
Since the Union is recognized as the bargaining agent for all employees, as defined in Article 2, and in order to promote harmony among all such employees, it is hereby provided that all new employees shall become members of the Union. The Company shall be kept informed, in writing, of the amount of the monthly Union dues and the Union entrance fee as set by the Union Constitution, By-laws or by decision of a regularly constituted local Union meeting.
New employees will not be subject to compulsory checkoff until they have been in the employment of the Company for thirty (30) days of actual work, unless they become members of the Union before that time. After thirty (30) days worked, payment of Union dues is a condition of employment.
6
5.05
5.06
5.07
5.08
Subject to the other provisions of this Article, all employees to whom this Article applies shall give the Company written authorization for the deduction and remittance of the Union dues aforesaid, in a form satisfactory to the Company.
Upon receipt of an .authorization in writing by an employee affected, forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of each such employee the Union entrance fee and Union membership dues once each calendar month and such deductions shall be remitted promptly to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union.
The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability arising out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon checkoff authorization supplied by the Union or for the purpose of complying with any of the foregoing checkoff provisions. There shall be no contracting out of work presently performed by members of the bargaining unit without the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Union agrees not to arbitrarily withhold such agreement in any case where the Company proves beyond a reasonable doubt that it is economically justifiable to contract out. In particular, but not so as to restrict the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to contract out work of a nature which it has in the past contracted out, and work in the future which, in its opinion, is of such a type as to be incompatible in nature or uneconomical with work presently being performed by members of the bargaining unit. The Company agrees to provide the Union with reasonable notice of its intention to contract out work.
7
ARTICLE 6
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
- WAGES
Wages shall be paid in accordance with Schedule "A" of this Agreement which is attached hereto and forms a part thereof.
If an employee meets with an accident while at work or becomes ill during his shift making him incapable of completing his shift, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift at the applicable Workers Compensation Board or Accident and Sickness Plan pay percentages.
When an employee is temporarily transferred to another job, he shall receive the rate of pay applicable to the job to which he has been temporarily transferred, except where the rate of pay is less than that paid on his former job.	In such	cases,	the employee	shall receive the
rate of pay of his former job.	However, if the	transfer is of a
permanent nature, which shall take into consideration seniority, the employee shall receive the rate of pay applicable to his new job. If this be lower than his former rate, he shall be paid the higher rate for ten (10) days before reverting to the lower rate.
Transfers to lower paid jobs shall be referred to a joint Union Management Committee before an employee's rate is reduced.
When a job category is to be established, eliminated or absorbed into a classification by the	Company,	it is	agreed that	the Company shall
advise the Union of the	proposed	change	at least ten	(10) days prior to
the effective date of such change for the purposes of discussing with the Company, the personnel and the rate of the job. Any disagreement under this Clause concerning rate of pay, seniority, ability or job posting shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure - Article 21.
6.06
6.07
6.08
6.09
8
Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained in the Company's employ shall not lose the credit for their days of experience in computing their pay rates and shall receive the rate for the job classification being filled.
The Company agrees to make every reasonable effort to continue established pay periods.
Employees promoted or permanently transferred to another classification shall be paid the starting rate for their new classification for the first thirty (30) working days, after which the top rate for the job shall apply, subject to Article 6.03.
The wage schedule shall include in the basic rates a Steam Certification provision as follows:
Pellet Mill Operator------Boiler Operator's Certificate	AOc/hour
Millwright "A"------------4th Class Engineer	55c/hour
Millwright Engineer-------4th Class Engineer	75c/hour
Any new job postings for these classifications will carry a Steam Certificate qualification as stated and the rate set out in the wage schedule. Any employee earning a Steam Premium other than his normal posted job qualifications shall be paid the appropriate premium as part of his basic hourly rate.
The Company will reimburse fifty (50) percent of the course fees for a pellet mill operator boiler operator certificate and a 4th class power engineer's certificate. The above will be paid on successful completion of the course subject to prior company approval on taking
the course.
9
6.10
ARTICLE.
7.01
Any employee appointed to the Millwright Foreman position, supervising two (2) or more other millwrights, shall receive a premium of sixty six (66) cents per hour over his classified rate. Such premium to be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
7 - HOURS OF WORK
The standard hours of work shall be:
Abbotsford Plant. Duncan Plant. Armstrong Plant
(a)	1. Eight (8) hours in any one (1) day, forty (AO) hours in any one (1) week worked on a schedule of Monday to Friday or Tuesday to Saturday, subject to Article 7.01(d).
2. Truck driver and bulk loader classifications may be scheduled ten (10) hours in any one (1) day, forty (AO) hours in any one (1) week, scheduled within a Monday to Saturday work week.
(b)	The Company shall schedule the hours and days of work and post them outlining the starting and finishing times of all employees. Any time worked outside the schedule of hours shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rates. The senior employees shall have the choice of schedule of hours for their department or classification if they are capable of doing the work. Such choice of schedule of hours must be exercised at time of posting, when a vacancy occurs in the same classification or at six month intervals from the date of the posting.
10
7.01
7.02
7.03
(c)	The schedule of hours and days maybe changed from time to time as required to meet the needs of the business but such changes shall not be made effective until notice of three (3) working days has been given to the employees concerned unless changed by mutual agreement. Any changes in the schedule of hours will be discussed and agreed to by the local Union Committee.
(d)	A Tuesday to Saturday work week may apply to two (2)trock drivers, two (2) millwrights, two (2) plant personnel and warehousemen for the purpose of sales.
Employees in the manufacturing plants working the afternoon or night shift shall work seven and a half (7 1/2) hours per day and thirty seven and a half (37 1/2) hours per week with a lunch period of half (1/2) an hour on Company time for atotalpaid time of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
The Company agrees to pay a premium of forty (40) cents per hour to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours of 4:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight and a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours 12:00 midnight and 8:00 A.M. Such premium shall be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
When it becomes necessary for any overtime to be worked, such overtime shall first be offered to the employees in seniority order regularly employed in the department where the overtime is to be worked. Failing to get sufficient employees in this manner such overtime may be offered to qualified employees in other departments on a seniority basis.
11
7.04(a)
(b)
7.05
7.06
7.07
All employees worked in excess of the hours mentioned in Article 7.01 of this Agreement, shall be paid at overtime rates of time and one half (1 1/2) of the regular hourly rate for the first two (2) hours of overtime and double (2 times) the regular rate thereafter.
Any employee called into work and capable of adequately performing his work shall be guaranteed a minimum of:
(a)	four (4) hours’ pay if the employee commences work;
(b)	two (2) hours’ pay if the employee does not commence work;
at the appropriate rates of pay.
Any employees called in off schedule for emergency work shall be paid one (1) hour's travel time at regular rates and shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall receive at least four (4) hours’ pay at his regular overtime rate. Seniority shall not necessarily apply for an occurrence endangering Company personnel, property or assets. All employees shall have two (2) fifteen minute rest intervals during each day without deduction in pay, with rest periods to be provided in the time schedule.
Employees may elect to bank hours of overtime at appropriate time and a half (1 1/2) or double (2) time hours. Employees must elect banking quarterly as at the end of each quarter each year. Three (3 ) weeks notice will be given, prior to any banked hours being taken unless mutually agreed otherwise. Portions of banked time may be taken in
12
7.07 (cont’d) increments on a full shift basis only, Banked hours will be paid at the rate the employee was receiving at the time he earned the banked hours. Unused hours will be paid out on termination or on the first pay date following the end of each three (3) month period, unless the employee chooses a carryover.
Carryover will be for a maximum of six (6) months from the end of any quarter at which time unused hours will be paid out.
ARTICLE 8 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	Statutory holidays will be paid for at the employee's regular, rates on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with less than thirty (30) days worked with the Company, None.
(b)	Employees with thirty (30) days or more worked shall be
entitled to pay for up to ten (10) statutory holidays. When any of these holidays falls on a Sunday, the day observed by the Provincial government shall be considered the holiday.
(c)	Number of hours paid shall be the employee's regular shift hours provided the employee has earnings in the pay period in which the holiday falls or is observed.
8.02	Statutory Holidays referred to above are as follows:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
B.C. Day	Boxing Day
13
8.03
8.04
8.05
8.06
ARTICLE 9 9.01
Any Statutory Holidays not specifically mentioned in this Agreement declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments, shall form part of this Agreement and paid for as provided.
If an employee is absent on his scheduled work day before a Statutory Holiday or his scheduled work day immediately following a Statutory Holiday, payment for the holiday is left to the discretion of the Management.
Except Watchmen, all employees who work on Sundays shall be .paid for ^uch work, double their regular	hourly	rate. Employees who may be
required	to work on a	Statutory	Holiday shall be paid double their
regular hourly rate for all hours worked plus any pay they may be eligible for under Article 8, 8.01.
Statutory holidays which fall on or are observed on an employee's regular day off, shall be paid for on the following basis:
a)	Regular shift	hours pay	at the	employee's regular rates, or
b)	A day or days	off with	pay to	be taken at a time .mutually
agreed to by the employee-and the Company.
- VACATIONS
Vacation eligibility, length of vacation and rate of vacation pay shall be calculated on the following basis:
a)	Cut-off date for establishing vacation entitlement shall be January 1st each year.
b)	Eligibility for current year vacation entitlement shall be based on the employee's number of working days in the year vacation is earned, a complete year shall be 182 or more working days.
c)	Length of vacation and/or percentage of vacation pay to be based on number of years of seniority.
u
9.01
9,9.2.
9.03
9.04
(cont'd)
(a)
(b)
d) A week of vacation eligibility shall be defined as forty (40) working hours, not inlcuding statutory holidays.
..Ihp_s. completed one (1) full year of service as at January 1st in any year he shall be eligible for two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
All employees who have been in the employ of the Company for less than one (1) year as at January 1st of each year shall in that year be given holidays at the rate of. five sixths (5/6) of a day for each one (1) month's,work in the previous year provided the employee is still on the. payroll of the Company.
If.an employee has worked 182 or more days in the year vacation is earned the following vacation schedule shall apply:
Years of Seniority Three (3)
Eight (8)
Fifteen (15) Twenty-three (23)
Weeks of
Vacation Eligibility Three (3)
Four (4)
Five (5)
Six (6)
An employee not completing 182 days of actual work shall be eligible for vacation as per the above scale, but shall be paid vacation pay as per Article 9.06(b).
Any employee who is eligible for more than three (3) weeks vacation Sfiall:i)b4e. allowedjonly thret; (3) weeks of their vacation during the period June 15 to September 15 unless mutually agreed otherwise.
15
9.05
9.06
9.07
Employees qualifying for an additional weeks vacation as per the previous schedule will be granted the additional week on the basis of their individual anniversary date.
(a)	Employees shall receive vacation pay based on the rate that has been gained by permanent posting at the time the vacation is taken. The earned rate of pay for temporary transfers of more than thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the time vacation is taken, for vacation purposes, shall be considered regular rate.
(b)	Employees covered by Article 9 not completing 182 eight (8) hour working days in the previous calendar year shall receive vacation pay equal to the greater of:
1)	average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year times current rate of pay, calculated as follows:
a)	employees with 182 or more working days shall be paid based on average daily hours on actual number of days worked
b)	employees with less than 182 working days shall be paid based on average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year
2)	two (2) percent of the employee's previous year's earnings for each week of eligible vacation as per the scale set out in Article 9.03.
Personnel may take their vacations at times mutually.agreed upon by the employee and the Plant Manager. A list to be submitted to the Plant Manager by April 15th of the current year. Vacations as far as possible shall be staggered so as not to deplete any division of the plant staff and cannot be taken more than three weeks at any one time unless mutually agreed otherwise. Employees not submitting a holiday list by April 15th shall lose seniority preference in selection of vacation time. All vacation time due must be commenced by October 31st
16
9.07
9.08
9.09
9.10
9.11
(cont'd)
and completed by December 31st of the current year unless mutually agreed otherwise in writing.
Any employee who leaves the service of the Company on his own accord or is dismissed for cause, shall be paid for any unused holiday credits in the year in which the employee quits or is dismissed for cause, in accordance with the applicable percentage as outlined above. This will not apply to layoffs by the Company or retirement, in which case normal paid vacations will apply.
For each seven (7) days' vacation, vacation pay shall be at the rate of forty (40) hours pay per Article 9.06(a) or two (2) percent of the previous year's earnings, whichever is greater. Employees will be paid their vacation pay on the day prior to proceeding on vacation for the period of vacation being taken. Upon application by the employee vacation pay will be paid in advance. Any advance issued under this clause will be for the employee's full vacation pay entitlement,
In the case of employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Company for one (1) year or more, time-spent by an employee while on Workers' Compensation or off work due to a non-compensable accident or sickness, up to a maximum of eleven (11) months, will be counted as time worked in computing vacation allowance.
No employee shall be allowed to take his holiday pay and work his regular vacation period for the first three (3) weeks of his vacation entitlement . Vacation weeks in excess of three (3) in any year may be taken in the form of vacation pay rather than paid time off, such election to be made after the three (3) weeks vacation have been taken.
17
9.12
9.13
9.14
9.15
If one of the ten (10) statutory holidays stipulated in Article 8, 8.02 hereof falls on a week day within the vacation period assigned to or chosen by the employee, the employee may be required to take such holiday with pay outside his vacation period.
Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee by separate cheque.
After sixty (60) days worked each employee shall be granted a floating holiday to be taken by the employee upon mutual agreement between the employee and local management. This day is to be taken within the calendar year.
Permission for leave of absence without pay for personal reasons must be obtained as follows: (a) leave of absence without pay for one (1) week or less, may be authorized verbally by the local plant manager,
(b)	leave of absence without pay for more than one (1) week, must be applied for and approved in writing by the plant manager. In no case will leave of absence exceed a three (3) month period. Under no circumstances will leave of absence be granted to allow an employee to accept another position temporarily, or venture into business for himself. When an employee is on leave of absence without pay for more than twenty (20) working days, the employee shall pay a pro rated total premium for benefit plans.
18
ARTICLE 10
10.01
1.
10.02
10.03
10,04
- SENIORITY
For the purpose of seniority, employment, promotion, demotion, layoff and rehiring, all employees covered by the terms of this agreement shall be included in one seniority group in each location except as follows:
Rogers Street Plant and Abbotsford Plant where combined seniority is recognized.
An employee's seniority shall date from the date upon which he entered the employ of the Company. However, employees shall have worked thirty (30) days within a period of twelve (12) months before their names are placed on the seniority list. Employees not on the seniority list shall not have recourse to the Grievance Procedure if dismissed on grounds of unsuitability. Layoffs of less than twelve (12) months by the Company shall not break continuity of seniority.
Any employee within the bargaining unit promoted or transferred outside of the bargaining unit shall not retain his job classification but shall be allowed to retain his seniority for a period of four (4) months. During such period the employee shall have the right to revert to the bargaining unit voluntarily or on instruction by Management. The Company will supply to the Committee each January, a seniority list. Such list shall show name, classification, and Union seniority date. Said seniority list shall be posted on the bulletin board and revised every four (4) months. The Company further agrees to send a copy of all revised seniority lists to the Union Office at #700-4211 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6.
19
10.05	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness he shall not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to the absence, having regard to his capacity. In the case of such absence other than layoff, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reason for his absence and the length of 'time he expects to be away.
10.06	When an employee fails to return to work when recalled, or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company, a double registered letter will be mailed to the last known address of the employee and if within two (2) days after delivery of such notice to the employee's last known address, fails to report for work or give reasonable cause for not reporting, he shall be considered to have quit his position voluntarily and his existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When such notice is sent to such employee, a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union. In rehiring, the last employee laid off shall, subject to the above provisions, be the first rehired.
10.07	Provided that an employee has the ability to perform the work, the last employee hired shall in the case of layoff be the first laid off. In. rehiring, the last employee laid off shall, subject to the above provisions, be the first rehired. In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior‘employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled.
20
10.08(a)	Vacancies other than temporary, holiday relief, sickness relief or
authorized leave of absence, shall be posted on the notice board for four (4) working days. The vacancies shall be filled on the basis of seniority and ability and awarded to the employee who has submitted a written application to the Plant Manager, Ability being sufficent, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail, When the vacancy being filled requires the employee to be the holder of a valid license or certificate the Company need not rely on the above seniority provision. For the purposes of this clause license and certificate shall be limited to those licenses required in the truck driver classification and those certificates required in the pellet machine operator and millwright classifications as per section 6.09. Employees so promoted or transferred shall be given reasonable time in which to qualify, up to thirty (30) days and failing will be returned to their former position, An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident or vacation not exceeding thirty (30)days at the time the vacancy was posted, shall receive equal consideration provided the employee makes his request within three (3) working days after his return to work, No employee shall be awarded more than two(2) postings in any calendar year unless mutually agreed otherwise.
(b)	In the case of temporary transfers, except as set out in Section 10.09, the basis of transfer shall be made by seniority with the senior qualified employee within each location being offered the transfer first and so on down the applicable seniority lists, until by this process, a temporary vacancy has been filled, Should the vacancy not be filled by this procedure, then the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee, The word "qualified" as used in this clause shall be interpreted to mean "ability to regularly perform the work without assistance".
21
10.08
10.09
10.10
10.11
(c)	Employees temporarily transferred shall retain their existing classification until permanently transferred by way of posting, but shall be paid in accordance with Section 6.03.
Temporary transfers for vacation relief, sickness or accident relief, or authorized leave of absence need not be made by seniority.
(a)	The Company shall supply application forms for employees to use for job postings. Any employee who applies for job postings shall fill out duplicate copies, with one copy to be submitted to the Plant Chief Steward and the other copy to the Plant Manager.
(b)	Job postings that differ in regular qualifications than that previously required on the job, shall be subject to discussion with the Union Committee before being posted.
(c)	Successful applicants' names, where applicable, shall be posted with the application within three (3) working days of the expiry date of the posting.
(d)	Classified employees shall not be required to perform work outside their posted classification when work is required within their classification or as otherwise mutually agreed.
Employees (not more than two from any manufacturing location) to be chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside of the location shall be granted leave of absence without pay not exceeding thirty (30) days each upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, such agreement not to be' unreasonably withheld. The Union shall give the Company a written notice of one (1) week before exercising this prerogative. Upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, the number of employees as referred to in this clause maybe increased.
22
ARTICLE
11.01
11.02
11.03
ARTICLE
12.01
11 ~ SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and equipment to protect the employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. Where such protective devices and equipment are provided by the Company, such devices and equipment must be used by the employees as determined by the Safety Committee.
The Union agrees that it will co-operate with the Company in enforcing safety rules and policies. The parties shall establish a standing safety committee at each manufacturing location. Meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held once each month, preferably prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Local Union,
No employee shall be disciplined or discharged for refusal to work on any job, or in any work place or to operate any equipment where it is determined by a representative of the Safety Committee that the situation is unsafe or unhealthy,
12 - TOOL REPLACEMENT
All tools that are the property of the maintenance employees and which are used on any job in the plant shall be replaced by the Company because of depreciation through ordinary wear, or if lost through no negligence on the part of the owner. It is the duty of all maintenance employees to supply the Union Committee and the Management with a full and complete value list of their tools as at April 1st each year.
23
ARTICLE
13.01
13.02
13 - SEVERANCE PAY
Any employee who is terminated by the Company after completion of twelve (12) consecutive months of continuous employment, unless dismissed for just cause, shall be entitled to severance pay equal to the greater of a) two (2) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work for each completed year of employment, or b) five (5) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work,
Should it become economically necessary to close the entire location or a particular major section or sections of the said location, on a permanent basis, or to reduce the staff on a permanent basis and it is not reasonably expected that those affected will be re-employed in this or any other of the Company's operations, subject to Article 13.02(d), a separation allowance will be paid to such employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have five (5) or more years' seniority,
(b)	They are presently employed by the Company or are accumulating seniority.
(c)	The closing is not brought about by war,	strike, walkout,	work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work,	fire, government action or
Act of God,
(d)	Employees shall have the option to receive	severance pay or	transfer to
another location. Said option shall be exercised within	ninety (90)
days of the date of closure or date of permanent layoff.
The scale for severance allowance shall be the greater of:
24
13.02(d)
13.03
(cont’d)
1.	Severance pay calculated as per 13.01.
2.	Severance pay based on the following formula:
Number of years of service -5x2 weeks pay Example:
5 years - 2 weeks pay per 13.01 (7 years - 5) x 2 = 4 weeks pay (10 years	-	5)	x	2 =10 weeks	pay
(20 years	-	5)	x	2 = 30 weeks	pay
(30 years	-	5)	x	2 = 50 weeks	pay
An employee shall have the option to remain on the payroll and the seniority list for possible recall. In this event, the Company shall hold	the	severance	allowance until the	employee is	recalled	or	ninety
(90)	days,	whichever	is sooner,	If	the employee	is recalled	within
the foregoing period, no severance allowance shall be payable, If the employee is not recalled within ninety (90) days, the severance allowance shall be paid by the Company forthwith.
For the purposes of this Section, the location, section or sections shall be deemed to be closed on a permanent basis, when it or they cease to operate for a period of ninety (90) days.
Employees who receive severance pay under the provisions of this Article shall, in doing so, terminate both their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights 'or privileges under this Agreement or under any other Labour agreement or agreements between the signing parties.
25
ARTICLE 14 - JURY DUTY
14.01	An employee who is summoned for jury duty or who receives a summons or subpoena to appear as a witness in a court proceeding, other than a court proceeding occasioned by the employee's private affairs, shall be granted leave of absence with pay for the required period of absence, and all jury or witness fees received by the employee shall be remitted to the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - MEAL ALLOWANCE
15.01	If an employee is required to work more than two (2) hours past his eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift, the Company shall pay the employee five (5) dollars to purchase a meal. The Company shall grant the employee a meal period of up to one (1) hour duration without pay. Each employee who is required to layover away from his domiciled point shall be entitled to a Subsistence Allowance of Ten Dollars ($10.00). In addition, the Company shall pay for the reasonable cost of a hotel room upon presentation of a receipt.
ARTICLE 16 ~ WORK CLOTHING
16.01	The Company shall supply coveralls and raingear where agreed to between local management and the local union committee. It is mutually agreed that where such apparel is provided for the employees' use, such apparel must be worn. Provisions of this clause only apply to employees after attaining seniority.
16.02	The Company agrees to reimburse employees with seniority covered by Wage Schedule "A" in permanent classifications up to sixty (60) dollars per calendar year on proof of purchase of safety footwear that meets C.S.A. standards for a manufacturing environment. This clause subject
26
ARTICLE 17 17.01
ARTICLE 18 18.01
18.02
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
After attainment of seniority an employee shall be granted in the event of a death of a member of his immediate family, bereavement leave on any of his three (3) normal working days that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the day of the death. Immediate family shall mean parents, spouse, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, or any relative residing full time with the employee.
A day off with pay to attend the funeral will be granted if the funeral is not within the three days immediately following the day of the death, total leave not to exceed three (3) days.
SERVICE PAY PLAN
Service Pay Plan - Employees with twenty-five (25) years of service with the Company or more shall be eligible for payment under this plan.
Payment shall be based on one hundred (100) dollars for each year of service. The total sum shall be payable upon termination of employment.
An employee within the bargaining unit must retire at reaching sixty-five (65) years of age.
27
ARTICLE
19.01
19.02
19.03
19 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
After thirty (30) days worked, employees shall have the option of joining the existing Medical Services Plan and Medical Services Association extended benefit plan. Total cost of these plans to be paid by the Company.
The Company shall provide an Accident and Sickness Plan to provide a benefit of seventy five (75) percent of gross weekly earnings payable first full day of accident, first full day of sickness, fifty two (52) week benefit period. Total cost of the Plan to be borne by the Company. Requalifying period of ninety (90) days will not apply to employees laid off for less than twelve (12) months.
Gross weekly earnings shall be defined as forty (40) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay, except where an employee has been on lay off anytime in the four (4) weeks immediately prior to the date of disability, gross weekly earnings shall be calculated based on average weekly hours worked in the three (3) months immediately prior to the date of disability. In no case shall the benefit be calculated on less than twenty four (24) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay. Employees absent due to illness or accident over three (3) months, shall be required to notify the Company each thirty (30) days and report his progress. A maximum of twelve (12) months' sick leave will be granted and after this time, if the employee does not report for work, he loses his classified job. Failure to report from time to time, as required under this Section, will cause an employee to lose his classified job status with the Company. It is understood and agreed between the employer and the Union that weekly indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the employer. If payment of valid claims is not made by the insurance company within two (2) weeks from the time that the employer receives
28
19.03(cont'd)
the completed application, the employer shall then pay to the claiming employee, an amount equal to his entitlement. Payments made by the employer for claims later found to be invalid or payments made by the employer which are later paid by the carrier, shall be returnable to the employer. Where there is a question as to the validity of an employee's claim of ten (10) or more working days, it shall be referred to a specialist in the field of concern. Said specialist to be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the'employee. The cost of the evaluation shall be paid for fifty (50) percent by the employee and fifty (50) percent by the company. If the specialist rules in favour of the employee the employee portion of the evaluation shall be reimbursed directly to the employee. The decision of the specialist shall be final and binding on all parties.
19.04	Where an employee submits a claim to the Workers' Compensation Board,
which would, were it not for the existence of Workers' Compensation, entitle the employee to weekly indemnity benefits under this section, and such claim is disputed or delayed by the Workers' Compensation Board, the employee may submit a claim for weekly indemnity benefits. If the Workers' Compensation Board later accepts responsibility for the payment of such disputed or delayed claim, then weekly indemnity benefits received are to be reimbursed to the employer. At the employer's option, the employee, with the full support and co-operation of the Company and the Union, will pursue the appeals procedure under the Workers' Compensation Board.
29
19.05	Dental Plan - The Company and the Union agree to enter a prepaid Dental Plan. The Plan is established on the following basis:
(a)	The Carrier of the Plan to be Medical Services Association.
(b)	The Plan Covers
i) basic dentistry at eighty (80) percent ii) crowns, bridges and dentures at fifty (50) percent Cost of the Plan to be fully paid by the Company.
19.06	Life insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee in an amount of twenty thousand (20,000) dollars. Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee with a death benefit equal to the life insurance amount and a standard dismemberment schedule.
19.07	All benefits under Article 19 are effective on attainment of seniority for all permanent classifications. The Company agrees to maintain benefit premium payments for employees off work due to illness or injury for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months. The Company shall pay the appropriate premiums for all employees who have worked an average of twenty four (24) hours per week in the previous month.
19.08	The Company agrees to reimburse employees to a maximum of ten dollars ($10.00) per claim towards the cost of providing medical certification when same is required by the Company or its insurance carrier.
19.09	The Company agrees to provide a longterm disability plan to provide a benefit of fifty (50) percent of an employee's regular earnings subject to the following conditions:
1.	Benefits commence upon the expiration of weekly indemnity benefits.
2.	Benefits continue for one (1) year while unable to perform own occupation and to age sixty five (65) if prevented from performing any occupation.
30
19.09 (cont'
ARTICLE 20 -20.01
20.02
3.	Benefit reduced byC.P.P., W.C.B. and I.C.B.C. disability benefits.
4.	Maximum benefit two (2) thousand dollars per month.
5.	Coverage to exclude pre-existing conditions at date of coverage. A pre-existing condition is one that existed before a member became insured. No benefit is payable if a disability is related to a pre-existing condition and begins within ninety (90) days of the member becoming insured. An employee must be free from all drugs and medications associated with that condition for ninety (90) days either before or after the effective date of the policy. This exclusion does not apply if the member after becoming insured has been actively working for (12) twelve consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-existingcondition.
Cost of the above plan to be paid one hundred (100) percent by the Company.
AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company will provide the Union with two (2) months' notice of intention to introduce automation equipment or a technological change which will result in displacement or reduction of personnel.
Employees becoming redundant due to new equipment or technological change "shall be eligible for retraining to qualify them for the operation of such new equipment. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee(s).
31
20.03	In cases where retraining of employees is not practical or where other positions within the Company are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment or shall elect to remain on the seniority list. An employee on recall under this section shall receive all the benefits he had accrued to the date of being placed on the recall list. Such benefits to be paid at the end of the recall period or at such earlier time as he may-elect to terminate.
20.04	Employees whose services are terminated because of automation or technological change shall receive a separation allowance in accordance with the scale outlined in Article 13, Section 13.02 of this Agreement.
32
ARTICLE
21.01
21.02
21 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(a)	A' standing committee shall be maintained in each location in the following manner:
The Union shall elect from time to time, from its members in each Plant, a standing committee of three (3) employees which shall represent the Union for all purposes of this Article. For the purposes of this Article, any grievances with the exception of 21.06 (b) shall be filed by the grievor within a period of five (5) working days after the grievance has occurred or when it becomes known.
It is agreed between the parties that under the application of Article 21.01(a), the time limits ref erred to herein maybe waived by mutual agreement between the parties or by an arbitration board.
(b)	Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as working days wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
(c)	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular day shift working hours.
(d)	The Company recognizes the right of the Grievance Committee to process any grievance that is brought to their attention or to pursue matters affecting relations between the Company and the employees as they relate to the terms of the Collective Agreement. For the purpose of this Agreement, a grievance is defined as any difference between the parties, concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
The employee shall first discuss his grievance with his Shop Steward. If the Shop Steward is unable to settle the grievance with his foreman within two (2) working days, it shall be processed to
21.03.
33
21.03	The Chief Shop Steward will present a written grievance to the Manager of the location who shall call a meeting within two (2) working days to discuss the grievance with the Union Committee and the aggrieved employee or employees, if desired. Failing a satisfactory settlement of this Section within three (3) working days, it shall be referred to 21.04.
21.04	The Union Committee shall take the matter up with a Committee designated by the Company. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired. Failing a satisfactory settlement of this Section within five (5) working days or otherwise mutually agreed, it shall be referred to 21.05.
21.05	In the event that the grievance is not satisfactorily settled by these methods, it shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration to be set up in the following manner:
(a)	The Company and Union shall appoint one (1) member each who shall then get together and endeavour to appoint a Chairman satisfactory to both parties. Failing agreement, they shall apply to the Canada Labour Relations Board to name a Chairman, further requesting that such appointment be made within seven (7) working days.
The Board, thus set up, shall decide its own method of procedure provided, however, that both parties are given ample opportunity of presenting their case. The Board shall render its decision and the majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties.
(b)	The Company shall pay all the expenses of its nominee and the Union shall pay all the expenses of its nominee. The expenses and compensation of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the
34
21.06	(a) The Company must give the Chief Shop Steward notice in writing of the
suspension or discharge of any employee and the reasons on the day such action is taken.
(b) If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of written notice of dismissal, notify both the Grievance Committee and the Company in writing. The dismissal in question shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such. If, subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall then be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated as maybe deemed fair in the circumstances.
21.07	When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement, the wages of an employee are adjusted, such adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in the earnings was made. If the date cannot be established, then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid or such other date as may be agreed upon.
21.08	Stewards shall have the right to investigate or adjust grievances on domicile premises on Company time without loss of pay. The Steward shall obtain permission from the location Manager or his delegate before leaving his work, 'which permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
21.09	When the Company deems it necessary to discipline an employee, they shall have the Union Steward present. In the case of suspension or 'dismissal, the Union Steward and Chief Steward shall be present.
21.10	A written warning will be disregarded after one (1) calendar year,
35
21.11	The Company agrees to keep the Union Committee informed of the names of
the individuals responsible for directing the working force and the Union agrees to keep the Company informed of the members of the individual Safety and Grievance Committees.
ARTICLE 22 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 1992 to the 30th day of June, 1993 and thereafter from year to year unless at any time within the four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry of the Agreement, written notice to contrary intention is given by either party to the other party.
Wage increases effective as per dates on Schedule "A". All other amendments effective date of ratification.
22.02	The parties hereto agree to commence negotiations within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time a subsequent agreement is reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either party.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED
32885 Ventura Avenue
Abbotsford, B.C.
V2S 5B5
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION, Local 1518 #700 - 4211 Kingsway Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6
CLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE "A"
ABBOTSFORD PLANT DUNCAN PLANT ARMSTRONG PLANT
Labourer
Warehouseman
Forklift Operator
Bagging Machine Operator
Grinderman
Seed Equipment Operator Pellet Machine Operator Process Operator Mixerman Utility Man Car and Truck Unloader Millwright Engineer Millwright - Class "A" Millwright - Class "B" Millwright - Helper Electrician Millwright Truck Driver - Class I Truck Driver - Class III Bulk Loader Working Foreman
July 1, 1992 Starting Rate After Rate	30 Days Worked
15.67	15.92
15.98	16.23
16.97	17.22
16.97	17.22
16.97	17.22
16.97	17.22
17.37 *	17.62
16.97	17.22
17.34	17.59
16.97	17.22
16.97	17.22
18.69 *	18.94
18.49 *	18.74
17.70	17.95
17.07	17.32
17.94	18.19
17.75	18.00
17.50	17.75
16.97	17.22
17.73	17.98
*Includes Steam Premium per
Article 6.09