A G'R E E M E N T

BETWEEN:
tupnotch nutri limited
i 2-SR 5	' i! I 1 U ,'t .A S' I •! 11!«' , Abbi'j!^!'}‘uvcl
V2S ’SI’/,
SOURCE	CIO		
EFF.	^3 Q7		0 f
TERM.	94 ok		30
No. Of EMPLOYEES			U,.	
NOM3RE d'empioy£s		..ifo	
AND:
UNITED POOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION. LOCAL 151S "70(1 - 4211 Kingsvay, Burnaby, B.C. V5H [7.6
TNI) E X
ARTICLE	PAGE
1	GENERAL	2
2	SCOPE	0
3	RELATIONSHIP	3
n	MANAGEMENT	4
5	UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION	5
6	WAGES	6
7	HOURS OF WORK	9
3	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	12
9	VACATIONS	13
10	SENIORITY	17
11	SAFETY AND HEALTH	21
12	TOOL REPLACEMENT	22
13	SEVERANCE PAY	22
14	JURY DUTY	24
15	MEAL ALLOWANCE	24
16	WORK CLOTHING	25
17	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	25
13	SERVICE PAY PLAN	25
19	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	26
20	AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	30
21	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	31
22	DURATION OF AGREEMENT	34
.€CT 2 2 1993	o oM-'i ^ o~7
2
A C R F. P. M P. N T
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 8th day of July A.D.. 1881
I'. I'.TWEEN:
TnPNOTGH NUTRI LIMITED
32v:.s!» Ventura Avenue. AhbotAfot d, R.c. V2S 6A3 (hereinafter refer* «*d to ns the ”Company")
OF THE FIRST I’ART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND CrWVftRG.tAL WORKERS UNION. LOCAL ISIS d700 - 421 1 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6 thereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
1.01	If is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide a satisfactory means of settling any differences or grievances which may arise and to establish and set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE
2.01	This Agreement applies to all employees of the Company in the following Plants:
Abbotsford Plant	Armstrong Plant
Duncan Plant
where Local ISIS of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union has been duly certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board, except those employees excluded by the certification.
3
/■. 1CUE 3 3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
- RELATIONSHIP
The Company agrees that there wil 1 be no discriminat ion, interf erence, rest ra i.nl or eoerritm exorcised or practiced by the Company or any of its represent at ives with respect to any employee because of his membership in oi connection with the Union and that, membership in the Union by employees who are eligible to join will. not be discouraged. The Union agrees l hat there w-i! 1 be no intimidation, interference , restraint., or coercion exercised or practiced upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives. No employee shall conduct Union activities during his working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement without first securing permission from the Company.
The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action, which will stop or interfere with production until the dispute is dealt with under the Grievance Procedure.
Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall also be considered to include the feminine except where specifically indicated otherwise.
_ ICLP. A - MANAGEMENT
A.01	The Union acknowledges that it: is the exclusive function of the Company
t n :
'•1! Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(!>’> Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, and denote employees; provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employeehas been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be t.he subject: of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kind and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
(d)	It-is understood and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employees ’ bargaining agency, as an evidence of good faith, the Union will use its best efforts to have its members * responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and spirit.
(e)	The Company may bring forward at any meeting with the Union Committees any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers ot its Committeemen affecting the relationship between the Union and the Company so that a satisfactory mutual understanding may be reached by the conferring parties.
5
AtLTIGLEA-
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
The Company also agrees to carry out the terms of this contract in letter and spiri t .
UNION S EC UR rrv AND RF.COCNITT ON
The Compari\ ackimwj edges that the employees in the unit described above have selected the Union as the sole ami exc lusive bargaining agent and recognizes the Union as such for all employees in the said unit.
The Company agrees that all employees now members of the Union and all employees who become members of the Union shall remain members in good standing of the Union while employed by the Company during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of employment.
Since the Union is recognized as the bargaining agent for all employees, as defined in Article 2, and in order to promote harmony among all such employees, it is hereby provided that all new employees shall become members of the Union. The Company shall be kept informed, in writing, of the amount of the monthly Union dues and the Union entrance fee as set by the Union Constitution, By-laws or by decision of a regularly constituted local Union meeting.
New employees will not be subject to compulsory checkoff until they have been in the employment of the Company for thirty (30) days of actual work, unless they become members of the Union before that time. After thirty (30) days worked, payment of Union dues is a condition of employment .
Subject to the other provisions of this Article, all employees to whoni this Article applies shall give the Company written authorization Cor the deduction and remittance of the Union dues aforesaid, in a form satisfactory to the Company.
6
	Upon receipt of an authorization in writing by an emp] oyee affec t «d , forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, the Company agreesto deduct from the pay of each such employee the Union entrance fee and Union membersh ip dues once each cal enriar month and such deduc t. inns slta 11 be rem.i tt ed prompt. 1 y to the Financial Secret ary of v.he Local Uni on.
r> .07	The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company ha rm less against anyand all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability arising out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the company in reliance upon checkoff authorization supplied by the Union or for the purpose of complying with any of the foregoing checkoff provisions.
S.O-S	There shall be no contracting out of work presently performed by members of the bargaining unit without the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Union agrees not to arbitrarily withhold such agreement in any case where the Company proves beyond a reasonable doubt that it is economically justifiable to contract out. In particular, but not so as to restrict the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to contract out work of a nature which it has in the past contracted out, and work in the future which, in its opinion, is of such a type as to be incompatible in nature or uneconomical with work presently being performed by members of the bargaining unit. The Company agrees to provide the Union with reasonable notice of its intention to contract out work.
ARTICLE 6 -	- WAGES
6.01	Wages shall be paid in accordance with Schedule "A" of this Agreement which is attached hereto and forms a part thereof.
7

6.04
6.05
6.06
If an employee meets with an accident while at work or becomes ill during his shift making him incapable of completing his shift, he shall he paid for the balance of the shift at the applicable Workers Compensation Board or Accident and Sickness Plan pay percentages.
When an employee is temporarily transferred to another job, he shall receive the rate of pay applicable to the job to which he has been temporary ly transferred, except where the rate of pay is less than that paid on his former job. In such cases, the employee sha 11 receive the rate of pay of his former job. However, if the transfer is of a permanent nature, which shall take into consideration seniority, the employee shall receive the rate of pay applicable to his new job. If this be lower than his former rate, he shall be paid the higher rate for ten (10) days before reverting to the lower rate.
Transfers to lower paid jobs shall be referred to a joint Union Management Committee before an employee's rate is reduced.
When a job category is to be established, eliminated or absorbed into a classification by the Company, it is agreed that the' Company shall advise the Union of the proposed change at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such change for the purposes of discussing with the Company, the personnel and the rate of the job. Any disagreement under this Clause concerning rate of pay, seniority, ability or job posting shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure - Article 21. Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained u the Company's employ shall not lose the credit for their days of experience in computing their pay rates and shall receive the rate for the job classification being filled.
Tin; Company agrees to make every reasonable effort, to continue established pay periods.
Employees promoted or permanently t ransfen <»d to another classif icat ion shall be paid the starting rate for their new c1 ass:fication for the first thirty (30) working days, after which the. top iate Coy the job shad 1 apply, subject to Article 6.03.
The wage schedule shall, ii-iolude in the basic ra t.es a Si earn Certification provision as follows:
Pellet Mill Operator-----Boiler Operator's Certificate	40c/houi
Millwright "A"-----------4th Class Engineer	53c/hour
Millwright Engineer------4th Class Engineer	75c/hour
Any new job postings for these classifications will carry a Steam Certificate qualification as stated and the rate set out in the wage schedule. Any employee earning a Steam Premium other than his normal posted job qualifications shall be paid the appropriate premium as part of his basic hourly rate.
The Company will reimburse one hundred (100) percent of the course fees for a pellet mill operator boiler operator certificate and a 4th class power engineer's certificate. The above will be paid on successful completion of the course subject to prior Company approval on taking the course.
Any employee appointed to the Millwright Foreman position, supervising two (2) or more other millwrights, shall receive a premium of sixty six (66) cents per hour over his classified rate. Such premium to be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
9
IC.T.I-. 7 - HOURS OF WORK
7.01	Tin.' standard hours of work shall ho:
Abbotsford Plant. Duncan Plant , Armstrong Plant '•'i?	1. Eight (S) hours in any one (1) day, forty (401 hours in any one 11)
wool, worked on a schedule of Monday lo I’rid.ay or Tuesday to Saturday, subject to Article 7.01 (d).
2. Truck driver and bulk loader’ classi f icat j ons ma y be scheduled ten ( 10 ) hours in arty one (1) day, forty (40 ) hours in any one ( 1 ) week, scheduled within a Monday to Saturday work week, lb) The Company shall schedule the hours and days of work and post them outlining the starting and finishing times of all employees. Any time worked outside the schedule of hours shall he paid for at the applicable overtime rates. The senior employees shall have the choice of schedule of hours for their department or classification if they are capable of doing the work. Such choice of schedule of hours must be exercised at time of posting, when a vacancy occurs in the same classification or at six month intervals from the date of the posting.
(c)	The schedule of hours and days may be changed from time to time as required to meet the needs of the business but such changes shall not be made effective until notice of three (3) working days has been given to the employees concerned unless changed by mutual agreement. Any changes in the schedule of hours will be discussed and agreed to by the 1 ocal Union Commit tee.
(d)	A Tuesday to Saturday work week may apply to two (2 it ruck drivers, two (2) mil lwrights, two (2) plant personnel and warehousemen for the purpose of sales.
10
Employees iri the manufacturing plants working the afternoon or night shift shall work seven and a half (7 1/2) hours per day and thirty seven and a half (37 1/2) hours per week with n lunch period of half (l/2'i an hour on Company time for a total paid time of eight (3) hours pei day and forty (40) hours per week.
The Company agrees to pay a premium of forty (40) cents per linin' to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours of 4:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight and a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours 12:00 midnight and 8:00 A.M. Such premium shall be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
7.03	When it becomes necessary for any overtime to be worked, such overtime
shall first be offered to the employees in seniority order regularly employed in the department where the overtime is to be worked. Failing to get sufficient employees in this manner such overtime may be offered to qualified employees in other departments on a seniority basis.
7.04(a)	All employees worked in excess of the hours mentioned in Article 7.01
of this Agreement shall be paid at overtime rates of time and one half (1 1/2 ) of the regular hourly rate for the first two (2 ) hours of overtime and double (2 times) the regular rate thereafter.
(b)	Any employee called into work and capable of adequately performing his
work shall be guaranteed a minimum of:
(a) four (4) hours' pay if the employee commences work;
(b ) two (2) hours' pay if the employee does not. commence work;
at the appropriate rates of pay.
11
Anv piiii' 1 ovens called in o f f schedule fmemergcuicy work shal 1 be paid one (1 i hour's travel time al. regular rates and shall be through when the erne rgency i ■ over,but shal 1 receive at. least four (4) hours' pay at, his regular overtime rate. Senioi ity shall not necessarily apply for an occurrence endangering Company personnel., property or assets.
.06	All employees shall have two (2j fifteen minute rest, intervals during
each day without deduction in pay, with rest periods to be provided in the time schedule.
.07	Employees may elect to bank hours of overtime at appropriate time and
a half (1 1/2) or double (2) time hours. Employees can bank up to a maximum of three (3) days per quarter. Employees must elect at the beginning of each calendar year whether they wish to bank their eligible hours each quarter.
Employees may take this banked overtime only at times mutually agreed by the employee and the plant manager/supervisor. Three (3) weeks' notice will be required prior to any banked time being taken unless otherwise agreed. Banked overtime will be taken in the quarter in which it originated, or no later than the end of the following quarter. Portions of banked overtime must be taken in increments of not less than one ( 1) shift and not more than three (3 ) shifts at any one time. Unused time will be paid out on termination, oron the first pay date following the end of each three (3) month period.
12
-C.I.F. 8 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	Statutory hoi idays will he pa-id for at the employee's regul ar rates on lhe Col lowing basis: (:i) F.mp 1 oyee.s with less than thirty HO) days worked with the Company. None. (hi Employees with thirty (30) days or more worked shall be entitled to pay for up to ten (10) statutory holidays. When any of these holidays fa 11s on a Sunday, the day observed by the Provincial government shal I. be considered the holiday. (c) Number of hours paid shall be the employee's regular shift hours provided the employee has earnings in the pay period in which the holiday falls or is observed.
8.02	Statutory Holidays referred to above are as follows: New Year's Day Labour Day Good Friday Thanksgiving Day Victoria Day Remembrance Day Canada Day Christmas Day B.C. Day Boxing Day
8.03	Any Statutory Holidays not specifically mentioned in this Agreement declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments, shall form part of this Agreement and paid for as provided.
S .04	If an employee is absent on his scheduled work day before a Statutory Holiday or his scheduled work day immediately following a Statutory Holiday, payment for the holiday is left to the discretion of the
Management.
13
$ ■„ -s
R .Oh
S .07
Except Watchmen, all employees who work on Sundays shall be paid for such work , doubl e their regular hourly rate. Employees who may be •rguired to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid double their regular hourly rate for all hours worked plus any pay they may he eligible for under Article S, 8.01.
Statutory hoi id ays which fall on or are observed on an employee's regular day off, shall be paid for on the fol lowing basis:
a)	Regular shift hours pay at the employee's regular rates, or
b)	A day or days off with pay to be taken at: a time mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company.
An employee who is absent for reasons of sickness or accident during the period in which a statutory holiday occurs shall receive pay for such statutory holiday at the applicable Workers' Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity percentages as is applicable.
ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS
9.01	Vacation eligibility, length of vacation and rate of vacation pay shall
be calculated on the following basis:
a)	Cut-off date for establishing vacation entitlement shall be January 1st each year.
b)	Eligibility for current year vacation entitlement shall be based on the employee's number of working days in the year vacation is earned) a complete year shall be 182 or more working days.
c)	Length of vacation and/or percentage of vacation pay to be based on number of years of seniority.
d)	A week of vacation eligibility shall be defined as forty (40) wo t-king hours , not inlcuding statutory holidays.
14
9.03
9.04
9.05
If an employee has completed one (1 ) full, year of service as at. .January 1st in any year he shall be eligible for two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
All employee.'-, who have been in the emp 1 ov Of t lie Oompa ny f n r 1 ess t han one < 1 } year as at .January 1st. of each year sha 11 in t.lia i year be gi yen holidays at the rate of five sixths (5/6) of a day for each one (1 ) month's work in the previous year provided the emp] oyee j s stil 1 on the payro 1 1 of the Company.
(a)	Tf an employee has worked 182 or more days in the year vacation is earned the following vacation schedule shall apply:
Years of	Weeks of
Seniority	Vacation Eligibility
Three (3)	Three (3)
Eight (8)	Four (4)
Fifteen (15)	Five (5)
Twenty-three (23)	Six (6)
(b)	An employee not completing 182 days of actual work shall be eligible for vacation as per the above scale, but shall be paid vacation pay as per Article 9.06(b);
Any employee who is eligible for more than three (3) weeks vacation shall be allowed only three (3) weeks of their vacation during the period June 15 to September 15 unless mutually agreed otherwise. Employees qualifying for an additional weeks vacation as per the previous schedule will be granted the additional week on the basis of their individual anniversary date.
15
06	(a) Employees slia 11 receive vacation pay based on the rate that, has been
gained **y permanent, posting at the time the vacation is taken. The earned v 'lie of pay f 0 r temporary t ransf e rs of more than th i vi y (30) working da vs immediately prior to the 1 ime vac at imt is taken , for vacat ion purposes, sha 11 be cons.idct ed regula r i at e.
(b) Employees covered by Artie le 9 not completing 182 eight (9) hour working days in t.he previous calendar year shal 1 receive vacation pay equal to the greater of:
1)	average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year times current rate of pay, calculated as follows:
a) employees with 1.82 or more working days shall be paid based on average daily hours on actual number of days worked
b j employees with less than 182 working days shall be paid based on average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year
2)	two (2) percent of the employee's previous year's earnings for each week of eligible vacation as per the scale set out in Article 9.03.
9.07	Personnel may take their vacations at times mutually agreed upon by the
employee and the Plant Manager. A list to be submitted to the Plant Manager by April 15th of the current year. Vacations as far as possible shall	be staggered so as not to	deplete any	division of the
plant staff and	cannot be taken more than	three weeks	at	any one time
unless mutual ly agreed otherwise. Employees not submitting a holiday list, by April.	15th shall lose seniority	preference	in	selection of
vacation time.	All. vacation time due must	be commenced	by	October 31st.
and completed by December 31st of the current year unless mutually agreed otherwise in writing.
16
DS	Any employee who leaves the service of the Company on his own accord
or is dismissed for cause , shall be paid for- any unused holiday credits iii the year in which the employee quits or is d ismissed for cause, in aeon rduncewith the applicable percentage as out. i i ned above . This will no! apply to layoffs by the Company or retirement . i n which case normal pa i d vacations wi 11 apply.
9.09	For each seven (7) days' vacation, vacation pay shall, be at. the rate of forty (AO) hours pay per Article 9.06(a) or two (2) percent of the previous year's earnings, whichever is greater. Employees will be paid their vacation pay on the day prior to proceeding on vacation for the period of vacation being taken. Upon application by the employee vacation pay will be paid in advance. Any advance issued under this clause will be for the employee's full vacation pay entitlement.
9.10	In the case of employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Company for one (1) year or more, time spent by an employee while on Workers' Compensation or off work due to a non-compensable accident or sickness, up to a maximum of eleven (11) months, will be counted as time worked in computing vacation allowance.
9.11	No employee shall be allowed to take his holiday pay and work his regular vacation period for the first three (3) weeks of his vacation entitlement. Vacation weeks in excess of three (3) in any year may be taken in the form of vacation pay rather than paid time off, such election to be made after the three (3) weeks vacation have been taken.
9.12	If one of the ten (10) statutory holidays stipulated in Article 3, 8.02 hereof falls on a week day within the vacation period assigned t.o or chosen by the employee, the employee may be required to take such holiday with pay outside his vacation period.
9.13	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee by separate cheque.
17
ARTICLE 10 10.01
10.02
After s ixiy (AO! days worked each employee shall be granted a floating holiday to be t aken by the employee upon mutual agreement between the .'inployee anrl loco 1 management. This <la> is to lie t aken vi t.hi n thecal '■•iids.r vp.i r.
Permission for 5 **a veof absence without pay for persona 1 reasons must he oht..:i i.ned as Col lows: (a) leave of absence without pay for one t 1 1 week or less, may be authorized verbally by the local plant manager,
(b)	leave of absence without pay for more than one (1) week, must be applied for and approved in writing by the plant manager. In no case will leave of absence exceed a. three (3) month period. Under no circumstances will leave of absence be granted to allow an employee to accept another position temporarily, or venture into business for himself, When an employee is on leave of absence without pay for more than twenty (20 ) working days, the employee shall pay a pro rated total premium for benefit plans.
- SF.NTORTTY
For the purpose of seniority, employment, promotion, demotion, layoff and rehiring, all employees covered by the terms of this agreement shall be included in one seniority group in each location.
An employee's seniority shall date from the date upon which he entered the employ of the Company. However, employees shall have worked ninety (90) days within a period of twelve (12) months before their names are placed on the seniority list. Employees not on the seniority list, shall not have recourse to the Grievance Procedure ii dismissed on grounds of unsuitability. Layoffs of less than tw-elve (12) months by the Company shall not break continuity of seniority.
IS
03	Any employee within the bargaining unit promoted or t r.tusl'erred outside
of the bargaining unit shall not retain his job classification but shall be allowed to retain his seniority for a period of four (4) months. During such period the employe.- shall have the right to revert to the bargaining unit voluntarily or on instruct .ion by Management..
1.0,04	The Company will supply to the Committee each January, a seniority
list. Such list, shall show name, classification, and Union seniority date. Said seniority list shall be posted on the bulletin board and revised every four (4) months. The Company further agrees to send a copy of all revised seniority lists to the Union Office at #700-4211 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6.
10.05	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness he shal lnot lose seniority right-s and shall also return to the position held prior to the absence, having regard to his capacity. In the case of such absence other than layoff, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Capany of the reason for his absence and the length of time he expects to be away.
10.06	When an employee fails to return to work when recalled, or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company, a double registered letter will be mailed to the last known address of the employee, and if within two (2) days after delivery of such notice to the employee's last known address, fails to report for work or give reasonable cause for nolreporting, he shall be considered to have quit, h-is position voluntarily and his existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When such notice is sent to such employee, a copy thereof shal I be sent concurrently to the Union. In rehiring, the last employee laid off shall, subject to the above provisions, be the first rehired.
19
37	Provided that, an employee has the abili ty to perform the work, the last
employee hired shall in the case of layoff be the first laid off. In rehiririg. the last employee laid off shal 1 , subject to the above provi-s i rin> . be t he fi rst reh i * ed . Tn eases where i t is necessary » o secure woi'U'is in 1 ess t ime 1 ban t he requi red not :i ce , f he Company, if unable t'omaUeci'niti-u'. twiththeseniore Ji.gi b 1 e ernpl oye e , may recall the next; senior employee and so on down the list until thevaeancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequent 1} report, withint.be requi ,.d t ime, he shal 1 be given the work for- which the nest, senior employee was recalled.
10.03(a)	Vacancies other than temporary, holiday relief, sickness relief or
author! zed leave of absence, shall be posted on the notice board for four (4) working days. The vacancies shall, be filled on the basis of seniority and ability and awarded to the employee who has submitted a written application to the Plant Manager. Ability being acceptable
v
within reasonable standards, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. When the vacancy being filled requires the employee to be the holder of a valid license or certificate the Company need not rely on the above seniority provision. For the purposes of this clause license and certificate shall be limited to those licenses required in the truck driver classif ication and mixi ng c lassif ication and those certificates required in the pellet, machine operator and ini 1 lwright classifications as per section 6.09. Employees so promoted or transferred shall he given reasonabl e 1: ime in which to qualify, up to thirty (30) days and failing will be returned to their former position. An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident Or vacat. ion not exceeding thirty (30) days at the time the vacancy was posted, shall receive equal consideration provided the employee makes his request within three (3) working days after his return to work. No
20
S(a) cont’d
employee shal 1 he awarded more than two (2) post i ngs in any calendar year unless amnia) ly agreed otliei wise.
•'hi Tii tli<> <'..'ise of planned, extended . i empnra i y t ransfei s for such reasons as lm 1 i.days , s i ckness o > ace i d e n t . oi authori zed 1 eave of absence, the basis of transfer slial 1 be Miade by senior it.y for the senior qualified employee. The senior qualified ernpl oyee wi thi n each location wi 1 ] be offered the transfer fi rst: and so on down the applicable seniority ] i st.s. until by this process a temporary vacancy has been f il led. Should the vacancy not be filled by this procedure, then the basis of transf er sha I 1 be the junior qualified employee. The word "qualif ied" as used in this clause shall be interpreted to mean "ability to perform the work without assistance". The procedure as outlined above shall be applicable for the initial transfer and subsequent transfers, if necessary, shall be by appointment.
(c)	Employees temporarily transferred shall retain their existing classification until permanently transferred by way of posting, but shall be paid in accordance with Section 6.03.
10.09	Unplanned, short term, temporary transfers for vacation relief, sickness or accident relief, or authorized leave of absence need not be made by seniority.
10.10	!a) The Company shall, supply application forms for employees to use for job
postings. Any employee who applies for job postings shall, fill out. duplicate copies, with one copy to be submitted to the Plant Chief Steward and the other copy to the Plant Manager.
(b) Job postings that differ in regular qualifications than that previously required on the job, shall, be subject to discussion with the Union Committee before being posted.
21
10 tc
<d
10.11
ARTICLE 11 11.01
1 1.02
) Successful applicants' names, whore applicable, sha I l be post ed wi t h the application within three (3) working days of the expiry date of the posting .
1 Classi f led map] oyees shal 1 not be requi red i o |!t>rfnnn work outside lieii posted classification when work is cet|ii 11 ui1 within their classification or as Otherwise mutually agreed.
Employees (not more than two from any manufact uring local ioni I o be chosen by the Union to attend Union business outs isle of the local ion shad 1 be granted leave of absence without, pay not exceeding Llri rty ( 30! days each upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, such agreement not to be unreasonabt y withheld . The Union shall give the Company 3 written notice of one (1) week before exercising this prerogative. Upon mutual agreement between the Cumpanyand the Union, the number of employees as referred to in this clause may be increased.
- SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and equipment to protect the employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. Where such protective devices and equipment are provided by the Company, such devices and equipment must be used by the employees as de termined by the Safety Commi tree.
The Union agrees that it will co-operate with the Company in enforcing safety nil es and policies. The parties shal 1 est.ibl ish a standing safety committee at each manufacturing location . Meetings Of the Safety Committee shall be held once each month, preferably prior to the regular monthly meeting Of the Local Union.
22
.03	No employee shall be disciplined or d isotiarjjed for refusal to work on any job, or in any work place or to operate any equipment where .it is determined by a representative of the Safety Committee that the situation is unsafe or unhealthy.
ARTICLE 12 - T001- REPLACE KENT
12.01	All tools that are the property of the maintenance employees and which are used on any job in the plant shall be repl aced by the Company because of dep reciation through ordinary wear, or if lost through no negligence on the part of the owner. It is the duty of all maintenance employees to supply the umonCornmittee and the Management with a full and complete value list of their tools as at April 1st each year.
ARTICLE 13 - SEVERANCE PAY
13.01	Any employee who is terminated by the Company after completion of twelve (12) consecutive months of continuous employment, unless dismissed for just cause, shall be entitled to severance pay equal to the greater of a) two (2) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work for each completed year of employment, or b) five (5 ) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of wo rk.
13.02	Should it become economically necessary to close the entire location or a particular major section or sections of the said location, on a pe nnanent basis, or to reduce the staff on a permanent basis and it is not. reasonably expected that those affected will be re-employed in this or any other- of the Company's operations, subject to Article 13.02(d), a separation allowance will be paid to such employees subject to the fo3lowing:
23
02	(a)	They have five (5)	<u more years'	sen ior i ty.
	(b)	They are present. 1	y employed by	the Company or are accumulating
		seniori ty.		
	(c)	The closing is not	1 *rou;'111 about	by war, strike, walkout, work stop-
page, sIovdown f>r f»ilit-*t i'i’ss it urn of work, f.ire, government act .ion or
Act. of God.
(d)	Employees shall have the option to receive severance pay or transfer to another location. Said option shall be exercised within ninety (SO) days of the dat e of closure or date of permanent layoff,
The scale for severance al lowance shall be the greater of:
1.	Severance pay calculated as per 13.01.
2.	Severance pay based on the fol lowing formula :
Number of years of service -5x2 weeks pay Example:
5 years - 2 weeks pay per 13.01 (7 years - 5) x 2 = A weeks pay (10 years - 5) x 2 = 10 weeks pay (20 years - 5) x 2 = 30 weeks pay (30 years - 5) x 2 = 50 weeks pay
An employee shall have the option to remain on the payroll and the seniority list for possible recall. In this event, the Company shall hold the severance allowance until the employee is recalled or ninety (90) days, whichever is sooner.	If the employee is recalled within
the foregoing period, no severance al lowance shal 1 be payable. If the entp loyee is not recal led within ninety (90) days, the severance allowance shal 1 be paid by the Company forthwith.
For the purposes of this Section, the location, sect-ion or sections shall be deemed to be closed on a permanent basis, when it or t-hey cease to operate for a period of ninety (90) days.
24
03	Employees who receive severance pay under i lie piovisions of this
Article shall, in doing so, terminate both their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights or privilege? under this Agreement or under any other labour agreement <>, agieement.s between the signing partios.
AKTICI.F. 14 - .HIRY DUTY
14.01	An employee who is summoned for jury duty or who receives a summons or subpoena to appear as a witness in a court proceeding, other than a court proceeding occasioned by the employee's private affairs, shall be granted leave of absence with pay for the required period of absence, and all jury or witness fees received by the employee shall be remitted to the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - MEAL ALLOWANCE
15.01	If an employee is required to work more than two (2) hours, past his eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift, the Company shall pay the employee five (5) dollars to purchase a meal, or up to ten (10) dollars upon presentation of a receipt. The Company shall grant the employee a aeal period of up to one (1) hour duration without pay.
Each employee who is required to layover away from his domiciled point shall be compensated for the reasonable cost of a hotel room and for regul at mea I s during the layover period upon presentation of a standard Company expense report with receipts. Accept-able meal costs are considered to be inthe range of five (5) dollars for breakfast, and lunch, and ten (10) dollars for dinner.
25
:a.F. lb - WORK. CLOTHING
1^-01	The Company shall supply coveralls and raingear where agreed to between
lii'-.il management and l he local union committee. Tt is mutually agreed that where such apparel is provided for the employees' use, such npp.ti a; 1 must be worn. Provisions of this clause only apply to employees after attaining seniori t.y.
lb.02	The Company agrees to reimburse employees with seniority covered by
Wage Schedule "A" in permanent classifications up to eighty (SO) dollars per calendar year on proof of purchase of safety footwear that meets C.S.A. standards for a manufacturing environment. This clause subject to Article 11.01.
ARTICLE 1.7 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
17.01	After thirty (30) days worked an employee shall be granted in the event of a death of a member of his immediate family, bereavement leave on any of his three (3) normal working days that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the day of the death. Immediate family shall mean parents, spouse, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, or any relative residing full «■* with the employee.
A day off with pay to attend the funeral will be granted if the funeral is not within the three days immediately following the day of the death, total leave not to exceed three (3) days.
ARTICLE 18 - SERVICE PAY PLAN
15.01	Service Pay Plan - Employees with twenty-five (25) years of service with the Company or more shall be eligible for payment under thispl an.
Payment shall be based on one hundred (100) dollars for each year- of service. The total sum shall be payable upon termination of
employment.
26
:)2
art] nr. ir 10.0]
19.02
19.03
An employee within the bargaining unit, must retire at reaching sixty-five (65) years of age.
- FMi'f.nyi-F P.RNFDTS
After thirty (30' flays worked, etnp Joyces shall hive the option of joining the existing Medical Services Plan and Medical Services Association extended benefit plan. Total cost of these plans to be paid by the Company.
The Company shall provide an Accident and Sickness Plan to provide a benefit of seventy five (75) percent of gross weekly earnings payable first full day of accident, first full day of sickness, fifty two (52) week benefit period. Total cost of the Plan to be borne by the Company.
Gross weekly earnings shall be defined as forty (A0) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay, except where an employee has been on lay off anytime in the four (4) weeks immediately prior to the date of disability, gross weekly earnings shall be calculated based on average weekly hours worked in the three (3) months immediately prior to the date of disability. In no case shall the benefit be calculated on less than twenty four (24) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay. Employees absent due to il loess or accident over three (3) months, shall be required to notify the Company each thirty (30) days and report his progress. A maximum nf twelve (12) months' sick leave will be granted and after this time, if the employee does not report for work, he loses his class! fied job. Failure to report from time to time , as required under this Section, will cause an employee to lose his classified job status with the Company. It is understood and agreed between the employer and the Union that weekly indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the
27
03(c.onV. 'd)
t’hii> 1 oy«ir. Tf payment of valid claims u not made by the insurance company wi ill i n two (J) weeks f remi the 1 i.mc t.ha I the omp toyer receives the completed applicant a n . the employer shn I 1 1 hen pay to the claiming emp 1 over: , an amount equal to Iris <-;n! it irmpnl. i’a ymenl s made by the employei for claims later found to be invalid -it payments made by the employer which are later paid by the earn ei , sha! 1 be returnable to the employer. Where there is a question as to the va 1 id-it y of an employee's claim of ten (10) ok- more working days, j t shall be referred t.o a specialist in the field of concern. Said specialist to be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. The cost of the evaluation shall be paid for fifty (50) percent by the employee and, fifty (50) percent by the company. If the specialist rules in favour of the employee the employee portion of the evaluation shall be reimbursed directly to the employee. The decision of the specialist shall be final and binding on all parties.
19.0A	Where an employee submits a claim to the Workers' Compensation Board,
which would, were it not for the existence of Workers' Compensation, entitle the employee to weekly indemnity benefits under this section, and such claim is disputed or delayed by the Workers' Compensation Board, the employee may submit a claim for weekly indemnity benefits. If the Workers' Compensation Board later accepts responsibility for the payment of such disputed or delayed claim, then weekly iridemni ty benefi ts received are to be reimbursed to the employer. At the employer's option, the employee, with the full suppoi t and co-operation of the Company and the Union, wi 1 1 pursue the appea Is procedure under the Workers' Compensation Board.
28
19.06
19.07
Denial Plan - The Company and t.he Union agree to enter a prepaid Dental Plan. The Plan is established on the following basis:
.a' The Carrier of t.he Plan to foe Medical Services Assoc i.at.iun.
I)i The Plan Covers
i ! basic dcnt.js la y at e ighty '.SO i percent, i i 1 crowns, bridges and dentures ar f .i fi y (SO,' percenl Cost Of the Plan to be ful lv paid fov the Company.
Life insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee in an amount of twenty thousand (^0 ,000 ) do I lars. Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee with a death benefit equal, to the life insurance amount and a standard dismemberment schedule.
All benefits under Article 19 are effective upon completion of thirty (30) days worked after date of employment for all permanent full time classifications. Accident and Sickness, Long Term Disability, and A.D.fif D. coverage ceases immediately upon termination or lay off. Extended Health, Dental andB.C. Medical coverage expires at the end of the month in which termination or lay off occurs. Life Insurance expires thirty (30) days after termination or lay off.
The Company shall pay the appropriate premiums for all employees who have worked an average of twenty four (24) hours per week in the previous month. Employees on short term lay off. or temporarily on short hours, way maintain B.C. Medical., Dental. Extended Health, Life Insurance, and A.D.S, D. coverage by paying a pro rated share of the premiums for up to three (3) months.
The Company agrees to maintain benefit premium payments for employees off work for illness or injury for a period not to exceed twelve (12)
months.
29
3	The Company agrees to reimburse employees to a maximum of ten dollars
($10.00!' per claim towards the cost of providing medical certification when same is required by the Company or its insurance cairier.
.09	The Company agrees to provide a longterm disability plan to provide a
benefit of fifty (SO• percent of an employee's regular earnings subject to the following conditions:
1.	Benefits commence upon the expiration of weekly indemnity benef its.
2.	Benefits continue for one (1) year while unable to perform own occupation and to age sixty five (65) if prevented from performing any occupation,
3.	Benefit, reduced by C.P.P., W.C.B. and T.C.B.C. disability benefits.
4.	Maximum benefit two (2) thousand dollars per month.
5.	Coverage to exclude pre-existing conditions at date of coverage. A pre-existing condition is one that existed before a member became insured. No benefit is payable if a disability is related to a pre-existing condition and begins within ninety (90) days of the member becoming insured. An employee must be free from all drugs and medications associated with that condition for ninety (90) days either before or after the effective date of the policy. This exclusion does not apply if the liieinberafter becoming insured has been actively working for (12) twelve consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-exist ing condi t ion.
Cost of the above plan to be paid one hundred • 100 ) percent by
the Company.
30
Aimer,k 20 .01
20.02
20.03
20.0A
The Onion reserves the right to have the employees vote on participating in the U.F.C.W. Education Fund and the Company agrees to administer the deduct inns.
20 - AUTOMATION A NO TFgHNftJ. ■OCF.OJ, CH.i-NGF.
The Company w.i 11 provide the Union with two • 2'' months1 nottee of intention to i nt reduce automation equipment or 3 technological change which wi 1 1. result in displacement or reduction of personnel..
Employees hecomi ng redundant due to new equi pmeut or technnlogica 1 change shall, be eligible for retraining to qualify them for the operation of such new equipment. Such retraining will, be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee(s).
In cases where retraining of employees is not practical or where other positions within the Company are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment or shall elect to remain on the seniority list. An employee on recall under this section shall receive all the benefits he had accrued to the date of being placed on the recall list. Such benefits to be paid at the end of the recall period or at such earlier time as he may elect to terminate.
Employees whose services are terminated because of automation or technological change shall receive a separation allowance in accordance with the seal e out lined in Article 1.3, Section 13 .02 of this Agreement.
31
: Cl,E 21 - GRIEVANCE PROOF,DURR
1.01	(a) A standing committee shall he maintained in each location in the
folInwing manner:
Tln> Union shall e1<*cc from t i.nn? tn 1. inn-*, from its mem In* rs in each Plant, a standi ns committee of up to throe (1 < employer*:; which shall represent the Union for all purposes of this Article. For the purposes of this Article, any grievances with the except ion of 21.06 (b> shall be filed by the grievor within a period of five (5) working days after the grievance has occurred or when :i.t becomes known.
It is agreed between the parties that under the application of Article 21.01(a), the time limits referred to herein may be waived by mutual agreement between the parties or by an arbitration board.
(b)	Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as working days wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
(c)	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular day shift working hours.
(d)	The Company recognizes the right of the Grievance Committee to process any grievance that is brought to their attention or to pursue matters affecting relations between the Company and the employees as they relate to the terms of the Collective Agreement. For the purpose of this Agreement, a grievance is defined as any di fference between the parties, concerning the ...interpretation Or application of this Agreement.
1.02	The employee shall first discuss his grievance with his Simp Steward. If the Shop Steward is unable tn settle the grievance with his foreman within two (2) working days, i t. shall be processed to
21.03.
21 .04
21.05
(
32
The	Chief Shop Steward	wi 1 1	present a wr	itteri g	rievftuco		to	t.he	Manager
of	the location who shn	11 e;	ill a meeting	within	two	(2)	wo rk	ing	days to
dis	cuss the grievance	wi l	h file Union	Comm i t	fee	and	On-	: aj	;gri eved
emp	loyee or employees.	if d	<'si. red. Fai	1 i ng a	sat i	si'ac	to ry	S e t	1.1 ''me a i
of	this Section within	t il i'i;	•' 1 ; wen t ill;;	, days.	il s	dia ! 1	'll;	1 1 ■ f i	• reed, ! n
21 .04.
The Union Committee shall take the wa t. let Up with a Commit tee designated by the Company . An outside rep resent.3 t.t vo of the Union way becalled in if so desii ed. Fai 1 ing a satisfactory sett! etnenl of this Section within five (5) working days or otherwise mutually agreed, it shall be referred to 21.05.
In the event, that the grievance is not satisfactorily settled by these methods, it shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration to be set up in the following manner:
a) The Company and Union shall appoint one (1) member each who shall then get together and endeavour to appoint a Chairman satisfactory to both parties. Failing agreement, they shall apply to the Canada Labour Relations Board to name a Chairman, further requesting that such appointment be made within seven (7) working days.
The Board, thus set up, shall decide its own method of procedure provided , however, that both parties are given ample opportunity of presenting their case. TheRoard shall, render its decision and the majority decision of the Board shal 1 be fina 1 and bindi ng on both parties.
b! The Company shal 1 pay all the expenses of its nominee and the Union shall pay al 1 the expenses of its nominee. The expenses arid compensa t.ion of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the parties.
33
21.07
21.08
21 .09
21.10
(a) The Company must give the Chief Shop Steward not ire in writ, in a of the suspension or diselta rye ofany emp] oyee and 1 he reasons on the day such action is tal:en.
Mi) If an employee i s di sin i ssed for.-my reason and fer-l ... r hat he has been unjust1 v dea 11 with, lie shall , vi thin seven! y-two '..'2 ! hours from receipt of written not ice of dismissal, notj fv hutli t he C r iev.-mce Cornrni t tee and the Company in writing. Thedisrnissa 1 in quest, ion shal 1 then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such. If, subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall then be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated as may be deemed fair in the circumstances.
When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement, the wages of an employee are adjusted, such adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in the earnings was made. If the date cannot be established, then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid or such other date as may be agreed upon.
Stewards shall have the right to investigate or adjust grievances on domicile premises on Company time without loss of pay. The Steward shall obtain permission from the locat ion Manager or his delegate before leaving his work, which permission wi I. 1 not be unreasonably withheld.
When the Company deems it necessary to discipline an emp loyee . they shall have the Union Steward present. In the case of suspensionor dismissal, the Union Steward and Chief Steward shal 1 be present.
A written warning will be disregarded after twelve (12) calendar months, providing there has been no other written warning, suspension, or other progressive discipline in that period.
34
11	The Company agrees to keep the Union Committee informed of the names of
the individuals responsible for directing the working force and the Union agrees to keep the Company in I'm mod of the members of the 'individual. Safety and Crievance Cmiimi t 1.
All TT Cl .K 22 - DURATION OF APR CEMENT
‘22.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement, shall be
effective from and after the 1st day of Inly, 19*33 to the 30th day of June, 1994 and thereafter from year lo year uni ess :it any time within the four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry of the Agreement , written notice to contrary intention is given by either party to the other party.
Wage increases effective as per dates on Schedule "A". All other amendments effective date of ratification.
22.02	The parties hereto agree to commence negotiations within ten (10) days
after receipt of such notice. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time a subsequent agreement is reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either party.
STONED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED 32SS5 Ventura Avenue
Abbotsford, B.C.
STONED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION' UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION, Local lr>IS #700 - 4211 Kingsway
SCHEDULE A	JULY 1,1993
ABBOTSFORD PLANT ARMSTRONG PLANT DUNCAN PLANT
STARTING RATE AFTER RATE	30 DAYS WORKED
PRODUCTION	CAT. 1 LABOURER, WAREHOUSEMAN	16.24	16.49
	CAT . 2 FORKLIFT OPERATOR BAGGING MACHINE OPER. GRINDERMAN SEED EQUIP. OPER. PROCESS OPERATOR UTILITY MAN CAR/TRUCK UNLOADER BULK LOADER	17.24	17.49
	CAT.3 MIXERMAN PELLET MILL OPERATOR *	17.62	17.87
	CAT.4 WORKING FOREMAN	18.00	18.25
DRIVERS	CLASS 3	17.77	18.02
	CLASS 1	18.02	18.27
MILLWRIGHTS	MILLWRIGHT ENGINEER *	18.97	19.22
	MILLWRIGHT -CLASS A *	18.77	19.02
	MILLWRIGHT -CLASS B	17.98	18.23
-	MILLWRIGHT -HELPER	17.34	17.59
	ELECTRICIAN MILLWRIGHT	18.22	18.47
* INCLUDES STEAM PREMIUM AS PER ART. 6.09
(Wage increases as of July 1, 1993 shall be retroactive to all employees for all hours worked or paid from that date)
SCHEDULE A	JAN. 1, 1994
ABBOTSFORD PLANT ARMSTRONG PLANT DUNCAN PLANT
		STARTING RATE	RATE AFTER 30 DAYS WORKED
PRODUCTION	CAT. 1 LABOURER, WAREHOUSEMAN	16.45	16.70
	CAT. 2 FORKLIFT OPERATOR BAGGING MACHINE OPER. GRINDERMAN SEED EQUIP. OPER. PROCESS OPERATOR UTILITY MAN CAR/TRUCK UNLOADER BULK LOADER	17.46	17.71
	CAT.3 MIXERMAN PELLET MILL OPERATOR *	17.84	18.09
	CAT.4 WORKING FOREMAN	18.22	18.47
DRIVERS	CLASS 3	17.99	18.24
	CLASS 1	18.24	18.49
MILLWRIGHTS	MILLWRIGHT ENGINEER *	19.20	19.45
	MILLWRIGHT -CLASS A *	19.00	19.25
	MILLWRIGHT -CLASS B	18.21	18.46
	MILLWRIGHT -HELPER	17.56	17.81
* INCLUDES	ELECTRICIAN MILLWRIGHT STEAM PREMIUM AS PER ART. 6.09	18.45	18.70