COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
UFCW CANADA LOCAL 1288P
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC,
FEED PLANT AND DISTRIBUTION CENTRES MONCTON, NB
October 1, 2010 - September 30, 2013
00481 (13)
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
ARTICLE 1 -PURPOSE	1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION	1
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY	2
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	3
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE	3
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	5
ARTICLE 7 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE	6
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION	7
ARTICLE 9 - NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK	8
ARTICLE 10 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD	8
ARTICLE 11-SENIORITY	9
ARTICLE 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY	10
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS	11
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS,
& RECALLS	12
ARTICLE 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE	16
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION	17
ARTICLE 17-COLA	20
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	21
ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	26
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS	28
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE	31
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	32
ARTICLE 23 - EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	34
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE - GENERAL: TECHNOLOGICAL
CHANGE; AND PLANT CLOSURE	35
ARTICLE 25 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS	37
ARTICLE 26 - BULLETIN BOARDS	37
ARTICLE 27 - CORRESPONDENCE	37
ARTICLE 28 - JURY DUTY	37
ARTICLE 29 - HEALTH AND SAFETY	38
ARTICLE 30-TERM OF AGREEMENT	38
APPENDIX 1 (A) - JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES
-	MONCTON FEED PLANT	40
APPENDIX 1 (B) - JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES
-	DISTRIBUTION CENTRE	41
APPENDIX 2(A) - INCOME GUARANTEE (SHORT TERM DISABILITY)	42
APPENDIX 2(B) - INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY)	43
APPENDIX 3 - RE: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	44
APPENDIX 4 - TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER	45
APPENDIX 5 - RE: GROCERY HOURS	47
APPENDIX 6 - PRODUCE HOURS	48
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1 RE: “FRONT DOOR” SERVICE
(FEED	PLANT)	49
LETTER OF AGREEMENT#2 RE: PART TIME SUMMER SCHEDULES	50
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3 RE: ARTICLE 13.03 DISTRIBUTION CENTRE 51
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 4 RE: WORK SCHEDULES (PRICE STREET
& HENRI-DUNANT DISTRIBUTION CENTRES)	52
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 4 RE: RECOGNITION	53
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
UFCW CANADA LOCAL 1288P
(hereinafter called the Union)
And
CO-OP ATLANTIC, Moncton, N. B.
(hereinafter called the Co-operative)
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to ensure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to ensure fair wages, hours, and other working conditions.
1.02	It is recognized by this agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the Collective Bargaining Agent for its employees in the Moncton Feed Plant and in the Moncton Distribution Centres with the exception of: Feed Operations Manager; Feed Production Supervisor; Distribution Centre Managers; Foremen; Office Employees; Maintenance Men; Mechanics; and Stationery Engineers.
2.02	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform faithfully and diligently their respective duties for the Co-operative, and that they will at all times carry out their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods, and procedures established by management, subject to the provisions of this agreement.
2.03	The Union, recognizing that the Co-operative owes its very existence to member support of local Co-operatives, agrees to encourage its members to support their local Co-operative and Co-op Label Products.
Page 1 of 53
i
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	Maintenance of Membership
(a)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain membership in the Union during the term of this agreement. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly dues.
(b)	Modified Rand Formula
The Co-operative further agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee hired after the signing of this agreement shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly Union dues from date of hire.
3.02	No Discrimination or Penalty
(a)	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatsoever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
(b)	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
3.03	Check-Off
The Co-operative agrees to deduct Union dues from all employee's pay and, at the end of each month, will forward the total amount to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the 10th day of the month following. The Union will certify in writing to the Co-operative the amount of the monthly membership dues.
Page 2 of 53
f
3.04	The Co-operative agrees to pay into a special fund one (1) cent per hour per employee for all compensated hours for purpose of providing paid educational leave. Said paid educational leave will be for the purpose of upgrading the employee's skills in all aspects of trade union functions. Such monies to be paid by separate cheque on a monthly basis to the Union, and forwarded by the 15th day of the month following the month of the hourly calculation.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union agrees that, subject only to the provisions of this agreement, it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline, and efficiency;
(b)	hire, suspend, discharge for just cause, classify, transfer, promote, and demote. No employee will be demoted as a disciplinary measure;
(c)	judge the skill, knowledge, and efficiency, of individual employees;
(d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
4.02	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
5.01	For the purposes of this article, there will be three (3) locations:
1.	Price Street
2.	Henri Dunant
3.	Feed Plant
5.02	In order to facilitate the orderly processing of complaints and grievances, the Co-operative acknowledges the Union's right to select:
(a)	One (1) steward from each shift at each location (produce shifts will be separate from other shifts).
(b)	One (1) chief steward (in addition to the above) at each location.
Page 3 of 53
(c)	One (1) steward for the truck drivers at Price Street which, for the purposes of this article, will be considered a shift at the Price Street location.
(d)	A Grievance Committee at each location consisting of the Chief Steward and any two (2) other permanent employees. The Unit Chairperson shall have the right to participate in any and all Union related activities.
(e)	A Union Grievance Committee of two (2) representatives from the committees at each location noted above who would act on behalf of the whole Bargaining Unit in any grievance that is raised jointly by the Feed Plant and the Distribution Centres employees under section 6.03 below.
(f)	The Union shall keep management informed as to the names of current officers, stewards, and members of the Grievance Committees.
5.03	It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committees have their regular work to perform as employees of the Co-operative. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining the Co-operative representative's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
5.04	In order that loss of production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible and on this understanding the Co-operative agrees that Stewards shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
5.05	Meetings between management and the Grievance Committees shall be held on the premises of the Co-operative and those members of the Union Committee who must attend such meetings during working hours will be paid by the Co-operative for time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be unreasonably frequent.
5.06	For the purpose of Collective Bargaining the Employer shall recognize a Union negotiating committee of not more than five (5) employees of the Co-op, one of whom shall be the Unit Chairperson.
5.07	The members of the Union negotiating team, as per Article 5.06 above, will be paid up to a maximum of 7 days, 8 hours per day,or ten hours per day, whichever the employee works, at the regular rate of pay including all premiums if applicable for the time spent negotiating.
Page 4 of 53
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	Should complaints or grievances arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under this agreement, there shall be no strike, slow-down, stoppage of work, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lock-outs by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
6.02	(a) It is agreed that grievances at any location (as defined in article 5.01 above) will be processed by the Stewards and Grievance Committee for that location. Grievances arising under section 6.03 below, will be dealt with by the Union Grievance Committee (as defined in article 5.02 (e) above).
(b)	Grievances relating to disciplinary action shall be submitted to the management level who imposed the discipline.
(c)	When Management calls an employee in on a disciplinary matter or if discussions lead to a disciplinary situation, the steward shall be present unless the employee otherwise decides.
6.03	It is agreed that in the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee may present the grievance in writing directly to the Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs, or his/her designate. Subsequent action will be governed by Steps 4 and 5 of the normal Grievance Procedure.
6.04	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within four (4) working days (subject to Section 7.02) of the occurrence and shall be handled in the following manner:
STEP 1	- The employee accompanied by a steward, shall discuss the
grievance with his immediate supervisor. The decision of the immediate supervisor shall be given within twenty-four (24) hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 2	- If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, then the Union shall put the
grievance in writing on suitable forms and the Chief Steward, or his alternate, shall submit it to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 3 to the agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays.
Page 5 of 53
STEP 3	- If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, then the Grievance
Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 3 to this agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 4	- If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, then the Grievance
Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 3 to this agreement and the latter shall schedule and hold a meeting within fourteen (14) calendar days between himself, or his appointee, and the Grievance Committee to attempt to resolve the grievance. At such meeting the management person referred to above may be accompanied by up to four (4) other representatives of management and the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by the Business Agent or International Representative of the Union.
The management person shall give his decision in writing within five (5) days, excluding weekends and holidays. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement in writing of the parties concerned.
STEP 5	- If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at Step 4 then either party
may request arbitration as provided in Article 8 below. If neither party notifies the other of its intention (as per Section 8.01 below) within twenty-one (21) days of having received the written decision at Step 4, then the grievance shall be deemed to be settled. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement in writing, of the parties concerned.
ARTICLE 7 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
7.01	No employee will be disciplined or discharged without just cause. The Co-operative recognizes the principle of progressive discipline, except where a serious incident warrants immediate suspension or discharge.
7.02	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the appropriate management person at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure within four (4) working days of the discharge. Such grievance shall not be limited to Step 4 of the grievance procedure.
7.03	A record of disciplinary action against an employee shall be removed from the employee’s file after eighteen (18) months, provided no disciplinary action of a similar nature has occurred during the eighteen (18) month period.
Page 6 of 53
7.04	Upon written request, employees shall be granted full access to their file. ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been carried through the applicable steps of the grievance procedure.
8.02	(a) When either party wishes to submit a grievance to arbitration it shall notify the other party in writing and, at the same time, state its preference for a single arbitrator or an arbitration board, otherwise, the grievance shall be deemed resolved and/or withdrawn.
(b)	If a single arbitrator has been requested, the party receiving the notice shall advise the other party in writing of its disapproval within five (5) days of receiving the notice. The party initiating the grievance shall either: 1) retain the option for a single arbitrator or 2) agree to an arbitration board and notify the other party accordingly and proceed to select an arbitrator or board of arbitration.
(c)	If the party receiving notice agrees, or fails to advise the other party in writing of its disapproval within five (5) days, the parties shall immediately undertake to reach agreement on a person to act as arbitrator.
8.03	If a single arbitrator has not been agreed to or established in accordance with Article 8.02, then, upon receiving reference to arbitration, each party shall within five (5) days notify the other party of its nominee to the board of arbitration.
8.04	The nominees named in accordance with 8.03 shall within ten (10) days of their appointment agree upon a chairperson of the arbitration board.
8.05	If agreement is not reached under either 8.02 or 8.04 on the arbitrator, within the time set out above, then the Minister of Labour shall be requested to make an appointment.
8.06	Time limits referred to in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, of the two parties.
8.07	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify, or amend any part of this agreement.
8.08	Arbitration decisions are to be rendered within thirty (30) days of the hearing being completed.
Page 7 of 53
8.09' The decision of the single arbitrator or of the majority of the Board or of the Chairman, failing a majority Board decision, shall be binding on the parties to this Agreement.
8.10 Each of the parties hereto shall share equally the expense of the single arbitrator or of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board and shall bear the full expense of its own appointee to an Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 9 - NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK
9.01	(a) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize, or sanction its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in), any sit-down or slow-down or any strike or stoppage of operations, or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production, or any picketing of the Co-operative's premises, during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
(b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct any lock out of employees during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
9.02	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the agreement, until all steps relating to the conciliation procedure in the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
ARTICLE 10 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
10.01	(a) New employees will be considered as probationary employees for the first ninety (90) consecutive calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employee shall not be the subject of a grievance, but all other conditions of this agreement shall apply. At the completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be back-dated to his last date of hiring.
(b)	If an employee is absent for more than ten (10) working days during his probationary period, management may extend his probationary period by up to an equal number of working days. Management agrees to notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate section in writing of such extension and the employee's start date. Management and the Union will sign such notice once the content of such notice is agreed upon.
Page 8 of 53
(c)	Part-time employees hired on or after April 1st in any year, will be terminated prior to September 15th, will not be eligible for benefits, and will not acquire seniority rights. Any Part-time employee the employer wishes to retain beyond September 15th shall acquire seniority backdated to their most recent date of hire.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	(a) There shall be two kinds of seniority, sectional seniority and bargaining unit-wide seniority. Sectional seniority shall be an employee's service with the Co-operative within one section (i.e. Feed Plant or Distribution Centres) and shall be applicable to promotions, transfers, layoffs, recalls, and as may be set out in other provisions of this Agreement.
(b)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be the accumulated service of an employee with the Co-operative in both sections and shall prevail in all matters of interpretation of this agreement except where sectional seniority is expressly indicated.
(c)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be established from the date an employee last entered or last enters the service of the Co-operative, subject to Article 10.01.
(d)	Sectional Seniority will not be transferable from one section to another but will be retained in the section where it is earned. The Seniority List will show this.
(e)	When more than one individual is hired at the same time, their initial interview time will determine their placement on the Seniority list.
(f)	Full-time seniority lists shall, in all cases, take preference over part-time seniority lists.
(g)	No full-time employee shall be re-classified as a part-time employee without his voluntary consent in writing.
11.02	A seniority list showing the status of each employee, including those on layoff, shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board in each section within thirty (30) days after the signing of this agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure. A new seniority list shall be posted every three (3) months thereafter.
11.03	FEED MILL: In the event of a layoff or Feed Mill closure, Feed Mill employees shall, if they so request prior to the expiration of their re-call period, be placed on the part-time seniority list in accordance with their seniority and shall:
Page 9 of 53
(a)	Have their full-time seniority recognized for placement on the part-time seniority list;
(b)	Be considered part-time and have all rights and privileges of a part-time for all purposes;
(c)	Receive 100% of their full-time wage rate along with benefits, for hours worked, for the length of time they remain part-time, or until such time as they are offered full-time employment;
(d)	Regardless of part-time or full-time status or length of time involved, they shall retain right of re-call to a full-time position at the Feed Mill at such time as it becomes available;
(e)	Feed Mill employees when hired to full-time positions in the Distribution Centres shall take their Feed Mill seniority with them; however, for the purpose of Articles 13, 14, and 18, Feed Mill seniority cannot be used to bypass full-time Distribution Centre employees hired prior to January 1, 2003. Effective January 1, 2003, any part-time employees who become full-time are subject to 11.03;
(f)	In the event of a Distribution Centre closure or layoff, the procedure set out above will be reversed. However, the date in (e) will be considered to be January 1, 2005. Any issues which arise as a result of Article 11.03 will be resolved by the Union keeping in mind the intent of 11.03, and will advise the Co-operative of the resolve.
ARTICLE 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY
12.01	An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if:
(a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
(b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance Procedure;
(c)	he is laid off from either section fora period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months, if he has less than two (2) years seniority at time of layoff, or for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) consecutive months if he has two (2) years or more seniority at the time of lay-off;
Page 10 of 53
(d)	Notwithstanding (c) above, no employee's seniority will be cancelled due to layoff beyond twenty-four (24) months as a result of a shut-down from the destruction and rebuilding of the facility.
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
13.01	Where an employee is temporarily assigned to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, he will be paid, for such assignment, at the corresponding step in the higher grade.
13.02	Where a temporary assignment of one (1) day or more in duration becomes available, preference in filling the assignment will be given to employees on the same shift, within the same functional area (i.e. General Merchandise; Produce; Grocery) and then to employees who are on all other shifts and the selection from amongst these will be based on seniority provided the senior person is able to do the job. In the Feed Mill, such temporary transfers shall be for one (1) week or more and shall be limited to one (1) employee from the Evening Shift and the Night Shift at any one time.
13.03	In the Feed Mill, an employee who replaces a foreman or other supervisory employee temporarily for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, shall receive $1.00 per hour additional pay for the duration of such transfer. Such employee shall not lose an opportunity for dvertime on his regular job as a result of the temporary transfer to the above.
13.04	Employees on temporary assignments as in 13.01 or 13.03 above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former rate.
13.05	(a) A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave, or holiday period of the employee being replaced.
(b)	If the regular incumbent's absence on sick leave or workers’ compensation extends beyond three (3) months, the job will be posted and filled under clause 14.01, provided that should the regular incumbent return from sick leave or compensation he will return to his previous job and the replacement to his previous job and so forth with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
13.06	If a holiday (as set out in Article 19) falls in a period when an employee is replacing someone in a higher classification, the employee shall be paid for the holiday at the rate he receives for time worked on the temporary transfer.
Page 11 of 53
This clause shall apply only where the temporary transfer was in effect the day before the holiday. For the purpose of qualifying for the higher rate under 13.01 or 13.03, above, the holiday will count as a working day.
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAYOFFS. AND RECALLS
14.01	(a) When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, including any new position, it shall be posted within forty-eight (48) hours, at all locations, and shall remain posted for seventy-two (72) hours before the vacancy is permanently filled. If a longer delay is necessary, the Union shall be advised in writing of the reasons.
(b)	All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for forty-eight (48) hours before they are permanently filled.
(c)	Where workers concerned are absent for legitimate reasons, these time limits may be extended.
(d)	Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during this absence must advise his immediate supervisor accordingly, leaving the telephone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable effort to contact such employee. If unable to contact the employee, the Union Steward shall be so notified.
14.02	Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing to the supervisor indicated on the posting.
14.03	(a) In the event of a permanent promotion or a permanent transfer, within either section of the bargaining unit, to fill a posted vacancy, preference shall be given on the basis of Sectional Seniority where ability, skill, and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
(b)	If no employee from the section in which the vacancy occurs bids on the job, preference shall be given to employees from the other section on the basis of Bargaining Unit-Wide Seniority where ability, skill, and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
(c)	Where promotions or permanent transfers are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union, in writing, of the decision and the reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
Pape 12 of 53
(d)	If no employee from either section, having the required ability, skill, and competence to perform the work, bids on the job, management shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for the job.
(e)	Where a person from outside the unit is hired in either section to fill a posted job and the employee from one of the sections had bid on the job, the Co-operative shall advise the Unit Chairperson and the Chief Steward of the section where the job is located, of its reasons for doing so before the employee goes onto the job.
(f)	When work and/or job(s) are transferred, the transferred job(s) shall be posted and the affected employee(s) shall have the right to bump.
(g)	A notice, stating to whom the job was given shall be posted on the Union’s bulletin boards within forty-eight (48) hours (excluding weekends and holidays) after the vacancy is filled.
14.04	(a) The successful applicant for a posted job shall be given a trial and training period of up to thirty (30) calendar days. If the successful applicant decides to bid to another job or accept a temporary transfer during his thirty (30) day trial and training period, he shall return to his original job if the second bid is not acceptable or when the temporary transfer is finished. This trial and training period may be extended by mutual consent of the Union and Management.
(b) A promoted or transferred employee within the same section shall have his former job protected for thirty (30) calendar days. If within the first thirty (30) calendar days on the new job, either he proves unsatisfactory, as determined by Management, or he decides not to continue in that job, he shall be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without any loss of seniority. Any employee who was transferred to fill a vacancy created by the first promotion or transfer shall also be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without loss of seniority.
If such promotion or transfer is between sections, the trial and training period may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and Management. An employee who is transferred or promoted and has been previously trained in that job, may waive their trial and training period by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and Management.
Page 13 of 53
(c)	A replacement shall be selected from the balance of the applicants, provided one such applicant has the necessary ability, skill, and competence to meet the job requirement. Preference shall be given on the basis of section seniority where two (2) or more of the applicants have relatively equal ability, skill, and competence to perform the work. If none of the balance of the applicants meet the job requirements, or if there was only one applicant to the original posting, the job shall be re-posted.
(d)	If there are no suitable applicants following the re-posting, then the Co-operative shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for the job.
14.05	(a) In the event of a layoff within either section ofthe Bargaining Unit, retention shall be on the basis of sectional seniority. The employee whose job disappears (temporarily or permanently) can bump any employee junior to him whose work he can do in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization or trial and training period of up to thirty (30) calendar days.
(b)	If the employee is not successful or does not want to continue in the position within the time period in (a) above, he may bump the junior employee in the section and will have to reach a satisfactory level of performance after a reasonable familiarization or trial and training period of up to thirty (30) calendar days.
(c)	Where an employee bumps into a lower grade to avoid layoff, he shall retain his current rate and will receive any general increases to the pay ranges until he bids off the job.
(d)	Employees previously trained in a job will be allowed to waive, in writing, their trial and training period as set out above.
14.06	(a) The Co-operative shall give an employee two (2) weeks notice of a planned layoff of one (1) week or more and two (2) days notice of a layoff of less than one (1) week, except where the latter clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable (e.g. Acts of God). Where an employee works past the layoff notice date, new notice must be given if there is to be a layoff. Layoff notice shall not be used in an unjust manner and/or be an indefinite notice.
(b)	Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority where jobs and/or work become available, provided they have the demonstrated ability to perform such jobs.
(c)	Employees on layoff who do not wish to be recalled for periods of one (1) week or less, shall advise the Co-operative . Employees shall advise the Co-operative when they wish to be recalled for periods of one (1) week or less.
Page 14 of 53
(d)	The employer shall give notice of recall by telephone or by registered letter to the last telephone number and address given to the employer in writing by the employee. The employee shall advise the employer of his intentions by telephone or by registered letter as soon as possible, but, in any case, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered letter. If he fails to do so, he will forfeit his right to recall. If he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within seven (7) days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall.
(e)	An employee may refuse to exercise his right to recall to other than his regular job without prejudicing his right to future recall if:
1)	He so advises the employer, in the manner prescribed in (c) above, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received a recall notice by registered mail; and
2)	There is a junior employee on layoff in the same grade or lower with demonstrated ability to do the job.
14.07	(a) No supervisory person will be transferred into the Bargaining Unit except where there is a vacancy that is not filled through the posting procedure. Seniority earned thereafter will apply in the section where it is earned, seniority accumulated prior to leaving the bargaining unit will remain, provided the person's absence has not exceeded six (6) months.
(b)	Any member of the Bargaining Unit who is promoted to a job outside the unit shall have his old job protected for thirty (30) days. After that time, he shall be subject to
14.07	(a) above.
(c)	A working foreman will be allowed on an evening or night shift provided that the number supervised does not exceed seven (7) and so long as it has no effect on existing Bargaining Unit jobs or members.
Page 15 of 53
ARTICLE 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	(a) The Co-operative will grant leave of absence without pay to employees to enable them to attend labour schools, conferences, or conventions, provided that the employee advises management at least two (2) weeks in advance. Not more than one (1) employee per shift or two (2) employees per location may be absent at the same time except at the Price Street location where up to three (3) (not more than one (1) per shift) may be absent at the same time. Requests for increase of numbers of individuals and/or the extension to the length of the leave of absence will be given consideration taking into account operational requirements.
(b)	The terms "shift" and "location" in this article shall have the same meaning as in 5.01 and 5.02 above.
(c)	The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for other reasons, which in the opinion of management are legitimate, and which do not in combination with (a) above, present staffing problems.
(d)	Any leave of absence under (a) or (c) above, must be in writing to the employee and signed by the Department Manager.
15.02	Any leave of absence granted under 15.01 will not affect an employee's seniority rights or his employee benefits provided the employee maintains his regular contributions to the plans.
The Co-operative agrees to pay employees on leave of absence in 15.01 (a) and
15.03	(a) their regular wages and benefits and bill the Union such costs.
15.03	(a) An employee wishing to engage in full-time Union work shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority, provided that:
1)	he gives thirty (30) days notice of application for such leave;
2)	the leave of absence does not exceed one year;
3)	not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
(b) The effect of such leave of absence on employee benefits shall be the same as for a layoff (see Article 23).
Page 16 of 53
15.04	If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work.
15.05	The Co-operative agrees to grant three (3) days unpaid Family Responsibility Leave in accordance with the New Brunswick Employment Standards.
15.06	The Co-operative agrees to grant Child Care Leave and Maternity Leave in accordance with the New Brunswick Employment Standards.
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION
16.01	A schedule of job classifications and wages shall be attached to this Agreement in the form of Appendix 1 and shall be part of the Agreement.
16.02	The steps of the grades indicate the within-grade increases that can be anticipated by employees. Such increases are not automatic but will depend upon satisfactory progress. The Unit Chairperson shall be notified if a review is to be delayed, or if an increase is to be withheld. The steward of the affected individual(s) shall be present when such individual(s) is notified.
16.03	An employee who is promoted to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies shall be paid at the corresponding step in the higher grade except that he will not be paid the top rate until he has completed thirty (30) days in the new job or any extended trial period agreed to under article 14.04 (b). Upon completion of such period, any increase shall then be paid retroactively to the date of promotion.
16.04	(a) A Shift Premium of fifty-five (550) per hour will be paid for hours worked on the evening shift and of sixty-five (650) per hour for hours worked on the night shift as described in (b) below. A shift premium of $2.25 per hour will be paid, for hours worked on Saturday and Sunday, to employees who work both Saturday and Sunday as part of their regular work week.
(b) For purposes of this agreement, an employee is considered to be on the evening shift if the major part of his regular work day falls between 4:00 p.m. and midnight. Likewise an employee is considered to be on the night shift when the major part of his regular work day falls between midnight and 8:00 a.m..
Page 17 of 53
(c)	The schedule of hours and days of work of each employee shall be posted in an appropriate place. This schedule may be altered from time to time as required for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative's business. If an employee's schedule is changed without forty-eight (48) hours notice, such employee shall be paid one and one-half (VA) times his regular rate for all hours worked within the required period of notice.
(d)	Any employee whose regular work week is scheduled as per Article 18.01 (f) of the Agreement shall be paid a premium of$1.00 per hourfor all such hours worked. An employee entitled to the shift premium of $2.25 per hour for hours worked on Saturday and Sunday as set out in (a) above shall not be entitled to this premium.
16.05	(a)	1) The Co-operative may use part-time employees to replace full-time Grade
1 employees absent (not at work), on vacation; sick leave; workers compensation; disability; Union business; approved leave; and temporary transfers. Such replacement must be completed by the end of the shift following the absence.
2)	A part-time employee may only replace a temporarily transferred Grade 1 employee when the transfer takes place on the same shift as the absence occurred.
3)	Management will notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate location, in writing, of each part-time person hired, with start date and reason for hire.
(b)	1) Wherever possible, known absences of more than two (2) weeks on the
day shift, other than at the Henri Dunant location, shall be offered to full-time employees on all other shifts by seniority, prior to being filled by part-time employees.
2)	Part-time employees shall not be used to replace temporary transfers that are a result of extra work.
3)	Part-time employees shall not be used to the extent that they reduce or delete the regular hours of full-time employees, or prevent the creation of new full-time jobs.
4)	No part-time will be employed while there is on layoff a full-time employee with seniority who is willing and able to do the work.
5)	A part-time employee who serves 350 hours probation in accordance with article 16.05 (c) 2) will not be required to serve any further probation upon appointment to a full-time position.
Page 18 of 53
6)	Upon appointment to a full-time position, a part-time employee with less than 350 hours of service will serve a probationary period in the full-time position equal to 480 hours less part-time hours served. (Example: A new full-time employee has completed 250 hours of part-time work. The probationary period in the full-time position will be 480 -250 = 230 hours.)
(c)	1) A part-time employee will regularly work up to twenty-six (26) hours per
week or less except in situations where additional hours are required pursuant to 16.05 (a)
1).
2)	A part-time employee is on probation for the first three hundred and fifty (350) hours of employment.
3)	A part-time employee's seniority for the purpose of wage increments is based on total hours worked. Full-time seniority shall, in all cases, take preference over part-time seniority.
4)	Part-time employees who become full-time employees shall have their part-time seniority date recognized as their full-time seniority date.
(d)	1) Part-time employees shall be paid eighty percent (80%) of the full-time
rates (set out in Appendix 1) for the same work and length of time on the job.
2)	Part-time employees shall be paid vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of gross earnings and statutory holidays according to the legislation. Part-time employees shall have the option of four percent (4%) (of vacation) calculated on each pay, or four percent (4%) to be paid out on January 15th and July 15th of each year.
3)	Part-time employees will not qualify for the "birthday" holiday unless they attain seniority, in which case it will be paid retroactively provided it fell more than thirty (30) days after the employee's hire date.
4)	Upon appointment to a full-time position, employees who have completed probation in accordance with 16.05 (b) 5) and (c) 2), will be placed at the three (3) month rate in Appendix 1. Employees with less than 350 hours will be placed at the start rate and will progress to the three (3) month rate upon completion of probation in accordance with 16.05(b) 6).
5)	Three (3) months after being placed at the three (3) month rate, employees will move to the six (6) month rate and, after a further six (6) months, will move to the twelve (12) month rate.
Page 19 of 53
6)	Upon appointment to a full-time position, all paid hours as a part-time employee will be converted to their full-time equivalent for the calculation of vacation entitlement in Article 20 of the agreement. (Example: A new full-time employee with 1040 part-time hours would have one-half (1/4) year credited as full-time service for the calculation of vacation per Article 20.)
(e)	1) The Co-operative shall supply to the Union a part-time seniority list based on date of hire. Available work, in accordance with 16.05 (a) 1), will be assigned based on date of hire. The Co-operative shall supply in writing to the Union a list of which full-time employee is absent and which part-time employee is working on each shift in accordance with Article 16.05 (a) 1).
2) The Union shall be notified in writing of the part-time hours worked, the shift, the part-time employee who worked, and all other relevant information and documentation.
(f)	1) Part-time employees may replace Grade 1 employees for overtime hours when full-time employees are unable to work the overtime hours in accordance with Article 18.09.
2)	The Co-operative may use up to two (2) part-time employees in Grocery, and up to two (2) part-time employees in Produce, on any two (2) days of the week, for evening or midnight shifts only, in addition to 16.05 (a) 1). Alternatively, the Co-operative may use four (4) part-time employees in Grocery, and four (4) part-time employees in Produce, on any one day of the week.
3)	Upon appointment to a full-time position, employees with 480 part-time hours will be entitled to the benefits in Article 22 of the agreement. Employees with less than 480 hours will be entitled to benefits upon completion of 480 hours (part-time + fulltime hours).
(g)	When it is established through the grievance procedure that there has been a violation of 16.05 in the use of part-time, the settlement of the grievance shall be a pay out to the grievor(s), unless mutually agreed otherwise.
ARTICLE 17-COLA
17.01	A cost-of-living allowance will become effective during the second year of this agreement if the rise in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.) (1981=100) published by Statistics Canada exceeds 5.0% of the August, 2007, C.P.I., which shall be the base figure, on the following basis:
Page 20 of 53
Starting on the first of the month in which the published C.P.I. exceeds 105.0% of the August, 2007, figure, a premium of one and one half cent (1.50) per hour for each 0.3 point that the C.P.I. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regular rate. The C.P.I. will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium will be adjusted as necessary to keep it at one and one half cent (1.50) per hour for each 0.3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustment will be made to the premium after September 24, 2010.
The August 2007 date as set out above shall be changed to August 2008 effective September 2008 and August 2009 effective September 2009.
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
18.01	(a) PRODUCE - Hours of work will be:
Evening Shift:
1:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m., 4x 10 hours, Sunday to Friday inclusive:
Shift A - Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
Shift B - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
Day Shift:
6:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., 5x8 hours, Monday to Saturday inclusive:
Shift A - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
Shift B - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.
Night Shift:
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. starting Sunday at 11:00 p.m. and finishing at 7:00 a.m. Friday.
For all purposes under the collective agreement, Shift A and Shift B shall be considered one shift, either Evening or Day Shift.
(b)	GROCERY- The hours of work will be:
Eight (8) hour Evening Shift:
3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Sunday to Friday inclusive.
Shift A - Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.
Shift B - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
Page 21 of 53
Ten (10) hour Evening Shift (Pickers Only: any other jobs, refer to Work Schedule Committee):
3:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Sunday to Friday inclusive.
Shift C - Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
Shift D - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.
Shift E - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
Night Shift: 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. starting Sunday at 11:00 p.m. and finishing Friday 7:00 a.m.
Day Shift: 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday to Friday, 40 hours per week
For all purposes under the collective agreement, Shifts A, B, C, D and E shall be considered one shift, the evening shift.
(c)	TRUCK/TRACTOR DRIVERS - First fifty (50) hours per week Monday to Friday, inclusive, to be at regular rate with overtime in excess of fifty (50) hours at one and one-half (114) times the regular rate.
(d)	HENRI DUNANT
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Evening Shift:	3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. Monday to Friday, inclusive.
(e)	FEED MILL: The hours of work will be:
Day Shift:	8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Evening Shift: 4:00 p.m. - 12:00 Midnight, starting Monday at 4:00 p.m. and finishing Friday at 12:00 Midnight.
Night Shift: 12:00 Midnight to 8:00 a.m. Starting Sunday to Friday.
There will be one “Utility Man”: Sunday Midnight Monday 9:00 p.m. Tuesday 9:00 p.m. Wednesday 9:00 p.m. Thursday 9:00 p.m.
to	8:00 a.m.	Monday
to	5:00 a.m.	Tuesday
to	5:00 a.m.	Wednesday
to	5:00 a.m.	Thursday
to 5:00 a.m. Friday
Page 22 of 53
Employees shall receive two (2) paid twenty (20) minute rest periods per shift.
(f)	FLEX HOURS - Sixteen percent (16%) of all full-time members of the Bargaining Unit, excluding the Feed Mill location, may be scheduled to work as needed so long as the flex work week does not exceed forty (40) hours and the daily hours are scheduled for not less than eight (8) hours per day or not more than thirteen (13) hours per day, with at least two (2) days off per week. These positions shall be posted and in the event insufficient employees apply for the positions they shall be awarded in reverse order of seniority. The first two (2) consecutive days off will be considered Saturday and Sunday as per the Collective Agreement. The changes to the Flex schedule will be limited to four (4) changes per calendar year with a two (2) week’s notice before the changes will be implemented. This clause does not apply in the Feed Mill.
Additionally, provided the sixteen percent (16%) FLEX is being fully utilized, the Co-operative has the ability to classify another four (4) employees hired after June 30th 2011 as Utility Pickers without a fixed schedule (shall not be scheduled Day Shift). The hours of work as laid out in Article 18 does not apply to Utility Pickers and their schedule (which is subject to change from week to week) will be posted every Wednesday for the following week.
18.02	(a) Double time will be paid for Sunday work except for employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday in 18.01 above, in which case double time will be paid for Saturday work.
(b)	Where an employee is required to work an additional day as overtime in the week preceding a "holiday week" and subsequently does not work his regular number of days in the holiday week, he shall be paid double time for hours worked on the additional day.
(c)	Time and one-half (1 Vi) shall be paid after eight (8) hours worked in any day or after forty (40) hours or for any hours worked outside a regular shift in any week except in the case of truck and tractor drivers who are subject to 18.01 (c).
(d)	The truck and tractor drivers shall be paid time and one-half (IV2) for hours worked in excess of fifty (50) hours in any week.
Page 23 of 53
18.03	(a) The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided the working time of any one (1) shift exceeds two and one-half (2V2) hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods should not be abused.
(b)	The Co-operative agrees to grant paid rest periods of twenty (20) minutes each provided the working time of any one (1) shift exceeds two and one-half (2Vz) hours. 18.03
(b)	applies to those employees who subject to 18.01, work eight (8) hour shifts.
(c)	The Co-operative agrees to grant two (2) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each and one (1) paid rest period of twenty (20) minutes for ten (10) hour shifts.
18.04	Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a thirty (30) minute meal period. For those employees who, subject to 18.01, work eight (8) hour shifts, 18.03 (b) shall apply.
18.05	(a) Where an employee works two (2) hours or more overtime in a day (provided such overtime and regular hours are continuous not including meal and break periods) the Co-operative shall pay such an employee a meal supplement of seven dollars ($7.00).
(b)	Where an employee works overtime on Saturday, he will be paid the meal supplement only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime is scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee shall be responsible for his own lunch.
(c)	Tractor drivers shall be granted a meal supplement of forty one dollars ($41.00) per week in lieu of 18.05 (a) above. All expenses related to the maintenance of equipment and for tolls will be borne by the Co-operative.
18.06	An employee who has gone home and is especially called back to work in any emergency outside his normal working hours, shall be paid four (4) hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with provisions of 18.02, whichever is more advantageous to him.
18.07	Any employee who is unable to appear for his scheduled shift will notify his immediate supervisor within a reasonable time prior to commencement of the shift and will give, wherever possible, twenty-four (24) hours notice of when he will return to work.
Page 24 of 53
18.08	Management shall endeavour to give employees twenty-four (24) hours notice where overtime is to be worked. In any event, if overtime in excess of one (1) hour is to be worked, notice of four (4) hours working time shall be given, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned.
In cases of emergency beyond the reasonable control of management, it is agreed that notice of overtime will be waived.
18.09	When required the employees may start their shift up to two (2) hours prior to the regular shift start time. Such hours shall be considered overtime and shall be in accordance with 18.09 (a), (b), (c), and (d) respectively.
(a)	When overtime is required, bargaining unit employees with seniority, who are normally responsible for doing the work, or if they are not available, their temporary replacement, shall be given preference in performing the required overtime work. “Normally responsible” means fork-lift work shall be assigned to fork lift operators on the shift on a seniority basis; receiver work shall be assigned to receivers on the shift on a seniority basis; etc. etc..
(b)	In the event that employees noted in (a) above are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees within the section on the shift who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner. Janitor's seniority shall be recognized for the purposes of overtime provided the individual can perform the required work in a satisfactory manner.
(c)	In the event that employees noted in (b) are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees normally responsible to perform the required overtime. “Normally responsible” means forklift work shall be assigned to forklift operators on a seniority basis; receiver work shall be assigned to Receivers on a seniority basis; etc. etc..
For the purpose of overtime, “normally responsible” also recognizes the principle that overtime will be awarded to all picking shifts by job function, and then to the receiving shift by job function, and vice versa.
(d)	In the event that employees noted in (c) are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees within the section who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner.
(e)	At the Feed Mill, overtime will be offered to the person who normally does the job, and then by seniority.
Page 25 of 53
(f)	At the Distribution Centre, employees on vacation will not be called for overtime. A vacation week is a calendar week.
18.10	Under certain circumstances, employees may be paid for up to two (2) hours missed in a day due to stormy weather. Details are set out in Appendix 4 to the agreement.
18.11	(a) The Co-operative agrees that, for employees working 4-10 hour shifts, time and one-half {VA) shall be paid after ten (10) hours worked in any day or after forty (40) hours or for any hours worked outside a regular shift.
(b)	Statutory holidays set out in 19.01 (a) shall be paid at ten (10) hours.
(c)	Where in the agreement eight (8) hours are paid, for employees working ten (10) hour shifts, ten (10) hours shall be paid.
(d)	Employees working 4-10 hour shifts shall be entitled to forty (40) hours sick time as per Article 22.02 (a) 1).
18.12	Employees shall be permitted to bank overtime and shall notify the Co-operative prior to the overtime being worked of the intention to bank. An employee shall schedule his banked day or days off by mutual agreement with the Co-operative. Employees may take time off, with mutual agreement, or cash out a portion or all of the bank at any time at the rate of pay at which it was earned. An employee shall not be permitted to accrue a bank of more than the equivalent of eighty (80) straight time hours. Requests for payout of banked time will be paid on the pay period subsequent to the pay period in which the requests are made.
18.13	Each employee shall have two (2) consecutive days off. The first day of rest shall be equivalent to Saturday and the second equivalent to Sunday for the purpose of this agreement. (Only one Sunday per week will be recognized.)
ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
19.01	(a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all employees who have worked for thirty (30) days prior to the holiday at their regular rates for the ten (10) following holidays:
Page 26 of 53
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
New Brunswick Day	Boxing Day
(b)	If any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If Christmas Day and Boxing Day fall on Saturday and Sunday or Sunday and Monday, then they may be observed on Monday and Tuesday or Friday and Monday. If the work schedule is changed for holidays, it shall be discussed with the Union. No such change shall result in an employee, excluding those covered in 18.01 (f), working two (2) days of the three (3) day holiday unless mutually agreed by the Co-operative and the employee.
(c)	The Co-operative agrees to limit the changes to the work schedule in Article
19.01	(b) to Christmas Day and Boxing Day. The Co-operative agrees to endeavour to find the best possible Christmas holiday schedule for the evening shift.
(d)	In addition to the ten (10) holidays listed above, it is agreed that each employee who has been employed for thirty (30) days prior to his birthday shall be granted one (1) additional paid holiday to be identified as "Employee's Birthday". Such holiday shall be observed on the employee's actual birthday unless the employee arranges an alternate day with Management at least two (2) weeks prior to his birthday. Such alternate day shall be within one (1) week prior to or following the actual birthday. A birthday falling on a Saturday, Sunday, or one (1) of the holidays listed above shall be observed on such alternate day.
19.02	If an employee works on any of the above eleven (11) holidays, he shall be paid at two (2) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under Section 19.01.
19.03	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay unless he works on the holiday or the first scheduled workday following the holiday.
Page 27 of 53
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS
20.01	Annual vacations are provided to employees for the purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for attending to personal business. Vacation time will be allotted to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate Distribution Centre or Plant Manager, based on his need to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference.
20.02	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and less than two (2) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks.
20.03	An employee who by April 30th has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (1/4) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years not exceeding two and one-half (21/4) days for any six (6) month period.
20.04	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for three (3) full years but less than nine (9) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
20.05	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for nine (9) years but less than ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half {'A) day per month of completed service beyond nine (9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2V2) days for any six (6) month period.
20.06	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for ten (10) full years but less than nineteen (19) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
20.07	An employee who by April 30th has been continuously employed for nineteen (19) years but less than twenty (20) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one-half (%) day per month of completed service beyond nineteen (19) years, not exceeding two and one-half {2V2) days for any six (6) month period.
20.08	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for twenty (20) years but less than twenty-seven (27) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
Page 28 of 53
20.09	An employee who by April 30th has been continuously employed for twenty-seven (27) years but less than twenty-eight (28) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half (1/>) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-seven (27) years, not exceeding two and one-half (21/z) days for any six (6) month period.
20.10	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for twenty-eight (28) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) work weeks.
20.11	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to one (1) day for each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
20.12	Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount may be reduced by one-fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
(a)	with permission up to thirty (30) days annually;
(b)	due to sickness up to thirty (30) days annually; or such longer periods not exceeding six (6) months as an employee may be entitled to receive sick leave pay or sick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative;
(c)	up to one (1) year due to a compensable accident;
(d)	all shift premiums shall be included as regular wages for the purpose of vacation pay.
20.13	In no event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less than four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve months to April 30th.
20.14	Employees are expected to take their vacation in the year in which it is credited. However, arrangements may be made to carry over a portion of vacation credits on the same basis as all Co-op Atlantic Employees.
20.15	The parties agree to the following guidelines for taking vacations during the Calendar Year:
Page 29 of 53
(a)	Vacation schedules showing each employee’s vacation entitlement shall be posted by May 15th annually. An approved vacation schedule shall be posted by June 1st annually. The employee’s vacation period once confirmed by the employer and the employee shall not be changed unless by mutual agreement between the employer and the employee concerned.
(b)	Other than at the Feed Mill location, for the period of June 1st to September 15th, employees shall indicate their vacation preferences in order of seniority, for up to three (3) consecutive weeks. At the same time, employees may indicate their vacation preferences for any additional week(s) outside the period of June 1st to September 15th.
Once all employees have indicated their preference, those with vacation time remaining may, in order of seniority, select one (1) additional week. This cycle will continue until all available weeks are scheduled.
(c)	Beginning January 1, 2012, at the Feed Mill location employees shall indicate their vacation preferences in order of seniority for whatever number of weeks they are entitled. A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the employees at the Feed Mill location shall be entitled to be on vacation in any one week.
(d)	The number of employees on vacation from each shift in any one week during June 1st to September 15th shall be as follows:
Grocery Day Shift Grocery Evening Shift Grocery Night Shift Flex Shift Produce, all Henri Dunant, all
-	4 employees
-	4 employees
-	3 employees
-	2 employees
-	5 employees (max 3 from Day Shift)
-	3 employees
(e)	The number of employees on vacation from each shift in any one week, outside the dates June 1st to September 15th, shall be as follows:
Grocery Day Shift Grocery Evening Shift Grocery Night Shift Flex Shift Produce, all Henri Dunant, all
-	2 employees
-	2 employees
-	2 employees
-	2 employees
-	2 employees
-	3 employees
Page 30 of 53
(f)	It is understood that additional numbers of employees from each shift may also be allowed to be on vacation if operational requirements allow, but such shall be solely at the discretion of the Co-operative.
(g)	If an employee’s vacation is cancelled for any reason the weeks opened by the cancellation shall become available by seniority to the other employees.
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
21.01	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family (by marriage, adoption, or common law), within the following limits:
(a)	Spouse, parent, or child - five (5) working days;
(b)	Brother, sister, parent of spouse - three (3) working days;
(c)	Grandparent, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandchild - one (1) working day.
21.02	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the days of vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduled return from vacation he may be required to return on that date and use the remaining vacation credits at a later date.
21.03	(a) Where an employee attends the funeral of a relative specified above and such attendance required considerable travelling time, the employee is entitled to one-half (1/2) day of additional paid leave for each four (4) hours of travel time required to a maximum of two (2) days. Individual requests for more travel time will be considered on their merits by the Department Manager or his appointee.
(b) This additional leave will not be paid where it occurs during an employee's vacation.
21.04	Part-time employees shall be entitled to compassionate leave with pay (on a pro-rata basis) as set out above.
Compassionate leave pay for part-time shall be for those days the employee was scheduled to work, or would have been scheduled to work.
Page 31 of 53
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	(a) All full-time employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Co-op Atlantic Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Short Term Disability Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, the Group Health Care Plan, and the Group Dental Plan in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
(b) The Co-operative will discuss any contemplated changes in the Group Benefit plans with the Union before any implementation thereof.
22.02	(a)	1) All full-time employees shall be entitled to a maximum of forty (40) hours
sick leave with full regular pay in any one (1) benefit year, May 1st - April 30th. Any employee hired after May 1st will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
2) By the second pay period in May each employee will be paid one hundred percent (100%) of his regular daily rate for each hour of full pay sick leave to his credit at the end of the benefit year, or take equivalent time off for each hour of full pay sick leave to his credit. The selection of the time off shall be at a time mutually agreed to by the employee and the Co-operative. Time off cannot be taken during June, July, August, and between December 20th to January 6th.
(b)	All full-time employees of the bargaining unit shall be covered under the Short Term Disability Plan commencing with the eighth calendar day of disability providing they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer, an outline of which is attached as Appendix 2 (a) to this agreement.
(c)	A full-time employee who has used all of this full pay sick leave credits and subsequently is absent due to sickness will receive supplementary sick leave pay equal to two-thirds (%) of his regular pay for any such days. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five (5) consecutive work days.
(d)	It is agreed that the employee’s interest in any reduction of Employment Insurance contributions after January 1 st, 1973 that may result from the upgrading of the Co-operative's sick leave plans shall be waived in view of the increased benefits provided in this article and elsewhere in the agreement.
(e)	The Co-operative may require a medical certificate in support of a claim for sick leave after three (3) consecutive days of absence. The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
Page 32 of 53
(f)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker’s Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
22.03	(a) Where an employee is absent and receiving sick leave or disability benefits under this agreement or under Workers’ Compensation, his various benefits under group insurance plans will be kept in effect at no cost to him, except that the employee's normal full two (2) week share of the premiums will be taken from any pay cheque received by the employee after the sick leave commences.
(b)	The group benefits in question are: Group Life Insurance; Short Term and Long Term Disability; Blue Cross and Dental.
(c)	The level of Group Life Insurance will be based on the employee's salary at the date the leave began, but will vary upward or downward to reflect any changes in dependency status in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Plan.
(d)	During absence(s) of the employee as set out in (a) above, no contributions will be made to the Pension Plan but there will be no reduction in service for pension purposes as a result of such absence(s).
22.04	Miscellaneous
(a)	The Co-operative agrees to supply smocks to janitors and those employed in Receiver Returns/Damage at no cost to the employees.
(b)	Further the Co-operative agrees to make smocks available to those employed in produce for their use when needed.
(c)	The employer will provide a boot/clothing allowance of $160.00 per calendar year, upon presentation of receipts.
(d)	The Co-operative agrees that the $10.00 co-pay charge for prescription drugs will not be increased during the term of this agreement.
(e)	The Employer and the Union agree to share the costs 50/50 of printing the Collective Agreement in booklet form.
22.05	The Premiums for the Benefits as listed in the Agreement shall be cost shared at the rate of 66%% paid by the Co-Operative and 331/3% paid by the employee.
Page 33 of 53
22.06	The Co-Operative shall reimburse an employee the cost of obtaining any additional medical certificate when required for STD, LTD, or WCB, upon presentation of a receipt for same. The cost of obtaining the initial certificate for any reason as referred to above is at the employee’s expense.
ARTICLE 23 - EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
23.01	Except where provided in 22.03 above, where an employee misses time during the year (January 1 st to December 31 st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences if they total four (4) work weeks or more shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
23.02	(a) An employee on layoff may keep his coverage, under the Group Life, Blue Cross, and Dental Plans, in effect for up to twelve (12) months by paying the full premium one (1) month in advance (subject to agreement by the insurer). Should the employee return before the prepaid premium is used up, he will be refunded the unused portion and deductions will resume on the regular basis.
(b) The level of Group Insurance will be determined as in 22.03 (c).
23.03	An employee will not be eligible for sick leave while on layoff except that where he was receiving such benefits at time of layoff the claim will be handled as if no layoff had occurred.
23.04	(a) Coverage under the Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans ceases at time of layoff, except that where benefits were being received at time of layoff they will continue to be paid so long as the employee meets the conditions of disability as set out in the Plan(s).
(b)	An employee who returns from layoff to full-time work within twelve (12) months of layoff will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one (1) month of his return to work.
(c)	An employee who returns to full-time work after more than twelve (12) months layoff will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three (3) months service.
23.05	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of layoff.
Page 34 of 53
ARTICLE 24 -SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE - GENERAL: TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE: AND PLANT CLOSURE
24.01	(a) Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed five (5) consecutive years service or more, and the termination was not a dismissal for "cause" and was not the result of technological change or a plant closure or layoff of five (5) or more employees in a plant, the Co-operative will pay to the employee one and one-half (VA) week's pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
(b) An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his seniority rights expire.
24.02	(a) Where termination results from technological change, or a plant closure, or layoff of five (5) or more employees in a plant, the following severance allowances will be paid:
Two (2) weeks of severance for the first five (5) years of service, and two and one-half (2 Vi) weeks of severance for all years over five (5) years.
(b)	For the purpose of this Agreement the term "technological change" refers to changes in the plant or equipment or changes in process or method of operation that change significantly the working conditions or security of employment of a member or members of the bargaining unit or alter significantly the basis on which this agreement was negotiated.
(c)	The employer shall notify the Union four (4) months before the introduction of any technological change, plant closure, department closure, or layoff of five (5) or more employees. The Co-operative, during the four (4) month notice period from the date of it’s decision, will consider suggestions from the Union for actions alternative to the Cooperative’s decision.
(d)	Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by the affected employee(s) under the present methods of operation, such employee(s) shall, at the expense of the employer, be given a reasonable period of time to acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation.
(e)	The Employer shall, if dictated by the change, reassign affected individuals to an appropriate classification within the attached appendices in accordance with the collective agreement.
Page 35 of 53
24.03	An employee who, at time of layoff, is within five (5) years of becoming eligible for early retirement under the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan, may take the severance pay at any time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority, and in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retiremeht, subject to the terms and conditions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
24.04	It is understood that the severance allowances under 24.01 and 24.02 will not be paid when the employee:
(a)	resigns voluntarily;
(b)	is dismissed for just cause and this is not reversed through grievance procedure;
(c)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in the Co-op Atlantic Employee Pension Plan;
(d)	having less than twenty (20) years service, is offered other employment within Co-op Atlantic which is suitable to his qualifications; experience; length of time to retirement; etc; or
(e)	having twenty (20) years service or more is offered other employment within Coop Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable to his qualifications; experience; length of time to retirement; etc.
24.05	(a) It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this article, such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee, his beneficiary, or estate, as the case may be.
(b) The date of payment shall be as requested by the employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve (12) months after the employee's last day of employment with the Co-operative.
24.06	For the purposes of this article “Plant” shall include Feed Mill and Distribution Centres.
Page 36 of 53
24.07	It is understood and agreed that should an employee be placed in alternative employment for any reason as set out in this Article, and subsequently is terminated or laid off due to their inability to perform their new job functions, such employee shall be entitled to bump, under the conditions set out in this Collective Agreement, any employee junior to him whose work he can do in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization or trial and training period of up to thirty (30) calendar days, and should this option not be available, such employee shall be entitled to the appropriate severance as set out above.
ARTICLE 25 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS
25.01	All production standards will be set recognizing that a safe and healthy workplace is paramount. Standards shall be set, monitored, and applied, in a uniform, fair, and reasonable manner. If production standards are used as any form of measure, the Union shall have access to all relevant documentation and information.
ARTICLE 26 - BULLETIN BOARDS
26.01	The Co-operative agrees to provide a suitable notice board at the Feed Plant, the Price Street Distribution Centre (one for Grocery and one for Produce), and the Henri Dunant Distribution Centre for the exclusive use of the Union in posting notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
26.02	The Co-operative agrees to post, in a visible location, the part-time schedule/hours in accordance with Article 16.05.
ARTICLE 27 - CORRESPONDENCE
27.01	Except where otherwise provided, official communications in the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed to: UFCW Canada, Local 1288P, 281B Collishaw St., Moncton, NB, E1C 9R1.
ARTICLE 28 - JURY DUTY
28.01	Any employee who is summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or one who has been served with a subpoena to appear as Crown witness, shall be paid the difference between what he would have earned for his scheduled hours at his paid rate and the court fee received. The Co-operative will require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment. The employee will come to work during those regular hours that he is not required to attend the court.
Page 37 of 53
ARTICLE 29 - HEALTH AND SAFETY
29.01	The Co-operative shall continue to make provision for the safety and health of its employees. It is agreed that both the Co-operative and Union shall co-operate to the fullest extent possible in the prevention of accidents and in the promotion of safety and health of all employees.
29.02	The Co-operative agrees to the establishment of a Joint Health and Safety Committee comprised of equal representation of the Union and the Co-operative. The Joint Committee will be co-chaired. Minutes of the meetings will be kept and copies distributed to all committee members. Both Chairpersons will sign the minutes unless there is a dispute over the contents, in which case the dissenting Committee Member will indicate in writing the source of disagreement. The minutes will be amended to reflect the dissent or the amendment.
29.03	The Co-operative and the Committee shall conduct such investigation as may be necessary to determine the circumstances surrounding work injuries and health hazards arising in the workplace.
29.04	The Union shall be provided with the injury reports, safety data information, and related safety issues, as well as any investigation reports by the Co-operative or Occupation Health & Safety.
29.05	The Co-operative shall ensure that the position of Janitor is filled for both the Day Shift and either the Evening Shift or Night Shift.
ARTICLE 30 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
30.01	This agreement shall remain in effect from the 1st day of October, 2010 to the 30th day of September, 2013 and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this agreement, or to negotiate a new one.
30.02	If at the date of expiration a new agreement has not been signed, the present agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by law of the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
Page 38 of 53
THIS AGREEMENT signed this 16th day of December, 2011 between the parties hereinbefore mentioned.
On behalf of: CO-OP ATLANTIC
On behalf of:
UFCW Local 1288P

Page 39 of 53
APPENDIX 1 (a)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON FEED PLANT
JOB TITLES	EFF. DATE	START	3 MOS	6 MOS	12 MOS
GRADE I	01/0ct/2010	$15.15	$15.75	$16.35	$17.55
Millhands	01/Oct/2011	$15.70	$16.30	$16.90	$18.10
	01/0ct/2012	$16.25	$15.85	$17.45	$18.65
GRADE II	01/0ct/2010	$15.35	$15.95	$16.55	$17.75
Fork-lift Operator	01/Oct/2011	$15.90	$16.50	$17.10	$18.30
	01/0ct/2012	$16.45	$17.05	$17.65	$18.85
GRADE III	01/0ct/2010	$15.55	$16.15	$16.75	$17.95
Grain Processor / Bin Charger / Mixer	01/Oct/2011	$16.10	$16.70	$17.30	$18.50
Helper / Control Room Operator(Mixer) / 01/0ct/2012 $16.65 Pellet Mill Operator / Packer Sewer / Shipper Receiver / Utility Man / Bulk			$17.25 Unloader	$17.85	$19.05
GRADE IV	01/0ct/2010	$15.75	$16.35	$16.95	$18.15
Quality Controller	01/Oct/2011	$16.30	$16.90	$17.50	$18.70
	01/0ct/2012	$16.85	$17.45	$18.05	$19.25
Employees assigned as Production Co-ordinator shall receive a $1.00 per hour premium.
Page 40 of 53
APPENDIX 1 fb)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
JOB TITLES	EFF. DATE	START	3 MOS.	6 MOS.	12 MOS
JANITOR	01/0ct/2010	$15.15	$15.75	$16.35	$17.55
	01/Oct/2011	$15.70	$16.30	$16.90	$18.10
	01/0ct/2012	$16.25	$16.85	$17.45	$18.65
WAREHOUSEMAN I	01/0ct/2010	$15.35	$15.95	$16.55	$17.75
General Warehouse Duties	01/0ct/2011	$15.90	$16.50	$17.10	$18.30
	01/0ct/2012	$16.45	$17.05	$17.65	$18.85
WAREHOUSEMAN II	01/0ct/2010	$15.55	$16.15	$16.75	$17.95
Fork-lift Operator /	01/Oct/2011	$16.10	$16.70	$17.30	$18.50
Man Aboard Operator	01/0ct/2012	$16.65	$17.25	$17.85	$19.05
WAREHOUSEMAN III	01/0ct/2010	$15.75	$16.35	$16.95	$18.15
Loaders / Loader-Produce / Loader-Marry /	01/Oct/2011	$16.30	$16.90	$17.50	$18.70
Shippers / Receivers / Receiver Returns (Henri Dunant) / Receiver Returns-Damage	01/0ct/2012 (Price Street) /	$16.85	$17.45	$18.05	$19.25
Quality Control / Inventory Handler / Receiver Repack Grocery / Hardware Repack
TRUCK DRIVER	01/0ct/2010	$15.66	$16.26	$16.86	$18.06
	01/Oct/2011	$16.21	$16.81	$17.41	$18.61
	01/0ct/2012	$16.76	$17.36	$17.96	$19.16
TRACTOR DRIVER	01/0ct/2010	$15.81	$16.41	$17.01	$18.21
	01/Oct/2011	$16.36	$16.96	$17.56	$18.76
	01/0ct/2012	$16.91	$17.51	$18.11	$19.31
NOTE:	BOOKER-RECEIVER (Grocery) - .20£ per hour premium will be paid to the employee doing
this job.
Page 41 of 53
APPENDIX 2 (a)
INCOME GUARANTEE (SHORT TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment of loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accident that prevents the employee from performing his normal duties.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.) WAITING PERIOD
No benefits are paid for the first seven (7) calendar days of any disability. DURATION OF COVERAGE
Maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks (12 months) for any one (1) disability. Should an employee return to work and go out again within thirty (30) days because of the same illness or accident, it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
EXCLUSIONS
1)	Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot; 5) disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation; 6) benefits will also be reduced by the amount received by the employee from the Canada Pension Plan, or under other similar legislation due to the same disability.
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE	«
(a)	on termination of employment or layoff;
(b)	on employee's 70th birthday.
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
Page 42 of 53
APPENDIX 2 (b)
INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment for loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accident. BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.) WAITING PERIOD
Benefits commence after fifty-two (52) weeks (12 months) absence due to disability. DURATION OF COVERAGE
Benefits continue for seventy-eight (78) weeks (18 months) if the employee is totally disabled and unable to perform his normal duties. If disability continues, benefits are paid until the employee reaches age sixty-five (65), provided he is totally disabled and prevented from engaging in any gainful occupation for which he is qualified or may reasonably become qualified. Should an employee return to work and go out again within six (6) months because of the same illness or accident it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
(a)	1) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot.
(b)	Benefits under this Plan will be reduced by the amount the insured person receives from: 1) Worker's Compensation; 2) basic disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan; 3) sick leave or other remuneration received from the employer; 4) payments under any other loss-of-earnings insurance after seventy-eight (78) weeks (18 months).
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
(a)	on termination of employment or layoff;
(b)	on employee's 65th birthday.
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
Page 43 of 53
APPENDIX 3 - RE: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For purposes of Articles 6 and 7 of the Agreement, the "appropriate management person" will be:
Feed Plant:
1)	Production Supervisor
2)	Feed Operations Manager
3)	Vice President Agriculture
Price Street Distribution Centre:
1)	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2)	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3)	Distribution Manager
4)	Vice President Distribution
Henri Dunant Distribution Centre:
1)	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2)	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3)	Distribution Manager
4)	Vice President Distribution
Page 44 of 53
APPENDIX 4
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER:
1)	In cases of severe bad weather (e.g. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time, or at all, Co-Op Atlantic's policy is to pay only for time worked.
2)	(a) However, a "grace period" of two (2) hours will be allowed so that employees who arrive at work within two (2) hours of their normal starting time will suffer no loss in pay.
(b)	The "grace period" will only apply where the General Manager, in the case of Moncton operations, or the management person in charge at a location outside Moncton, rules that the storm did, in fact, constitute "severe bad weather".
(c)	Such ruling will be made by the end of the first day after returning to normal operations and the manager making the ruling will be guided by the degree of absenteeism in the Co-Op Atlantic operation(s) during the storm and the observed severity of the storm.
3)	(a) None of the foregoing will apply where an employee was notified, at least one-half (Vi) hour before his/her normal starting time, not to come to work.
(b)	Such notification may be by way of a general announcement over the local radio station, or by a telephone call, or personal visit to the employee's place of residence.
(c)	It will be the responsibility of each employee, in times of stormy weather, to monitor the appropriate radio broadcasts and to see that he/she or some other adult is available to receive a message at his/her place of residence.
4)	Failing such notice any employee who shows up for work will be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours (including any "grace period") whether or not there is work available.
5)	(a) Where weather conditions deteriorate after commencement of the work day (or shift) and management decides to shut down the operation, employees then at work will be paid to normal quitting time or two (2) hours beyond actual punching out time, whichever is less.
(b) However, no employee shall receive more than two (2) hours pay for time not worked in any one (1) day except as necessary to meet the minimum reporting pay requirements.
Page 45 of 53
6)	(a) Any employee who requests permission to leave early in the face of deteriorating weather conditions shall not be unreasonably denied such permission.
(b) However, he/she shall be paid only for time worked unless the operation is subsequently shut down, in which case he/she will be entitled to the same "grace period" as any other employee in that section receives for that day.
7)	Any "grace period" allowed under this policy shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime pay in any day or week.
Page 46 of 53
APPENDIX 5
Grocery Hours:
Overtime after ten (10) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
The first two (2) consecutive days off will be considered their Saturday -Sunday as per the Collective Agreement.
Hours:
SUNDAY	5:00 A.M.-3:30 P.M.
MONDAY	5:00 A.M. - 3:30 P.M.
WEDNESDAY	5:00 A.M. -3:30 P.M.
THURSDAY	5:00 A.M.-3:30 P.M.
The implementation and operation of these shifts will not affect any current member of the Bargaining Unit. This means that no present employee will be transferred to the above noted shifts against the employees will.
Management and the Union agree to strike a committee to study work scheduling that may be able to meet both the employer's and employee's needs.
Page 47 of 53
APPENDIX 6
PRODUCE HOURS
The work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours made up of three x twelve-hour (3x12 hr.) days to be paid at the forty-hour (40 hr. rate, i.e., hours worked will be paid at 40/36 x the regular rate for the job in Appendix 1 (b)).
Each employee will have two (2) consecutive days off. The first day of rest shall be equivalent to Saturday and the second equivalent to Sunday for the purpose of this agreement.
Overtime pay shall be VA times the regular rate.
A day of vacation or sick leave will be paid as twelve (12) hours at the regular rate.
With regard to statutory holidays set out in 19.01 (a), above, an employee on this shift will receive either the holiday off with pay or an alternate work-day off with pay in the week preceding or following the holiday. The employee will be advised two (2) weeks in advance of the holiday or the alternate (whichever comes first) of when the holiday will be observed.
The days and hours of work for this shift and the proportion of employees on the shift working the various days are as follows:
Dav	% Workina	Hours of Work
Sunday	50 %	7:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m
Tuesday	100%	7:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m
Thursday	100 %	7:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m
Saturday	50 %	7:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m
Except as provided in the new clause 18.01(f), no present employee will be transferred to this shift against the employee's will.
Page 48 of 53
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 1
Between:
CO-OP ATLANTIC, Moncton, N. B.
- and -
UFCW Canada, LOCAL 1288P
Re: Feed Plant - Service of Front Door Customers after 4:00 p.m.
With the introduction of the new schedule of hours in the Feed Plant, it is understood that “Front Door” customer service will be carried out by the “Evening Shift” staff after 4:00 p.m..
Individuals from the “Evening Shift” will be assigned by the Production Coordinator, or his temporary replacement, as required to satisfactorily carry out any such necessary customer service.
Signed this 16th day of December, 2011.
On behalf of:
UFCW Local 1288P
Page 49 of 53
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 2
Between:
CO-OP ATLANTIC, Moncton, N. B.
- and -
UFCW Canada, LOCAL 1288P
RE: PART TIME SUMMER SCHEDULES - DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
Notwithstanding any provisions in the Collective Agreement, the parties agree that:
1)	During the period June 15th to September 15th, there will be no restriction on the number of Part Time employees used.
2)	In addition to the PROVISION IN #1 above, during the period from April 15th through October 15th, the Employer may use up to three (3) Part Time employees to replace temporary transfers from Price St. Distribution to Henri Dunant Distribution.
Signed this 16th day of December, 2011.
On behalf of:
UFCW Local 1288P
Page 50 of 53
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 3
Between:
CO-OP ATLANTIC, Moncton, N. B.
- and -
UFCW Canada, LOCAL 1288P RE: ARTICLE 13.03 - DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
The parties understand and agree that employees may be requested to replace a foreman or other supervisory employee temporarily and in such case they shall receive $1.00 per hour additional pay for the duration of such transfer.
“Temporarily” shall mean a period of from one (1) to sixteen (16) hours and shall only be used when the employer has no other option readily available.
Signed this 16th day of December, 2011.
On behalf of:
UFCW Local 1288P
Page 51 of 53
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 4
Between:
CO-OP ATLANTIC, Moncton, N. B.
- and -
UFCW Canada, LOCAL 1288P
Regarding: WORK SCHEDULES
___________(PRICE STREET & HENRI-DUNANT DISTRIBUTION CENTRES)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Collective Agreement which may be to the contrary, the Days of Work and Hours of Work, as set out in the Collective Agreement shall not be amended or changed without the agreement of the “Union Work Schedule Committee” which shall consist of Dave Dunston, Mark McLeod, Trevor Ryan, and Sean Lynds (any of whom may be replaced by the Union).
In the event the Co-operative or the Union wishes to make any change to the Days of Work and Hours of Work, as set out in the Collective Agreement, a meeting shall be called of the Work Schedule Committee and any agreed change shall be signed by a Union representative of the Committee and a Co-Operative representative of the Committee. It is agreed by the Co-operative and the Union that the committee’s decision will be based on customer service improvement and/or cost control.
The New Days of Work and/or Hours of Work shall then replace the previous and any future changes the parties agree to shall follow the same procedure.
Signed this 16th day of December, 2011.
On behalf of:
UFCW Local 1288P
LETTER OF AGREEMENT # 5
Between:
CO-OP ATLANTIC, Moncton, N. B. - and -
UFCW Canada, LOCAL 1288P
Regarding: RECOGNITION
Co-Op Atlantic agrees and confirms that if the business being conducted at the Price Street Distribution Centre, the Henri Dunant Distribution Centre, or the Halifax Street Feed Mill is relocated by Co-Op Atlantic to another location in New Brunswick, Co-Op Atlantic will recognize UFCW, Local 1288P as the bargaining agent for the employees at the new location.
Signed this 16th day of December, 2011.
On behalf of:
UFCW Local 1288P
Page 53 of 53