AGREEMENT
between
LOCAL 864 - UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC TRURO FEED PLANT
349 WILLOW STREET, TRURO, NOVA SCOTIA
(hereinafter called the Co-operative)
FEBRUARY 1,2010 - JANUARY 31,2013
00480 ( 12 )
-1-
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE.....................................2
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION.................................2
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY..............................2
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...........................3
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.........................4
ARTICLE 6 - DISCIPLINE..................................6
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION.................................7
ARTICLE 8 - NON INTERRUPTION OF WORK....................8
ARTICLE 9 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD.........................8
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY..................................8
ARTICLE 11 - LOSS OF SENIORITY..........................9
ARTICLE 12 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS........................9
ARTICLE 13 - PERMANENT TRANSFERS, PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS. ETC...10
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE..........................13
ARTICLE 15 - WORK OF THE BARGAINING UNIT...............14
ARTICLE 16 - UNION REPRESENTATION......................14
ARTICLE 17 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME................15
ARTICLE 18 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS........................18
ARTICLE 19 - PAID VACATIONS............................19
ARTICLE 20 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE.......................21
ARTICLE 21 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.........................22
ARTICLE 22 - EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.....23
ARTICLE 23 - BULLETIN BOARDS...........................25
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY AND HEALTH.........................25
ARTICLE 25 - DISCRIMINATION............................25
ARTICLE 26 - CORRESPONDENCE............................25
ARTICLE 27 - MISCELLANEOUS.............................25
ARTICLE 28 - TERM OF AGREEMENT.........................26
ARTICLE 29 - AMENDMENTS................................27
APPENDIX 1 (A) - DUES CHECK OFF AUTHORIZATION..........28
APPENDIX 1 (B) - DUES CHECK OFF AUTHORIZATION..........29
APPENDIX n - SCHEDULE OF GRADES AND WAGE RATES.........30
JOB VACANCY FORM ( WHILE ON VACATION ).................31
RE: PERSONAL DAYS......................................32
LETTER OF AGREEMENT....................................33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - TRAINING.....................34
LETTER OF INTENT TO GROW THE BUSINESS..................36
- 2 -
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The puipose of this Agreement is to provide collective bargaining relations between the Union and the Co-operative to ensure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to ensure fair wages, hours and other working conditions and, thereby, to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative.
1.02	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the exclusive and sole bargaining agent for all its employees at the Truro Mill except those excluded by the certification order dated August 18, 1977.
2.02	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform their respective duties for the Co-operative faithfully and diligently, and to carry out at all times their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods and procedures established by Management, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
The Union also recognizes that as the Co-operative owes its very existence to members' support of Co operatives. The Union agrees to encourage its members to support their local Co-operatives and Co-op products.
ARTICLE III - UNION SECURITY
3.01	Maintenance of Membership
The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any -	employee who at the date of signing of this Agreement is a member of the
Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain membership in the Union during the term of this Agreement. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly dues.
3.02	No Discrimination or Penalty
No discrimination will be exercised in the employment, retention, or working
- 3-
conditions of an employee because of his membership in the union, or for accepting positions for serving on a committee or representing the employees covered by this agreement.
3.03	Check-Off
a)	With regard to employees in the bargaining unit, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) (attached) deduct the initiation fee (if applicable) and regular monthly Union dues.
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this Agreement, it shall be a condition of employment that such employee within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hiring, shall give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) attached, written authorization to deduct the initiation fee, if applicable, and regularly monthly Union dues for the duration of the Agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to forward the total amount of deductions made under (a) and (b) above to the designated official of the local Union on or before the 10th day of the month following that in which deductions were made. The co-operative also agrees to forward to the union the current name, address and phone numbers of all employees four times per year.
d)	Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and bylaws of the Union will be deducted from the members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
e)	The Co-operative agrees to pay $275.00 per annum into the Union’s
education fund for the purpose of providing paid education leave for it’s members. Such monies to be paid in January of each year commencing January,2008.
3.04	A copy of the current Agreement will be made available by the Co-operative to all members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this Agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency
- 4 -
b)	hire, layoff, suspend, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual employees
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
4.02	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE V - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of any specific article or section of this Agreement.
5.02	In order to provide an orderly procedure for the servicing of grievances, the Union will elect a Chief Steward and a Grievance Committee whose duty it shall be to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the designated representative of the Co-operative in accordance with the grievance procedure and the Union will notify the Co-operative's management of the names and positions of the Union's elected officials and committee members.
5.03	It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee have their regular work to perform as employees. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without obtaining their supervisor's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
5.04	In order that a loss in production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible, and on this understanding, the Co-operative agrees that the Chief Steward or Grievance Committee member shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
5.05	Should a grievance arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under the Agreement, there shall be no strike, slowdown, work stoppage, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lockouts by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
- 5 -
5.06	In the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this Agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee shall present such grievance in writing directly to the Mill Operations Manager at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
5.07	It is agreed that at the request of the Co-operative, the Union Grievance Committee will meet with Management representatives to discuss any complaints or grievances that Management may have.
5.08	The time periods as stated in this Article, are exclusive of weekends and holidays. They may be reasonably extended by mutual agreement between the parties hereto.
5.09	A grievance affecting an individual employee to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within five (5) working days of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, and it shall be handled in the following manner:
Step 1
The employee shall be accompanied by the Chief Steward or in his absence another member of the Grievance Committee unless he requests the Steward not to be present, shall discuss his grievance with his supervisor.
The supervisor shall give his decision orally to the employee or to the Grievance Committee member involved within thirty six (36) hours after presentation of the grievance.
Any grievance which cannot be resolved at Step 1, above, shall be referred to the Chief Steward, or in his absence, a member of the Grievance Committee and committed to writing for resolution at the next step.
Step 2
If the grievance is not resolved in Step 1, the Chief Steward, or in his absence, another member of the Grievance Committee, shall within forty eight (48) hours of receipt of the decision in Step 1, submit to the Mill Operations Manager a signed written "Grievance Report" form.
Upon receipt of the written grievance, the Mill Operations Manager, or his designated representative, shall within forty eight (48) hours, meet with the
- 6-
Chief Steward or Grievance Committee member involved in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The representative of the Co-operative shall give the Chief Steward or his alternate an answer in writing no later than forty eight (48) hours after such meeting.
Step 3
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the V.P. Agriculture within five (5) working days of receipt of the decision at Step 2.
The V.P. Agriculture or his appointee within five (5) days of having received the grievance shall either:
a)	submit his decision in writing to the Union; or
b)	arrange a meeting with the Union to attempt to resolve the grievance. Such a meeting would consist of the V.P. Agriculture or his appointee and the Mill Operations Manager and such other representatives of Management named by the Mill Operations Manager, on the one hand; and the aggrieved employee, the Union Steward, and the Business Agent of the Union who may be accompanied by the International Representative of the Union, on the other hand. The Co-operative, shall within five (5) days after such meeting, submit its decision in writing to the Union.
Step 4
If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at Step 3, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration as outlined in Article VII of this Agreement.
If either party has not initiated the arbitration procedure within thirty (30) calendar days following receipt of the decision at Step 3, the grievance will be deemed to have been resolved or withdrawn. Any grievance unresolved at the time of signing of this Agreement, shall be subject to the above time limits.
ARTICLE VI - DISCIPLINE
6.01	The Co-operative favours "Corrective discipline" over "Punitive discipline". Unless there is just and sufficient cause for immediate dismissal, the Co-operative shall follow a procedure of progressive discipline, gearing the penalty to the seriousness of the violation, imposing appropriate discipline from a verbal warning to a termination of employment.
6.02	A written warning, or other discipline, for a similar or related offence shall not
- 7 -
be considered in a subsequent disciplinary action if a period of twelve (12) months or more has expired without a violation or infraction being committed that warrants a written warning or stronger disciplinary action.
6.03	When an employee is to be called into the office for disciplinary action he shall be advised in advance and may request the presence of the Chief Steward or, in his absence, an alternate. When the employee requests the presence of the steward, no discipline meeting will be held until a steward is available.
6.04	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Mill Operations Manager within five (5) working days of the discharge.
6.05	There shall be only (1) employee personnel file for disciplinary action, and the employee shall have access to review this file, provided reasonable notice is given, and management is present. This right will not be exercised more often than every three (3) months unless circumstances dictate otherwise. Upon written request, employees shall be provided with a complete copy of their file.
6.06	If an employee is given a verbal warning and it is noted in his personal file such file reference will state that it was a verbal warning.
6.07	Employees will not be disciplined for tardiness because of conditions beyond their control, however, habitual tardiness will not be tolerated and will be subject to disciplinary action.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party requests that any grievance be submitted to arbitration as hereinbefore provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party in this Agreement. Such request shall include up to three (3) nominees to act as arbitrator. The party receiving such notice shall within three (3) full working days also submit up to three (3) nominees.
Both parties shall within five (5) full working days get together to agree on one of the nominees to act as arbitrator. If they are unable to agree on an arbitrator, they shall ask the Minister of Labour for Canada to appoint one. The arbitrator shall be chosen having regard to his qualifications and his familiarity with industrial relations.
7.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
- 8 -
7.03	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7.04	The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on the parties of this Agreement.
7.05	Expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne jointly by the parties hereto.
ARTICLE VIII - NON INTERRUPTION OF WORK
8.01	a) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction its members
to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in), any sit downs or slow down or any strike or stoppage of operations, or any curtailment of work or restrictions of or interference with production, or any picketing of the Co-operative premises, during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this Agreement.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of this Agreement.
8.02	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the Agreement.
ARTICLE IX - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
9.01	a) New employees will be considered as probationary employees for the first
one hundred and eighty calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employees shall not be the subject of a grievance. At die completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be back dated one hundred and eighty (180)days.
b)	Continuous full time employment in a temporary position will be recognized for vacation and seniority purposes, once the one hundred and eighty (180) days probationary period is completed. For all other purposes, the employee's date of hire shall be the date he went on probation.
ARTICLE X - SENIORITY
10.01	Seniority shall mean accumulated service with the Bargaining Unit. All time worked prior to the signing of this Agreement shall be included when
- 9-
computing an employee's seniority, provided that his seniority begins from the time of starting his last uninterrupted employment. An interruption in employment shall not be interpreted to mean an absence from work because of lay off, sickness, accident or with permission of the Co-operative.
10.02	A seniority list showing each employee's status shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board within thirty (30) days after the signing of this Agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure within one week following the date of posting.
10.03	An updated seniority list will be made available to the Union Steward at reasonable intervals during the contract, at least once every three (3) months. A copy shall be sent to the Union office.
ARTICLE XI - LOSS OF SENIORITY
11.01	An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if:
a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance Procedure;
c)	he is laid off for a period equal to his length of service to a maximum of 24 months.
d)	while on layoff he fails to report for work within five (5) consecutive days of being so notified by the employer (see 1306 (a), below). The employer may grant an extension of this time limit in special cases.
e)	Notwithstanding 11.01 (c), an employee's recall right shall not be cancelled due to lay-off resulting from the destruction and rebuilding of the feed mill.
ARTICLE XII - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
12.01	An employee temporarily assigned to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of one (1) or more continuous working days shall have his pay increased for the total duration of such assignments, to the first step in
- 10 -
the higher range that will give him an increase. This provision will only have effect where the employee replaces an employee of a higher rate.
12.02	Employees on temporary assignments as in 1201 above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former rate.
12.03	a) A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period.
b)	Once it becomes obvious that a temporary vacancy will extend beyond two months, the vacancy will be posted and filled under Article XIII.
c)	An employee on sick leave, disability benefits or Workers Compensation will have his or her employment protected for two (2) years.
d)	An employee returning from sick leave of two (2) years or less will return to his previous job at the same step in the range as he had on going out and the employee filling the job in his absence will return to his former job and so forth with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
e)	An employee returning from sick leave of more than two years may exercise his seniority to bump the employee with least seniority and subsequently exercise his rights under Article XIII to bid for any vacancy that may arise.
ARTICLE XIII - PERMANENT TRANSFERS. PROMOTIONS. LAY-OFFS. ETC.
13.01	a) In the event of layoffs within the bargaining unit, retention shall be on the basis of seniority, providing the senior employee has the ability to perform the work required.
b)	In the event of promotions, transfers, and filling of vacancies within the bargaining unit, preference shall be given on the basis of seniority, where ability, skill and competence to perform the work required are substantially equal.
c)	Where promotions or lay offs (subject to Clause 1306) are made on other than the basis of seniority the Co-operative will advise the Union of the decision and reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
13.02	a) Where a permanent job becomes vacant or a new permanent job is created,
it will be posted. The first posting of such job shall be for three (3)
-11 -
working days, excluding weekends and holidays, before the vacancy is permanently filled. All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for one (1) working day, excluding weekends and holidays before they are permanently filled.
b)	Where an employee applies for a posted job in the same grade as he presently occupies or a lower grade, Management may decline the application if the transfer would interfere with the efficiency of the operation. Where the company declines the application the company will provide reasons for the decline in writing.
c)	A copy of all job postings will be given to the steward and the union, and also the name in writing of all successful candidates. Where promotions or permanent transfers are made on other than the basis of seniority, the co-operative will advice the Union, in writing, of the decision and the reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
13.03	Applications from members of the Bargaining Unit for posted vacancies in the Bargaining Unit will be made in writing and in duplicate to the Production Supervisor or Trucking Supervisor as applicable. A copy will be forwarded to the Chief Steward.
13.04	Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during his absence must advise the Plant Manager, in writing, leaving the phone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable effort to contact such employee.
13.05	If the successful applicant for a job proves to be unsatisfactory as determined by Management, or chooses himself to return to his former position, within the first sixty (60) days on the job, he shall return to his former job.
Reposting of the job is not necessary and a replacement will be selected from the balance of the applicants with preference given to seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work required are substantially equal. If none of the balance of the applicants so meet the job requirements then Management will select whomsoever it may consider satisfactory for the job, and who is willing to accept it.
13.06	a) Employees laid off shall be recalled as required in the reverse order that
they have been laid off provided they have the required skill, competence and ability to do the work available. Sufficient notice will have been
- 12 -
given when the employer contacts by telephone, telegram or registered letter, the last address given to the employer in writing by the employee.
b)	The Co-operative will give two (2) weeks notice excluding weekends and holidays of lay off due to shortage of work, when reasonably foreseeable.
13.07	Upon promotion to a higher grade, employees will go to the next step in the new grade which will provide an increase. Subsequent salary increases will follow the normal time progressions outlined in the salary schedule, providing work performance is satisfactory. Permanent status in the new position will be # granted after sixty (60) days.
13.08	Upon promotion to a supervisory or management job a bargaining unit employee may, within the six months probationary period, return to his former position with no loss of seniority.
If permanent status is granted after the six (6) months probationary period the employee shall lose that seniority that he had at the date of promotion.
13.09	Contracting Out
The Co-operative agrees that no bargaining unit employee shall be laid off or terminated as a result of the employer contracting out any of its work or services. The co-operative will make every attempt to find a mutually agreeable position for the affected individuals within the co-ops employ.
Should this not be successful the affected individuals shall be subject to severance pay as per Article 1310.
13.10	Severance Pay
Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed twelve consecutive months’service or more and the termination was not a dismissal for cause, the co-operative will pay to the employee two(2) weeks pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maximum of thirty five weeks (35).
An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his seniority rights expire.
An employee aged fifty-five (55) or older who is laid off may take severance pay at any time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority and in so doing, forfeits
- 13 -
further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement, subject to the terms and conditions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that severance allowance will be paid where termination results from technological change, automation, reorganization or other reason beyond the control of the employee.
Likewise, it is understood that the severance allowance will not be paid when an employee:
a)	resigns voluntarily
b)	is laid off prior to age 55 and has seniority rights
c)	is dismissed for just cause and this is not reversed through the grievance procedure
d)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
e)	prior to age 55 is offered other employment within Co-op Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable in relation to his qualifications, experience, age, etc.
It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this Article, such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee, his beneficiary or estate as the case shall be.
The date of payment shall be as requested by the employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve (12) months after the employee's last day of employment with the Co-operative.
13.11	Technological Change
For the purposes of this Agreement the term Technological Change shall be understood to mean changes introduced by Co-op Atlantic in the manner in which it carries out its daily operations and service where such change or changes result in displacement of an employee or employees.
The Co-operative shall notify the Union four(4) months before the introduction of any technological change.
ARTICLE XIV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for Union leave or for good and sufficient reason. Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid off. Seniority will
- 14 -
be accumulated during such authorized absence.
14.02	Any leave of absence granted under Clause 1401 shall be in writing, and not
exceeding two (2) weeks in any one year, except by mutual agreement, and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights. In case of a union leave of absence for one(l) employee the company will consider such request for longer leaves. Such approval from the company shall not be unreasonably denied. In the case of military or other special courses, these will be given consideration as they arise.	.
14.03	The Co-operative will allow up to two (2) members elected by the Union to attend meetings for negotiations of the Collective Agreement. Two (2) days of such leave (max. 8 hours per day per employee) will be paid by the cooperative. The union negotiating team will be paid up to a maximum of four(4) days, eight (8) hours per day, or ten(10) hours per day, which ever the employee works at the regular rate of pay including all premiums if applicable for the time spent negotiating.
14.04	Employees will be entitled to child care/parental leave as per the Canada Labour Code and it is understood that the employee may commence such leave at any time provided that the required notice is given and the period of leave is completed within 12 months of the date that the child comes into the care of either parent.
ARTICLE XV - WORK OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
15.01	The foreman will not perform bargaining unit work beyond the present practice to an extent that will cause the layoff of a bargaining unit employee.
15.02	A foreman or other supervisory employee will not repeatedly and continuously perform any work of a bargaining unit employee, where it would result in the reduction of the employee’s normal hours of work or overtime opportunities or a lay-off..
ARTICLE XVI - UNION REPRESENTATION
16.01	a) Special meetings between Management and the Union will be held where deemed necessary by both parties. The request for such a meeting will be made to the other party along with an agenda and a suggested time and place for the meeting. The party receiving the request shall indicate to the other within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays, whether or not it agrees to such a meeting. Any meeting agreed to will be held within five (5) days of giving such reply, excluding weekends and holidays.
-15-
b) At any such meetings the Union will be represented by not more than three employees plus the Business Agent and/or International Representative. Management may be represented by an equal number. These limits may be exceeded by mutual consent.
16.02	Employees shall not suffer any loss of regular pay while attending such meetings during working hours.
16.03	It is agreed that when the Business Agent wishes to enter the plant to discuss union business with members of the bargaining unit, he will obtain prior permission from Management. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE XVII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
17.01	The regular work week for production and maintenance staff shall be forty (40) hours and shall be worked in five (5) consecutive days, Monday to Friday.
a)	The regular work day shall be eight (8) hours.
b)	All employees in grade II and maintenance mechanic classifications will be paid a thirty (30) minute lunch period and will be on the premises and on call dining that time.
c)	If an employee reports for a scheduled shift and the shift is cancelled, the employee will be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular rate.
d)	Employees must arrive, dressed for work, at their job site prior to the start of their shift.
(e)	Employees who must fill in for a 10 hour shift will have the option of working regular hours instead of the extended hours.
(f)	Employees shall be permitted to bank overtime and shall notify the company prior to the overtime being worked of the intention to bank. An employee shall schedule his banked day or days off by mutual agreement with the company. Employees may take time off, with mutual agreement or cash out a portion or all of the bank at any time at the rate of pay at which it was earned. An employee shall not be permitted to accrue a bank of more than equivalent of eighty (80) straight time hours. Requests for payout of banked time will be paid on the pay period subsequent to the pay period in which the requests
-16-
are made.
17.02	The Co-operative shall provide the Union with a schedule setting forth the regular daily hours of work for every employee indicating normal starting and quitting time for each.
17.03	a) The daily hours scheduled may be altered from time to time as required for
the operation and improvement of the Co-operative's business. The Co-operative agrees, however, that, except by mutual consent, no individual employee's schedule shall be changed without twenty four (24) hours, (one day's) notice nor any group's schedule, without three (3) days notice. The Union will be advised beforehand of changes to be made in the group's schedule, or when feasible, in an individual's schedule.
Alternative schedules, considered to be more in keeping with the wishes of the employees, may be submitted by the Union. Such schedules may be implemented by the Co-operative provided Management agrees they meet satisfactorily the requirements of the business.
b)	When it becomes necessary to work overtime, overtime will be offered on a straight seniority basis to the regular operators of the equipment and then offered to others who have the ability to operate that specific equipment on a seniority basis.
When a swingman is working as a regular operator for one (1) shift or more and overtime work becomes available on that specific equipment, the swingman's seniority will be recognized for the available work on that specific equipment as a regular operator. This principle will also apply to article 12, Temporary Transfers.
c)	Should overtime be required in which the responsibility is not as described above, it is the responsibility of the most junior person contacted who has the ability to work the required overtime.
d)	When maintenance is working on a system and they need to run feed through the system after fixing the problem, then the operators of that system will first be asked by machine seniority, then by Mill seniority.
When they are working on a system and do not have to run feed through it when they are done, and still need an extra body, then Mill seniority will be used.
-17 -
17.04
17.05
17.06
17.07
17.08
a)	Time and one half shall be paid after eight (8) hours in any day.
b)	When an employee is instructed by Management to report later than his regular scheduled starting time, one and one half (l‘A) times his regular rate will apply only after the completion of eight (8) hours duty. Similarly, when an employee is required to work before his scheduled starting time, one and one half (IV2) times his regular rate of pay will apply on those hours worked in excess of the regular work day of eight (8) hours. Permanent employees shall be paid double time for hours worked on Sunday.
The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one half (214) hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
b) No employee will work more than two double shifts in a row unless another regular operator of the equipment is not available.
Employees not able to report for duty are required to give Management as much notice as possible in order that a suitable replacement may be arranged. Employees working on regular continuous operating jobs must remain on the job until relieved, unless there is a junior employee who is available who can do the job if the senior employee wishes to leave.
a)	Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a thirty (30) minute meal break.
b)	Employees who work two (2) hours or more beyond their existing shift will receive a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period.
c)	Where an employee works more than two (2) hours beyond quitting time the Co-operative shall pay him a meal supplement of $6.00. Should such overtime continue for more than six (6) hours a further meal allowance will be paid.
d)	Where an employee works overtime on Saturday he will be paid the meal allowance only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime was scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee will be responsible for his own lunch.
- 18 -
17.09	An employee who has gone home and is especially called back by
Management, except when Management cannot be contacted, to work in an emergency outside his regular working hours, shall be paid three (3) hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with the provisions of 1704 and 1705, whichever is more advantageous to him.
17.10	a) A shift premium of 650 (70 cents effective Feb.l, 2008) an hour will be paid to employees on the evening shift.
b)	A premium of 700 (75 cents effective Feb.l, 2008) cents per hour worked will be paid to employees on the night shift.
c)	For purposes of this Agreement an employee is considered to be on the evening shift if his regular starting time is between 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. and on the night shift if his regular starting time is between 10:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m.
17.11	One Maintenance person, as designated by the Maintenance Foreman, will be on call on a continual basis and be available to deal with emergencies and in such cases, Clause 1709 shall apply. It is understood that such designation would be on a rotating basis. The Maintenance Person on call will be provided with a cellular phone.
17.12	The Maintenance staff will work such overtime as authorized and/or directed to keep the Co-operative's property and equipment in good condition (subject to the Canada Labour Code, if applicable). Hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week shall be at one and one half (IV2) times the regular rate.
ARTICLE XVffl - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
18.01	a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all permanent employees at their regular rates for the nine following holidays:
New Year's Day Canada Day Remembrance Day Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day 1st Monday in August
b) If any of these falls on a Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead shall be observed.
-19-
c)	In addition, there will be one floating holiday in lieu of boxing day. To qualify for the holiday an employee must have completed thirty (30) day’s service prior to Boxing Day.
d)	In addition to the present nine (9) identified holidays and the one (1) floating holiday referred to above, each employee, who has completed his probationary period, shall be entitled to one (1) additional paid holiday to be identified as the employee’s birthday. This holiday must be taken within the contract year with the understanding that not more than one employee is on such holiday at any one time unless approved by management in advance. The employee must give management reasonable notice of his choice of the day to be taken as his Personal Day.
e)	In determining when an employee is to take the floating holidays, his wishes will be followed wherever possible, subject however, to Management's needs to keep the work scheduled in an efficient manner.
f)	Management will make every effort possible to ensure a two day Christmas holiday.
18.02	If a permanent employee works on any of the above eleven holidays, he
shall be paid at two times (2) his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under Clause 1801, above.
a)	Employees will be paid two times (2x) the hourly rate when they work on a paid holiday or Saturday that is part of a long weekend. However, this does not apply to such Saturdays that are part of the Employee's regular scheduled shift.
18.03	An employee on sick leave, disability benefits, or leave of absence who
has not worked during the 15 days preceding the holiday shall not qualify for holiday pay (subject to 18.02 above).
ARTICLE XIX - PAID VACATIONS
19.01	a) Vacation time will be allotted to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the Plant Manager, based on his needs to keep work schedules in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference. The vacation schedule shall be posted on the first Monday in April and will be taken down on
-20 -
19.02
19.03
19.04
19.05
May 15th. After May 15th, any changes will be on a first come basis, and any changes will be subject to agreement by all affected employees and management.
b)	It is agreed that requests by senior employees for vacation time during the period June 15 through September 15 will be limited to two (2) consecutive weeks in order that less senior employees will have an opportunity to have some of their vacation time during that period. However, if additional time during that period is available, then seniority will prevail in the choice for such available time off.
An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and less than two (2) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) weeks.
a)	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less then three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one half (V4) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years and not exceeding two and one half (V4) days for any six (6) month period.
b)	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for three (3) or more years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
a)	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for nine (9) years, but less than ten (10) years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one half (/4) day per month of completed service beyond nine (9) years not exceeding two and one half (2/4) days for any six (6) month period.
b)	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
a)	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for nineteen (19) years but less than twenty (20) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one half (V2) day per month of completed service beyond nineteen(19) years, not exceeding two and one half (2/4) days for any six (6) month period.
b)	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed
-21-
for twenty (20) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
c)	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty-eight (28) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) weeks."
19.06	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to one (1) day for each full month of service up to maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
19.07	Vacation pay is based on the normal weekly rate (subject to legislation) provided that this amount may be reduced by one fifty two second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1)	up to thirty (30) days annually where absent with permission.
2)	up to six months in any one year due to illness, or for any one illness, covered by paid sick leave or insured benefits under a plan provided by the Co-operative;
3)	up to six months in any one year if on compensation or for any one absence on compensation.
19.08	In no case shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less than four
percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) month period in which he earned his vacation credits.
19.09	Employees shall be permitted to take vacation one(l) day at a time. The time off shall be scheduled by mutual agreement. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably refused.
ARTICLE XX - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
20.01	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family, within the following limits:
a)	5 days - spouse, child, mother, father
b)	3 days - brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild.
-22 -
c) 1 day - grandparent, grandchild, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son and daughter-in-law.
20.02	Should a grandparent or guardian fill the role of parent of the employee, (a) above would apply.
20.03	Relatives, as noted above, include persons who are related to the employee by marriage, adoption or common-law.
20.04	Where an employee attends the funeral of a relative specified above and such attendance requires considerable travelling time, the employee is entitled to one-half (1/2) day of additional paid leave for each four hours of travel time required to a maximum of two (2) days. This additional leave will not be paid where it occurs during an employee's vacation. Individual requests for more travel time will be considered on their merits by the Department Manager or his appointee.
20.05	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the days of vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduled return from vacation he may be required to return on that date and use the remaining vacation credits at a later date.
ARTICLE XXI - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Long and Short Term Disability Plans, the Group Health Care (Blue Cross) Plan and the Group Dental Plan, in accordance with the provisions of those plans. "The Co-operative will discuss with the union any contemplated changes in the group benefit plans (that would reduce benefits) before implementation.
21.02	a) All permanent employees of the bargaining unit (as defined in Clause 201
of the Agreement) shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) days sick leave with full regular pay in any one year, May 1 - April 30. Any employee hired after May 1 will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately. A maximum of five (5) days of unused sick leave credits may be carried forward to the next year thus entitling such employee to a maximum of ten (10) days sick leave with full pay in that year.
b) Within three (3) weeks of the end of each benefit year (May 1 to April 30) each employee will be paid his regular daily rate for each day of full pay
-23-
sick leave in excess of 5 days to his credit at the end of the benefit year.
c)	Upon expiration of his full pay sick leave credits, a permanent employee will be eligible for either:
1)	Supplementary Sick Leave - 66 2/3% of his regular pay for all days absent. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five (5) consecutive work days.
2)	Benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan beginning on the eighth (8th) calendar day of disability provided they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the Insurer.
d)	A permanent employee shall be eligible for benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan beginning on the 52nd week of disability provided he meets the conditions of eligibility as set down by the Insurer.
f) Any employee who requests Supplementary Sick Leave under Article 21.02
c)	1), shall be required to provide a satisfactory medical certificate in support of such claim for such sick leave in order to receive payment.
g)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
h)	Cash advances will be provided to employees who are in hardship cases due to not receiving funds owing to them by the Workers Compensation Board or benefit plans due to the fault of Co-op Atlantic. Where an employee qualifies for W.C.B. or other benefit plans and payment is delayed causing undue hardship, an employee may apply for a short term loan through the Human Resources Department of Co-Op Atlantic.
i)	Where an employee is absent and receiving sick leave of disability benefits under this agreement or under Workers Compensation, his various benefits under group insurance plans will be kept in effect at no cost to him, except that the employee's normal full two-week share of the premiums will be taken from any pay cheque received by the employee after the sick leave commences.
ARTICLE XXII - EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
\
-24 -
22.01
22.02
22.03
22.04
22.05
Where an employee misses time during the year (Jan. 1 - Dec. 31) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan any such absences if they total thirty (30) days or more shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
A layoff for an indefinite period which extends beyond the end of the month in which it occurs will have the same effect on coverage under the Group Life Plan as would termination under the provisions of the Plan, except that if an employee wishes to remain on layoff status he cannot exercise his rights under the conversion clause of the Policy and vice versa.
a)	Coverage under the Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans ceases at time of lay-off except that where benefits were being received at time of lay-off they will continue to be paid so long as the employee meets the conditions of disability as set out in the Plan(s).
b)	An employee who returns from lay-off to full-time work within twelve (12) months of lay-off will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work.
c)	An employee who returns to full-time work after more than twelve (12) months lay-off will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three (3) months' service.
a)	An employee on layoff may keep his coverage under the Group Life; Blue Cross and Dental Plans in effect for up to twelve (12) months (subject to agreement by the insurer) by paying the full premium in advance (in three (3) month segments). Should the employee return before the prepaid premium is used up, he will be refunded the unused portion and deductions will resume on the regular basis.
b)	The level of Group Life insurance will be based on the employee's salary at the date the leave began but will vary upward or downward to reflect any changes in dependency status in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Plan. The employee must advise the Personnel Department of any changes in dependency status.
c)	An employee will not be eligible for sick leave while on lay-off except that where he was receiving such benefits at time of lay-off the claim will be handled as if no lay-off had occurred.
An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of layoff, if
-25-
such layoff is for ten (10) working days or more or for an indefinite period.
ARTICLE XXIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
23.01	The Co-operative will provide a suitable notice board on its premises for the posting of notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
ARTICLE XXIV - SAFETY AND HEALTH
24.01	The Co-operative agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment. It is understood that Safety and Health of the employees is governed by Part IV of the Canada Labour Code. If reasonable provisions are not made for the safety and health of employees, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XXV - DISCRIMINATION
25.01	The Co-operative agrees that there shall be no discrimination against any employee or employees because of the enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement or because of Union activity.
25.02	The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination against any member of the Union because of race, creed, colour, sex or age.
ARTICLE XXVI - CORRESPONDENCE
26.01	Except where otherwise provided, official communications in the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed to Local 864, UFCW, c/o Co-op Atlantic, 349 Willow St., Truro, N. S. B2N 5A6. A copy of said correspondence will be forwarded to the business agent at UFCW Local 864, 300-1550 Bedford Highway, Bedford, N.S. B4A 1E6.
ARTICLE XXVII - MISCELLANEOUS
27.01	Commencing February 1, 2008, the employer will provide a boot allowance (C.S.A. approved) of $125.00 per contract year, (The bulk receiver will be entitled to $200.00 per contract year).
27.02	A schedule of wage rates shall be attached to this Agreement in the form of Appendix II and shall be part of this Agreement.
27.03	If during the term of this agreement there are expansions to the mill that result
-26-
in the transfer of Co-op Atlantic employees from other locations , the employer agrees to meet with union representatives prior to such transfers. The purpose of the meeting will be to resolve issues that may affect the members of local 864. In addition such employees shall go to the bottom of the seniority list. Any seniority such employees may have shall be limited to the purposes of pension, severance and vacation. Vacation shall be limited to entitlement and shall not include placement as to vacation preference.
27.04	This clause will confirm the companies current practice of remuneration for employees trained in confined spaces. For the actual hours that these employees are working at a confined space, they receive the lead hand premium.
ARTICLE XXVIII - TERM OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect up to and including January 31st, 2013 and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and the 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this Agreement or to negotiate a new one.
28.02	If at the date of expiration a new Agreement has not been signed, the present Agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by law of the province of Nova Scotia has been complied with.
-27 -
ARTICLE XXVIX - AMENDMENTS
29.01	All provisions of this Agreement with the exception of those defining the term
of the Agreement may be amended by mutual consent at any time.
THIS AGREEMENT signed this_________day
of ____________________A.D. 2010 between the parties hereinbefore
mentioned.
Co-op Atlantic	Local 864 - United Food and
Truro Feed Plant	Commercial Workers
International Union
-28 -
APPENDIX I (A)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,_____________________________________________, being an employee of
Co-op Atlantic, at its feed plant at____________________________,
and a member of Local 864 - United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic, to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the Union initiation fee and monthly dues to Local 864 - United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
Name	___________________
Witness_____________________
Address_____________________
Postal Code_________________
Date________________ S.I.N.
Phone Number________________
-29-
APPENDIXI (B)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,______________________________________________, being an employee of Co-op Atlantic,
as its feed plant at_______________________________, hereby authorize and direct Co-op
Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by members of Local 864 - United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
Name___________________________________
Witness________________________________
Address________________________
Postal Code_____________
Date____________________ S.I.N.
Phone Number___________________
-30-
TRURO FEED PLANT
APPENDIX II
SCHEDULE OF GRADES AND WAGE RATES
JOB GRADE AND CLASSIFICATIONS
	EFFECTIVE DATE	START	3 MOS.	6MOS.	12MOS.
GRADE I					
Mill hands	1 Feb. 2010	15.55	15.85	16.55	17.65
	1 Feb. 2011	15.78	16.08	16.80	17.91
GRADEn	1 Feb. 2012	16.01	16.32	17.05	18.17
Receiver	1 Feb. 2010	15.85	16.35	16.85	17.95
Warehouseman	1 Feb. 2011	16.08	16.59	17.10	18.21
Grain Processor Mixer Operator Pellet Mill Op. Packer-Sewer Swingman	1 Feb.2012	16.32	16.84	17.36	18.48
Maintenance	1 Feb. 2010	15.85	16.35	16.85	18.05
Mechanic I	1 Feb. 2011	16.08	16.59	17.10	18.32
	1 Feb. 2012	16.32	16.84	17.36	18.59
Maintenance	1 Feb. 2010	16.55	17.15	17.75	18.95
Mechanic II	1 Feb. 2011	16.80	17.41	18.01	19.23
	1 Feb. 2012	17.05	17.67	18.28	19.52
Lead Hand Premium - $0.70 per hour
-31-
JOB VACANCY FORM ( WHILE ON VACATION)
During the period______________to_____________a
while I am on vacation I give notice that I wish to be considered for the position of________________, if a job vacancy arises.
Signed:
Date:
- 32 -
August20,2004 Deborah Smith UFCW Representative
Re: Personal Days
This will confirm our agreement during negotiations that:
1)	Feed mill employees will be allowed to use 5 sick days per year, from their accumulated sick days (Article 21.02a) as personal days and
2)	Personal Days are not accumulative.
Yours truly,
Manager,Truro Feed Mill
- 33 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The Company agrees that the five (5) most senior employees on the seniority list, which shall consist of Mervin Higgins ,Leroy Burris ,Barry Patriquin, William House and Donald Bourcier, shall receive severance in accordance with article 13.10 of the collective agreement. How ever the amount of severance shall be calculated using the following formula:
Where the termination results from technological change or a plant closure or lay off of five (5) or more employees in the plant, the following severance allowances will be paid: two(2) weeks of severance for the first five(5) years of service and two and one half(2.5) weeks of severance for all years over five(5) years.
This agreement shall remain in effect during the term of the collective agreement.
This agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedure in the collective agreement.
Date:
Company
Union
-34 -
Deborah Smith U.F.C.W., Local 864 300-1550 Bedford Highway Bedford N.S.
B4A-1E6
SUBJECT: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - TRAINING Dear Deborah Smith
The co operative agrees to provide all employees equal opportunity to receive on the job training for jobs outside of their own in the same grade. An exception to this will be the mill hand classification who will be allowed to request training in Grade II classifications. Each employee wishing training will request such training in writing specifying his first and alternate choice. The following terms will apply:
(a)	The training will be completed within the six(6) months following such requests;
(b)	Selection for training will be made based on seniority. The company will not be arbitrary or unreasonable in the selection of employees for training. In the event that the company does not follow seniority for training, the company will provide the reason, in writing for such decisions to the affected employee and the union. If dates are the same, seniority will be the deciding factor if it is feasible to train on machine requested by most senior requester;
(c)	A record of the training taken by each employee will be maintained. Such record will be made available to said employee, with reasonable notice, but within twenty four (24) hours of his request;
(d)	Training will be carried out in sequences of five (5) consecutive work days, where possible, and as required will be carried out on the employee’s shift unless otherwise mutually agreed.
(e)	Copies of all requests for training and the training records shall be supplied to
the union.
-35-
(f)	The company agrees to have in place by September 30,2010 a training
opportunity for the Maintenance Mechanic II. Such training shall be completed within 6 months.
Yours truly,
Paul Harris, Manager Co-op Atlantic Truro Feed Mill
-36-
LETTER OF INTENT
WHEREAS IT IS THE INTENT OF CO-OP ATLANTIC TO GROW THE AGRICULTURE BUSINESS, AND
WHEREAS THE PARTIES ARE INTERESTED IN MAXIMIZING THE CAPACITY OF THE FEED MILL, THEREFORE,
SHOULD BUSINESS VOLUME INCREASE DURING THE TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT TO THE LEVEL WHERE SEVEN DAYS PER WEEK OPERATIONS BECOME DESIRABLE, MEETINGS WILL TAKE PLACE TO DISCUSS THE VIABILITY OF HANDLING THE INCREASED VOLUME AT THE TRURO FEED MILL.
FOR TRURO FEED MILL
FOR LOCAL 864, UFCW
DATE