| SOURCE			
EFF.		°Ct	33
TERM.			
AGREEMENT
OF MPLOYEfS
OM8RE
EMPLOYES
trd>
&uS
between LOCAL 1288P
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION — AFL CIO CLC
and
CO-OP ATLANTIC Feed Plant and Distribution Centres Moncton, N.B.
SEPTEMBER 25,1986 — SEPTEMBER 24, 1988

0£C-S 1987
INDEX
Article No.
or	Page
Appendix No.	N o .
Arbitration Procedure	8		6
Bulletin Boards	25		25
C.O.Ij.A.	17		15
Compassionate Leave (Bereavement)	21		21
Correspondence Address of Union	26		25
Discharge	7		6
Dues Check-off	3.04		2
Dues Check-off Authorization	APP.1 (a)	& (b)	
Effect of Layoff on Employee Benefits	23		23
Employee Benefits	22		21
Grievance Procedure	6		5
Appropriate Management Person re Grievance Group Health Care (Blue Cross)	APP. IV 22		21
Group Dental Plan	22		21
Group Life Insurance	22		21
Hours of Work and Overtime	18		16
Income Guarantee (Short Term Disability)	APP. Ill	(a)	
Income Guarantee (Long Term Disability)	APP. Ill	(b)	
Layoff and Recall from Layoff	14		11
Leave of Absence	15		14
Management Rights	4		3
Meal Supplement	18		17
Probation Period - New Employees	10		8
Promotions	14		11
Recognition of Bargaining Unit	2		1
Rest Periods	18		16
Seniority	11		8
Loss of Seniority	12		9
Severance Pay	24		24
Shift Premium	16		15
Sick Leave	22		21
Statutory Holidays	19		18
Stewards and Grievance Committee	5		3
Strikes and Lockouts	9		7
Temporary Transfers	13		9
Time Lost Due to Stormy Weather	APP.	V	
Union Security	3		2
Vacations	20		19
Wage and Job Classification	16		15
Wage Rates - Moncton Feed Plant	APP. II	(a)	
Wage Rates - Moncton Distribution Centre	APP. II	(b)	
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LOCAL 1288P, UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - AFL - CIO - CLC (hereinafter called the Union)
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC Moncton, N. B.
{hereinafter called the Co-operative)
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
101.	The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to ensure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to ensure fair wages, hours and other working conditions.
102.	It is recognized by this agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
201.	The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the Collective Bargaining Agent for its employees in the Moncton Feed Plant and in the Moncton Distribution Centres with the exception of: Feed Plant Manager; Feed Plant Superintendent; Distribution Centre Managers; Foremen; Office Employees; Servicemen; Maintenance Men; Carpenters; Mechanics; Watchmen: and Stationery Engineers.
202.	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform faithfully and diligently their respective duties for the Co-operative, and that they will at all times carry out their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods, and procedures established by management, subject to the provisions of this agreement.
. . . . 2
2
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION CONT'D
203.	The Union, recognizing that the Co-operative owes its very
existence to members' support of local Co-operatives, agrees to encourage its members to support their local Co-operative and Co-op Label Products.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
301. Maintenance of Membership
a)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain membership in the Union during the term of this agreement. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly dues.
b)	Modified Rand Formula
The Co-operative further agrees that is shall be a condition of employment that any employee hired after the signing of this agreement shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly Union dues from date of hire.
303.	No Discrimination or Penalty
a)	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatsoever be “piTaii’driTcuor permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union;
b)	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
304.	Check-Off
a)	With regard to employees hired before the signing of this agreement, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorisation in form prescribed in Appendix I (a) attached, and so long as the employee remains a member of the Union, deduct regular monthly Unions dues.
- 3 -
304. Check-Off Cont'd
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this agreement it shall be a condition of employment that such employee give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix I (b) attached, written authorization to deduct regular monthly Union dues for the duration of the agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to deduct Union dues from the employee's pay at the end of each month and to forward the total amount to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the 10th day of the month following. The Union will certify in writing to the Co-operative the amount of the monthly membership dues.
d)	The Union agrees that the amount of the monthly dues to be deducted from members during the term of the Agreement shall be levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Local Union.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
401. The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this
agreement it is- dihr exca\tsxve' right of the Co-operative to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	hire, suspend, discharge for just cause, classify, transfer, promote, demote. No employee will be demoted as a disciplinary measure.;
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual employees;
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
402.	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or authority
the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this
are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically
abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
5.01	For the purposes of this article, there will be three (3) locations:
1.	Price Street
2.	Henri Dunant
3.	Feed Mill
4
ARTICLE 5 ~ STEWARDS & GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE CONT'D
a
5.02	In 'order to facilitate the orderly processing of complaints and grievances, the Co-operative acknowledges the union's right to select:
a)	One (1) steward from each shift at each location (produce shifts will be separate from other shifts).
b)	One (1) chief steward (in addition to the above) at each location.
c)	One (1) steward for the truck drivers at Price Street which, for the purposes of this article, will be considered a shift at the Price Street location.
d) A Gr-‘reVcnartdbirairf	at each location consi-ytJ.v^1 of the Chief Steward and any two (2) other permanent employees. The Unit Chairperson shall have the right to participate in any and all union related activities.
e)	A Union Grievance Committee of two (2) representatives
from the committees at each location noted above who would act on behalf » t the whole	sing Uni t in any
grievance that is raised jointly by the Plant and the Distribution Centres employees under section 6.03 below.
f)	The Union shall keep management informed-as to the names of current officers, stewards and members of the Grievance Committees.
503.	It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committees have their regular work to perform as employees of the Co-operative. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining the Co-operative representative's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
504.	In order that a loss of production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible and on this understanding the Co-operative agrees that Stewards shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
505. Meetings between the management and the Grievance Committees shall be held on the premises of the Co-operative and those members of the Union Committee who must attend such meetings during working hours will be paid by the Co-operative for time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be unreasonably frequent.
- 5 -
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
601. Should complaints or grievances arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under this agreement, there shall be no strike, slow-down, stoppage of work, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lock-outs by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
6.02	a) It is agreed that grievances at any location (as defined in article 5.01 above) will be processed by the Stewards and Grievance Committee for that location. Grievances arising under section 6.03 below, will be dealt with by the Union Grievance Committee (as defined in article 5.02 (e) above).
b)	Grievances relating to disciplinary action shall be submitted to the management level who imposed the discipline.
603.	It is agreed that in the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee may present the grievance in writing directly to the Personnel Manager. Subsequent action will be governed by Steps 4 and 5 of the normal Grievance Procedure.
604.	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within three (3) days (subject to Section 702) of the occurrence and shall be handled in the following manner:
STEP 1
The employee, who may if he so wishes, be accompanied by a steward, shall discuss the grievance with his immediate supervisor. The decision of the immediate supervisor shall be given within twenty-four hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 2
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, then the Union shall put the grievance in writing on suitable forms and the Chief Steward shall submit it to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix IV to the agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within forty-eight hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 3
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix IV to this agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within forty-eight hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
6
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE CONT'D 604.
STEP 4
If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management parson as indicated in Appendix IV to *«_his agreement and the latter shall arrange a meeting between himself, or his appointee, and the Grievance Committee to attempt to resolve the grievance. At such meeting the management person referred to above may be accompanied by up to four other representatives of management and the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by the RjtsA.nftiu5 Agent or International Representative of the Union.
STEP 5
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at Step 4 then either party may request arbitration as provided in Article VIII bfiLLow. If neii-.bar party .v-ctithe -o±.b£>r of its intention (as per Section 801 below) within twenty-one days of having received the written decision at Step 4, then the, grievance shall be deemed to be settled. These,time limits may be extended by mutual agreement in writing, of the parties concerned.
ARTICLE 7 ~ DISCHARGE
701.	An employee will not be discharged from the employment of the
Co-operative without	cause. The following grounds are
considered just cause within the meaning of this agreement. Incompetency; inefficiency, absence from work without good reason; being under the influence of alcohol-while at work.
The above mentioned grounds are not to be deemed exclusive, but merelydescriptive and any other acts of substance relative to the character or fitness of the person may be considered cause.
702.	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the appropriate management person at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure within four working days of the discharge.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
801. No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
RTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION CONT’D
802.
803.
804.
805.
806.
ARTICLE 901.	£
a)	When either party wishes to submit a grievance to arbitration it shall notify the other party in writing and, at the same time, state its preference for a single arbitrator or an arbitration board.
b)	If a single arbitrator has been reguested,. the party
receiving the notice shall advise the other in writing of its approval or disapproval within five (5) days of receiving notice.
c)	If it is agreed to proceed with a single arbitrator, the parties shall immediately undertake to-reach agreement on a person to act as arbitrator. If the parties are unable to reach such agreement within five (5) days of receipt of the aforementioned reply by the party initiating the arbitration, then each party shall, within a further three (3) days, indicate to the other the name of its appointee to an arbitration board.
d)	The two appointees shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second appointee, meet or confer to define the grievance and attempt to resolve it and, if unable to resolve the grievance, shall attempt to agree upon a Chairman. If unable to agree on a chairman, they shall request the Minister of Labour and Manpower for the Province of New Brunswick to appoint one.
Time limits referred to in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, of the two parties.
The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
The decision of the single arbitrator or of the majority of the Board or of the Chairman, failing a majority Board decision, shall be binding on the parties to this Agreement.
Each of the parties hereto shall share equally the expense of the single arbitrator or of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board and shall bear the full expense of its own appointee to an Arbitration Board.
9 - NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK
) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in) , any sit-down or slow-down or any strike or stoppage of operations, or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production, or any picketing of the Co-operative's premises, during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
8
ARTICLE 9 ~ NON INTERRUPTION OF' WORK CONT’D
901.	b) The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct
any lock out of employees during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
902.	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the agreement, until all steps relating the conciliation procedure in the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
ARTICLE 10 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
1001. a) New employees will be considered as probationary employees for the first ninety (90) consecutive calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employee s h a i	b e^he^subject of a grievance, but
all other conditions of this agreement shall apply. At the completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be back-dated to his last date of hiring.
1001 b) If an employee is absent for more than ten (10) working
days during his probationary period, management may extend his probationary period by up to an equal number of working days. Management agrees to notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate section in writing of such extension and the employee's start date. Management and the Union will sign such notice once the content of such notice is agreed upon.
10.02	a) Employees hired on or after May 15 in any year to replace employees on vacation will not acquire seniority rights or be eligible for employee benefits until September 30 of that year after which their seniority will be backdated to the last date of hire and Article 1001 will apply.
b)	Management will notify the Chief Steward of the
appropriate location in writing of each such person hired with start date and reason for hire.
c)	The number of vacation relief employees on staff at any given _ time will be based on the vacation schedule to be finalized no later than May 1 of each year.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
1101. a) There shall be two kinds of seniority, sectional seniprity and bargaining unit-wide seniority. Sectional seniority shall be an employee's service with the Co-operative within one section ,(i.e. Feed Plant or Distribution Centres) and shall be applicable to promotions, transfers, layoffs, recalls and as may be set out in other provisions of this Agreement.
9
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY, CONT'D
1101.	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be the accumulated service of an employee with the Co-operative in both sections and shall prevail in all matters of interpretation of this agreement except where sectional seniority is expressly indicated.
b)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be established from
the date an employee last entered or last enters the service of the Co-operative, subject to Article 1001.
c)	Sectional Seniority will not be transferrable from one section to another but will be retained in the section where it is earned. The Seniority List will show this.
1102.	A seniority list showing each employee's status shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board in each sectio within thirty days after the signing of this agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been dispudHUbnaer’ccri^ 'Grievance Procedure. A new seniority list shall be posted every six (6) months thereafter.
ARTICLE 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY
1201. An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if:
a)	he VOlUntarifygtriLV-o r resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance Procedure;
c)	he is laid off from the Distribution Centre or Feed Plant section for a period in excess of 'bvx 'consecutive months,
if he has less than two years seniority at time of lay-off, or for a period in excess of twelve consecutive months if he has two years or more seniority at the time of lay-off.
d)	Notwithstanding (c) above, no employee's seniority will be cancelled due to lay-off beyond twelve (12) months as a result of a shut-down from the destruction and rebuilding
of the facility.
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
1301. Where an-employee is temporarily assigned to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of one-half or more continuous working days, he will be paid, for such assignment, at the corresponding step in the higher grade.
____10
10
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS CONT'D
1302
1303,
1304,
1305,
a)	In the Distribution Centres, where a temporary assignment of more than one week's duration becomes available, preference in filling it will be given to employees in lower grades on the same shift within the same functional area (i.e.; Hardware; Produce; Grocery/Dry Goods) and to employees who are on night/ evening shifts and the selection from amongst these will be based on seniority provided the senior person is able to do the job.
b)	In the Feed Mill, employees will be given preference in order of seniority over outside help in filling such temporary assignments in higher grades on the same shift, provided they are able to do the job.
An employee who replaces a foreman or other supervisory employee temporarily for a period of one-half (1/2) more continuous working days, shall receive $1.00 per hour additional pay for the duration of such transfer.
Employees on temporary assignments as in 1301 or 1303 above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former rate.
a)	A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period of the employee being replaced.
b)	If the regular incumbent's absence on sick leave or workmen's-compensation extends beyond three (3) months, the job will be posted and filled under clause 1401, provided that should the regular incumbent return from sick leave or compensation he will return to his previous job and the replacement to his previous job and so forth with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
1306. If a holiday (as set out in Article 18) falls in a period when an employee is replacing someone in a higher classification, the employee shall be paid for the holiday at the rate he receives for time worked on the temporary transfer.
This clause shall apply only where the temporary transfer was in effect the day before the holiday. For the purpose of qualifying for the higher rate under 1301 or 1303, above, the holiday will count as a working day.
.... 11
11
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS, AND RECALLS
L401. a)	When a job vacancy occurs in the.bargaining unit, including any new position, it shall be posted within forty-eight (48) hours, at all locations, and shall remain posted for seventy-two (72) hours before the vacancy is permanently filled. If a longer delay is necessary, the Union shall be advised in writing of the reasons.
b)	All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for forty-eight (48) hours before they are permanently filled.
c)	Where workers concerned are absent for legitimate reasons, these time limits may be extended.
d)	Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during this absence must advise his immediate supervisor accordingly, leaving the telephone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable effort to contact such employee. If unable to contact the employee, the Union Steward shall be so notified.
1402.	Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing to the supervisor indicated on the posting.
1403. a)	In the event of a permanent promotion or a permanent transfer, within either section of the bargaining unit, to fill a posted vacancy, preference shall be given on the basis of Sectional Seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
b)	If no employee from the section in which the vacancy occurs bids on the job, preference shall be given to employees from the other section on the basis of Bargaining Unit-Wide Seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
c)	Where promotions or permanent transfers are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union, in writing, of the decision and the reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
d)	If no employee from either section, having the required ability, skill and competence to perform the work, bids on the job, management shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for the job.
12
12
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS, AND RECALLS
CONT'D_________________________________________________________________
1403.	e) Where a person from outside the unit is hired in either
section to fill a posted job and the employee from one of the sections had bid on the job, the Co-operative shall advise the President and the Chief Steward of the section where the job is located, of its reasons for doing so before the employee goes onto the job.
f)	In the Distribution Centre Section, when a job bid is made for a within-grade transfer, Management may decline that job bid if it feels that the transfer will interfere with the efficiency of that section.
g)	A notice, stating to whom the job was given shall be posted on the Union's bulletin boards within forty-eight (48) hours (excluding week-ends and holidays) after the vacancy is filled.
1404.	a) The successful applicant for a posted job shall be given a reasonable trial period to prove competence in the job.
b) A promoted or transferred employee within the same section shall have his former job protected for thirty (30) calendar days. If within the first thirty (30) calendar days on the new job, either he proves unsatisfactory, as determined by Management, or he decides not to continue in that job, he shall be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without any loss of seniority. Any employee who was transferred to fill a vacancy created by the first promotion or transfer shall also be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without loss of seniority.
If such promotion or transfer is between sections, the trial period may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and Management.
c)	A replacement shall be selected from the balance of the applicants, provided one such applicant has the necessary skill, ability and competence to meet the job requirement. Preference shall be given on the basis of section seniority where two or more of the applicants have relatively equal skill, ability and competence to perform the work. If none of the balance of the applicants meet the job requirements, or if there was only one applicant to the original posting, the job shall be reposted.
d)	If there are no suitable applicants following the reposting, then the Co-operative shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for the job.
13
13
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS, AND RECALLS
OONT'D
1405.	In the event of a lay-off within either section of the
Bargaining Unit, retention shall be on the basis of sectional seniority,provided the senior employee is able to perform the work available in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization or training and trial period of not less than five (5) work days nor more than thirty (30) calendar days.
1406.	a) The Co-operative shall give an employee one week's notice of a planned lay-off of one week or more and two days notice of a lay-off of less than one week, except where the latter clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable, e.g.:	Acts of God.
b)	Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority where jobs become available, provided they have the proven ability to perform such jobs.
c)	The employer shall give notice of recall by telephone or telegram confirmed by registered letter to the last telephone number and address given to the employer in writing by the employee. The employee shall advise the employer of his intentions by telephone or telegram confirmed by registered letter as soon as possible, but, in any case, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered letter. If he fails to do so, he will forfeit his right to recall. If he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within seven (7) days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall.
d)	An employee may refuse to exercise his right to recall to other thanh i » mrequlariob without prejudicing his right
to future recall if:
1.	He so advises the employer, in the manner prescribed in (c) above, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received a recall notice by registered mail; and
2.	There is a junior employee on layoff in-the same grade or lower with proven ability to do the job.
1407.	a) No supervisory person will be transferred into the
Bargaining Unit except where there is a vacancy that is not filled through the posting procedure, Seniority earned thereafter or prior to going out of the Bargaining Unit will apply in the section where it was earned.
b) Any member of the Bargaining Unit who is promoted to a job outside the unit shall have his old job protected for thirty (30) days. After that time, he shall be subject to 1407 (a) above.
. ...14
14
ARTICLE CONT’D
1407.
ARTICLE
15.01
15.02
1503.
1504.
14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS, AND RECALLS
c)	A working foreman will be allowed on an evening or night shift provided that the number supervised does not exceed seven (7) and so long as it has no effect on existing Bargaining Unit jobs or members.
15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
i)	The Co-operative will grant leave of absence without pay of up two weeks per year to employees to enable them to attend labour schools, conferences or conventions, provided that the employee advises management at least two weeks in advance. Not more than one employee per shift or two employees per location may be absent at the same time except at the Price Street location where up to three (not more than one per shift) may be absent at the same time.
b)	The terms "shift" and "location" in this article shall have the same meaning as in 5.01 and 5.02 above.
c)	The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for other reasons, which in the opinion of management, are legitimate and which do not, in combination with (a), above, present staffing problems.
d)	Any leave of absence under (a) or (b) above, must be in writing to the employee and signed by the Department Manager.
Any leave of absence granted under 1501 will not affect an employee's seniority rights or his employee benefits provided the employee maintains his regular contributions to the plans.
i) An employee wishing to engage in full-time Union work shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority, provided that:
1)	he gives thirty (30) days notice of application for such leave:
2)	the leave of absence does not exceed one year:
3)	not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
b)	The effect of such leave of absence on employee benefits shall be the same as for a lay-off (see Article XXIII) .
If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work.
. ...15
15
\RTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION
L601. A schedule of job classifications and wages shall be attached to this agreement in the form of Appendix II and shall be part of the agreement.
1602.	The steps of the grades indicate the within-grade increases that can be anticipated by employees. Such increases are not automatic but will depend upon satisfactory progress.
1603.	An employee who is promoted to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies shall be paid at the corresponding step in the higher grade except that he will not be paid the top rate until he has completed thirty (30) days in the new job or any extended trial period agreed to under article 1404 (b) .
1604.	a) A Shift Premium of fifty cents (50d) per hour will be paid
for hours worked on the evening shift and of sixty (60d) per hour for hours worked on the night shift as described in (b) below.
b)	For purposes of this agreement, an employee is considered
to be on the evening shift if the major part of his regular work day falls between 4:00 p.m. and midnight. Likewise an employee is considered to be on the night shift when the major part of his regular work day falls between midnight and 8:00 a.m.
c) "lhie schedule of hours and days of work of each employee
shall be posted in an appropriate place. This schedule may be altered from time to time as reguired for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative's business. If an employee's schedule is changed without forty-eight (48) hours notice, such employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 h) tiutes his regular rate for all hours worked within the required period of notice.
ARTICLE 17 - COLA
A cost-of-living allowance will become effective during the second year of this agreement if the rise in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.) (1981=100) published by Statistics Canada exceeds A of	1985, C.P.I., which shall be the
base figure, on the following basis:
Starting on the first of the month in which the published C.P.I. exceeds 104.0% of the August, 1985, figure, a premium of one cent (1C) per hour for each 0.3 point that the C.P.I. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regular rate. The C.P.I. will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium will be adjusted as necessary to keep it at one cent (Id) per hour for each 0.3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustment will be made to the premium after September 24, 1986.
____16
16
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
1801. a) PRODUCE - Hours of work will be:
Evening Shift:	3:30p.m. to 12:00 midnight Sunday to
Thursday inclusive:
Day Shift:	Regular hours as set out below in (f)
b)	PRICE STREET (EXCLUDING PRODUCE) — The hours of work will
T5e:
Evening Shift:	3:00p.m. to 11:30 p.m. Sunday to Thursday
inclusive.
Night Shift:	11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. starting Sunday at
11:00 p.m. and finishing Friday 7:30 a.m.:
Day Shift:	Regular hours as noted below in (f) :
c)	TRUCK/TRACTOR DRIVERS - First fifty (50) hours per week Monday to Friday, inclusive, to be at regular rate with overtime in excess of fifty (50) hours at one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate.
d)	HENRI DUNANT - Regular hours as noted in (f) below:
e)	FEED MILL - The hours of work will be:
Day Shift - 8:00a.m. - 4:30p.m., Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Evening Shift - 4:30 p.m. - 1:00 a.m., starting Monday at 4:30 p.m. and finishing Saturday at 1:00 a.m.
f)	REGULAR WORK WEEK - 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.; 8 hours per day; Monday through Friday; 40 hours per week.
1802. a) Double time will be paid for Sunday work except for
employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday in 1801, above, in which case double time will be paid for Saturday work.
b) If an employee is required to work on the Saturday of a long weekend, he will be paid double time for the hours worked.
c)	Time and one-half shall be paid after eight (8) hours worked in any day or after forty (40) hours in any week except in the case of truck and tractor drivers who are subject to 1801 (c).
d)	The truck and tractor drivers shall be paid time and one-half for hours worked in excess of fifty (50) in any week.
. ...17
lRTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME CONT'D
1803.
1804.
1805.
1806.
1807.
1808. 1809.
The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-half hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods should not be abused.
Employees shall not be required to work more than four and one-half (4%) hours, or one-half (1/2) hour after quitting time without a thirty (30) minute meal period.
a)	Where an employee works two (2) hours or more overtime in a day the Co-operative shall pay such an employee a meal supplement of four dollars and fifty cents ($4.50).
b) Where an employee works overtime on Saturday, he will be -paid the meal supplement only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime is scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee shall be responsible for his own lunch.
c)	Tractor drivers shall be granted a meal supplement of $30.00 per week in lieu of 1805 (a) above. All expenses related to the maintenance of equipment and for tolls will be borne by the Co-operative.
An employee who has gone home and is especially called back to work in any emergency outside hisr	working hours, shall
be paid four (4) hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with provisions of 1802, whichever is more advantageous to him.
Any employee who is unable to appear for his scheduled shift wiJj notlJy'JiLs immediate supervi .rut or the arppcrvprLtate
Superintendent as soon as possible, preferably not later than one-half (1/2) hour after the shift begins and will give, wherever possible, twenty-four (24) hours notice of when he will return to work.
Management shall endeavour to give employees twenty-four (24) hours notice where overtime is to be worked. In any event, if overtime in excess of one (1) hom* is to be worked, notice of
four (4) hours working time shall be given, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned.
In cases of emergency beyond the reasonable control of management, it is agreed that notice of overtime will be waived.
a)	When overtime is required, bargaining unit employees with seniority, who are normally responsible for doing the work, shall be given preference in performing the required overtime work.
. ...18
18
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME CONT'D
1809. b) In the event that employees noted in (a) above are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees within the section who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner and who are available.
c)	In the Distribution Centre, the Food and Non-Food areas shall be treated separately for the purpose of overtime. It is understood that if an employee is transferred from the Non-Food area to the Food area or vice-versa for more than four (4) hours, his Sectional Seniority will be recognized for that day in the area worked for overtime purposes.
d)	When overtime is required at the end of a regular shift, "available" shall mean "actually on hand".
1810. Under certain circumstances, employees may be paid for up to two (2) hours missed in a day due to stormy weather. Detail: are set out in Appendix V to the agreement.
ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
1901.	a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all employees who have
worked for thirty (30) days prior to the holiday at their regular rates for the ten following holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day New Brunswick Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
b)	If any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If Christmas Day and Boxing Day fall on Saturday and Sunday or Sunday and Monday, then they may be observed on Monday and Tuesday or Friday and Monday. If the work schedule is changed for holidays, it shall be discussed with the Union.
c) In, addition to the ten holidays listed above, it is agreed that each employee who has been employed for thirty (30) days prior to his birthday shall be granted one additional paid holiday to be identified as "Employee's Birthday". Such holiday shall be observed on the employee's actual birthday unless the employee arranges an. alternate day with Management at least two weeks prior to his birthday. Such alternate day shall be within one week prior to or following the actual birthday. A birthday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or one of the holidays listed above shall be observed on such alternate day.
____19
19
ARTICLE 19 ~ STATUTORY HOLIDAYS CONT'D
1902.	If an employee works on any of the above eleven (11) holidays, he shall be paid at two (2) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under Section 1901.
1903.	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay unless he works on the holiday or the first scheduled workday following the holiday.
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS
2001.	Annual vacations are provided to employees for the purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for attending to personal business. Vacation time will be allotted to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate Superintendent, based on his need to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference.
2002.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a _period of ^t_ least one (1) year, and less than two (2) full years; "’snVi.jroe entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work week's,
2003.	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per montho < -^um^leted s'to.'vfce'jjfeyanaJtwo(2)ye ars' not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
2004.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for three (3) full years but less than eleven (11) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
2005.	An employee who by April 30, 1984, has been continuously employed for nine (9) years but less than ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half (h) day per month of completed service beyond nine(9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
2006.	An employee who by April 30, 1984, has been continuously employed for ten (10) full years but less than twenty-one (21) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
____20
20
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS CONT'D
2007.	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-one (21) years but less than twenty-two (22) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-one (21) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2%) days for any six (6) month period.
2008.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty-two (22) years but less than twenty-nine
(29)	full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
2009.	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-nine (29) years but less than thirty (30) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-nine (29) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2%) days for any six (6) month period.
2010.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for thirty (30) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) work weeks.
2011.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty
(30)	days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to one (1) day for each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
2012. Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount may be reduced by one-fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1) with permission up to 30 days annually;
2) due to sickness up to 30 days annually; or such longer periods not exceeding six (6) months as an employee may be entitled to receive sick leave pay or sick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative;
3)	up to one year due to a compensable accident.
2013.	In no event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less that four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve months to April 30.
2014.	Employees are expected to take their vacation in the year in which it is credited. However, arrangements may be made to carry over a portion of vacation credits on the same basis as all Co-op Atlantic Employees.
. ...21
21
jlRTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
2101.	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family, within the following limits:
a) Spouse, Parent or child - five (5) working days;
b) Brother, sister, parent of spouse - three (3) working days ;
c)	Grandparent, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law - one (1) working day.
2102.	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the days of vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduled return from vacation he maybe required to return on that date and use the remaining vacation credits at a later date.
2103.	a) Where an employee attends the funeral of a relative
specified above and such attendance required considerable travelling time, the employee is entitled to one-half (%) day of additional paid leave for each four hours of travel time required to a maximum of two (2) days. Individual requests for more travel time will be considered on their merits by the Department Manager or his appointee.
b) This additional leave will not be paid where it occurs during an employee's vacation.
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS * 2
2201.	a) All -pe-rniuirtnr & evirpf uy'tre's' crjf the bargaining' uim t shall
participate in the Co-op Atlantic Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Short Term Disability Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, the Group Health Care Plan and the Group Dental. Plan in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
b) The Co-operative will discuss any contemplated changes in the Group HsvsvsvfJA.	Ui the Union before any
implementation thereof.
2202.	a) 1. All permanent employees shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) days sick leave with full regular pay in any one benefit year, May 1st - April 30th. Any employee hired after May 1st will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
2. Within three weeks of the end of the benefit year (May 1st - April 30th) each employee will be paid one hundred percent (100%) of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave to his credit at the end of the benefit year; or
____22
22
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONT'D
2202. b) All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall he covered under the Short Term Disability Plan commencing with the eighth calendar day of disability providing they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer, an outline of which is attached as Appendix III (a) to this agreement.
c)	A permanent employee who has used all of this full-pay sick leave credits and subsequently is absent due to sickness will receive supplementary sick leave pay equal to two-thirds (2/3) of his regular pay for any such days. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five consecutive work days.
d)	It is agreed that the employees' interest in any reduction of Unemployment Insurance contributions after January 1st, 1973 that may result from the upgrading of the Co-operative's sick leave plans shall be waived in view of the increased benefits provided in this article and elsewhere in the agreement.
e)	1. The Co-operative may at any time require a
satisfactory medical certificate in support of a claim for sick leave. Any claim covering more than five consecutive days must be supported by such a medical certificate. Similarly, any claim covering one or more days immediately preceding or following a holiday must be supported by a medical certificate unless the employee phones in to his immediate supervisor on each such day he is absent and the supervisor agrees to waive this requirement.
2.	To be satisfactory a medical certificate must specify the date and nature of the illness and the duration of time such illness prevented the employee from working. It must be signed by a qualified medical practitioner.
3.	The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
f)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to "any employee t?j.igible for benefits under thew » < k e r 's
Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
2203.	a) Where an employee is absent and receiving sick leave or
disability benefits under this agreement or under Workers Compensation, his various benefits under group insurance plans will be kept in effect at no cost to him, except * the..frp\r\Jpvee1	full two-week share o f the
premiums will be taken from any pay cheque received by the employee after the sick leave commences.
. ...23
23
\RTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONT'D
2203. b) The group benefits in question are:	Group Life Insurance;
Short Term and Long Term Disability; Blue Cross: and Dental.
c)	The level of Group Life insurance will be based on the employee's salary at date the leave began but will vary upward or downward to reflect any changes in dependency status in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Plan.
d)	During absence of the employee, as above, no contributions will be made to the Pension Plan but there will be no reduction in service for pension purposes as a result of such absence(s).
ARTICLE 23 - EFFECT OF LAY-OFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
2301.	Except where provided in 2203. above, where an employee misses time during the year (January 1st to December31st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences if they total four work weeks or more shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
2302.	a) An employee on layoff may keep his coverage under the
Group Life; Blue Cross and Dental Plans in effect for up to twelve (12) months by paying the full premium three (3)
months in advance (subject to agreement by the insurer). Should the employee return before the prepaid premium is used up, he will be refunded the unused portion and deductions will resume on the regular basis.
b) The level of Group Insurance will be det-^rnrrire^ as m 2203. (c), above.
2303.	An employee will not be eligible for sick leave while on lay-off except that where he was receiving such benefits at time of lay-off the claim will be handled as if no lay-off had occurred.
2304.	a) Coverage iiruiax. the Short Term 3nri J"-on/?.JPexm..DisabdrLity
Plans ceases at time of lay-off except that where benefits were being received at time of lay-off they will continue to be paid so long as the employee meets the conditions of disability as set out in the Plan (s) .
b) An employee who returns from lay-off to full-time work within twelve (12) months of lay-off will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work.
. ...24
24
ARTICLE 23 - EFFECT OF LAY-OFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONT'D
2304.	c) An employee who returns to full-time work after more than
twelve (12) months lay-off will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three (3) months' service.
2305.	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of lay-off.
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE PAY
2401.	a) Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed five (5) consecutive years' service or more and the termination was not a dismissal for "cause", the Co-operative will pay to the employee one week's pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maximum of twenty-five (25) weeks.
b) An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his seniority rights expire.
c)	An employee aged fifty-five (55) or older who is laid off may take severance pay at any time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority and, in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement, subject to the terms and conditions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
2402.	a) Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that the severance allowance will be paid where termination results from technological change, automation, re-organization or other reason beyond the control of the employee.
b) For the purposes of this Agreement the term "technological change" shall be understood to mean changes introduced by Co-op Atlantic in the manner in which it carries out its daily operations and service where such change or changes significantly affect(s) the terms and conditions or security of employment of a member or members of the bargaining unit or alters significantly the basis on which this Agreement was negotiated.
2403.	Likewise, it is understood that the severance allowance will not be paid when the employee:
a)	resigns voluntarily
b)	is laid off prior to age 55 and and has seniority rights
.... 25
25
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE PAY CONT'D
2403.	C)	is dismissed for just cause and this is not reversed through grievance procedure
	d)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan
	e)	prior to age 55 is offered other employment within Co-op Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable in relation to his qualifications, experience, age, etc.
2404.	a)	It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this article, such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee, his beneficiary or estate as the case may be.
	b)	The date of payment shall be as requested by the employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve (12) months after the employee's last day of employment with the Co-operative.
ARTICLE 25		- BULLETIN BOARDS
2501.	The the	Co-operative agrees to provide a suitable notice board at Feed Plant, the Price Street Distribution Centre (one for
Grocery/Dry Goods and one for Produce), and the Henri Dunant Distribution Centre for the exclusive use of the Union in
posting notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
ARTICLE 26 - CORRESPONDENCE
2601. Except where otherwise provided, of f vtvtt cvaraw^ivC'cJtions in
the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed as shown below:
Local 1288P
United Food and Commercial Workers Randy Lewis R.R.#3
Salisbury, N.B.
EOA 3E0
ARTICLE 27 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
2701. This agreement shall remain in effect from the 25th day of
September, 1986 to the 25th day of September, 1988 and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this agreement, or to negotiate a new one.
....26
26
ARTICLE 27 - TERN OF AGREEMENT CONT'D
2702. If at the date of expiration a new agreement has not been
signed, the present agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by law of the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
THIS AGREEMENT signed this _____________________________ day of
______________A.D., 1987 between the parties hereinbefore mentioned.
CO-OP ATLANTIC	LOCAL 1288P
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC
APPENDIX I (a)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,		being an employee of Co-op
Atlantic at the (Feed Plant), (Distribution Centre), at Moncton and a member of Local 1288P of the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to
deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of union initiation fee and monthly membership dues to Local 1288P of the said Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to
the appropriate official designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
NAME __________________________________________ NUMBER ________________
ADDRESS _______________________________________________________________
WITNESS _______________________________________ DATE __________________
APPENDIX I (b)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,		being an employee of Co-op
Atlantic at the (Feed Plant), (Distribution Centre), at Moncton hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by members of Local 1288P, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amount so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute <. good a „ d sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
NAME __________________________________________ NUMBER _______________
ADDRESS ______________________________________________________________
WITNESS ________________________________________ DATE ________________
APPENDIX II (A)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON FEED PLANT
JOB TITLES	EFP. DATE		START	3 MOS.	6 MOS.	12 MOS
GRADE I						
Millhands' - Warehouse	25	Sen.86	8.35	8.95	9.55	11:13
Sweeping	25	Sep.87	8.75	9.35	9.95	
GRADE II						
Cleaner - Grader Operator	25	Sep.86	8.55	9.15	9.75	10.95
Fork-lift Operator Grinder-Roller Operator Packers-Sewers Bulk Unloader Utility Man	25	Sep.87	8.95	9.55	10.15	11.35
GRADE III						
Bin Charger	25	Sep.86	8.75	9.35	9.95	11.15
Mixer Helper Control Room Operator(Mixer) Pellet Mill Operator Senior Packer-Sewer Shipper-Receiver Shipper-Receiver (Agri-Products) Machine Operator	25	Sep.87	9.15	9.75	10.35	11.55
GRADE IV						
Lead Hands - Agri-Products	25	Sep.86	8.95	9.55	10.15	11.35
Quality Controller	25	Sep.87	9.35	9.95	10.55	11.75
Truck Driver	25	Sep.86	8.71	9.31	9.91	11.11
	25	Sep.87	9.11	9.71	10.31	11.51
APPENDIX III (b)
COVERAGE
INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY)
Provides payment for loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accident.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.)
WAITING PERIOD
Benefits commence after 52 weeks (12 months) absence due to disability.
DURATION OF COVERAGE
Benefits continue for 78 weeks (18 months) if the employee is totally disabled and unable to perform his normal duties. If disability continues, benefits are paid until the employee reaches age 65, provided he is totally disabled and prevented from engaging in any gainful occupation for which he is qualified or may reasonably become qualified. Should an employee return to work and go out again 'within six (6) months because of the same illness or accident it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
PREMIUMS
The employee's share of the premium is 18.4d per $100.00 of regular earnings as at April 1/87 which will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future increases in the premium.
EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
A.	1) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot.
B.	Benefits under this Plan will be reduced by the amount the insured person receives from:
1) Worker's Compensation,: 2) basic disabilityJv?nf5.0’ts under the
Canada Pension Plan; 3) sick leave or other remuneration received from the employer; 4) payments under any other loss-of-earnings insurance after 78 weeks (18 months).
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off;
b)	on employee's 65th birthday
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR
MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
APPENDIX IV
For purposes of Articles 6 and 7 of the Agreement, the "appropriate management person" will be:
Feed Plant	1. Grievor's Foreman
2.	Plant Superintendent
3.	Plant Manager
4.	Production Department Manager
Price St. Distribution Centre (excluding Produce and Drivers)
1.	Grievor's Foreman
2.	Senior Foreman
3.	Distribution Centre Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Produce (excluding Drivers)
1.	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Distribution Centre Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Henri Dunant Distribution Centre (excluding drivers)
1. Grievor's Foreman - Verbal 1. Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Distribution Centre Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Drivers (distribution Centre(s)
1.	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Transportation Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
APPENDIX III (a)
INCOME GUARANTEE (SHORT TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment of loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accident that prevents the employee from performing his normal duties.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.)
WAITING PERIOD
No benefits are paid for the first seven calendar days of any disability.
DURATION OF COVERAGE
Maximum of fifty-two weeks (12 months) for any one disability. Should an employee return to work and go out again within thirty (30) days because of the same illness or accident, it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
PREMIUMS
31C per $100.00 of regular earnings (as at April 1/87) will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future increases in the premium.
EXCLUSIONS
1) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot; 5) disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation; 6) benefits will also be reduced by the amount received by the employee from the Canada Pension Plan or under other similar legislation due to the same disability.
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off:
b)	on employee's 70th birthday
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
APPENDIX II (b)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
JOB TITLES
EFF.DATE START 3 Mos. 6 Mos
JANITOR
25 Sep.86 8.35	8.95	9.55
25 Sep.87 8.75	9.35	9.95
WAREHOUSEMAN I GENERAL WAREHOUSE DUTIES LOADERS
MANABOARD OPERATOR
25 Sep.86	8.55
25 Sep.87	8.95
9.15	9.75
9.55	10.15
WAREHOUSEMAN II
ASST.	SHIPPERS	25 Sep.86	8.75	9.35	9.95
ASST.	RECEIVERS	25 Sep.87	9.15	9.75	10.35
RECEIVER-REPACK GROCERY RECEIVER-REPACK DRY GOODS INVENTORY HANDLER FORK-LIFT OPERATOR
TRUCK/TRACTOR DRIVER
25 Sep.86	8.86
25 Sep.87	9.26
9.46	10.06
9.86	10.46
10.15 10.55
KAlLCAR RECEIVER (HENRI DUNANT)
EXPEDITER (HENRI DUNANT)
RECEIVER RETURNS (HENRI DUNANT)
WAREHOUSEMAN III SHIPPERS RECEIVERS
25 Sep.86 8.95	9.55
25 Sep.87 9.35	9.95
12 Mos.
10.75
11.15
10.95
11.35
11.15
11.55
11.26
11.66
11.35
11.75
NOTE:
BOOKER-RECEIVER (Grocery) employee doing this job.
20C per hour premium will be paid to the
APPENDIX V
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER:
1.	In cases of severe bad weather (e.g. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, C.A.'s policy is to pay only for time worked.
2.	a) However, a "grace period" of two hours will be allowed so that employees who arrive at work within two hours of their normal starting time will suffer no loss in pay.
b)	The "grace period" will only apply where the General Manager, in the case of Moncton operations, or the management person in charge at a location outside Moncton, rules that the storm did, in fact, constitute "severe bad weather".
c)	Such ruling will be made by the end of the first day after returning to normal operations and the manager making the ruling will be guided by the degree of absenteeism in the C.A. operation(s) during the storm and the observed severity of the storm.
3.	a) None of the foregoing will apply where an employee was notified at least one-half hour before his/her normal starting time not to come to work.
b)	Such notification may be by way of a general announcement over the local radio station or by a telephone call or personal visit to the employee's place of residence.
c)	It will be the responsibility of each employee, in times of stormy weather, to monitor the appropriate radio broadcasts and to see that he/she or some other adult is available to receive a message at his/her place of residence.
4.	Failing such notice any employee who . how. up for work will
be paid for a minimum of four hours (including any "grace period" whether or not there is work available.
5.	a) Where weather conditions deteriorate after commencement of the work day (or shift) and management decides to shut down the operation employees then at work will be paid to normal quitting time or two hours beyond actual punching out time, whichever is less.
b) However, no employee shall receive more than two hours pay for time not worked in any one day except as necessary to meet the minimum reporting pay requirements.
6.	a) Any employee who requests permission to leave early in the face of deteriorating weather conditions shall not be unreasonably denied such permission.
b) However, he/she shall be paid only for time worked unless the operation is subsequently shut down, in which case he/she will be entitled to the same "grace period" as any other employee in that section receives for that day.
cont'd...
APPENDIX V
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER, CONT'D.:
7.	Any "grace period" allowed under this policy shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime pay in any day dr week.
/PRS008