AGREEMENT
between LOCAL 1288P
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION — AFL CIO CLC
and
CO-OP ATLANTIC Feed Plant and Distribution Centres Moncton, N.B.
SEPTEMBER 25, 1990 — SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
004-5 16.5
INDEX
Co
-&H?1 \ '7-
Article No.
or	Page
Appendix No.	N.P.t.
Arbitration Procedure	8		6
Bulletin Boards	25		25
C.O.L.A.	17		15
Compassionate Leave (Bereavement)	21		21
Correspondence Address of Union	26		25
Discharge	7		6
Dues Check-off Dues Check-off Authorization APP. 1	3.04 (a) & (b)		2
Effect of Layoff on Employee Benefits	23		23
Employee Benefits	22		21
Grievance Procedure Appropriate Management Person re Grievance	6 APP. 4		5
Group Health Care (Blue Cross)	22		21
Group Dental Plan	22		21
Group Life Insurance	22		21
Hours of Work and Overtime	18		16
Income Guarantee (Short Term Disability)	APP. 3	(a)	
Income Guarantee (Long Term Disability)	APP. 3	(b)	
Layoff and Recall from Layoff	14		11
Leave of Absence	15		14
Management Rights	4		3
Meal Supplement	18		17
Probation Period - New Employees	10		8
Promotions	14		11
Recognition of Bargaining Unit	2		1
Rest Periods	18		16
Seniority	11		8
Loss of Seniority	12		9
Severance "Vay	24		24
Shift Premium	16		15
Sick Leave	22		21
Statutory Holidays	19		18
Stewards and Grievance Committee	5		3
Strikes and Lockouts	9		7
Temporary Transfers Time Lost Due to Stormy Weather	13 APP. 5		9
Union Security	3		2
Vacations	20		19
Wage and Job Classification	16		15
Wage Rates - Moncton Feed Plant	APP. 2	(a)	
Wage Rates - Moncton Distribution Centre Weekend Shift - Grocery Weekend Shift - Produce	APP. 2 APP. 6 APP. 7	(b)	
AGREEMENT
ARTICLE
101.
102.
ARTICLE
201.
202.
BETWEEN
LOCAL 1288P, UNITED POOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - AFL - CIO - CLC (hereinafter called the Union)
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC Moncton, N. B.
(hereinafter called the Co-operative)
PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to ensure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to ensure fair wages,' hours and other working conditions.
It is recognized by this agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
- RECOGNITION
The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the Collective Bargaining Agent for its employees in the Moncton Feed Plant and in the Moncton Distribution Centres with the exception of: Feed Plant Manager: Feed Plant Superintendent; Distribution Centre Managers; Foremen; Office Employees; Servicemen; Maintenance Men; Carpenters; Mechanics: Watchmen: and Stationery Engineers.
The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform faithfully and diligently their respective duties for the Co-operative, and that they will at all times carry out their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods, and procedures established by management, subject to the provisions of this agreement.
. . . . 2
2
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION CONT'D
203.	The Union, recognizing that the Co-operative owes its
very existence to members' support of local Co-operatives, agrees to encourage its members to support their &«nalCo-operative and Co-op Label Products.
ARTICLE 3 ~ UNION SECURITY
301.	Maintenance of Membershin
a)
The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain membership in the Union during the term of this agreement. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly dues.
Modified Rand Formula
The Co-operative further agrees that is shall be. <x condition of employment that any employee hired after the signing of this agreement shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly Union dues from date of hire.
303. No Discrimination or Penalty
a)	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member IrTtlie—Union-“except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee. to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind* whatsoever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union;
b)	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance -ana shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
304.	Check-Off
a)	With regard to employees hired before the signing .	.	of this agreement, the Co-operative agrees that it
<W	will, upon receipt or writterr'mbartrx.v^'irxt»iiinform
/ \	prescribed in Appendix 1 (a) attached, and so long
as the employee remains a member of the Union, deduct regular monthly Unions dues.
. . .3
- 3 -
304.
ARTICLE
401.
a)
b)
c)
d)
402.
ARTICLE
501.
Check-Off Cont*d
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this agreement it shall be a condition of employment that such employee give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix 1 (b) attached, written authorization to deduct regular monthly Union dues for the duration of the agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to deduct Union dues from the employee's pay at the end of each month and to forward the total amount to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the 10th day of the month following. The Union will certify in writing to the Co-operative the amount of the monthly membership dues.
d)	The Union agrees that the amount of the monthly dues to be deducted from members during the term of the Agreement "snail be levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Local Union.
4 ~ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
maintain order, discipline and efficiency: hire, suspend, discharge for just cause, classify, transfer, promote, demote. No employee will be demoted as a disciplinary measure.;
judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual _.e^nrd _pyees ;
manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified bv this -a.ataa.m.e.n.t
5 - STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
For the purposes of this article, there will be three (3) locations:
1.	Price Street
2.	Henri Dunant
3.	Feed Mill
. . . . 4
4
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS & GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE CONT*_Q
502. In order to facilitate the orderly processing of complaints and grievances, the Co-operative acknowledges the union's right to select:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
503.
504.
505.
One (1) steward from each shift at each location (produce shifts will be separate from other shifts).
One (1)chief steward (in addition to the above) at each location.
One (1) steward for the truck drivers at Price Street which, for the purposes of this article, will be considered a shift at the Price Street location.
A Grievance Committee at each location consisting of the Chief Steward and any two (2) other permanent employees. The Unit Chairperson shall have the right to participate in any and all union related activities.
A Union Grievance Committee of two (2) representatives from the committees at each location noted above who would act on behalf of the whole Bargaining Unit in any grievance that is raised jointly by the Plant and the Distribution Centres employees under section 6.03 below. The'union shall Keep management, informed as to the names
of current officers, Grievance Committees.	stewards	and	members	of	the
It is understood that	Stewards	and	members	of	the
Grievance Committees have their regular work to perform as employees of the Co-operative. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that A*	is necessary to service a grievance during
working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining the Co-operative representative's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
In order that a loss of production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible and on this understanding the Co-operative agrees that Stewards shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
Meetings between the management and the Grievance committees shall be held on the premises of the Co-operative and those members of the Union Committee who [ must attend such meetings during working hours will be ! paid by the Co-operative for time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be ' unreasonably frequent.
506.	For the purpose of Collective Bargaining the Employer
shall recognize a Union negotiating committee of not more than five (5) employees of the Co-op, one of whom shall be the Unit Chairperson.
’ The members of the Union negotiating team, as per Article 5:06 above, will bge paid up to a maximum of 7 days, 8 hours per day at the regular rate of pay for the time I spent negotiating.	.... 5
507.
- 5 -
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
a
601.	Should complaints or grievances arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under this agreement, there shall be no strike, slow-down, stoppage of work, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lock-outs by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
602.	a) It is agreed that grievagnces at any location (as defined
in article 5.01 above) will be processed by the Stewards and Grievance Committee for that location. Grievances arising under section 6.03 below, will be dealt with by the Union Grievance Committee (as defined in article 5.02 (e) above).
b)	Grievances relating to disciplinary action shall be submitted to the management level who imposed the discipline.
c)	"When Management calls an employee in on a disciplinary matter or if discussions lead to a disciplinary situation, the steward shall be present unless the employee otherwise decides."
603.	It is agreed that in the case of aiiy general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee may present the grievance in writing directly to the Personnel Manager. Subsequent action will be governed by Steps 4 and 5 of the normal Grievance Procedure.
604.	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within three (3) days (subject to Section 702) of the occurrence and shall be handled in the following manner:
STEP 1
The employee accompanied by a steward, shall discuss the grievgance with his immediate supervisor. The decision of the immediate supervisor shall be given within twenty-four hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 2
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, then the Union shall put the grievance in writing on suitable forms and the Chief Steward, or their alternate, shall submit it to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 4 to the agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within forty-eight hours, excluding weekends and holidays. STEP 3
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 4 to this agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within forty-eight hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
. . . . 6
6
ARTICLE 6 ~ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE CONT'D
STEP 4
If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 4 to this agreement and the latter shall arrange a meeting between himself, or his appointee, and the Grievance Committee to attempt to resolve the grievance. At such meeting the management person referred to above may be accompanied by up to four other representatives of management and the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by the Business Agent or International Representative of the Union.
STEP 5
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at Step 4 then either party may request arbitration as provided in Article 8 below. If neither party notifies the other of its intention (as per Section 801 below) within twenty-one days of having received the written decision at Step 4, then the grievance shall be deemed to be settled. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement in writing, of the parties concerned.
ARTICLE 7 - DISCHARGE
701.	An employee will not be discharged from the employment of
the Co-operative without just cause. The following grounds are considered just cause within the meaning of this agreement. Incompetency; inefficiency, absence from work without good reason: being under the influence of alcohol while at work.
The above mentioned grounds are not to be deemed exclusive, but merely descriptive and any other acts of substance relative to the character or fitness of the person may be considered cause.
702.	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained
seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the appropriate management person at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure within four working days of the discharge.
ARTICLE 8 ~ ARBITRATION
801.	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has
not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
_________7
- 7 -
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION CONT'D
r 1
802.	a) When either party wishes to submit a grievance to arbitration it shall notify the other party in writing and, at the same time, state its preference for a single arbitrator or an arbitration board.
b)	If a single arbitrator has been requested, the party receiving the notice shall advise the other in writing of its approval or disapproval within five (5) days of receiving notice.
c)	If it is agreed to proceed with a single arbitrator, the parties shall immediately undertake to reach agreement on a person to act as arbitrator. If the parties are unable to reach such agreement within five (5) days of receipt of the aforementioned reply by the party initiating the arbitration, then each party shall, within a further three (3) days, indicate to the other the name of its appointee to an arbitration board.
d)	The two appointees shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second appointee, meet or confer to define the grievance and attempt to resolve it and, if unaditf dtr resolVe'~xhh~grievance, shall attempt to agree upon a Chairman. If unable to agree on a chairman, they shall request the Minister of Labour and Manpower for the Province of New Brunswick to appoint one.
803.	Time limits referred to in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, of the two parties.
804.	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
805.	The decision of the single arbitrator or of the majority of the Board or of the Chairman, failing a majority Board decision, shall be bir.dir.g on the parties to this Agree“.sr.t.
806.	Each of the parties hereto shall share equally the expense of the single arbitrator or of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board and shall bear the full expense of its own appointee to an Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 9 - NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK
901. a) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in) , any sit-down or slow-down or any strike or stoppage of operations, or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production, or any picketing of the Co-operative's premises, during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
. . . . 8
8
ARTICLE Q - NON INTERRUPTION OF WORK CONT'D
901.	b) The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct
any lock out of employees during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
902.	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the agreement, until all steps relating the conciliation procedure in the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
ARTICLE 10 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
1001.	a)
1002. a)
b)
c)
ARTICLE 11 -
New employees will be considered as probationary employees for the first ninety (90) consecutive calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employee shall not be the subject of a grievance, but all other conditions of this agreement shall apply. At the completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be back-dated to his last date of hiring.
If an employee is absent for more than ten (10) working days during his probationary period, management may extend his probationary period by up to an equal number of working days. Management agrees to notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate section in writing of such extension and the employee' s start date. Management and the Union will sign such notice once the content of such notice is agreed upon.
Employees hired on or after May 1 in any year to replace employees on vacation will not acquire seniority rights or be eligible for employee benefits until September 15 of that year after which their seniority will be backdated to the last date of hire and Article 1001 will apply.
Management will notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate location in writing of each such person hired with start date and reason for hire.
The number of vacation relief employees on staff at any given time will be based on the vacation schedule to be finalized no later than April 15 of each year.
SENIORITY
1101.
There shall be two kinds of seniority, sectional seniority and bargaining unit-wide seniority. Sectional seniority shall be an employee's service with the Co-operative within one section (i.e. Feed Plant or Distribution Centres) and shall be applicable to promotions,	transfers, layoffs,
recalls and as may be set out in other provisions
Ui UUb /lyj.	c
- 9 -
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY. CONT'D
1101.
1102.
a)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be the accumulated service of an employee with the Co-operative in both sections and shall prevail in all matters of interpretation of this agreement except where sectional seniority is expressly indicated.
b)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be established from the date an employee last entered or last enters the service of the Co-operative, subject to Article 1001.
c)	Sectional Seniority will not be transferrable from one section to another but will be retained in the section where it is earned. The Seniority List will show this.
d)	When more than one individual is hired at the same time, their initial interview time will determine their placement on the Seniority list.
A seniority list showing each employee's status shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board in each section within thirty days after the signing of this agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure, a „ . „ senior’jtuj list shall be post^ every three (3) months thereafter.
ARTICLE 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY
1201. An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and f.iw	removed Oiom..	.oritv.j1	!..£•
a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance Procedure;
c)	he is laid off from the Distribution Centre or Feed Plant section for a period in excess of nine (9) consecutive months, if he has less than two years seniority at time of lay-off, or for a period in excess of twelve consecutive months if he has two years or more seniority at the time of lay-off.
d)	Notwithstanding (c) above, no employee's seniority will be cancelled due to lay-off beyond twelve (12) months as a result of a shut-down from the destruction and rebuilding of the facility.
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
1301.	Where an employee is temporarily assigned to a job in a
higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, he will be paid, for such assignment, at the corresponding step in the higher grade.	.... 10
- 10
ARTICLE 13 ~ TEMPORARY TRANSFERS CONT * D
1302.
1303.
1304 □
1305.
1306.
a)	In the Distribution Centres, where a temporary assignment of one week or more in duration becomes available, preference in filling it will be given to employees in lower grades on the same shift within the same functional area (i.e.: Hardware; Produce ; Grocery/Dry Goods) and then to employees who are on night/ evening shifts and the selection from amongst these will be based on seniority provided the senior person is able to do the job.
b)	In the Feed Mill, employees will be given
preference in order of seniority over outside help in filling such temporary assignments in higher grades on the same shift, provided they are able to do the job.
An employee who replaces a foreman or other supervisory employee temnprarilv, for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, shall receive $1.00 per hour additional pay for the duration of such transfer.	,
Employees on temporary assignments as in 1301 or 1303 above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former rate.
a)	A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period of the employee being replaced.
b)	If the regular incumbent's absence on sick leave or workmen's compensation extends beyond three (3) months, the job will be posted and filled under clause 1401, provided that should the regular incumbent return from sick leave or compensation he will return to his previous job and the replacement to his previous job and so forth with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
If a holiday (as set out in Article 18) falls in a period when an employee is replacing someone in a higher classification, the employee shall he paid for the holiday at the rate he receives for time worked on the temporary transfer.
This clause shall apply only where the temporary transfer was in effect the day before the holiday. For the purpose of qualifying for the higher rate under 1301 or 1303, above, the holiday will count as a working day.
....11
11
ARTICLE 14 ~ PERMANENT PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS. AND RECALLS
1401.
a)	When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, including any new position, it shall be posted within forty-eight (48) hours, "at~ all locations, and shalT^remain posted for seventy-two (72) hours before the vacancy is permanently filled. If a longer delay is necessary, the Union shall be advised in writing of the reasons.
b)	All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for forty-eight (48) hours before they are permanently filled.
c)	Where workers concerned are absent for legitimate reasons, these time limits may be extended.
d)	Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during this absence must advise his immediate supervisor accordingly, leaving the telephone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable effort to contact such employee. If unable to contact the employee, the Union Steward shall be so notified.
1402,
1403.
Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing
to the supervisor indicated on the posting.
a)	In the event of a permanent promotion or a
permanent transfer, within either section of the bargaining unit, to fill a posted _ vacancy, preference 'oiraYL ue	une jjastfe-dirsectional
Seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
b)	If no employee from the section in which the vacancy occurs bids on the job, preference shall he given to employees from the other section on the basis of Bargaining Unit-Wide Seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
c)	Where promotions or permanent transfers are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union, in writing, of the decision and the reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
d)	If no employee from either section, having the required ability, skill and competence to perform the work, bids on the job, management shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for the job.
. ...12
-12
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS. AND RECALLS
CONT'D
1403. e) Where a person from outside the unit is hired in either section to fill a posted job and the employee from one of the sections had bid on the job, the Co-operative shall advise the Unit Chairperson and the Chief Steward of the section where the job is located, of its reasons for doing so before the employee goes onto the job.
f)	In the Distribution Centre Section, when a job bid is made for a within-grade transfer, Management may decline that job bid if it feels that the transfer will interfere with the efficiency of that section.
g)	A notice, stating to whom the job was given shall be posted on the Union's bulletin boards within forty-eight (48) hours (excluding week-ends and holidays) after the vacancy is filled.
1404. a)
The successful applicant for a posted job shall be given a trial and trajjjing of up to 30 calendar days. This trial and training period may he extended by mutual consent of the Union and Management.
b)	A promoted or transferred employee within the same section shall have his former job protected for thirty (30) calendar days. If within the first thirty (30) calendar days on the new job, either he proves unsatisfactory, as determined by Management, or he decides not to continue in that job, he shall be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without any loss of seniority. Any employee who was transferred to fill a vacancy created by the first promotion or transfer shall also be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without loss of seniority.
If such promotion or transfer is between sections, the trial period may he extended by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and Management.
c)	A replacement shall be selected from the balance of the applicants, provided one such applicant has the necessary skill, ability and competence to meet the job requirement. Preference shall be given on the basis of section seniority where two or more of the applicants have relatively equal skill, ability and competence to perform the work. If none of the balance of the applicants meet the job requirements, or if there was only one applicant t „ thtoriginal postJ.gg the job gshall be reposted.
d)	If there are no suitable applicants following the reposting, then the Co-operative shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for the job.
. ...13
13
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS. AND RECALLS
CONT1D
1405.	In the event of a lay-off within either section of the Bargaining Unit, retention”" shall be on the basis of sectional seniority,provided the senior employee is able to perform the work avaXTable” in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization or training and trial period of not less than five (5) work days nor. more than thirty (30) calendar days.
1406.	a) The Co-operative shall give an employee two (2) weeks notice of a planned lay-off of one week or more and two days notice of a lay-off of less than one week, except where the latter clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable, e.g.:	Acts of God.
b)	Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority where jobs become available, provided they have the proven ability to perform such jobs.
c)	The employer shall give notice of recall by telephone or telegram confirmed by registered letter to the last telephone number and address given to the employer in writing by the employee. The employee shall advise the employer of his intentions by telephone or telegram confirmed by registered letter as soon as possible, but, in any case, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered "Letter. If he fails to do so, he will forfeit his right to recall. if he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within seven (7) days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall.
d)	An emDlovee may refuse to exercise his right to recall to other than his regular iob without prejudicing his right to future recall if:
1. He so advises the employer, in the manner prescribed in (c) above, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received a recall notice by registered mail; and
2. There is a junior employee on layoff in the same grade or lower with proven ability to do the job.	"*
1407.	a) No supervisory person will be transferred into the Bargaining Unit except where there is a vacancy that is not filled through the posting procedure. Seniority earned thereafter will apply in the section where it is earned, swniority accumulated prior to leaving the bargaining unit will remain, provided the persons absence has not exceeded six (6) months.
b)	Any member of the Bargaining Unit who is promoted to a job outside the unit shall have his old job protected for thirty (30) days. After that time, he shall be subject to 1407 (a) above.	'
----14
14
ARTICLE 14 ~ PER]

PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS^ CONT1D
LAY-OFFS. AND RECALLS
1407. c) A working foreman will be allowed on an evening or night shift provided that the number supervised does not exceed seven (7) and so long as it has no effect on existing Bargaining Unit jobs or members.
ARTICLE 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
^501. a) The Co-operative will grant leave of absence without pay '	' gof up two weeks per year to employees to enable them to
attend labour schools, conferences or conventions, provided that the employee advises management at least two weeks in advance. Not more than one employee per shift or two employees per location may be absent at the same time except at the Price Street location where up to three (not more than one per shift) may be absent at the same time. Requests for increase of numbers of individuals and/or the extension to the length of the leave of absence will be given consideration taking into account operational requirements.
b) The terms "shift” and "location" in this article shall have the same meaning as in 5.01 and 5.02 above.
The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for other reasons, which in the opinion of management, are legitimate and which do not, in combination with (a), above, present staffing problems.
d)	Any leave of absence under (a) or (c) above, must be in writing to the employee and signed by the Department Manager.
1502.	Any leave of absence granted under 1501 will not affect an employee's seniority rights or his employee benefits provided the employee maintains his regular contributions to the plans.
1503.	a) An employee wishing to engage in (full-time dnion work shall be granted leave of absenbs—without' loss of seniority, provided that:
he gives thirty (30) days notice of application for such leave;
the leave of absence does not exceed one year: not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
b) The effect of such leave of absence on employee benefits shall be the same as for a lay-off (see Article XXIII).
1504.	If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work.
. ...15
15
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION
1601.	A schedule of job classifications and wages shall be attached to this agreement in the form of. Appendix 2 and shall be part of the agreement.
1602.	The steps of the grades indicate the within-grade increases that can be anticipated by employees. Such increases are not automatic but will depend upon satisfactory progress. The Unit Chairperson shall be notified if a review is to be delayed, or if an increase is to be withheld. The steward of the affected individual (s) shall be present when such individuals (s) are notified.
1603.	An employee who is promoted to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies shall be paid at the corresponding step in the higher grade except that he will not be paid the top rate until he has completed thirty (30) days in the new job or any extended trial period agreed to under article 1404	(b) . Upon completion of such period, any increase
shall then be paid retroactively to the date of promotion.
1604.
a)	A Shift Premium of fifty-five (550) per hour will be I paid for hours worked on the evening shift and of \ sixty-five (650) per hour for hours worked on the night \ shift as described in (b) below.
b)	For purposes of this agreement, an employee is considered to be on the evening shift if the major part
of his regular work day falls between 4:00 p.m. and /nOO^S midnight. Likewise an employee is considered to be on J the night	_w„h^. n	part of his regular work
day falls between midnight and 8:00 a.m.
c) The schedule of hours and days of work of each employee shall be posted in an appropriate place. This schedule may be altered from time to time as required for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative' s business. If an employee's schedule is changed without forty-eight (48) hours notice, such employee shall be paid one and one-half (1^) times his regular rate for all hours worked within the required period of notice.
ARTICLE 17 - COLA
A cost-of-living allowance will become effective during the second year of this agreement if the rise in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.) (1981=100) published by Statistics Canada exceeds 5.0% of the August, 1991, C.P.I., which shall be the base figure, on the following basis:
. ...16
16
ARTICLE 17 - COLA CONT'D
Starting on the first of the month in which the published c.P.l. exceeds 105.0% of the August, 1991, figure, a premium of one half cents (1 -50) per hour for each 0.3 point that the C.P.l. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regular rate. The C.P.l. will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium will be adjusted as necessary to keep it at one half cent (1.5$) per hour for each 0.3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustment will be made to the premium after September 24, 1992.
ARTICLE 18 ~ HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
1801.	a) PRODUCE - Hours of work will be:
Evening Shift: 2:30 p.m. to 11:00 midnight Sunday to Thursday inclusive:
Day Shift:	Regular hours as set out below in (f)
Niaht Shift:	11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. starting Sunday at
11:00 p.m. and finishing at 7:30 a.m. Friday.
Weekend Shift: refer to Appendix 7
b) PRICE STREET (EXCLUDING PRODUCE) - The hours of work will be:
Evening Shift:	2:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Sunday to
Thursday inclusive.	.
Night Shift:	11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. starting Sunday at
11:00p.m. and finishing Friday 7:30 a.m.:
Day Shift:	Regular hours as noted below in (f) :
Weekend Shift: See Appendix 6
c)	TRUCK/TRACTOR DRIVERS - First fifty (50) hours per week Monday to Friday, inclusive, to be at regular rate with overtime in excess of fifty (50) hours at one and one-half (l*s) times the regular rate.
d)	HENRI DUNANT - Regular hours as noted in (f) below:
Dav Shift:	7:00 am -	3:30 pm Monday to Friday
inclusive.
EVENING SHIFT 3:30 pm - 12:00 am Monday to Friday Inclusive
e)
FEED MILL - The hours of work will be:
Dav Shift - 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Evening Shift - 4:30p.m.	- 1:00 a.m., starting Monday
at 4:30 p.m. and finishing Saturday at 1:00 a.m.
Niaht Shift: 11:30 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Sunday to Friday
REGULAR WORK	~ ?;3f> a.m. - 4:00 p-m_; 8 hours per
day: Monday through Friday: 40 hours per week.
Double time will be paid for Sunday work except for employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday in 1801, above, in which case double time will be paid for Saturday work.
. ...17
17
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME CONT1D
1802.	b) If an employee is required to work on the Saturday of a long weekend, he will be paid double time for the hours worked.
c)	Time and one-half shall be paid after eight (8) hours worked in any day or after forty (40) hours or for any hours worked outside a regular shift in any week except in the case of truck and tractor drivers who are subject to 1801 (c).
d)	The truck and tractor drivers shall be paid time and one-half for hours worked in excess of fifty (50) in any week.
1803.	The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-half hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods should not be abused.
1804.	Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a thirty (30) minute meal period.
1805.	a) Where an employee works two (2) hours or more overtime in a day ( provided such overtime and regular hours are continuous not including meal and break periods) the Co-operative shall pay such an employee a meal suppl«am£wvt of five dollars and fifty <rrfrtr ($5.50).
b) Where an employee works overtime on Saturday, he will be paid the meal supplement only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime is scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, te.e./i tks employee shall be responsible for his own lunch.
c) Tractor drivers shall be granted a meal supplement of $38.50 per week in lieu of 1805 (a) above. All expenses related to the maintenance of equipment and for tolls will be borne by the Co-operative.
1806.	An employee who has c^one home and is esqec|a 1lv, called baclf
to work in any emergency outside his normal working hours, \ shall be paid four (4) hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with provisions of 1802, whichever is more advantageous to him.
1807.	Any employee who is unable to appear for his scheduled shift will notify his immediate supervisor or the appropriate Superintendent as soon as possible, preferably not later than one-half (1/2) hour after the shift begins and will give, wherever possible, twenty-four (24) hours notice of when he will return to work.
. ...18
18
ARTICLE 18 ~ HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME CONT'D
1808.	Management shall endeavour to give employees twenty-four (24) hours notice where overtime is to be worked. In any event, if overtime in excess of one (1) hour is to be worked, notice of four (4) hours working time shall be given, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned.
In cases of emergency beyond the reasonable control of management, it is agreed that notice of overtime will be waived.
1809.	a) When overtime is required, bargaining unit employees with seniority, who are normally responsible for doing the work,or if they are not available, their temporary replacement, shall be given preference in performing the required overtime work.
b) In the event that employees noted in (a) above are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees within the section who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner and who are available. Janitor's seniority shall be recognized for the purposes of overtime provided the individual can perform the required work in a satisfactory manner.
c)	When overtime is required at the end of a regular shift, "available" shall mean "actually on hand".
Under certain circumstances, employees may be paid for up to two (2) hours missed in a day due to stormy weather. Details are set out in Appendix 5 to the agreement.
ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
1901.	a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all employees who have worked for thirty (30) days prior to the holiday at their regular rates for the ten following holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day New Brunswick Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
.19
19
ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS CONT'D
1901. b) If any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If Christmas Day and Boxing Day fall on Saturday and Sunday or Sunday and Monday, then they may be observed on Monday and Tuesday or Friday and Monday. If the work schedule is changed for holidays, it shall be discussed with the Union.
c) In addition to the ten holidays listed above, it is agreed that each employee who has been employed for thirty (30) days prior to his birthday shall be granted one additional paid holiday to be identified as "Employee' s Birthday11. Such holiday shall be observed on the empIoyE^S'actual birthday unless the employee arranges an alternate day with Management at least two weeks prior to his birthday. Such alternate day shall be within one week prior to or following the actual birthday. A birthday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or one of the holidays listed above shall be observed on such alternate day.
1902.	If an employee works on any of the above eleven (11]U-holidays, he shall be paid at two (2J times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in“addition to the eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify tinder Section 1901.
1903.	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay unless he works on the holiday or the first scheduled workday following the holiday.
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS
2001.	Annual vacations are provided to employees for the purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for attending to personal business. Vacation time will be allotted to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate Superintendent, based on his need to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference.
2002.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and less than two (2) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks.
.20
20
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS CONT'D
2003.	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
2004.
An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for three (3) full years but less than eleven (11) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
2005. An employee who by April 30, 1984, has been continuously employed for nine (9) years but less than ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half (%) day per month of completed service beyond nine(9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
2006.
An employee who by April 30, 1984, has been continuously employed for ten (10) full years but less than nineteen (19) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
2007. An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for nineteen (19) years but less than twenty (20) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-one (21) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2*5) days for any six (6) month period.
2008.
y i-
An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty (20) years but less than twenty-nine (29) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
2009.	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-nine (29) years but less than thirty (30) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-nine (29) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
2010.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been vJ, ' \q continuously employed for twenty- nine (29) years or more
h/ shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) work
J '}J	weeks.
2011.	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to one (1) day for each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
.. . .21
21
ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS CONT'D
2012,	VacatiJir fsy for each week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount may be reduced by one-fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1) with permission up to 30 days annually;
2) due to sickness up to 30 days annually; or such longer periods not exceeding six (6) months as an employee may be entitled to receive sick leave pay or sick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative;
3)	up to one year due to a compensable accident.
4)	all shift premiums shall be included as regular wages
for the purpose of vacation pay.
2013.	In no event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less that four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve months to April 30.
2014.
Employees are expected to take their vacation in the year in which it is credited. However, arrangements may be made to. *	-
carry over a portion of vacation credits on the same basis \ as all Co-op Atlantic Employees.	-	‘ j
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
2101.
A-permanent employee is entitled -to pay at the time of death of a member of his family, within the following limits:
leave with immediate
a) Spouse, Parent or child - five (5) working days;
b) Brother, sister, parent of spouse - three (3) working days;
c)	Grandparent, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, Grandchild - one (1) working day.
2102. Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the days of vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduled return from vacation he may be required to return on that date and use the remaining vacation credits at a later date.
2103. a) Where an employee attends the funeral of a relative specified above and such attendance required considerable travelling time, the employee is entitled to one-half (h) day of additional paid leave for each four hours of travel time required to a maximum of two (2) days. Individual requests for more travel time will be considered on their merits by the Department Manager or his appointee.
. ...22
22
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE CONT1D
2103. b)
ARTICLE 22 2201. a )
b)
2202. a)
2202. b)
C)
d)
This additional leave will not be paid where it occurs during an employee's vacation.	•
/\VU • •
- EMPLOYEE BENEFITS


All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the COrQP„Atlanfcic Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Sho?r~Term Disability Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, the Group Health Care Plan and the Group Dental Plan in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
The Co-operative will discuss any contemplated changes in the Group Benefit plans with the Union before any implementation thereof.
1.	All permanent employees shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) days sick leave with full regular pay in any one benefit year, May 1st -April 30th. Any employee hired after May 1st will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
2.	Within three weeks of the end of the benefit year
(May 1st - April 30th) each employee will be paid one hundred percent (100%) of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave to his credit at the end of the benefit year; or
All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall be covered under the Short Term Disability Plan commencing with the eighth calendar day of disability providing they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer, an outline of which is attached as Appendix 3 (a) to this agreement.
A permanent employee who has used all of this full-pay sick leave credits and subsequently is absent due to sickness will receive supplementary sick leave pay equal to two-thirds (2/3) of his regular pay for any such days. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five consecutive work days.
It is agreed that the employees' interest in any reduction of Unemployment Insurance contributions after January 1st, 1973 that may result from the upgrading of the Co-operative's sick leave plans shall be waived in view cjf tire increased bsns^iirs- ’p.r'ivided in this a r tj .c-i.a and elsewhere in the agreement.
. ...23
23

RTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONT'D
2202.	e) 1. The Co-operative may at any time require a satisfactory medical certificate in support of a claim for sick leave. Any claim covering more than five consecutive days must be supported by such a medical certificate. Similarly, any claim covering one or more days immediately preceding or following a holiday must be supported by a medical, certificate unless the employee phones in to his immediate supervisor on each such day he is absent and the supervisor agrees to waive this requirement. -
2.	To be satisfactory a medical certificate must specify the date and nature of the J-Jlnessand the duration of time such illness preventea® the employee from working. It must be signed by a qualified medical practitioner.
3.	The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
f) Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
2203.	a) Where an employee is absent and receiving sick leave or disability benefits under this agreement or under Workers Compensation, his -c^ai-ous benefits under group insurance plans will be kept in effect at no cost to him, except that the employee's normal full two-week share of the premiums will be taken from any pay cheque received by the employee after the sick leave commences.
b) The group benefits in question are:
Group
Tjijfrt:
^(d^/’Insurance; Short Term and Long Term Disability; Blue 1 X . Cross: and Dental.	---■
'y \ Crpssj
/ r>\ ' IT"- -	-
c)
d)
The level of Group Life insurance will be based on the employee's salary at date the leave began but will vary upward or downward to reflect any changes in dependency status in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Plan.
Durincr absence of the employee, as above; no contributions will be made to the Pension Plan but there will be no reduction in service for pension purposes as a result of such absence(s).
2204.	Miscellaneous
a)	The Co-operative agrees to supply smocks to janitors and those employed in recoup at no cost to the employees.
b)	Further the Co-operative agrees to make smocks available to those employed in produce for their use when needed.
c)	The employer will provide a boot allowance of 50% of the cost of boots up to a maximum of $ 40.00 per calendar year, upon presentation of a receipt.
. ...24
24
ARTICLE 23 - EFFECT OF LAY-OFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
2301.	Except where provided in 2203. above, where an employee misses time during the year (January 1st to December 31st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences if they total four work weeks or more shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
2302.	a) An employee on layoff may keep his coverage under the
Group Life? Blue Cross and Dental Plans in effect for up to twelve (12) months by paying the full premium three (3) months in advance (subject to agreement by the 4-nsu-r^r^ . Should, t-he employee return before the prepaid premium is used up, he will be refunded the unused portion and deductions will resume on the regular basis.
b) The level of Group Insurance will be determined as in 2203.	(c), above .
2303.	An employee will not be eligible for sick leave while on lay-off except that where he was receiving such benefits at time of lay-off the claim will be handled as if no lay-off had occurred.
2304. a)
b)
c)
Coverage under the Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans ceases at time of lay-off except that where benefits were being received at time of lay-off they will continue to be paid so long as the employee meets the conditions of disability as,set out in the Plan (s). An employee who returns from lay-off to full-time work within twelve (12) months of lay-off will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work. .
An employee who returns to full-time work after more than twelve (12) months lay-off will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three (3) months' service.
2305. An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of lay-off.
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE PAY
2401. a)
Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed five (5) consecutive years' service or more and the termination was not a dismissal for "cause", the Co-operative will pay to the employee one jafiek1 s pay at his current rate for each full year of Service to a maximum of twenty-five (25) weeks.
An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his seniority rights empire.
. ...25
25
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE PAY CONT'D
2401. c) An employee aged fifty-five (55) or older who is laid off may take severance pay at any time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority and, in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement^ silb'jedt to t’ne terms ana canaitions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
2402. a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that the severance allowance will be paid where termination results from technological change, automation, re-organization or other reason beyond the control of the' employee.
For the purposes of this Agreement the term "technological change" shall be understood to mean changes Introduced by Co-op Atlantic in the manner in which it carries out its daily operations and service where such change or changes significantly affect(s) the terms and conditions or security of employment of a member or members of the bargaining jj/v 2r or alters significantly the basis on which this Agreement was negotiated.
The employer shall notify the Union 4 months before the introduction of any technological change.
Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by the affected employee (s) under the present methods of operation, such employee shall, at the expense—of-4he—employer , be given a reasonable period of time to acquire the skiJLls_ necessrtated by the new method of operation. ~
The Employer shall, if dictated by the change, reassign affected individuals to an appropriate classification within the attached appendices.
33. Likewise, it is understood that the severance allowance will not be paid when the employee:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
resigns voluntarily
is laid off prior to age 55 and and has seniority rights is dismissed for just cause and this is not reversed through grievanc procedure
has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-on Atlantic Employees Pension Plan	‘	~
prior to“age bb is offered'other employment within Co-op Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable in relation to his qualifications, experience, age, etc.
)4. a) It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this article, such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee, his beneficiary or estate as the case may be.
...26
26
b) The date of payment shall be as m^ues ucu jjy the. employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve a (12) months after the employee's last day of employment with the Co-operative.
ARTICLE 25 - BULLETIN ROATTOS
2501. The Co-operative agrees to provide a suitable notice board at the Feed Plant, the Price Street Distribution Centre (one for Grocery/Di^r Goods and one for Produce) , and the Henri Dunant Distribution Centre for the exclusive use of the Union in posting notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
ARTTPT.E - CORRESPONDENCE
2601. Except where otherwise provided, official communications in the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed as shown below:
Local 1288P
United Food and Commercial Workers Randy Lewis R.R.#3
Salisbury, N.B.
EOA 3E0
ARTICLE 27 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
2701. This agreement shall remain in effect from the 25th dav of September. 1990 to the 24th day of September, 1992 and sHertl continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this agreement, or to negotiate a new one.
. ...27
27
ARTICLE 27 - TERM OF AGREEMENT CONT'D
2702. If at the date of expiration a new agreement has not been signed, the present agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by law of the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
THIS AGREEMENT signed this _____________________________ day of
______________A.D.,	1991 between the parties hereinbefore
mentioned.
LOCAL 1288P
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
CO-OP ATLANTIC	INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC
APPENDIX 1 (a)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I __________________________________________being an employee of Co-op
Atlantic at the (Feed Plant) ,'iDistn.DUtiOTi tenue; , i»u'nilijv5\njliand a member of Local 1288P of the United Food & Commercial" Workers International Union, hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of union initiation fee and monthly membership dues to Local 1288P of the said Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
NAME ____________________________________________ NUMBER_________________
ADDRESS__________________________________________________________________
WITNESS _________________________________________ DATE___________________
APPENDIX 1 (b)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
If ____________________________________being an employee of Co-op
Atlantic at the (Feed Plant), (Distribution Centre), at Moncton hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by TOsnkfcrs of Local 1288P, united Food & Commercial workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amount so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
NAME _______________________________________ NUMBER_______________
ADDRESS___________________________________________________________
WITNESS_____________________________________DATE__________________
APPENDIX 2 (a)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON FEED PLANT
JOB TITLES	EFF. DATE START 3 MOS. 6
GRADE I
Millhands - Warehouse	25	Sep.90	10.55	11.15	11.75
Sweeping	25	Sep.91	11.15	11.75	12.35
GRADE II					
Cleaner - Grader Operator	25	Sep.90	10.75	11.35	11.95
Fork-lift Operator Grinder-Roller Operator Packers-Sewers Bulk Unloader GRADE III	25	Sep.91	11.35	11.95	12.55
Bin Charger	25	Sep.90	10.95	11.55	12.15
Mixer Helper Control Room Operator(Mixer) Pellet Mill Operator Senior Packer-Sewer Shipper-Receiver Shipper-Receiver (Agri-Products) GRADE IV	25	Sep.91	11.55	12.15	12.75
Lead Hand - Night Shift					
Lead Hand - Agri-Products	25	Sep.90	11.15	11.75	12.35
Quality Controller	25	Sep.91	11.75	12.35	12.95
Truck Driver	25	Sep.90	11.06	11.66	12.26
	25	Sep.91	11.66	12.26	12.86
Tractor Driver	25	Sep.90	11.21	11.81	12.41
	25	Sep.91	11.81	12.41	13.01
Production Co-ordinator/	25	Sep.90	11.95	12.55	13.15
Pellet Mill Operator/Nights	25	Sep.90	12.55	13.15	13.75
. 12 MOS.
12.95
13.55
13.15
13.75
13.35
13.95
13.55
14.15
13.46
14.06
13.61
14.21
14.35
14.95
APPENDIX 2 (b)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES
MONCTON DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
.THR TT'TT.RS	EFF.DATE		START	3 MOS.	6 MOS.	12 MOS
JANITOR	25	Sep.90	10.55	11.15	11.75	12.95
	25	Sep.91	11.15	11.75	12.35	13.55
WAREHOUSEMAN I GENERAL WAREHOUSE DUTIES	25 25	Sep.90 Sep.91	10.75 11.35	11.35 11.95	11.95 12.55	13.15 13.75
WAREHOUSEMAN II __ _						
ASST. SHIPPERS	25	Sep.90	10.95	11.55	12.15	13.35
ASST. RECEIVERS	25	Sep.91	11.55	12.15	12.75	13.95
FORK-LIFT OPERATOR LOADERS MANABOARD OPERATOR Hardware Repack TRUCK DRIVER	25	Sep.90	11.06	11.66	12.26	13.46
	25	Sep.91	11.66	12.26	12.86	14.06
TRACTOR DRIVER	25	Sep.90	11.21	11.81	12.41	13.61
	25	Sep.91	11.81	12.41	13.01	14.21
WAREHOUSEMAN III						
SHIPPERS	25	Sep.90	11.15	11.75	12.35	13.55
RECEIVERS	25	Sep.91	11.75	12.35	12.95	14.15
RAILCAR RECEIVER (HENRI DUNANT)
EXPEDITER (HENRI DUNANT) RECEIVER RETURNS (HENRI DUNANT)
QUALITY CONTROL INVENTORY HANDLER Receiver Repack grocery Receiver Repack dry goods NOTE:
BOOKER-RECEIVER (Grocery) - .200 per hour premium will be paid to the employee doing this job.
APPENDIX 3 (a)
INCOME GUARANTEE lSHORT TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment of loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accident that prevents the employee from performing his normal duties.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.)
WAITING PERIOD
No benefits are paid for the first seven calendar days of any disability. DURATION OF COVERAGE
Maximum of fifty-two weeks (12 months) for any one disability. Should an employee return to work and go out again within thirty (30) days because of the same illness or accident, it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
PREMIUMS
31C per $100.00 of regular earnings (as at April 1/87) will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future increases in the premium.
EXCLUSIONS
1) Pregnancy; 2) war:	3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a
riot; 5) disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation; 6) benefits will also be reduced by the amount received by the employee from the Canada Pension Plan or under other similar legislation due to the same disability.
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off:
b)	on employee's 70th birthday
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
APPENDIX 3 (b)
INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment for loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational
BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.)
WAITING PERIOD
Benefits commence after 52 weeks (12 months) absence due to disability. DURATION OF COVERAGE
Benefits continue for 78 weeks (18 months) if the employee is totally disabled and unable to perform his normal duties. If disability continues, benefits are paid until the employee reaches age 65, provided he is totally disabled and prevented from engaging in any gainful occupation for which he is qualified or may reasonably become qualified. Should an employee return to work and go out again within six (6) months because of the same illness or accident it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
The employee's share of the premium is 18.4C per $100.00 of regular earnings as at April 1/87 which will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future increases in the premium.
EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
A.	1) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot.
B.	Benefits under this Plan will be reduced by the amount the insured person receives from:
1) Worker's Compensation: 2) basic disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan; 3) sick leave or other remuneration received from the employer; 4) payments under any other loss-of-earnings insurance after 78 weeks (18 months) .
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off:
b)	on employee's 65th birthday
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
accident.
PREMIUMS
APPENDIX 4
For purposes of Articles 6 and 7 of the Agreement, the "appropriate management person” will be:
Feed Plant	1) Grievor's Foreman (if on the shift,if not,
then would proceed to second step and Plant Superintendent)
2.	Plant Superintendent
3.	* PJA’rdr Manager
4.	Production Department Manager
Price St. Distribution Centre (excluding Produce and Drivers)
1.	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Distribution Centre Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Produce (excluding Drivers)
1. Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2. Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Senior Foreman
4.	Distribution Department Manager Henri Dunant Distribution Centre (excluding drivers)
1.	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Distribution Centre Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Drivers (distribution Centre(s)
1.	Grievor's Foreman - Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Transportation Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
APPENDIX 5
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER:
1.	In cases of severe bad weather (e.g. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, C.A.'s policy is to pay only for time worked.
2.	a) However, a "grace period" of two hours will be allowed^so that employees who arrive at work within two hours of their normal starting time will suffer no loss in pay.
b)	The "grace period" will only apply where the General Manager, in the case of Moncton operations, or the management person in charge at a location outside Moncton, rules that the storm did, in fact, constitute "severe bad weather".
c)	Such ruling will be made by the end of the first day after returning to normal operations and the manager making the ruling will be guided by the degree of absenteeism in the C.A. operation(s) during the storm and the observed severity of the storm.
3.	a) None of the foregoing will apply where an employee was notified at least one-halifiiuu’i'“uc±\?rc''his/her normal s*cuzf-j.rwg time not to come to work.
b)	Such notification may be by way of a general announcement over the local radio station or by a telephone call or personal visit to the employee's place of residence.
c)	It will be the responsibility of each employee, in times of stormy weather, to mmraA.i-.5vr the appropriate jtarLin.b'rnajinaRts and to see that he/she or some other adult is available to receive a message at his/her place of residence.
4.	Failing such notice any employee who shows up for work will be paid for a minimum of four hours (including any "grace period" whether or not there is work available.
5.	a) Where weather conditions deteriorate after commencement of the work day (or shift) and management decides to shut down the operation employees then at work will be paid to normal quitting time or two hours beyond actual punching out time, whichever is less.
b) However, no employee shall receive more than two hours pay for time not worked in any one day except as necessary to meet the minimum reporting pay requirements.
6.	a) Any employee who requests permission to leave early in the face of deteriorating weather conditions shall not be unreasonably denied such permission.
b) However, he/she shall be paid only for time worked unless the operation is subsequently shut down, in which case he/she will be entitled to the same "grace period" as any other employee in that section receives for that day.
cont1d...
APPENDIX 5
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER:
1.	In cases of severe bad weather (e.g. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, C.A.'s policy is to pay only for time worked.
2.	a) However, a "grace period" of two hours will be allowed so that employees vno ’arrive at work within two hours of their normal starting time will suffer no loss in pay.
b)	The "grace period" will only apply where the General Manager, in the case of Moncton operations, or the management person in charge at a location outside Moncton, rules that the storm did, in fact, constitute "severe bad weather".
c)	Such e made b y the end cfi the fiist day after returning to normal operations and the manager making the ruling will be guided by the degree of absenteeism in the C.A. operation(s) during the storm and the observed severity of the storm.
3.	a) None of the foregoing will apply where an employee was notified. . least one-half hour before Wj.s /her normal starting time not to come to work.
b)	Such notification may be by way of a general announcement over the local radio station or by a telephone call or personal visit to the employee's place of residence.
c)	It will be the responsibility of each employee, in times of stormy weather, to tnr the Tsdio Jv'c&iUcgstx and to see that he/she or some other adult is available to receive a message at his/her place of residence.
4.	Failing such notice any employee who shows up for work will be paid for a minimum of four hours (including any "grace period" whether or not there is work available,
5.	a) Where weather conditions deteriorate after commencement of the work day (or shift) and management decides to shut down the operation employees then at work will be paid to normal quitting time or two hours beyond actual punching out time, whichever is less.
b) However, no employee shall receive more than two hours pay for time not worked in any one day except as necessary to meet the minimum reporting pay requirements.
6.	a) Any employee who requests permission to leave early in the face of deteriorating weather conditions shall not be unreasonably denied such permission.
b) However, he/she shall be paid only for time worked unless the operation is subsequently shut down, in which case he/she will be entitled to the same "grace period" as any other employee in that section receives for that day.
cont'd...
APPENDIX 6
Grocery Hours
Overtime after 10 hours/day 40/wk Premium 2.25/hr:	Sat-Sun only
The first 2 consecutive days off will be considered their per Collective Agreement
Hours
Sat-Sun
Sat
Sun
Mon
7am - 5:30pm 5am - 3:30pm 5am - 3:30pm (flex)
Tues
5am - 3:30pm
The implementation and operation of these ,shifj current member of the Bargaining unit. This means
t4hese^hifts--wil 1
not affect any that no present
employee will be transfered to the above noted shifts against the employees will.
APPENDIX 7
Produce Hours
No posting of present weekend positions.
No present produce employee will be laid off as a result of the adoption of this, shift.
36 Hours paid for 40. Agreed rate of 40/36 X regular rate used for determining pay for hours missed or paid weeks worked.
For the purpose of overtime the schedule rate will be used. eg. 1.5 X Schedule rate.
Second lunch paid No
Overtime after 12 hours/day; 36 hours/week
Vacation	3-12 hour shifts paid at 40 hours/week
Sick Day Holiday
ALternatik? Day Off for WsVLiday - The	willeither
the Holiday off with pay or pay in lieu on the basis of 12 hours at their scheduled rate.
Senior Employee Preference
2 Consecutive Days Considered their Sat-Sun per collective
lagreement
Sat.	Enrolovee 2	7:00 a.m.- 8:00 p.m.
Sun.	2	7:00 a.m.- 8:00 p.m.
Tues.	4	7 a.m.- 8 p.m.
Thurs.	4	7 a.m.- 8 p.m.
Breaks 9 -9:15	2:30 - 2:45	12:00 - 12:30 5:00 -
The implementation and operation of these shifts will not affect any current member of the Bargaining unit. This means that no present employee will be transfered to the above noted shifts against the employees will.
LETTER OF INTENT
RE:	2201
The union and the company agree to strike a committee consisting of two (2) union and two (2) management representatives to study the attributes of the C.C.W.I. Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P).
Furthermore, the committee shall also discuss the acquisition of 100% dental benefits and the costing of such a plan.
For the Union
For the Co-operative
LETTER OF INTENT
Under the changes made to clause 1801 of this agreement, it is not the intention of the co-operative to load up the week-end shifts.
This letter is not subject to grievance/arbitration procedure.
W. Gollan Manager
Distribution Department
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
To All Bargaining Unit Employees:
The co-operative agrees that supervisors will not perform bargaining unit work that is not provided for in the Collective Agreement.
It is not the intent of the Co-operative to subject any employee to verbal slander, harassment, discrimination or intimidation.
The Co-operative is in full agreement with employees bringing their work related problems to their stewards. However, it is expected that non work related problems will be dealt with outside of working hours.
It is understood that if a supervisor becomes verbally abusive towards a steward during a Step 1 grievance meeting, the steward may elect to leave the meeting and proceed to the next step in the grievance procedure.
It is understood and agreed by both parties that courtesy and common sense will prevail in all dealings.
W. Gollan, Manager Distibution Department
DATE 06 JAM 92
13:59;25
REPORT GENERATION
FEDERAL
WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT NO. 0048105
JUR.LOiJ.iL. i .lON
FED :<
PROV
PSBRA
! DUR. OF NEGOTIATION:
SICs 105	..—-.......-.......-
COMPANY; Co-Op Atlantic (Feed Plant & Diet, Centres)
U N10 N;	U n :L fc e d Fa a d a n d Cam m e r c i a 1 W a r k e r s I n t e r n a t i. o n a 1 U n i o n
LOCATION; Moncton, N.B.
COLA:	NOME	DELETED	EXISTS X INACTIVE
COMMENTS;
1 SETTLEMENT DATE:
AGREEM. EFFEC. DATE; 900925 1 WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE; AGREEM. EXP. DATE; 920924 ! WAGE REOPENER DATE;
NO. OF EMPLOYEES;	230	!-..—......-...—.......
..—.....—----------------------! STAGE OF SETTLEMENT;
901001
900925
E
02
>
□COUP.; WAREHOUSEMAN I <12 MONTHS)
HOURS WORKED; 40.00
PREV. NEG. BASE RATE; 12.550 + COLA FOLD-IN AMT; < 0.000 ) =» 12.550
DATE RATE	7.	! DATE RATE	% i	DATE	RATE	z
900925 13.150	4.78 1	1 910925 13.750	4.56 1		0.000	0.
WAGE INCREASES;
LUMP SUM PAMNTS;	>
CHNGS. IN INCR.;	>
SPEC. ADJ.:	>
OTHER;
>
*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION **•*
CARRY-OVER FLOAT • 0.000	FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT:	(Y or N)
DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT
*** CURRENT COLA INFORMATION **•*
CPI TYPE; > CANS!	< # OF CALC.!	01 COMP. F3
COLA TYPE;
> 1.5 CENTS PER HOUR FOR EACH 0.3 POINT INCREASE
TRIGGER:	>
CAP:	>
COMP. PER.:
>	A1J G 91 \ A U G 9 2
>
FOLD-IN DTS: > OTHER;