COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
Local 53-0
(hereinafter called "the Union")
-and -
MASTERFEEDS INC.
Baden Plant
(hereinafter called "the Company")
April 1,2005 to March 31, 2007
ARTICLE I ARTICLE II ARTICLE III ARTICLE IV ARTICLE V ARTICLE VI ARTICLE VII ARTICLE VIII ARTICLE IX ARTICLE X ARTICLE XI ARTICLE XII ARTICLE XIII ARTICLE XIV
ARTICLE XV ARTICLE XVI ARTICLE XVII ARTICLE XVIII ARTICLE XIX ARTICLE XX ARTICLE XXI
SCHEDULE I SCHEDULE II
LETTER
LETTER
LETTER
LETTER
LETTER
APPENDIX A
2
INDEX
PAGE NO.
PURPOSE........................................3
RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE.......................3
NETOTIATING COMMITTEE AND STEWARDS.............4
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS............4
RELATIONSHIP...................................5
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.....................5
PLANT HOLIDAYS.................................8
VACATIONS WITH PAY.............................8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE............................10
ARBITRATION....................................12
NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK.......................13
SENIORITY......................................13
LAYOFF AND RECALL..............................14
TEMPORARY TRANSFER, PROMOTION
AND JOB POSTING................................16
WAGE RATES.....................................18
BULLETIN BOARDS................................19
LEAVE OF ABSENCE...............................19
WELFARE BENEFITS AND SAFETY....................20
SEVERANCE PAYMENT..............................20
MISCELLANEOUS..................................21
TERMINATION....................................21
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES.........................23
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM...................24
EMPLOYEE GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS..............25
1995 NEGOTIATIONS - SR. MAINTENANCE............28
VACATION.......................................29
MODIFIED DUTIES/MODIFIED RETURN TO WORK........30
EARLY HOURS....................................31
SHIFT SCHEDULE
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
3
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain the harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunder, and to further provide means of operating the Baden Plant in a mannerwhich will further in all possible ways, the welfare and safety of the employees and to cooperate in all matters to the mutual interest and advantage of the employees and the Company.
ARTICLE II- RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
2.01	The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of Masterfeeds Inc. located at Baden, Ontario excluding foremen, those above the rank of foreman and office and sales staff.
2.02	(a) All employeeswho have obtained membership in the Unionshall, asacondition
of employment, maintain such membershipand pay such initiationfees, regular Union dues or special assessments as are uniformly levied.
(b)	All other current employees shall as a condition of employment pay equivalent amounts as to those required in (a) above.
/cx All employees hired subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, obtain and maintain membership in the Union.
2.03	Upon receipt of proper notification from the Union, the Company will deduct the amounts as stipulated in Section 2.02 above from each employee who has income equal to five (5) or more days' pay in any month. The Company further agrees to remit the amounts so deducted together with a statement reflectingthe deductions from each employee monthly to the Union.
2.04	It is the intentionof the Company to utilize the skills and experience of its employees. When required because of economic justification, skill requirements, necessary equipment or work not normally associated with the plant, the Company will engage outside services. In such cases, other than routine matters, the Company will advise the Union and discuss the situation if requested to do so prior to instituting the change.
2.05	Persons outside the bargaining unit shall not perform or engage in bargaining unit functions except for:
(a)	those specifically provided by this collective agreement,
(b)	training employees,
- 4 -
/c\	emergencies or hazardous conditions, where immediate threat to the safety of
individuals or destruction of equipment is apparent.
and in the performance of maintenance work by Management provided such does not result in the lay off of any employee classified as Maintenance person.
ARTICLE III - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE AND STEWARDS
3.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a negotiating committee of not more than two (2) employees to deal with matters, which properly arise from time to time in connection with the renewal or modification of the Agreement.
3.02	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select three (3) Union Stewardsto deal with grievances of employees. It is understoodthat a Steward will not leave his assigned duties for the purpose of servicing grievances or other Union activity without first obtaining permission from his foreman and when resuming his regular duties, will report to his foreman. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.03	a\	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and
the negotiating committee designated to transact Union business with the Company.
^ Members of the negotiating committee will be paid their base hourly rate of pay for attendance at negotiations providing it does not exceed a regular eight (8) hour day with a maximum number of meetings not to exceed five (5).
3.04	The parties agree to the establishment of a Labour Management Committee comprised of two members from the company and two from the Union. The Company will provide a secretary. The Committee will meet when a request is made by one of the parties, to discuss issues of mutual concern. Each party will submit a list of items they would like discussed at least one week prior to the meetings.
Minutes of the meetings will be prepared by the secretary, approved by the parties, and distributedto committee members. It is understoodthat L.M.C. meetings are not for the purpose of discussing grievances.
ARTICLE IV- RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency,
(b)	hire, retire, discharge, classify, transfer, assign, direct, promote, demote, layoff and suspend or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, subject to the provisions of this Agreement and;
- 5 -
/Q\	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged,
' and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the kinds and locations of equipment, machines and tools to be used, the products to be handled, processed or manufactured, the scheduling and method of production, the allocation and number of employees required by the Company from time to time.
4.02	All the functions, powers and authorities, which the Company has not specifically abridged, delegated or modified by the Agreement, will be recognized as being retained by the Company.
ARTICLE V - RELATIONSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised against any employee because of his membership in or connection with the Union.
5.02	The Union agrees that there will be no Union activity on the premises of the Company during working hours, except as permitted by this Agreement or with the permission of the Company.
5.03	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of race, creed, colour, sex, place of origin, marital status, family status, age, disability or sexual orientation.
5.04	The Company, Union and employees are committedto working together to ensure a workplace that is free from harassment.
ARTICLE VI - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
6.01
(a) The standard work week shall be forty hours commencingfrom 00.01 hours on Sunday and the standard workday shall be eight hours.
/bx The normal hours of work shall be as posted. Work schedules for the week (if 1 changed) will be posted by the preceding Thursday.
(j) Day Work (Monday through Friday)
7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. or
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
1/2 hour unpaid lunch break starting between11:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.
If lunch break does not begin by 1:00 PM they will be granted a 20 minute paid lunch break.
6
The above starting and quitting times may be changed by mutual agreement between the parties.
(ii)	Shift Work (Two Shifts)
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
20 minute paid lunch break.
(iii)	Shift Work (Three Shifts)
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
20 minute paid lunch break
In the event of a Third Shift, the Company will endeavour to give at least seven (7) calendar days notice prior to implementation.
(iv)	Elevator- Starting time as required by seasonal needs.
6.02	(a) Authorized work performed in excess of the standard work week (40 hours) or
standard work day (8 hours) will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 -1/2) the employee's basic straight time rate or the rate of the job the employee is doing whichever is higher.
(j)	Authorized work performed on the employee's first scheduled day of rest
will be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee's basic straight time rate or the rate of the job the employee is doing whichever is higher for the first eight (8) hours and will be paid at the rate of double the employee's basic straight time rate or the rate of the job the employee is doing whichever is higher for hours in excess of the eight (8) hours.
(jj) Notwithstanding (b)(1), authorized work performed in excess of twelve hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period (unless it is as a result of a shift change with at least eight (8) hours of rest between the shifts) will be paid at the rate of double the employee's basic straight time rate or the rate of the job the employee is doing whichever is higher for hours in excess of the twelve (12) hours.
(c)	Authorized work performedon the employee's second day of rest will be paid at the rate of double the employee's basic straight time rate or the rate of the job the employee is doing whichever is higher.
(d)	It is understood that there will be no duplication of monies paid nor pyramiding in the calculation of the overtime premium(s).
6.03	(a) It is understood that overtime as outlined hereinafter will be offered to those
employees who are qualified to perform the work and who regularly perform the work involved as follows:
(b) Overtime: The Company will post an overtime list in the previous week This list will be updated as required. An employee will signify his interest in the overtime when the posting goes up and/or when it is updated. The Company will appoint the senior available (*1) qualified employee(s) from the list who regularly performs the work and who is working on the applicable shift (*2). In the event that sufficient employees are not available, the Company will appoint the qualified junior employee(s) by shift to perform the required overtime work. Notwithstanding this provision, it is understood that employees performing specific tasks or jobs may be retained to complete the assignment (e.g. shift continuation).
(*1) Note:	Available means an employee who has signed the sheet and is
working on the day of the overtime. It is understood that a person who signs the list is making a commitment to work the overtime if it is available and he is appointed.
(*2) Note:	It is understood that the application of these overtime provisions
will not violate the Federal Legislation in this area and the Company may be required to schedule alternative employees.
(C\	In the event that an employee is overlooked by the Company, such person shall
notify the Company and the Company shall schedule such employee for future overtime as a substitute without penalty to the Company.
6.04	An employeewho isrequiredtoworkaminimumoftwohours'overtimeoutsideofhis regularly scheduled shift shall be paid a $6.00 meal allowance. An additional $6.00 meal allowance shall be paid for each additional four (4) hours of overtime.
6.05	The Company will schedule for each employee, a break period of ten minutes during the first half and a second break period often minutes during the second half of each regular shift. A ten-minute break period will also be provided at the end of the shift before commencing overtime, if the overtime period to be worked is estimated to exceed one hour.
6.06	An employee who reports for work at the commencement of his assigned shift without previous notification not to do so shall receive a minimum of four hours' work or four hours' pay at his regular straight time rate.
6.07	An employee called in to perform emergency work not continuous with his regular work period not previously scheduled by the Company, shall be paid a minimum of four hours' pay at the applicable overtime rate.
ARTICLE VII - PLANT HOLIDAYS
7.01	Employees with thirty days' service or more shall be paid for New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, a half-day for the day before Christmas Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and a halfday for the day before New Year’s Day for the standard number of hours which would have normally been worked by them respectively paid at the employee's straight time rate of pay in effect on the day the employee would have worked in accordance with the plant. An employee shall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay provided he works the shift before and the shift following the holiday.
Eligible employees will be paid for three additional holidays (*). These holidays may betaken anytime duringthe year but not normally during busy periods or consecutive with the employee's annual vacation. If it is not a sick day, the employee will give one week's notice of the holiday he wishes to take and the day selected will be to the mutual convenience of the Company and the employee.
(*) Note: In the event that Heritage Day is proclaimed as another holiday, one of these days will become Heritage Day and observed in accordance with government legislation.
7.02	When a plant holiday(s) falls on a weekend, the holiday will be observed on the Friday preceding or the Monday following.
7.03	An employee required to work on any of the above designated plant holidays will receivetime and one-half his regular straight time ratefor work performed, in addition to any plant holiday pay to which he may be entitled under paragraph 7.01.
7.04	Ifan eligible employee who isrequiredtoworkon a plantholidayfailstodoso, hewill not be paid for the holiday unless his absence is due to illness attested to by a doctor's certificate, if the Company considers such evidence to be necessary, or other reason acceptable to the Company.
7.05	When a plant holiday falls within an employee's vacation period, it may, at the employee's request be taken consecutive with the employee's vacation or at another date mutually agreed on by the employee and the Company.
ARTICLE VIII - VACATIONS WITH PAY
8.01	The Union acknowledges that the Company has the right to schedule vacations at any time during the year. However, a sincere effort will be made to grant vacations at the time or times wanted by the employee**, giving longer service employees preference. Vacations of more than 2 weeks during July and August will not necessarily be scheduled consecutively. Should the Company elect to close the plant for a one or two week vacation period, all eligible employees will take vacations at that time provided their services are not required for particular work.
- 9 -
(** Note: Where an employee is entitled to two (2) weeks of vacation and he indicates that his preference is to take one or two of those weeks during the months of June, July, August and September then it is agreed that scheduling of such vacations shall take precedence over granting vacation requests in excess of two (2) weeks during this period for those with greater seniority. The intent is to allow such employees some vacation period during the summer period where possible.)
8.02	Employees whose annual vacation entitlements are 3 weeks and over may use up the week(s) in excess of 2 by taking vacation time in any number of fraction of days (i.e. a day here, day there). A maximum of 2 weeks vacation (depending on employee eligibility) per year may be divided up and taken in this manner. Employees making such requests will give reasonable notice where practicable. It is understood that the existing policies apply, i.e. no more than four (4) employees absent on vacation at one time.
8.03	The vacation list will be posted no laterthan Decemberl st of the previous calendar year to have employees state their preferred choice of vacation dates for the coming year. Such notice will be removed by the Company on January 1 st and a schedule will be completed by the second Friday in January. The Company will schedule vacations by seniority providing there is a limit of no more than four (4) on vacation and the required number of qualified or trained people are available to perform the work during such vacations.
Note: The Company and the Union shall meet, after determining the two (2) weeks maximum vacation period (i.e. summer) for each employee, for the purposes of reviewing the shifts that employees will be working in an attempt to distribute the off-shifts in an equitable manner.
Note: It is understood that, in the process of completing the vacation schedule in accordance with Article 8.03, an employee, who has sufficient skill, ability, and physical fitness to fulfil the job requirements, may make a request at the time of the preparation of the vacation schedule to fill a job vacancy created by another employee's taking time off for vacation. The Company will attempt to distribute the requests in an equitable manner recognizing seniority, fairness, the Job Training Program and the Company's operational requirements.
It is agreed that the parties will comply with Article 8.03
8.04	An employee who has completed his probationary period and has more than six months' but less than twelve months' service with the Company by July 1st of the current year shall be entitled to one week's vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be 4% of the employee's earnings for the period ending June 30th of the current year,
8.05	An employee with one year or more but less than five years' service by July 1st of the current year shall be entitled to two weeks' vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be 4% of the employee's earnings for the twelve-month period ending June 30th of the current year.
- 10 -
8.06	An employee with five years' or more but less than ten years' service by July 1st of the current year shall be entitled to three weeks' vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be6% of the employee's earnings for the twelve-month period ending June 30th of the current year.
8.07	An employee who has completed ten years' or more but less than eighteen years' service by July 1st of the current year shall be entitled to four weeks' vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be 8% of the employee's earningsfor the twelve-month period ending June 30th of the current year.
8.08	An employee who has completed eighteen years' or more but less than twenty-six years' service by July 1st of the current year shall be entitled to five weeks' vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be 10% of the employee'seamings for the twelve-month period ending June 30th of the current year.
8.09	An employee who has completed 26 years' service or more by July 1st shall be entitled to 6 weeks' vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be 12% of the employee's earnings for the twelve-month period ending June 30th of the current year.
8.10	payments from Worker's Compensation or Weekly Sick Benefit Insurance will be included in the employee's earnings for the purpose of calculating vacation pay.
8.11	When the vacation is scheduled priorto July 1st, vacation pay in such instances shall be computed at the appropriate percentage up to one week priorto the vacation period. Each employee shall receive his vacation pay and the basis of the pay calculation priorto his vacation date. The employee concerned shall then be entitled to any balance of his vacation pay as specified in paragraphs, 8.04,8.05,8.06,8.07, 8.08 or 8.09, whichever is applicable, after July 1st. An employee who selects all or part of his vacation after July 1st will have the option of receiving his vacation pay no laterthan the week following July 1st or he may elect (at the time of his requesting his vacation) to hold his vacation pay until he actually takes his vacation but no laterthan December 31st of the vacation year. Employees will be provided with the basis for their respective vacation pay calculations.
8.12	An employee voluntarily quitting his employment during the vacation year shall receive any unused vacation pay entitlement in accordance with this Article, An employee discharged for cause will be paid for any unused vacation credit in accordance with the Canada Labour (Standards) Code.
ARTICLE IX - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given to his Foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint, and that such complaint shall be registeredwithin fifteen (15) working days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the employee. The Foreman's reply shall be given to the employee within three (3) full working days.
- 11 -
9.02	If such complaint is not settled satisfactorily, it may be taken up as a grievance within three (3) full working days of the reply referred to in 9.01. A written record of the grievance on a standard form to be supplied by the Union shall be signed and submitted by the employee to his Foreman.
Within five (5) full workingdays of receipt of the written grievance, a conference shall take place between the aggrieved employee, who shall be accompanied by the Union Steward, and the Foreman. The employee's Foreman or his designee shall give his written decision to the Union Steward within three (3) full working days following the meeting, indicating the date and the Company's response to the grievance.
Failing settlement, the Union shall, within not more than three (3full working days, notifythe Company of its intent to proceed to Step No, 2.
Within five (5) full working days of the notice of intent to proceed to Step No. 2, a conference shall be held between the aggrieved employee, the Grievance committee and the Manager and/or other authorized representatives of the Company. A representative of the Union will attend if requested by either party.
Management shall give its written decision to the Chief Steward within five (5)full working days of such conference, indicating the date and the Company's response to the grievance.
Failing a settlement under Step No. 2 (or of any matter properly submitted at Step 2) pursuant to this Article regarding any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or unresolved question may be submitted to arbitration, as provided in Article X, within 30 working days.
9.03	Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays will not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken or completed in each of the steps of the Grievance Procedure or under Article X. The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in Articles 9 and 10 are mandatory and not merely directory. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article X may at any time be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
9.04	All decisions arrived at between the representatives of the Company and the Union shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
Step No. 1
Step No. 2
Step No. 3
- 12 -
9.05	When a complaint or grievance which affects the rate of pay of an employee is settled and as a result the employee receives an increase in his rate, such increase shall bepaid retroactively to the date the error was made or such other date as may be agreed upon.
9.06	If an employee with seniority is dismissed or suspended for any reason and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he may inform his Steward who shall, if a grievance isto be filed, file such written grievance with the Company within eight working days of the suspension or dismissal. The dismissal or suspension shall then be dealt with under the grievance procedure herein, beginning with the Second Step. Notice of dismissal or Suspension and the reason therefore shall be given in writing with a copy to the Union on the same date.
Ifsubsequentlyit is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed or suspended, he shall be reinstated in his former job and compensated for such time lost as is determined by the grievance or arbitration procedure, or such other settlement as is deemed to be just and equitable.
9.07	It is understood that in the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Company has violated this Agreement in such a mannerthat an individual employee could not rightly process the grievance under this Article IX, the Union may present such allegation to the Company at the Second Step level of the Grievance Procedure.
9.08	An employee who receives a written reprimand from the Company shall have such reprimand removed from his record after a period of twelve (12) months provided that during such period he has not received other related written reprimands of like nature.
An employee who receives a suspension shall have such suspension removed from his record after a period of eighteen (18) months, provided that during such period he has not received other disciplinary action of like nature.
A copy of written disciplinary action will be provided to the local union.
ARTICLE X - ARBITRATION
10.01	(a) Whenever either party to the Agreement submits any grievance to arbitration,
written notice shall be given to the other party formally stating the subject of the grievance and the Agreement Clause allegedly violated, and at the same time nominating an Arbitrator. If the recipient of the notice does not agree with the nomination, the parties will meet forthwith and attempt to select an alternative. ifthe parties fail to agree on the selection of an Arbitrator, the Federal Minister of Labour will be requested to make the appointment. As soon as the Arbitrator is appointed, he shall convene a meeting to hear the evidence and representations of the parties, and render a decision as soon as possible,
- 13 -
zb) It is understood that the parties may mutually agree to use consensual mediation-arbitration; however, an appointee cannot extend their authority or decisions beyondthe restrictionsfound in Article X-Arbitration. If a mediation-arbitration appointee is agreed upon, Article 10.02 is not applicable. If the parties fail to agree to use this process, the regular arbitration process will apply.
10.02	No person shall be selected as an Arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
10.03	No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitrator unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
10.04	The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or to deal with any matters not covered by the Agreement.
10.05	The parties will jointly bear the expense of the Arbitrator.
10.06	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, the parties agree that the arbitration provisions of the Canada Labour Code shall apply at the request of either party.
10.07	Prior to proceeding to arbitration, the parties may mutually agree to utilize the services of a Grievance Mediator.
ARTICLE XI - NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK
11.01	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout during the term of this Agreement.
11.02	The Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement, there will be no strike, slowdown or other stoppage of work or interference with production and will hold its members to this responsibility.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01	An employee's seniority date shall be his last date of employment by the Company since which there has been no quit or discharge to break his continuous service,
12.02	(a) A new full time regular employee will be on probation and will not acquire
seniority until he has worked for forty-five days accumulated over a period of six consecutive months. On completion of this probationary period, his seniority shall be established as the date forty-five consecutive working days prior to the day on which he completed his probationary period. During the probationary period, an employee may be discharged for any reason providingsuch action is not exercised in a manner that is arbitrary or in bad faith.
- -
(b)
A casual employee is defined as a person who cannot acquire seniority rights and who is neither a probationary employee nor a full time regular employee, but works on a part-time, temporary, or shortterm basis (i.e. workingfor periods duringthe com harvest, seasonal, or to replace employees who are absent due to vacations, illness, or injury). In order for these persons to be considered for regular full time status, they must commence a probationary period pursuant to this Collective Agreement. Casual employees will not normally be used when current employees are on lay-off.
12.03	A probationary employee shall be paid a rate cf one dollar ($1.00) belowthe rate for the job as shown in Schedule 1.
12.04	Every six months a seniority list showing each employee's seniority date will be prepared by the Company and posted on a plant bulletin board and a copy will be providedtothe Local Union. Seniority lists will be maintained between postings. An employee who believes his seniority is incorrectly shown maytakethe matter up asa grievance.
12.05	An employee shall lose all seniority and his name shall be removed from the employment records of the Company when he:
(a)	quits,
(b)	is discharged for just cause,
(c)	fails to report from lay-off (i.e. recalled pursuant to 13.04) or is laid off for a period exceeding his recall rights as provided in paragraph 13.05,
(d)	receives severance pay as provided herein.
ARTICLE XIII - LAYOFF AND RECALL
13.01 a)
b)
c)
When it becomes necessary to reduce the working force of employees, seniority will prevail so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who possess the skill, ability, and physical fitness to capably perform the work which is available and are willing to do such work at the scheduled rate for the job. In such cases where an employee with seniority accepts a lower rated job rather than be laid off, his regular rate will be protected for a period of thirty working days. Short time operations are not considered layoff for purposes of this article. Short time operation shall be defined as any day of work of less than 8 hours. Employees who have not had the opportunityto qualify for another job, in accordance with 14.05, will begiven up to 2 weeks to qualify for a junior employee's job to avoid a layoff.
For the purpose of this clause, it is understood that all senior employees possess the skill and ability to perform the packer/piler job.
j) When it becomes necessary to changes shifts, the Shift Schedule -Appendix A will be used.
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
jj) For purposes of this Article and when a third (3rd) shift is cancelled, it is understood that one of the employees in the classification, under normal circumstances, will move in accordance with his seniority and in accordance with the attached Shift Schedule Appendix A.
For purposes of clarification, if there is an employee on a three shift operation and a reduction occurs in which employees are required for two shifts then the remaining employee(s) in the classification with the least seniority will go back to his former posted job (if there was one) in accordance with Appendix A. Furthermore, when the third shift becomes operational then the one employee will revert back to his position on the third shift in accordance with Appendix A. Ifthere is no such employee, the vacancy will be posted (e.g. batch mix operator, rotating shifts).
iii) It is understood that a job posting(s), under a three shift arrangementthat has not been reinstated within eighteen (18) months of being cancelled when it went to a one or two shift arrangement, will be deemed void and require a new posting.
A more senior employee may choose to take a layoff instead of a junior employee, if the senior employee so requests. The agreement to go out of seniority by this employee must be by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee. The employee shall have normal recall rights but may not bump another employee even if the layoff is extended.
The Company shall notify the Union and those employees affected by any layoff, of such layoff, at least 5 working days in advance of such layoff or pay to those employees an amount in lieu thereof. This section shall not apply to layoffs of less than 5 working days duration.
Laid off personnel will be recalled from layoff on the basis of seniority providedthose recalled possess the skill, ability, experience and physical fitness to capably perform the work which is available. Recall will be made by telephone and if this means is unsuccessful, the employee will be advised by letter, delivered by courier, or sent by registered mail at the last address he made known to the Company.
An employee with three or more year's seniority who is laid off for a period in excess of twenty-four months or an employee with less than three years' seniority, who is laid off for the lesser of twelve months or a period equal to his seniority of an employee who fails to report from lay off when recalled, will have his seniority standing cancelled and his name removed from the employment records of the Company.
It is the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed at all times as to his current address and nearest telephone number.
- 16 -
ARTICLE XIV - TEMPORARY TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND JOB POSTING
14.01	Temporary Vacancies
a) Temporary vacancies with an expected duration of 30 working days or more will be posted using the procedure outlined in Article 14.03. This excludes vacancies created by medical leaves of absences, WSIB, and modified work arrangements. This period may be changed by mutual agreement between the parties where such change is reasonable.
5) j) A temporary vacancy of three (3) working days or less will normally be filled through the process of temporary transfers by way of assignment except as noted in paragraph c).
jj) A temporary vacancy of greater than three (3) working days but less than thirty (30) working days will be handled through the process of temporary transfers except as noted in paragraph c) as follows:
Step #1:
The Company will approach by seniority the other qualified employees on the shift where the temporary vacancy occurs to fill the duration of the leave.
Step #2:
When such a temporary vacancy cannot be filled in this manner, the temporary vacancy will be filled by the appointment of a junior qualified employee on the shift where the temporary vacancy occurs, then by plantwide seniority.
cs It is acknowledged that medical leaves of absence, WSIB, and modified work arrangements are temporary in nature regardless of the length cf leave. Such leaves of absences that are expected to exceed three (3)working days will be handled as follows:
Step #1:
The Company will approach by seniority the other qualified employees to fill the duration of the leave.
Step #2:
When such a temporary vacancy cannot be filled in this manner, the temporary vacancy will be filled by the appointment of a junior qualified employee. The duration of the appointment will be reviewed with the appointed employee and such review will occur within a two (2) month
period. If the appointed employee is removed, another appointment may be made.
Employees returning from these medical leaves of absences will return to their former jobs and employees who have moved as a result of those temporary leaves shall revert to their former job as if the temporary leave had never occurred.
d\ An employee temporarily assigned to a higher rated job shall be paid at the higher rate providing the assignment exceeds one hour's duration. An employee temporarily assigned to a lower rated job will continue to receive his regular rate except in cases where such employee requests a lower ratedjob or is assigned to a lower rated job for disciplinary or health reasons. Temporary assignments should not be confused with regular transfers or promotions or with job changes caused by layoff.
14.02	Selection for job vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be the senior applicant providing the applicant has the qualifications, ability and physical fitness to fulfil the job requirements.
14.03	When the Company elects to fill a permanent job vacancy that occurs within the complement of job classifications covered by this Agreement, notice of such vacancy shall be posted on the bulletin board for three working days. An employee may indicate his desire to be considered for the vacancy by adding his name to the job posting. Employees going on leave or vacation may file a request with the Company to be considered for any vacancy he desires which occurs during his absence. Applicants will be considered by the Company in accordance with Article 14.02. The successful applicant shall receive the rate of the new job upon assuming the full duties.
Note: It is understood that changing from a second to a third shift, under normal circumstances, will be done in accordance with the attached Shift Schedule Appendix.
An employee who has successfully bid to a new classification shall be on probation in that classification for a period of thirty (30) days worked. During that probationary period the employee may be returned by the Company to their former classification.
14.04	(a) All vacancies with an expected duration of 30 working days will be posted in
accordance with paragraph 14.03. This period may be changed by mutual agreement between the parties where such change is reasonable.
/b\ Employees returning from approved leaves of absence will return to their former v jobs and employees who have moved as a result of any posting that resulted from such leave shall revert to their former job as if the posting had never occurred.
14.05	a) The Company shall post all training opportunities. Training opportunities shall
'	be offered by seniority** to employees who have indicated interest and who
have sufficient skill, ability and physical fitness to fulfill the j ob requirements and are willing to do the job.
m	It is understood-thattraining will, where practical, be conducted on the day shift
with persons currently assigned to the day shift.
c\ Joint Training Management-Union Committee: The following are the terms of reference:
1)	A Joint Training Management-Union Committee will exist to provide input to the Company on the Training Opportunities Program.
2)	Composition: The Committee will be composed of two (2) members appointed by the Union to act on behalf of the Union and two (2) members to act on behalf of the Company. Each party may designate alternates to replace a member from time to time. It is understood that the National Representative and/or the Company’s Representative may attend such meetings.
3)	Meetings: The Committee will meet at the request of either party. The Chairperson will be selected by the party (Company or the Union) calling the meeting. Meetings will be called for at a mutually agreed upon date and time at least one week in advance.
The Chairperson will submit an agenda to the members at least one week before the meeting when possible.
Minutes will be maintained concerning matters referredto the Committee and their recommended disposition. The minutes will be distributed to the member of the Committee.
It is agreed that this Committee will not discuss grievances.
14.06	The chief steward will be provided with a copy of job postings, training postings and the name of the successful applicant.
ARTICLE XV - WAGE RATES
15.01	Wage rates shall be in accordance with the Schedule of Wage Ratesattached hereto as Schedule 1.
15.02	In addition to the wage rates in Schedulel on date of ratification, for work performed, shift premiums of .60 cents for afternoon and .60 cents for night shifts shall be paid. Shift premiums shall besubjectto overtime hours worked andwill be at the premium (1.5 or 2 times) as appropriate for the overtime worked.
15.03	Where an employee in maintenance is required to provide his own tools, the Company agrees to replace any such tool that is broken or worn out on the job. It is understood that the Company is not responsible for replacement if the breakage is due to misuse or negligence or if it is not necessary to the normal performance of the job.
ARTICLE XVI - BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Company shall provide reasonable space on bulletin boards in the plant for the posting of official Union notices.
16.02	The Company shall provide a bulletin board for Health & Safety matters, separate from the general board. This will contain only health and safety information as outlined in the Masterfeeds Inc. safety manual, applicable health and safety legislation, and as deemed appropriate by the Joint Health & Safety Committee,
ARTICLE XVII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01	The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons and any person who is absent with written permission shall not lose his seniority.
17.02	In the case of leave to attend Union business, it is understood that, normally, not more than two employees will be absent at any one time.
17.03	In the event of the death of an immediate relative, leave of absence up to three ' consecutive days (five consecutive days for death of employee's spouse) will be
granted the bereaved employee for the purpose of attending and, where necessary, making arrangements for the funeral. Such employee shall be paid his straight time basic rate excluding shift or other premium for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked during such leave. "Immediate relative" shall mean an employee's mother, father, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law. "Employee" shall mean a regularfull-time employee of the Company who has completed his probationary period. In the event of the death of his grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,an "employee" will be granted one day's leave of absence with pay for the purpose of attending the funeral,
17.04	When an employee is called by the Crown for jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness and must, as a result, lose time from work, the Company agrees to pay such employee the difference between the fee received from the Crown and the employee's straight time basic rate, excluding shift or other premium for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked.

ARTICLE XVIII - WELFARE BENEFITS AND SAFETY
18.01	The Company agrees to pay the premium costs of the following insurance plans, subject to the conditions set forth in a letter from the Company to the Union appended to this Agreement, which shall be continued during the term of this agreement.
•	Accidental Death & Dismemberment
•	Weekly Indemnity
•	Employee Life
•	Extended Health Care (Major Medical, Prescription Drug, Semi Private Hospital)
•	Dental Insurance Plan
•	Long Term Disability Insurance Plan
18.02	The Company agrees to continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during the hours of employment, and comply with all appropriate legislation including the Canada Labour Code.
18.03	When an employee, while carrying out his assigned duties, is disabled as a result of an industrial accident, he shall be paid for the remainder of his scheduled shift (less any amount that the employee may receive from Worker's Compensation).
18.04	The parties will maintain a joint Health and Safety Committee comprising of at least two members appointed by each party. The joint committee will hold meetings a minimum of once per month. An inspection of the entire facility will be done once per month, by the certified management member or designate worker, who may be accompanied by the certified management member or designate. The committee will establish Terms of Reference and operate accordingly. These provisions are in accordance with the CLC Part II and its regulations.
ARTICLE XIX - SEVERANCE-PAYMENT
19.01	When the plant or a department is closed down and the Company is unable to offer other employment to the employees who are permanently displaced, a separation payment will be paid to each employee with seniority on the basis of one week's pay for each complete year of service.
Severance payment is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The employee is actively employed by the Company or is carried on the lay-off list;
/jo Employees who are off sick or receiving Worker's Compensation butcontinueto hold seniority will be eligible;
/Q\ No employee will be granted a severance payment totalling more than he would ' have earned at his straight time rate of pay from the date of his lay-off, until his normal retirement date;
21
^ The closing of the plant does not result from strike, fire or explosion;
(e) The employee continues to work for the Company in a satisfactory manner for as long as his services are required.
It is understood that receipt of separation payment cancels seniority. If later rehired, no repayment of the separation paymentwill be required or allowed and no seniority will be reinstated. Seniority will begin and accumulate from the date of re-hire.
ARTICLE XX - MISCELLANEOUS
20.01	The Company will provide and those employees who accept will wear the following clothes each calendar year at no cost to the employees:
2 shirts 2 pants
2 coveralls (1 pair may be insulated)
5 tee shirts
If additional shirts, pants or coveralls are required because of work wear, they will also be provided at no cost.
Once every two (2) calendar years the Company will pay 50% towards the purchase of a winter parka and a summer jacket.
20.02	Work gloves will be provided and replaced as required upon the condition that the worn out pair is turned in.
20.03	The wearing of safety boots is mandatory. The Company will pay up to a maximum of $130.00 as required towards footwear from a mutually agreed list of approved footwear, upon proof of purchase by the employee. Effective April 1, 2006, the maximum amount will be increased to $135.00
ARTICLE XXI - TERMINATION
21.01	This Agreement shall be in effect from the date of ratification except where otherwise specifically stated to March 31, 2007 and continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing within 90 days prior to the annual expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this Agreement.
22
If, pursuant to such negotiations, agreement on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the expiration date, this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion ofthe conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Canada Labour Code whichever should first occur.
Signed at
, Ontario, this T/V day of/^^200^,
FOR THE COMPANY :
- 23 -SCHEDULE I
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
Effective	Effective
_____________April 1/05______April 1/06
I.	Maintenance Person (Senior)**	21.92	22.34
II.	Micro Batch Mix Operator	19.14	19.56
Batch Mix Operator
Head Shipper
III.	Pellet Mill Operator	18.85	19.27
Elevator Operator
Grain Processors Maintenance Person (Junior)***
Bulk Shipper Quality Control
Utility Person
Bulk Receiver (train cars)
IV.	Shipper- Receivers	18.28	18.70
Micro Operator
IV.	Packer/Piler	17.78	18.20
V.	Janitor	17.62	18.04
VI.	Casual rate shall be 70% of the Category V rate.
Lead Hand Premium- $0.60 per hour, effective the date of ratification,for all hours worked while acting as lead hand (including overtime). This premium will be $1.50 perhourfor replacingthe Plant Foreman when he is on extended vacation. In no event will an employee receive both premiums.
Note** 1. It is understood that this rate is a “with credentials” rate (meaning a trades person with ticket or equivalent experience as determined by the Employer).
24
SCHEDULE II
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM
The Company agrees to pay the following rates for apprentices:
1st Year	2nd Year
Starting (first 1,000 hours)
1.000	- 2,000 hours
2.000	- 3,000 hours
3.000	- 4,000 hours
4.000	- 5,000 hours
5.000	hours to completion Add to the Appendix "A" Journeyman Tradesman
$11.14	$11.56
$11.56	$11.98
$12.09	$12.51
$12.40	$12.82
$12.82	$13.24
$13.25	$13.67
$13.66	$14.08
Apprentice to receive his rate plus any increases negotiated now or in future until he fits into groupingthat provides a higher rate of pay. (The Company agrees to advance his UIC benefits, which he will repay to the Company when he receives them).
The initial assignment to the proper Hours Group shall be on the basis of the employee's qualifications as determined by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities (the Company agrees to supply information to the Ministry to assist the determination).
Should the employee currently be receiving a rate of pay in excess of what his qualifications warrant, he shall not suffer any loss in pay but he shall not be entitled to any wage adjustment in groupings until his training and instruction so warrant but he shall receive any negotiated wage settlements as a raise.
Upon successful completion of the program they shall be paid the rate of Journeyman Tradesman.
25
September 20, 2005
Negotiating Committee,
Local 53-0,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
C/O Baden Plant,
Baden, Ontario
Employee Group Insurance Benefits
Whereas Article 18.01 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement sets out the following:
The Company agrees to pay the premium costs of the following insurance plans, subject to the conditions set forth in a letter from the Company to the Union appended to this Agreement, which shall be continued during the term of this Agreement.
e
e
e
e
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Weekly Indemnity Employee Life
Extended Health Care (Major Medical, Prescription Drug, Semi-Private Hospital) Dental
Long Term Disability
This document is the letter outlined in Article 18.01
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Group Insurance Benefits adjudicated and underwritten (and/or administered) by the insurer of its choice (presentlythe Great-West Life Assurance Company) for employees who have completed their probationary period and otherwise have fulfilled the eligibility requirements of the insurer. With respect to the probationary period, benefits will be effective on the first day of the month following 2 months of continuous full-time employment.
Weekly Indemnity Coverage
Effective September 1, 1999 the weekly benefit will be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee’s weekly earnings that are insurable underthe Employment Insurance Act.
An insured employee if disabled, subject to the adjudication by the insurer, will be eligible for benefitsfrom the first day of absence due to a non-occupational accident, from the fourth day where the absence is due to a bona fide sickness, from the first day for hospitalization, and from the first day of out-patient care (with the following restrictions: it is the result of surgery, supported by a bona fide medical opinion for the duration of the absence, and requires a minimum of four hours in the hospital as an out-patient). The benefit will be payable for a maximum of twenty-six weeks.
26
Employee Life & Accidental Death and Dismemberment Coverage
Effective December 1, 2003, the Company will pay the premium cost for Employee Life Coverage in the amount of $31,000 for employees actively at work at the time. The Company will pay the premium cost for the same amount of Accidental Death & Dismemberment coverage. Effective April 1, 2004, the Life and AD&D benefit will increase to $32,000 for employees actively at work at the time.
Effective September 1/99, Life Insurance in the amount of $2,000 shall be provided for the employee’s spouse.
Extended Healthcare Coverage
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Major Medical coverage with a deductible of $25 single / $50 family per calendar year and a Prescription Drug Plan with a deductible of $1 o single / $20 family per calendar year.
Effective November 16, 2003, the Company will pay the premium cost of a Semi-Private Hospital plan with a maximum daily benefit of $155.00.
Effectivethe month following ratification, the vision care benefit (inclusive of safety glasses) will be increased to $135 per covered person per 24-month period. The vision plan will include eyeglass frames and lenses, safety glasses, dispensing fees and contact lenses. The vision benefit will remain at $135 per covered person per 24-month period, in addition, effective August 15, 2005, the Company will pay the cost (up to $60.00) for one eye examination per covered person per24 month period. Effective April 1, 2006, the maximum benefit per eye exam will be increased to $65.00.
Effective August 15, 2005, the Company will pay the cost of a chiropractic benefit of $16.00 per visit effectivethe first appointment to a maximum of $300 per covered person per calendar year. Effective April 1, 2006, the benefit will increase to $20.00 per visit.
The current massage therapy coverage will remain the same at $13.00 per visit per covered person to a maximum of $300.00 per calendar year.
Dental Coverage
The Company will pay the premium cost of a Dental Coverage pian. Effective September 1,2005, the 2004 ODA schedule of fees will apply.
Effectivethe month following the publication of the 2006 ODA Fee Schedule, the 2005 ODA Fee Schedule will apply.
Effectivethe month following the publication of the 2007 ODA Fee Schedule, the 2006 ODA Fee Schedule will apply.
27
Long Term Disability
EffectiveMay 01,2001, the Company will pay the premium cost of a Long Term Disability Insurance Plan with a disability benefit of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 213%) of basic earnings, excluding overtime or other premium to a maximum of $1890,00 per month. No benefits are payable for the first twenty-six weeks of disability. Canada Pension Plan, Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, and other legislated benefits shall be integrated with the long term disability benefit.
It is understood that payment by the Company, is in lieu of any employee entitlement to a future premium reduction under the Employment Insurance Act.
It is further understood that payment by the Company of group Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Weekly Indemnity, Employee Life, Extended Health Care, Dental Care and Long Term Disability benefit premiums, as described above, is conditional upon the employee performing work for the Company during the month in which the premiums fall due. Subject to the agreement of the group insurance company, benefit premiums will be
paid by the Company for six months after the month the eligible employee last worked if their absence is due to accident or illness. If the insurer will not allow the 6-month extension, the Company will paythe premiums for the longest period of time allowable by the group insurerto a maximum of six months.
The Company may elect, at some future date, to transfer the underwriting and administration of one or more of these benefit plans to another insurance carrier, with the understanding that in this event, the benefits that will be provided by the new carrier will be substantially similarto those in effect at this date.
Would you please indicate the Union’s concurrence with this understanding by countersigning the duplicate copy of this letter and return it to the Company.
Yours truly, MASTERFEEDS INC
Countersigned for Local 53-0 COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
August 6,1997
28
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 53-0
Re: 1995 Negotiations
Duringthe negotiations for the renewalofthe Collective Agreement expiring March 3.1,1999, the issue of maintenance staffing arose. As a result of these discussions, the following was agreed upon:
“It is recognized that the Company has the sole discretion to seek, appoint, and retain a person for the position of Maintenance Man (Senior), whether such a person is acquired from inside or outside the bargaining unit, and to determine what duties are or are not required in that position. Payment shall be in accordance with Schedule 1 in the Collective Agreement.”
29
August 1, 1997
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 53-0
Re: Article VIII - Vacation
In orderto clarify the interpretation of Article 8.03, the following is understood:
At the beginning of week one of the scheduling, the first four (4) senior employees will be approached in the first three days of this week regarding their vacation preference and they must indicate their preference by seniority in the remaining two days (Thursday, Friday) of the same week or be placed at the end of the list. In week two of the scheduling, the next four (4) senior employees will be approached in the first three days of this week regarding their vacation preference and they must indicate their preference in the remaining two days (Thursday, Friday) of the same week or be placed at the end of the list. The process continues until all employees have had the opportunity to make a selection. If any employee is absent, unavailable and/or cannot be contacted, he will be placed at the end of the list as if he did not make a selection in his applicable week. After all employees have had the opportunity to make a selection, the relevant articles will apply.
Employees, who have not exercised their right during their week, may exercise their right at any time as long as they do not interfere with anyone who has exercised their preference.
The parties agree that they mayjointly waive this letter during the life of the agreement in the event that the parties cannot accept its application.
30
January 22, 2004
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 53-0
The Company and the Union both acknowledge the safe and early return to work provisions pursuant to the occupational health and safety regulations, and WSIB directives.
It is understood that all workplace parties are to cooperate with Modified Duties/Transitional Return to Work under WSIB and the Human Rights Code. It should be noted that in addition to legal compliance, early return to work has been proven to benefit the employee’s rehabilitation process. Therefore, modified or transitional work plans for disabled or injured workers are not subject to the posting process with respect to training opportunities or job postings. The Company will provide suitable modified work, including training, to disabled employees as it is required to do, and there will be not complaint or grievance on behalf of other employees in the bargaining unit regarding posting of this work and/or training.
October 30, 2003
Letter of Agreement (Not in Collective Agreement)
This letter sets forth the following:
(a)	On a without prejudice basisto the Company, the Company agrees to allowthe jobs that are operating on a day shift basisto start one (1) hour early on Friday (e.g. 6 A.M. - packer; 7 AM. - maintenance) in a like manner to the current shift workers who commence early on Friday (e.g. 7 AM. change to 6 AM.) -commencing on the Friday following ratification.
(b)	It is understood that this arrangement applies to day shift positions and is not discretionary for individual employees. It is understood that the Elevator position (pursuant to 6.01 (b)(iv)) is subject to seasonal and customer needs. Exceptionsto this must be agreed upon by the Union and the Company.
(c)	In the event that work is required on the day shift for the one (1) hour period after the completion of the shift (e.g. 2 P.M. - 3 P.M.), the Company has the rightto exercise the mandatory overtime provision or appoint a person from the second shift to perform the work.
(d)	Notwithstanding any of the provisions above, the parties agree that the Company has the unfettered right to cancel this arrangement at any time as a result of operational considerations. However, prior to cancelling this arrangement, the Company agrees to discuss the reasonsforthe cancellation with the Union.
Signed this _^£^day of
FOR THE EMPLOYER
Revision Date:
| August 15,2005	|
Note: 1. This Shift Schedule - Appendix A is subject to the Management Rights provisions as well as the other provisions identified in the Collective Agreement.
2.	This Appendix will be maintained and updated as successful postings occur due to resignations, terminations, etc. or as mutually agreed upon.
3.	It is understoodthat on a 2 & 3 shift operation, the following Shift Schedulesjpi be in effect. A shift change from 2 to 3 and 3 to 2 will not be posted and employees will be placed in a job according to this Appendix unless agreed otherwise.
4. Since certainjobs are currently on one shift, these jobs have also been ideiHled with an **" - but on an information only basis - since one shift jobs are not affected by the movement from 2 to 3 and 3 to 2 shifts.
Batch Mix Operator
Pellet Mill Operator
Paeker/Piler
Packer/Piler
Packer/Piler
Packer/Piler
Packer/Piler
HOME BASE (On 2 Shfits)
Two Shift Operation
Shift “A"
Brian Roth
Anthony Medley
Don Meekison Calvin Nafziger Joe lllig Keith Diamond Craig Swartzentruber
Shift "B"
John Scheerer Barry Becker
I Three Shift Operation
Shift "A"
Brian Roth
Anthony Medley
Don Meekison Joe lllig
Craig Swartzentruber
Shift "B"
Al Oswald Anthony Medley
1 f
Shift "C"
John Scheerer Barry Becker
Grain Processors
Bulk Shipper & QC " • "
BulkRec'ing "*"
Head Shipper" *" Shipper
Elevator Operator " *"
Micro Batch Operator ” * ' Micro operator “ • "
Jr. Maintenance"*”
Sr. Maintenance " *"
Bob Meinema Murry Koch George Hardy
Jim Ramseyer aid
Al Oswak
John Hoiting
Don Snyder Richard Schumm
Duane Snyder Ab Grahlman
Barry McMillan
Shane Cassel
Bob Meinema
Murry Koch
George Hardy
Jim Ramseyer Calvin Nafziger
John Hoiting
Don Snyder
Richard Schumm
Duane Snyder Ab Grahlman
Barry McMillan
Shane Cassel