AGREE M E M T
BETWEEN:
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468,
of the City of Burnaby,
“iND:
CANADA SAFEWAY LLMITEDj
Cities of Vancouver, North Vancouver. Now Westminster, S White Rock;
Towns of Port Coquitlam ci Port Moody;
Municipalities of Burnaby, West Vancouver, Coquitlam, Richmond, Delta, Surrey; and
District o£ North Vancouver.
APRIL 1, 1987 to MARCH 31, : 1.990

INDEX
ARTICLE		PAGE
I	Bargaining Agency	1
H	Union Security	2
III	Check-off	2
IV	Management's Rights	2
V	Hiring Procedure	3
VI	Wages	5
VII	Notice	7
VIII	Free Transportation	7
IX	Hours of Work	8
X	Overtime	8
XI	Scheduling of Shifts	9 .
XII	Rest Periods	10
XIII	Lunch Periods	10
XIV	Public Holidays	10
XV	Vacations	11
XVI	Seniority	13
XVII	Leave of Absence	14
XVIII	Regular Part-time Employees	15
XIX	Jury Duty	17
XX	Severance Pay	17
ma	Sick Leave Benefits	18
XXII	Health and Welfare	19
BUH	General Provisions	20
XXIV	Union Label,	21
XXV	Union Representative	21
XXVI	Grievance Procedure	21
XXVII	Board of Arbitration	22
XBBII	Pension Plan	23
Mm	Dental Plan	25
	Duration	26
	Letters of Understanding	27
BET
CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED
ween:
AND:	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL -16 8,
of the City of Burnaby, in the Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter called, the "L'r.icn")
OF THE SECOND PART.
In consideration of the maintenance of harmonicu5 relations and settled conditions of employment, and reccgr.itme; the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations c.n b'-i matters pertaining to working conditions, hours of work, and rates of pay, the parties to this Agreement do hereby enter into, ordain, establish and agree to the following terms:
ARTICLE I:	BARGAINING AGENCY
.Section 1 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Agreement and working at the bakery of the Company, located
a t
Section 2 Personnel performing the functions of management and who have the right to hire and disenarge shall be excluded fren the bargaining unit. They shall not perform any of the work covered by
the collective Agreement except in the case of emergency. Such persons, if eligible, shall receive retiring cards From the Union.
The Superintendent shall not give direct work orders< to employees but shall do so through a foreman or forelady except where an on-shift foreman or forelady is temporarily unavailable. T. Company will write its superintendents outlining the superintendents1 status, under the terms of the collective Agreement, Section 2 and 3 of Article I, with a copy to the Union. * i)
Section 3
For the purposes of the Agreement/ an emergency is when:
i)	a major machinery break-down, or
ii)	a power failure occurs, or
iii)	an employee fails to report for work on time, or
iv)	an employee i.s unable to complete his shife cue to s ickrn'ss or accident and a replacement is required,
and exists until the cause of the emergency is rectified.
ARTICLE II; UNION SECURITY
All bakery employees, as set out hereinafter under Article VI, Section 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, shall become and remain members of the Union, in good standing, while employed by the Company.
ARTICLE III:	CHECK-OFF, ASSIGNMENT OF WAGES
All said employees shall receive from the Union and sign for, a copy of the Agreement, and at the same time shall authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages and pay over to the secretary of the Union, any dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's by-laws, owing by them to the said Union. Upon receipt of said written authorization, the Company agrees to make these deductions and pay same to the "ni.cn secretary or or before the third Saturday in each month.
Employees may authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages contributions to either the Bakcvan Credit Union or employer-sponsored in-house credit union.
ARTICLE IV:	MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
Section 1 (a) The Union agrees that the management cf the Company, including the right to plan, direct and control operations and the direction of the work is vested exclusively in the Company.
(b)	The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of management not specifically covered in this Agreement.
(c)	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2 The Company shall have full right to employ or discharge employees, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agrem.ent, but no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful Union activity or for serving on a Union committee, or for reporting the violation of any provision of this Agrement. jjo employee shall be required to go through any lawfully established picket line.
Section 3 The Company has the right to operate its plant for as many hours and on a six (6) or seven (7) day plant basis, as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels there will be a demand.
To make possible such operation of the Company's plant, the Union hereby undertakes to supply to the Company sufficient extra employees to work part-time at prevailing jobbers' rates.
3
The Company agrees to give the Union not less then three (3) days' notice when requiring three (3) or more extra part-time employees for this purpose. This three (3) days' notice does not apply to requests for regular jobbers and other employees which the Union will furnish as soon as possible.
ARTICLE V:___HIRING PROCEDURE
Ssr.t.inn 1	(a) The Union will be given the first opportunity of
supplying staff except janitors, as per Article V, Section 2, and regular full-time employees eligible for rehire under Artie.I XVI, Section 1.
The Company need not accept any worker named by the Union who is unable to perform his job competently. Any disagreement arising in respect to the competency of such employee shall be determined under procedure laid down herein for the adjustment of grievances.
(b)	In the event of the Union's being unable to supply a suitable person to fill a full-time vacancy? within seven (7) days after a request by the Company, the Company shall be free to fill the vacancy with anyone of its own choosing. The Union agrees to accept such employee into its membership providing the Company has given such seven (7) days notice requesting a regular full-time employee, and providing he is able to pass the eligibility requirements for membership in the Union.
In the event that he can not pass the eligibility require' ments, or the Company has failed to give the seven (7) days notice, he shall be dismissed by the Company forthwith. When an applicant for membership is rejected, the Union will, if reaues(ed to uo.sc^by the Company, set out, in writing, the reason mem^)ers‘liP was re3ec-ecl*
In the case of jobbers:
i) required within twenty-four (24) hours' the Uni°n will advise the Company of its ability to supply as scon as possible.
ii) required after more than twenty-four (24) hours, the
Union will advise the Company twelve (12) hours before such person is scheduled to work,: if it unable to supply a suitable person.
(c)	The Company shall be free to fill any vacancy for jobbers with persons ot its own choosing in the event the Union is unable to provide suitable jobbers when required.
The Union agrees that jobbers supplied to the Company will be fully qualified for the work for which they are required.
The Union also agrees not to send as a jobber to the Company any past employee who has been previously employed and released for cause, unless agreed to by the Company.
ratification, shall be
(d)	All jobbers hired Monday, after paid at the following rater;:
-	first 15 working days ...... £5£	of	Bench	Hand	rate,
-	second 3.5 working days	.... 907;	of	Bench	Hand	rate,
-	after 30 working days ......1002	of.	Bench'Hand	rate.
(e) Jobbers hired ** j K .. c	cu Monday, after
be paid for -t3hrtnn, .	,.
.	, statutory holidays on
the previous 4 weeks average:
14	hours	average	in	a	holiday	week...,
21	hours	average	in	a	holiday	week...,
28	hours	average	in	a	holiday	week....
ratification of 1985 the following basis,
7 hours pay
extra. extra.
extra.
contract, based on the
Section 2 In the event the Company is unable to find suitable janitors among existing long-scrvice employees, -neitnion shall be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy. It'^is understood, all janitors shall become and remain members of the; Union, in geed standing, within thirty (30) days of hiring.
Section 3 The Union may replace any non-Union jobber or any non-Union regular part-time employee, whenever qualified Union replacements are r variable, with the following exceptions:
i) during a scheduled work week; or
ii) when one week's notice must be given, uncer Article VII, Section 1(a).
Section 4 Regular full-time Union employees, wh^ a1-0 lain off ~.\ the Company, shall be eligible for recall for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks, subject to the following:
(1)	If an employee on lay-off (whether e ligible ?£.not *;°r Severance pay) refuses recall to a regular full-time position/ tney will have relinguished all recall rights.
(2)	If an employee who is laid off and is eligible for Severance Pay elects to take said Severance Yay, forfeits all recall rights and shall then be considered as a terminated employee.
(3)	An employee who is recalled to a regular full-time position within the recall period, shall be reinstated with all rights and benefits they enjoyed prior to lay-off*
(4)	If an employee who is eligible for Severance Pay has not been recalled by the expiration of the recall period, then they shall receive Severance Pay, in accordance with Article XX. 5
(5)	The foregoing benefits for regular full-time employees will, terminate in the event the employees do not return to work within seven (7) days (except for proper and sufficient reason) o£ recall after lay-off.
5
Seet.ion	I (a) The following shall be	the minimum wee!-;	;iy ware:
Classification	Effective	Effective * *r~ • — r —
Doug lun an	$653:37	>*/-/- n . -1-7
Cake Hand Decorator	653:37	668:77
Ovenman	651:91	667:31
Dench Hand	647:54	662:94
Recoiver/Shipper	651:03	666:43
Checker and Bread Machine Wrapper	647:54	662:94
Janitor	639:22	654:62
Working Foreperson - Retail	685:76	701:16
Working Foreperson - Wholesale	674:11	689:51
Cake Machine Wrapper	647:54	662:94
No existing Foreperson shall suffer a reduction in ----es,
by reason of implementation of this Contract.
Retroactivity is to be calculated on the basis of straight-time rates for all hours worked. Employees who have la ft the employ of the Company between the expiry date of the last Agreement and the date of ratification of this Agreement will ha entitled to retroactive pay, if they apply to the employer, in writing, within one hundred and twenty ) 120) days after retroactive* pay is paid by the employer to other employees. Each employer will, notify their Union of overall retroactive payment.
. (b) Extra compensation of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be allowed for all work, or any part thereof, performed between the* hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m..
(c) There will be a lump sum increase for all regular full-time employees employed on April 1, 1988 in the amount of $250:00 per employee.
Section 2 (a) Apprentices -- period of apprenticeship shall be three (3)years, with apprentices being mutually acceptable to both parties.
(b)	One (1) apprentice shall be allowed for up to ten (10) journeymen, and one (l)for every ten (10) journeymen, thereafter-Where a shop has a separate cake and bread department, the same ratio will apply in each department.
(c)	All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop.
(d)	The Union agrees to work with the Company with a view to indenturing apprentices under the Apprenticeship and Tracemen's Q u a 1 i f i c at i o n A c t (R.S. I960* Chap. 13, and Amendment).
o

3. (a) A jnia worker employed on a daily basis under s and conci L t ions I .i r. ued be low:
wage rates, per clay, for the^ first three (3) days:
— effective April 1, 1987 ...........^130:62
— effective April 1, 1989............ 133/:70
After three (3) consecutive days, daily rate shall revert to one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly rate.
Section 4 The Company will not be required to pay an employee while absent from employment, due to sickness or otherwise, except as provided for in this Agreement.
Section 5 Wages of regular employees shall be paid weekly, those of jobbers on termination of employment or before the expiration of the working day next succeeding the termination of employment.
Weekly wages shall be paid in one cheque.
Spr.tinn	An employee working in a higher rated classification
shall receive the rate of the higher classification for the entire shift. However, this provision is not intended to prevent customary
flexibility in scheduling relief for rest periods and lunch periods* up to one (l)hour per shift. In no case, shall a higher classrtisr. employee temporarily assigned to a lower classification receive any reduction in pay for the performance of work in the lower classification.
Section 7 All employees upon the completion of three (3) consecutive months of full-time service shall be placed on the payroll of the Company as a regular full-time employee and shall be covered for all benefits under this contract, as soon as possible, and in any event, not later than one (l)month and one (l)day after first qualifying. The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
If an employee becomes absent from work due to sickness, compensation or jury duty while normally working to qualify for full-time status, such employee will be credited with the time he had earned prior to absence.
When the employee returns to work from the absence, the time he has been credited with will count towards the above three (3) consecutive months.
An employee will not lose his seniority date because Of sickness, accident or jury duty.
Section 8 Employees other than full-time who average twenty-eight (28)hours or four (4) days per week in any consecutive thirteen (13) week period shall be covered for the following benefits:
-	100% M.S.P.
-	proportionate benefits for weekly indemnity
-	proportionate benefits for group life insurance.
7
If the employee receiving the benefits does not meet the h()•:: requirements for a period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, ‘he Employer may discontinue the benefits.
Benefits shall apply as soon as possible, but in any event, lot later than one (1) month and one (1) day after an employee; first q lalifies.
The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time or eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
ARTICLE VII:	NOTICE
Section i. (a) Before laying off or discharging a regular full-time employee:, the Company will give such employee one (l)week's notice or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof, except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
Jobbers who work four (4) consecutive full weeks shall be entitled to one (l)week's notice, or one (l)week's pay in liatt thereof, before being laid off or discharged, except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
In the event such notice is cancelled by the employee continuing to work for an additional five (5) days, then the employee is entitled to another notice.
The above clause shall not apply in the case of In-Store Bakeries where the jobbers' hours are extended in the week to five (5) days work, due to unscheduled employee absences. However, tea. employee affected and the Union must be notified as soon as pcssio.e, or the above does not apply.
'The Shop Steward of the Department shall be supplied with a copy of such notice, within forty-eight (48) hours.
Where the Employer is required to give notice because of the return of a sick or injured employee, the returning employee shall also give one (l)week's notice of his intention to return to work.
(b( Employees will give the Company one (l)week's notice when desiring to terminate their employment, except where otherwise mutually agreed.
ARTICLE VIII :	FREE TRANSPORTATION
Free transportation w i I 1 be provided all female employees whose shift finishes after 11:30 p.m., provided such shift ends before 6:00 a.m..
8
8
mKTICI
i x
HOURS OF WORK
Section. 1	(a) The regular work week shall consist of five (5)
seven-hour days.
(b) All Saturday shifts shall-he completed "by 6:00 p.m..
All work performed on Sunday shcill be paid at straight-time rates plus a premium of $1.60 per hour (800 for each full half-hour works:;..
Section 2 In a week in which one or more holidays fall, the work, week that week shall be reduced by seven (7) hours for each such holiday. All time worked in excess of the weekly hour's limited by this sub-section, shall be classed as overtime and paid for at the overtime rate .
Section 3 A jobber's hours of work shall bo seven (7) hours per shift or any pt?.rt thereof.
Section 4 Jobbers working a full week in which one or more public holidays fall shall be paid for each such public holiday.
ARTICLE X:	OVERTIME
■Section 1 (a) Overtime shall be calculated ,on a daily basis and shall consist of the number of hours in excess of those scheduled for each employee.
(b) The overtime rate shall be time and one-half (lh) and shall be paid weekly.
Section 2 (a) The Company agrees that in arranging shifts and in employing extra personnel, as jobbers, on a part-time basis, it will endeavour to eliminate as much overtime as possible., The Union agrees on request, to furnish enough extra part-time personnel to operata the Company's plant or in-store bakery for a sufficient number of hours to
6roduce the required quantity of bakery products. 1° the event of the nion's being unable, to supply sufficient jobbers, the Company shall be free to hire jobbers of its own choosing. Nevertheless, the parties agree that an emergency may be created by a power shortage or major breakdown, in the plant or in-store bakery, or by the failure, of employees to report for work, due to sickness or otherwise. In suen event, the regular employees agree to work such overtime as is necessary and is allowed under permit of the Provincial Department of Labour, until such time as the Union is able to supply the said extra personnel or the cause of the emergency has been rectified.
(b) Except as provided for in Article X, Section 2(a) foregoing, it is mutually agreed that in no event shall an employee be compelled to work overtime.
Section 3 Subject to Article X, Section 2(b) of this Agreement, and due to the need to satisfy retail customer service requirements in the in-store bakeries, the Union recognizes that overtime work may be required from time to time.
— 9
9
i'J:;LLcL';i-ii[:	scnt:nur,rMc: of shifts
Section l (a) The Company shall determine the schedule of workir.:: hours for each employee and may change such schedule at its own discretion, according to the provisions of this Agreement. Wherever possible, the Company shall give consideration to senior employees. Each employee shall have a twelve and one-half (12^) hour break between the end of one regular shift, and the beginning of the .next.
In thecase of a day off, twenty-four (24) hours shall be added to the twelve and one-half (12h) hour break, for all employees.
(b) It is agreed that the first shift shall not start earlier than 6:00 a.m., nor later than 7:00 a.m., with the exception of doughrnen. Other shifts to follow continuously subject to the following exceptions:
(i)	On two (2) days per week, when the Dividerman may be required to start work one (l)hour earlier. This 5:00 a.m. exception shall also apply to public holidays and the two days preceding and two days following public holidays.
(Li) Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may start not later than 9:00 a.m. nor earlier than 6:00 a.m.. The Company may use the provisions of (i) above, in scheduling single shifts.
(iii) Where a statutory holiday or holidays fall in con junction with a weekend, in-store bakeries may call a 4:00 a.m. start, on the first day back.
The first day back may be a Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday.
In such a week where a 4:00 a.m. start is called, the in- store bakery is permitted only one (1)5:00 a.m. start.
(c) It is not the intent of the Company to unnecessarily change shifts which have been established but the Company is free to do so, should the requirements of the operation make certain changes necessary.
Employees on posted jobs will not be taken off the posted jobs as long as the job remains available, except::
(i)	When there is another job posted and the employee wishes to exercise his or her seniority.
(ii)	When the job is eliminated.
(iii)	When there is a reduction in the work force.
(iv)	Employees may be moved out of seniority for a period not to exceed ten (10) working days, unless it is mutually agreed to extend this period. Should a competent replacement become available in the interim, the employee will immediately revert back to his former position.
(v)	When the employee does not perform competently.
10
S-tiction 2 It is agreed that the Company has the right to re-arrar.ge the working hours of regular employees so that the work of pan-time employees or jobbers may be spread amongst that of the regular employees, to the best advantage.
Section 3 The Company agrees to give forty-eight (48) hours notice in advance of any change in shift. The Shop Steward of the department shall be advised at the time or on th'e Shop Steward's next shift.
Section 4 It shall be the duty of employees to advise the Company, as far as possible in advance of the shift, in cases when due to illness or other cause they are unable to report for work.
Section 5 So far as is possible, consistent with the operation of the plant or in-store bakery in producing the required volume of bakery products, the Company agrees to work towards the reduction of night work.
ARTICLE XII:	REST PERIODS
All employees shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period approximately midway in each half shift at a time to be designated by the Management, in accordance with the requirements of the Company's operation.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to locate time clocks in such a manner to ensure full rest periods.
ARTICLE XIII:	LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be granted of one-half (*$) hour duration commencing not earlier than the third hour, nor later than the fourth hour of each shift.
ARTICLE XIV:	PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
Section 1 The following public holidays shall be recognized by the Company, as outlined in Section 2 of this Article, and. the regular full-time employees shall not suffer any reduction in pay thereof:
New Years Day Good Friday Empire Day(May24) Dominion Day B. C, Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day,
and all other holidays proclaimed by the Provincial of the Federal Governments as a public holiday, or in substitution for any such public holiday,
Section 2 (a) During the week in which a public holiday falls, the employee's day off in lieu of the public holiday may be changed to another day in that week.
—. 11
1.1.
(:.)) All employees shall be create:: Sew Veers -ay c:: oa January 1st, when .it Cells on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursis.-Employees on production of hand-made bread shall not observe New Years Day on January 1st.
All a h i. f‘..a f bo completed h'/ 7:00 n. :n. , ce 2-'. th and Dec ember list.
(cl) Regular full-time employees who work on public holidays shall be paid a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour.
ARTICLE XV :	VACATIONS
Section 1 After one (1) full year of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full - time employee shall receive two (3) weeks vacation with pay.
Section 2 Vacations must be taken by the employee entitled to ssrr.e. Wages shall not be paid in lieu of vacation.
Section 3 Employees are to receive vacations between May 15th a.".d September 15th. Preference for vacations will be according to seniority, however, the Company will determine how many within each job classification be on vacation at any one time, subject tc requirements of the operation.
Section 4 Employees are to receive summer vacations between May 15th and September 15th, however, the 1st, 2nd, 5th and 6th& 7th weeks of vacation or any part thereof may be taken at any time during the year (January 1st to December 31st) outside of the summer vacation period, if the employee so desires, subject to Section 3 of this Article.
Section 5 After three (3) full years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive threa (3) weeks vacation with pay..
Company,
vacation
Company,
vacation
Company,
vacation
After eight (8) years of consecutive service with the
each regular full-time employee shall receive four (4) waeks with pay.
After thirteen (13) years of each regular full-time employee w-ith pay.
After eighteen (18) years of each regular full-time employee with pay, and to seven (7) weeks
consecutive service with the shall receive five (5) weeks
consecutive service with the shall receive six (5) weeks vacation with pay after
twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service with the Company.
-- 12
12
Vacations shall be taken as follows:
(i) Those entitled to three (3) or four (4) weeks vacencr. shall take such vacation either two’(2) weeks between .May 15th ar.d September 15th and the extra weeks between January 1 st and March 31st.
(ii)	Those entitled to five (5)., six (6) or seven (7) weeks vacation shall-take such vacation either two (2) or three (3) weeks at their option, between May 15th and September 15th — two (2) weeks between January 1st and March 31st and any additional week or weeks between September 15th and December 31st.
Employees who first qualify for extra vacations by March 31st, may take the vacation commencing not later than April 1st of the same year.
Section—£.	In the event of one public holiday falling during an
employee’s annual vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitled to the first day off with pay, he would normally return to wcrk. x~
the event of two public holidays falling during his annual holidays with pay, he shall be entitled to the first two days off with pay, he would normally return to work; and for three public holidays to the first three (3) days off with pay.
Section 7 Vacation allowances on termination of employment:
-	four percent (4%) for those entitled to two (2) weeks,
-	additional two percent (2%) for each additional week's .vacation.
Section 8 The Company agrees that an employee’s ann.j;al vacation with pay shall not be broken because of the intervention of any public holiday.
Section 9	(a) Winter holidays schedule must be first posted by
November 1. selection by November 15th, and completed by Decerber_
1. Summer noliday schedule ust be posted and completed by April ^ath, and include any fifth (5) , sixth (6) or seventh (7) weeks vacation sceduled between September 15th and December 31st.
(b) For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular full-time employees due to sickness, accident, compensation or temporary lay-off, shall be counted as time worked to a maximum of three (3) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks vacation and to a maximim of six (6) months fcr employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks vacation.
Section 10 Vacation pay shall be paid not later than one day before the last 3ay of employment before vacations commence.
Section 11 The successful applicant on an in-store job posting carries his/her vacation entitlement with them but the scheduling ■and taking of such vacation leave entitlement shall be based cn the operational requirements at the new store location, for the first vacation period.
13
13
ARTICLE XVI :	SEN 10RITV
Section L Promotions, lay-offs, re-hiring and preferences c: transfers to shifts (in the event a vacancy occurs on any shift) shall be based on length of service and ability, where ability between employees is reasonably equal, length of service will determine.
Section 2 For the purposes of .this Article, a job vacancy occurs:
(i) when an employee transfers from one job to another;
(ii) when the Company requests a replacement for a regular
full-time employee whose employment has been terminated;
(iii)	when the Company creates a new job for which a regular full-time employee is required.
(iv) a job vacancy in an In-store bakery does not occur where the Employer changes an employee's shift by one (1) hour or less, nor does a vacancy occur where the employee and the Union mutually agree to change shift hours.
Section 3 The original vacancy shall first be posted and when transfers result and create additional vacancies, it is understate, there shall be no more than three (3) postings, including the engine.
Section 4 (a) The Company agrees to post vacancies for forty-eight (4 =) hours but may fill such vacancies on a temporary basis until applications have been processed and regular appointment is made. Regular appointments shall normally be made within one (l)vaek.
This time may be extended by mutual'agreement. Applicants far a posted vacancy may only apply on forms which shall be made available by the Company posted in a conspicuous place. The posting shall stare the job and the starting time of the shift. The successful applicant for a posted job shall be put on the job within seven (7) days, unless it is mutually agreed between the Company and the Union to extend the time.
(b) The second and third posting shall be posted ar.d filled within one month of the filling of the original vacancy. In the event of more than one original posting and more than one successful applicant is from the same in-store bakery, the Company may delay the final appointments up to one month.
Section 5 Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to qualify shall revert back to their original job.
Section 6 It is agreed that senior employees absent on vacation or because of sickness or accident, shall have the opportunity to apply for a job posting provided application is received within thirty (30) days of posting and the Union accepts responsibility for notifying such employees. Any such employee accepted to fill the vacancy shall be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy provided he returns to work within three (3) months of posting or such longer period as may be agreed upon.
14
Section 7 those rct'errecl vacancy., liowov
Non-Union Joobsrs in tha employ of tho Comonny or by the Un.!.on Rhai.l be eligible to apply for* a job yr, ha a ha 11 'not bo given tho job unless*
(1) in; U ion membov in tl;•;. otnpl.'-.y of tho Cozouoy Qu&lifio? 5 R.ivl	*
(:U) tho Union !■•■ mic.sx© in Ru:»f-Iy, wi thin so van
w ) days3 & QualJ.ioa oO Jill tho vacancy,!
In U“5 ov-rot such employ*.- It given tho j,h0 jm ehal.l xmofcux«t«ly otcoaw a mombov or ths Union» However, in no case may an employee who in not n ir.n.v.b? of tho Union hold seniority over ono who is s*. mamba? of the Union,,
oe_cti.on_,8 ^ In th> ©v-.'.-rfc of a reduction of tho work .fores, or whore	d?;port!:•::)nt of the Company An temporarily closed or
ona or morn jobs or© a 1.1 mi ns ted and /.ten.A or employee© may bo subject to layoff, such senior employees shall ba given an opportunity to qualify for tho job of a junior employs*:, llo or sho shall have th9 right to choose the Junior job for which ho or she wishes to qualify. The period of qualification (.hall be determined by mutual agreement between the parties after thy employe-a ia a.ssigneu to the new position...
Section 9	Where e. doctor hao indicated that it in likely
an employee will be absent due to illness or accident, for at least four (*v) weeks, senior qualified employees will be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy created by the illness, or accident, it being understood there will be only one (1) move for each accident or illness.
flection 10'	Notwithstanding tha foregoing provisions of thia
?u'Ciclc, Janitors may only make application for n job vacancy in tho production department after one or more years of service and, further, in tha event of a reduction in the work force, Janitors may only ba replaced by a regular full-time employee#
Janitors shall not bo moved out of that department on a temporary basis but nn employee in other classifications any do janitorial work#
ARTICLE XVIIi LEAVE 0? ABSENCE
hi i # hi n ■!■■!■■■ —■ iimi inn i i ~a~ fcai 11 i r it i—i "i n ~n-r ~ • i  
flection 1	Tbo Company agrees to grant nocoaaary Lies off
without pay and without discrimination, to not more than two (2) employees, each of whom shall be from different departments of ’tho Company’s business, who shall be designated by the Union for a maximum of three (.$) months on Union business, provided notification is given tho Company in sufficient time to secure a satisfactory relief person acceptable to the Company for tho job involved.
15
_ An indofini fro 2'oavo of e-'V-'enco, without pay, shall bo grantau-t.0 any one employes as the full-tine Financial oecreuary-iraosum conditional upon hia ability to perform ms normal Job, provided that ho rc-npplied within thirty (30) days of hi a no Ioniser serving go tho full-time Financial Go^retarv-Traa3ura.fi>	J
Section 2	ilnrp.ilar full-tim;)
more yearn of ao.cvico shall be gr pay, for a minimum period of one thirteen (13) weeks on tha imdora
omployo<so with onn (1) or onted leav© of absence, .without (1) week up to & maximum of tending fchafci
(a)	Onto one i.l>	employe© up -to ton (10)
employ *3/3 and .ono (.1) eligible employs*! for each additional ten (10) employees or any part thereof, ahall be absent at one time, In any event, no more than ono (1)employee ahall be absent from any department at any one fcirea*
(b) Tvonty-ono (23.) days written notice ia given to. tha employer*
(u) A qualified person ia available as a replacement, The competency of the employee shall be mutually agreed on.
(d) Such loavo of absence ahall be taken between September 15th and Hay 15th, except wham otherwise mutually agreed
(a) The employee ahall not b© permitted to work during
such leave*
(f) It is agreed should an oroployoo fall to return to work at the completion of tha leavo of -absence, os in found to
have worked while on leave, ha or aha ahall be terminated in
employment,
(G) Loava of abaonca will ba granted on a caniority
basis*
(h) 'fhla section will not nullify laavo of abaence Cranted on compassionate grounds*
Section 5	In the ©vent of death in an employea*o immediate
family' (employee's parents, oioters or brothers, spouse or child1,0"* mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-lay, grandparents, or any other relative living in the household of the employee) the employee shall he entitled to be absent from work with gay, a period of three working days, when such ab3enco is necessary to make arrangements for, of to attend the funeral*
AHTrCl£„XVIirj__REGULAR PART--'TIPIE EMPLOYEES.
Section 1	An employee who performs ono hundred and fifty
(150) days of actual work in a twelve (12) month period, shall be classified as a regular part-timo employee*
16
lb
An employee1 desirous of becoming n regular part-time employee sba.ll indicate came by notifying the Company on a company form, to commence accruing his/her vacation pay. Twelv (12) month.'; later the Company will assess the number of days worked by such employee.,
fifty (150) days period, then the he/she signed th
f t:% • ornp'J.nyoo han accrue:' one o" actual work in this twelve seniority nm]iversa:-.y date she f orm,
hundred and (12) month 1 be the day
•If
• -r, 'J
loyon has net accrued one hundred or.cl
fifty (150) days in the initial twelve (12) month period, then on:j (1) month later his/her numbeir of days will be assessed again, and each subsequent month thereafter until the employee qualifies, It being understood that only the previous twelve (12) months will be used when as.ee a sing the one hundred and fifty (1,:-0) day qualifying period.
determine
January 1, 1975? shall be the date set to the first twelv-:') (12) month period of qualification.
„ An employee qualifying as of January 1, 1975> shall bo covered by all conditions of Article XVIII.
An employee taking longer than twelve (12) months to qualify as a regular part-time employee shall receive his/her vacation allowance on his/her qualifying date, however, should this period exceed fifteen (15) months, then the employee may request part of his/her vacation pay without jeopardising his/her part-time status.
An employee hired previous to January 1, 1975, shall not lose seniority rights already established with the Company.
Section 2	Such regular part-time employees on temporary
lay-off shall maintain M.S.P.. coverage during such lay-off.
The employee may prepay the necessary full premium or have the Company make the payment which shall be reimbursed to the Company by that employee upon hia or tier return to work.
Section 5	Regular part-time employees after one (1) year
of service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation, with pay. Vacation pay will be prorated according to time worked.
After three (3) years of consecutive service, regular' part-time employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation, with pay, and after eight (3) years of consecutive service, four (.4) weeks vacation, with pay. After thirteen (13) years consecutive service, five (5) weeks vacation^ with pay.
After eighteen (13) years consecutive service, six (6) weeks vacation, with par. After twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service, seven (7) weeks vacation, with pay.
17
17
The basic two (2) weeks vacation and the third and/or fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth and/or seventh week.^ vacation shall, be taken at the tiraes as set out in Article ’ Section h-„
After having qualified for three (3) or four or five (5) or six (C>) or seven (7) weeks vacation as above
such employee fails to perform one hundred and fifty (150)	^
of actual work in any one (1) year, such employee shall not qualify for that year only, However, if such employee failsrt^°g
Sualify for two (2) successive years except for approved ab” ue to sickness, accident or compensation, then such employ1-must requalify fjr vacation, as provided above.
Section 4	The foregoing benefits for a regular part-time
employee will terminate in the event the employee does not return work within seven (7) days of recall after a lay-off.
Section 5	For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled
work days lost by regular part-time employees, due to sickness or accident or compensation, shall count as time worked to a maximum of two (2) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks, and, to a maximum of four (4) months for employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks.
ARTICLE XTX:	JURY DUTY
Employe®*} called upon to perform Jury duty or witness duty, where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal wagea thereby, subject to tho following conditional
(a)	Employees* ehall return to work’within a reasonable period of time eftor Jury duty is finished, ^cy shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to bo worked.,
(b)	Such employees shall furnish tho Company with such statements of earnings as the Courts may supply,
ARTICLE XX:	SEVERANCE PAY
In the event of amalgamation^ closure of the plant or a department thereof, or reduction in work force due to automation or technological advances cuusing a regular full-time employee to lose- his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such an employee severance Pfly at his or her regular rate of pay according to tha following schedule:
Full-time,	Severance pay
Consocutiva service up to 2 years .. over 2 yeara •••
One (1) weak
One (1) week»8 pay for avary year of full time service to a maximum cb: twenty (20)* weeks*
lli
'A'i '.va x'v
woska notic# or* weok1 s way bo ontitiecl,, Thia
lay-orra
■orjoincj shall bo pay in lieu the clause cloao not
.uU addition to the regular reo.f, to which ouch employees apply to a temporary
ARTICLE JUi
«J. V!\
IfcU-V. . <MAM.Vt.-W1
LEAVE BENEFITS
S££M£3LA . Ktqy-'uv:- fuU-tino employ as a, affcay three (3) cioucIig conooeutrive employment, shall by anticled to e.ick leavo bonoi.Lts at a .vato o\ one-half ())) day1 a pay per month of full»> txma omploymftni;, up to a maximum of thirty-yaven (37) dayo pay.
Sick leave banafi-fca ehsil apply to the first day for the Xirafc threo illnesses of each calendar year, after which nuch sick leave pay shall only apply to tin; second (2nd) and third (3rd) regularly scheduled working days of illness,,
The employes shall provide a doctor^ certificate verifying tha illness if requested by the Company, however, certificates will only ba requested if abuse is suspected.
Tho Company will reimburse the employee for charges incurred in certificate preparation to a maximum of tan dolla.cn (i>10.00) for the first certificate required for each illness,
Sick leavs accumulation may be used to supplement weekly indemnity to normal daily earnings.
The Employer will ensure that an employee injured at work will have his/her full wages maintained for the first three (3) working days. If payment for the first three (3) days is also made by the Workers Compensation Board, the Employer will deduct the equivalent amount of such Workers Compensation Board payment.
Section 2	An employee, if found abusing this privilege, shall
be disciplined by the Employer. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee or terminate his employment.
Section 3	Employees who voluntarily terminate their employment
with the Employer, or who are permanently laid-off from their employment with the Employer, shall be paid any sick leave accumulation they may have to their credit.
Accumulated sick leave payout — In-store bakery employees who have a sick leave credit balance, in excess of twelve (12) days'eighty-four (84) hours) as of December 31st, 1983, and on each December 31st thereafter, shall receive a cash pay-out to a maximum of six (6) unused sick leave days (fourty-two (42) hours), provided, no in-store bakery employee's sick leave bank shall fall below twelve (12) days (eighty-four (84) hours), as a result of a cash pay-out, Eligible in-store bakery employees shall receive a cash pay-out prior to January 31st of each year.
19
AUT iCf.!•: >:x C_t  IIr.'f*!l .wn i-ap
isction l The employer shall make its Welfare Plan available to eligible employ e ~ o-n, the following contributory basis:
nintay percent (90%) by the Employer,
- ten percent (10%) by the employee,
The Employer shall provide a letter to the Union defining eligible employees for the purposes of this Article. The Welfare Plan will provide continued coverage to all bakers regardless of changes of employment from one Company to another which are under the same collective Agreement.
Section 2 Weekly indemnity benefits payable up t° twenty-six (26) weeks , shall be four hundred and e i gh ty - s i x do^ars (5dS6.n0), effective April 1st, 1906.
Weekly Indemnity benefits shall be increased to five hundred dollars (£500:00) per week effective April i, 19 89.
It is understood these weekly indemnity benefits shall be applied according to the regulations of the Employer's insurance plan.
Life insurance to be a minimum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
Effective October 1st, 1979, establish a noncontributing prepaid drug, eye-glass and hearing aid Plan, provicent the following b e n e fi t s to fu 11 - t i m e employees:
(a)	Prepaid Drug Plan with no deductible.
(b)	Eye-glass, lenses and frames, to a maximum $100.00 per year person.
(c)	Hearing aids to a maximum of $350.00 per person once every four years.
(d)	It is understood all employees' dependents shall be covered by the above Welfare Plan.
Eligible dependents shall be wife or husband.
(e)	A covered employee's unmarried children under the age of 21, or under the age of 25 while attending an educational institution, provided such person is still dependent on the employee.
Effective March 31st, 1980, establish a Long Term Disability Plan.
Effective March 28th, 1982, increase Long Term Disability Plan from 50% to 60% for claims commencing on or after March 20th, 1982.
20
20
Effective July 1st, 1985 (for those qualified) the Employer shall also make available:
-	M.S.P. (including Extended Health Plan)
-	H.E.P. Plan (hearing aid, eyeglass and prescription),
to regular part-time employees who work an average of twenty-one (21) hours per week for a period of three (3) consecutive months. Such employees shall receive these benefits as described for full-time employees in this section of the Agreement. The employee must fail to meet the above hour requirement for a period of three (3) consecutive months from the time he or she first fails to meet it, before they are disqualified.
Effective June 1st, 1935, all full-time employees are covered for Major Medical benefits offered by the Employer under this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. All those engaged in handling of bakery products, until they have been wrapped, shall wear white, other employees to be supplied with suitable uniforms. The cost of supplying and laundering of all uniforms to be borne by the Company except jobbers who work less than two (2) weeks, provided that jobber requests his uniform by the end of his second week in which event the Company agrees to provide his uniform by Tuesday of the third week.
.Sle-clion 2 The Company shall provide and maintain for the convenience of employees, toilets, washrooms and lockers, The lunch room shall be separate and apart from dressing rooms and toilets, and shall provide facilities for boiling water.
Section 3 Employees shall at all times leave benches and machinery cleaned and (excepting in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiner's repairs) in condition for the immediate resumption of work. The Company shall keep all equipment in good safe working order,
Section 4 Employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant, in good order, and to refrain from misusing or defacing them and to -refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or conveniences.
Section 5 Both parties to this Agreement endorse the City Of Vancouver By-Law No. 2143, with particular respect to health certificates.
21
2.1
Section rrr
6	The
oakery whor.!) bakery produetn oro produced or handled, iB prohibited and any broach of this rule on tho part of on employee shall bo cause fas* instant diaaiaaalo
U--0 oi tobacco In any form in any part of tho
id, in
part of ony
Section 7 • «- . «*«*•».,«
a si;.nilic.sn
the mat to v v-
/jaao*
I*h ths S '.iffoot on ith Uni
ovant of technological chants that: hova production,, tho Company ajjreey to diocuan on fn:< (G) ws0£k) prior to institution of
section i-S ^ iJviy $o t**9 ratal! ©nv.lrontasnfc in th® in-otcro boxcncs, tho Union recognises that linkers ®ay ba required to servo on fchs counter f.UK*in*,j relief periods, and that when Union oeubers are not avoilpbl® to olica broad, the counter eoployce ■uay slice and wrap bread to facilitate c us to max* sorvico within
•tho b&l:ox*y dapartm«f
ARTICLE XXXV i UtllOil LABEL
■hWI	« Ilf   *i1 l***TlHV1 *~n*1l~l* 'll kY V 'iKiMMO
Tho Union Label will bo furnished to thg Company oi coat jro lorn; as this Agreement is uphold, provided no other Union has a i?rievnnco with the Company, The Union screen ot all times to odvanca th-a cals of Union products by lahai campaign or otherwise.
article mi union ts?regeh';'AW?
Lection 1	Tho Company and tho Union undertake mutually to
lootorFHs spirit of co-operation in tha interpretation of this Ar.rcci.iont* The management of this Company will at all times, whenever reasonably possible,, extend to the accredited representative of tha Union,, upon hi« request, evidence and facilities for confirming that tho terms and conditions of this Agreement ore beini; maintained, Hn shall also bs granted parmiosion to inspect tha p ay chequa of any employes., should ho so'desire;
Section 2	Tho Buainsais Agent shell be) permitted to enter
ony and-all departments of the shop during working hours, to attend to tho business of fchs Union, He chhll, as Q matter or courtesy etc to the purpose of his visit to tho person in charge of the department, and shall be given every opportunity to personally examine complaints of workers on the job, but at no tiuo will ha interfere with plant operation*
ARTICLE XXVIr GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
flection 1	In tha event an employs® feelB he has been
TmproperTy dismissed, such (grievance shall ba taken up under tho Grievance Procedure of this Agraiuont*
Section 2	Any employes who allflgQQ that the Coapany hoo^
unreasonably increased tha work load of his job, thereby cousins injury to th® hoalth of such employe?) or reasonable apprehension of such injury* rosy prsso-nt tho caattu^ ss ft (jriovanco under is Article*
22
- 2 2
}An? cr^plrAiVt.) di0&isr?!i,v:s?)S me rKffcrnnce of opIijAo/i' b<:':■■■ ::;n Sho Company tend thy Union* ox* tl:o employee r.ovorod by r.hiy li’.roomoni; which concerns Dio ijitorprstalion or application of \hy r;.v.\ ant*	?
£l	-j Any
praooixV. c.-Vt--,:
ciin>;enia ino iJitorprasaliDn or appl. provin.ioria of thin Acre".! mi: nt5 cball bo conGiueruU ■*employtiro Union me U>o Company* asy
grievances
v.''•: v.- -.
.1 bn 2

: *■ vo ,r;;
of d.l 3 yu
ouch ri Aijiai; of ';•■•
< n) minul’ * gelovauctf OCCV.C, ibo 8«»b*jp ala*, mint*
■*.f. * Wvi hyCciw t.o ’cUrj S'no..> & to>; .ykI or i.'uy Lhj.viro:;1 :
on,
£ The shop steward or business agent of the union shall take the matter up with the superintendent within ten days of the alleged incident and a further 30 days shall be permitted to finish the balance of the grievance steps or the grievance is dropped. An extentioncan be mutually agreed to.
ffi) Should tho ryririvanco not bo Su£«;-.\infcontifc(Mi’,‘w».u Shop SUv.ord or flusi noso nhal.5 than bo '.-.alien up betwenn tha Du:;j.<voo3 02* labour \upr»jsantftti.vo or tho Company >
sott!o& VatKasn t?.wi Aliens, fcho matter Ar,e.nt (find tho Hannas..*
96(1)
(c.l) ires ..ii: oT ti.o Labour ii^
by mutual oproaaaht of parties^ Sgotion utionc Act io hereby excluded.
APl'IC'iJs XXVlit 110,MID OR
AHRITJUTION
Section 1	If tho Union and tho Coopery labour representative*
can not reach oh adjustment, upon roquenfc of either party, the grievance shall ba submitted to a board of Arbitration composed
of-thfe-D (3) uarobars*
If mutually anraad botweoft th$ Company? and tho Union* a aincio arbitrator shall proaido.
The.parties,shall each select one (1) member, within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice by either party that a grievance is to be submitted to artibration, and the third member shall be.selected by mutual agreement of the two members first selected The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board. If agreement can not be reached within seven (7) days in respect to the appointment of the Chairman, of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to'the .Labour Relations Board. of the Province of British Columbia, whichshall'; appoint - a'.. Chairman.
Section 2.	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider
such .material evidence as the . parties, may offer, and: shall: make such independent- investigation as it deems essential: to a fullhunderr standing and determination, of the iss.ue involved'; In reaching its decision; the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this'• Agreement.
23
Soc ;_jyKi _3	The: Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with
the*power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitration issue under this Agrement. Where the Board of Arbitration finds that c;n employee was dismissed or suspended or other than proper causa, the Board of Arbitration may direct the Employer to reinstate th • employee and nay to the employee; a sum equal to his wages lost by r.-.ason of his discharge or suspension, or such lesser sum as in the opinion of the .'Board is fair and reasonable.
Se£tiThe finding and decision of the Board of Arbitration on ail arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be-deemed a decision of the Board.
.faction 5	It is the intention of the parties that this Article
shaiT-pr'ovide a peaceful method of adjusting grievances so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operations as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 3	Each party shall pay its own arbitrator, but all
expenses incurred by the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration.
ARTICLE XXVXII:	PENS.TOM PLAN
It is agreed that the Approved Standard Collective Bargaining Clause (Canada) which follow;, will provide the following benefits:
- $700:00 Plan A, B, C, Benefits .	- $700:00 Plan D, at 2% Level
Effective April 1, 1988, the benefit level for the above plans will increase to seven hundred and seventy five dollars (775:00) per month, and effective April 1, 1989 , the benefit level will further increase to eight hundred and fifty dollars (850:00) per month.
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE (CANADA)
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union an:! Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local. Union and the Employer, is as follows: 1
1.	(a) Commencing with First day of April, 198JL and
for the duration of the current Collective Bargaining. Agreement between the said Local Union and Employer, and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the
2-1
Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the-said Collective Bargaining Agreement, as follows:
ove-
....... .... ...... .........,—.,..... , -----...  w.nployees
arc permanent, temporary or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they arc- members of the Union. It is further understood that each day or hour paid holiday.-.;, and other day;; or hours for which pay is received by the employee, in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted, as days or hours for which contributions aro payable.
(b) The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, dated September 11, l';55» establishing the said Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund, arid agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of said Agreement, a cony of which is annexed hereto and. made a part hereof. The Employer further agrees irrevocably to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the Fund, such Trustees as are named, in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement and agrees to se bound by all the action taken by the said Employer Trustees, pursuant; to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust*
(c)	It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by
the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such as will qualify for approval for theappropriate Canadian Government Department,
So as to enable the Employes to treat contributions to the Pension Bund as a deduction' for income tax purposes.
(d)	It ia agreed that all contributions shall be made at such times arid, in such manner as the Trustees require, and, the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Certified Public Accountant audit tho payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
(e)	If the Employer fail3 to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the date required by the Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights the Trustees may have,^ shall have the right to taka whatever steps are available to it under the Dollective Bargaining Agreement, and applicable law,.to secure compliance with tnis Article. The Employer shall be liable
or all costs incurred in collecting the payments due hereunder, together with attorney's feos and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustees.
25
The parties agree and represent thafc there is no other agreement between them regarding pension, other than this Ai.’tic3.e, presently .in effect. The parties further agree that no niiroomonb regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during rhe period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees,
'/*	The expiration data of tin present Collective
Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer, ia March 51, /</?0 1990 Copies of any renewal or extension agreements v;ill be promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the busis for termination of participation of the Employer.
This Article shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors and assigns.. The Employer shall give prior notice , in writing, of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee or other successor in interest. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Trustees not later than four (4) days after the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its ’obligation under this Article.
ARTICLE XXIX; DEHTAL PLAN
The Employer agrees to ensure the following
dental benefits:
—	90# co-insurance present plan,
—	80# co-insurance lor crowns, bridges and dentures,
—	50# co-insurance for orthodontics,
$1,750.00 maximum.
If a government plan is instituted at any time with the same or equivalent benefits, it is understood that if necessary, the Company will pay the difference between any such plan and the maximum of thirteen cent3 (13$) per hour.
26
26
ARTICLE XXX:	DURATION
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in force and effect from APRIL 1, 1987, until MARCH 31, 1990 nnVl thereafter from year to year until a nev; Agreement, the .-terms of which shall be retroactive to Apr.il 1, of each year, has been consume ted. The parties agree to specifically exclude the operation of Section 56(1) of the Labour Code of British Columbia, and do aaraa that there shall be no re-ooening of this Agreement, until the proper notice is served prior to this expiration date of March 31, 1990 . Should either party desire to make any changes in this Agreement, the party desiring the change shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (63) days prior to • the expiry date of the Agreement, in any year. In the event of a failure to reach an amicable settlement, mediation may be applied for under existing provincial legislation.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING to be renewed, as agreed.
SIGNED OM BEHALF OF
THE COMPANY


SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
27
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN :
AND:	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL NO. 468
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
The Company agrees that where it operates a retail store, all future in-store bakeries on the lower mainland and Victoria shall become and remain the jurisdiction of Local 468 of the Bakery, Confectionery & Tobacco Workers International Union, for the remainder of this Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Consecutive Days Off
The Parties agree that no employee shall be compelled to work more than six (6) consecutive days and will be scheduled a three (3) day weekend every second weekend. A three (3) day weekend shall be one of the following:
-	Thursday, Friday, Saturday
-	Friday, Saturday, Sunday
-	Saturday, Sunday, Monday
-	Sunday, Monday, Tuesday.
The Parties have reviewed this matter in general terms during negotiations and specifically reserve the right to amend the above to properly staff the In-store Bakery.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Long Term Disability
Any employee receiving Long Term Disability shall be
covered for:
-	M.S.P.
-	Group Life Insurance.
-	H.E.P..
28
2 C
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
Weekly Indemnity
it in understood between ‘the Parties that Weekly Indemnity payments to entitled employees s!,all be the responsibility of the Employer. If payment of Valid cl;;..'ms is not made by the insurance company, within two (2) word'.": from the time the Employer receives the completed application, the Employer shall then pay to the cj <min.'; employee an amount ecj•.;?.! to h.is entitlement. Similarly when payments are stopped by the Carrier, while the employee's entitlement continue*;.:, the employee sh-ill ba able to claim the amount of his entitl ;:ment from the Employer.
Payments made by the Employer for claims later to be found to bo invalid, or payments made by the Employer which are l-.-ter paid by the: Carrier, shall be re turn-able to the Employer.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE EATERY, CONFECTIONERY & ZCz.-.ZZZ
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF	WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
THE CO/1?'ANY	LOCAL 4G;!
Education Leave
Employees with 4 years of continuous service with the Employer shall be- entitled io an Educational Leave of Absence for up to one year without gain' or less of seniority as of the time the employee leaves.
The following terms and conditions shall apply to 'such leaves:
1.	One employee per store at any. one time shall be eligible for Educational Leal?. In storcs.with more than 40 employees 2 people per store will be entitled to Educational Leave.
2.	Written application for the Leave shall be coordinated through . the Human Resources Department. Notification of the person going on leave shall be provided to the Store, 'Union and employee involved.
3.	Seniority shall be the determining factor in scheduling the leave.
4	Such leave will, be granted on a one time only basis per
employee.
5.	The	cmP^yee must	be attending on accredited educational
institution, The Parties reserve the right to discuss and resojve the application of this in any particulor case.
6.	While on leave the employee shall not toke employment with •any competitor, in the ‘ food business. (Violation of this provision may result in termination.)
7.	It is understood a person on leave could be offered minimal port time work with the Employer without seniority or rights to such work, for the duration of the leave.
8.	The	period of time	off will	not count towards time v/erked
for vocation entitlement.
9.	One	month's 'notice	of return	to work must' be given to the
Employer unless a return date has been established prior to leaving.
10.	During the period	of such	leave, the employee will be
allowed to self pay their pre leave benefit status for M.S.P., E.H.B., H.E.P'., and Life Insurance in advance by quarterly installments.
The Parties desire to have this new provision complied with in 'spirit end intent. Any abuse, violations, or conflicts arising from it w'ill be discussed bctv/ccr. the Parties before any action is taken.

If your coverage ceases because your employment or your membership within the eligible classes ends, you may convert your Insurance to	some form of individual	life	policy offered	by Lincoln
Life without	having to pass a physical	examination.
If you qualify for the Retiree Death Benefit, the amount of it will be deducted from,the .amount of life insurance you are otherwise entitled to convert.
You have 31	days to make application	for	conversion and	to pay the
required premium following termination	of	your insurance.	However,
if you are given written ' notice of your right to convert, you have no more than 31 days from the date of termination of insurance, or until 25 days after you are given notice, whichever is the later date.
If you should die within the 31 day period after your coverage ends, your amount of insurance will be paid to your beneficiary. If your life insurance is payable under the group policy, payment will not be made under the converted policy; and premiums paid for the converted policy will be refunded.
A
CZ A NJ A D A S A F~ EE W AY limited
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
SUITE 2SO-6-JSO P03E»*3 ST. BUHNA3V. 3 C v$S -i: 1 TELEPHONE: 6CA1 T43
August 8, 1930
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
Pursuant to Article VI, Section 2 (d) the following represents the understanding reached between the Parties on the implementation of an indentured apprenticeship program for In-Store Bakeries.
1. Current Section 2 (a}
(i)	The Apprenticeship Program shall be of three years duration.
(ii)	Candidates for the Program will be selected by mutual agreement between the Parties.
(iii)	Wages: - the following wage scale shall amend the current 2 (a).
Start rate	- 65% pf bench hand rate
Second six	months	-	70%	„	“	"	■
Third six	months	-	75%	„	“	"	a
Fourth six	months	-	80%	»	«	•
Fifth six	months	-	85%	"	■	"	a
Sixth six	months	-	90%	m	"	•
Upon the successful completion of the three year program, the apprentice shall receive the journeyman bench hand rate.
Wage increases through the above scale is dependent on successful completion of the schooling part of the program.
The apprentice shall be entitled to all raises as negotiated during the period of his apprenticeship.
While attending an approved Vocational School, an apprentice will receive from the Company an allowance cnmnrised of the difference between his regular straight time rate, based on a thirty-five hour-week, and any allowances received from the Apprenticeship Branch or any other grants.

-2-
The apprentice shall accumulate seniority cor-mencing with his date of hire, and shall be subject to layoff according to his seniority.
2. • Section 2 (b)
During the first year after implementation, the number of apprentices will bo mutually agreed upon.
« Section 2 (c)
All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop
4.	Trial Period
The apprentice shall have a trial period of his first sixty (60) working days during which time his performance, attitude and suitability will be assessed.
5.	There shall be no reduction in the work force due to the apprenticeship training.
6.	A person accepted as an apprentice, who has successfully completed a ten month course at a trade school, shall be given credit for the first year of his apprenticeship.
Signed on this
■day of ------------------------
new letters of understanding
(l) NOTICE:
A List of jobbers	working for Canada Safeway,
will be sent out to each store , on a weekly basis.
This list shall constitute weekly notice as covered in Article VI1.
Shop Stewards will be given a copy of this list.
(2) POSTINGS:
New employees, accepting their first posting with Canada Safeway in-store bakeries, must stay on the posting for three months.
(2) POSTINGS:
New postings will be posted with Monday and Tuesday off.
There will be only one such posting in each store.
All existing postings shall remain as is, unless the company and the union agree to changes.
This letter of understanding shall be in effect for one year, unless an extension is mutualy agreed to by both parties.
Signed on behalf of	Signed on behalf of
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
THIRD PARTY LIABILITY
Should a Safeway employee receive weekly indemnity, as a result of an accident, and he or she subsequently receives a wage loss settlement from I.C.B.C., covering the same period, the amount by which weekly indemnity benefits and sick leave benefits causes the actual replacement income to exceed the employees regular earnings shall be reimbursed to the company.
Any banked sick days which may have been used, shall be returned to the employees banked sick days accumulation.
Signed on behalf of	Signed on behalf of
the comDanv:	the unjon: