* *
B;'a.keify
SOURCE				
EfF.	*h		06	oi
‘.rERM. ..	95		O'/	
Ho. OF EMPLOYEES		160		
.WOM RE , l’C'\.Y^PLOVES TTnftnrv ’		'-M-		
Local m
1750 'STEELES AM SUITE 9C.
Toronto; hebrek Vias.ter -;bakers'.tassoc i at i on
PRESIDENT-
UIIOIPOFF!!
:1K«
iliSl
PaT 199^
INDEX
ARTICLE I-PURPOSE...................................
ARTICLE II-SCOPE....................................
ARTICLE III-UNION SECURITY..........................
ARTICLE IV-CLASSIFICATION...........................i
ARTICLE V-WAGES.................................... '
ARTICLE WAGES-SCHEDULE..............................5
ARTICLE VR- HOURS OF WORK..,....................... 6
ARTICLE VII- GENERAL................................7
ARTICLE VIII- SENIORITY.........................-...7
ARTICLE IX- WORK RULES : : ...... ..................9
ARTICLE X- PENSION AND FRINGE’ BENEFIT FUNDS.......11
ARTICLE XI- HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND................12
ARTICLE XII- ..UNION HOLIDAYS......................13
ARTICLE XIV- SEVERANCE PAY.........................IS
.ARTICLE XV- VACATIONS............................ ;1S
ARTiri.E XVI- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE.. 17 ARTICLE XVII- MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS,.......,. . -19
ARTICLE .XVIII- NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT,...............20
ARTICLE XIX- MISCELLANEOUS..........................21
ARTICLE-XX- DURATION .OF AGREEMENT.................22
THIS AGREEMENT marie and entered into this 1st (FIRST)____________ day of MAY__________1003
B. £ T W E E. N:
Local.181, BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION-
( hereinafter referred to as "Local 101") OF THE FIRST PART
-jnd -
TORONTO HEBREW MASTER BAKERS ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter referred to as the "-Employer" being Chose members indicated as signatories to this Agreement as shown on page herein)
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE . 1- PURPOSE
The parties arc agreed that the purpose of thi Agreement is to establish and maintain harmonious industrial relations between them, and in particular to arrange mutual/ satisfactory" wage rates, hours of work, working conditions and co provide a satisfactory method of dealing with disputes between, them and between the. Employer and his employees.
ARTICLE'II- SCOPE
2‘.01	This Agreement applies to -all employees
employed by -the Employer in the Municipality of Metropolitan Toronto, who' arc .engaged in the direct production of. breads, cakes, rolls, bagels, confectionery and kindred products save and except employees regularly employed- for not more than 24 hours per week and students employed.during the school vacation period.
Por greater clarity this Agreement covers first second and third hands and baker's helpers
-2^
t
docs not cover any other employees such as office employe
.	employees. ...
cleaners, maintenance	etc-
2.02	The term "employee" or "cmployccs"'--'whcncvcr
in the bargaining unit described in Article 2.01.
AKTiC’Lf III? UNION SECURITY
3,01	Subject co the provisions of paragraph 2 of
chis Article III , the Employer agrees that it shall employ and continue to employ, only members in good standing of Local 181.
3,®2	It is agreed chat Local 181 shall supply all
employees to the Employer when requested. In so doing, Local 183 undertakes to supply persons duly qualified for the duties and responsibilities required by the Employer, to jac performed. If Local 181 is unable or unwilling to supply such employees as and when required, the.Employer may employ persons of his °',’n choice, provided that such persons, within 21 days of their hiring, make app I i c at i on. f or./membership in Local 181. Local 181 shall not be obliged to accept such persons as members, if, in its absolute discretion,.it docs not wish co do so.
3.03	The'Employer shall (pursuant to an authorizati'
to be executed by every employee.in the bargaining unit) deduc’ from the wages of each employee all union-dues, initiation fee: fines or assessments which arc,• according to 'the Union's constitution and by-laws, owing to Local 181. Such deductions be made monthly, and shall be remitted by the Employer co the Secretary of Local 181 on or before the 15th day of each monch. failure to comply with the above, the Employer shall’ pay to the
chcrcaf ter.
-J-
ARTICLE IV- CLASSIFICATION
BREAD BAKERS AND CAKE BAKERS:
"FIRST HAND"
"SECOND HAND"
•'THIRD HAND” "BAKER-'S HELPER".
BAGEL BAKERS :
"FIRST HAND"
" SEGU'D HAND"
(i.e. One who workcs and-'the oven)
at the mixing of dough
(i.e. 0.nc who workcs EITHER at the mixing of doughs OR the oven)
(i.e. One who workcs at the cable only)
(i.e. One who is capable and willing of helping in the production of bread, or- qn who is involved in assisting any employee in .the above classifications in the dircc production of bread.)
(i.e. Onc-wno workcs at the oven and makes dough).
(i.e.1' One who makes dough and workcs at the '■.able) .
BAKER'S HELP-ER" (i.e. One who is capable and willing of
helping .in the production of bagels, or who is involved in ass is ting-any employee in the above classifications in the direct products of bagels').
4
BREAD AND CAKE BAKERS
EFFECTIVE NOVEMBER I, I'm
OVERTIME AFTER 40 HRS. PER WEEK
4 0 HRS	NIGHT HOUR WEEKLY	OVERTIME	DAY HOUR OVERTIME WEEKLY	
FIRST HAND	678.40 16.96 .	25 . 44	658.40 16.46	24.69
SECOND'HAND	657.60 16.44	24,66	637.60 15.94	23.91
THIRD HAND	644.00 16.10	24.15	624.00 15.60	23.40
BAKER'S HELPER	427.20 U0.68	16.02	407.20 10.18	15.27
	BAGEL BAKERS			
	EFFECTIVE NOVEMBER	1, 1993		
	OVERTIME AFTER 40 HRS	. PER WEEK.		
4 0 HRS	NIGHT WEEKLY		DAY WEEKLY.	
FIRST HAND	695.20		675.20	
SECOND HAND	679.20		659.20	
5.0] Employees	shall be paid on a designated day		during the week.	
4-
		BREAD v «• •» f y •• f ■	AND CAKE	BAKERS “**>*^',^*7*'»*,T*~‘'**		
		EFFECTIVE *r*»***!**!»v"»***'	MAY 1,	1994		
		OVERTIME	AFTER 40 HRS	PER WEEK		
40 HOURS	NIGHT WEEKLY	HOUR	OVERTIME	DAY WEEKLY	HOUR	OVERTIME
FIRST HAND	690.40	17.26	25.89	670.40	16.76	25.14
SECOND HAND	669 .GO	16.74	25.1.1	649.60	16.24	24.36
THIRD HAND	656.00	16.40	24.60	636.00	15.90	23.85
BAKER'S HELPER	439.20	10.98	16.47	419.20	10.48	15.72
BAGEL BAKERS
EFFECTIVE MAY 1,	1994

OVERTIME AFTER 40 HRS PER WEEK
40 HOURS
FIRST HAND SECOND HAND
NIGHT WEEKLY
707.20
691.20
DAY WEEKLY
687.20
671.20
5.01
Employees shall be paid on a designated clay during the week.
-5-
As indicated in Schedule Page 4 'i ad
compensation at the hourly rate of fifty' (0.50$) per hour for every hour or portion thereof worked between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00' A.M..
AJITICU; VI- HOURS OP WORK
6i01	All employees, regardless of classificati
broad, case or bagel bakers, and baker's helpers „..»*1 work 5 days per week, totalling 4'0 hours a week, of a
guarantees 40 hours per week, and after 40 hours per week
time and one.half.
6-°2	Each,, regular employee who commences, a shift
and is ready and willing to complete ic must bo paid for a full day whether or not the .Emnlover has wcjrk' for him.;
6.03	For the purposes of chis Agreement, each shift shall constitute a separate day's work, and the Employer shall not combine work-'on .more than one shift into one working day. 7 hours one day and 9 hours next day, shall constitute 2 days of regular work with no overtime . Should
an .employee be required to work more than 0 hours in one single day, he should 'be,, paid time and one half.
6.04	A Jobber (i.c. temporary employee) shall not be employed for more than 24 hours per week; any person employed for a period in excess of 24 hours per week becomes a regular employee and is enciclcd co the pay and benefits of a regular employee.
-6
0,ui	If a regular employee wor'ks four (4) days
in any one week and the Employer has no work for him for the remainder of the week, such employee shall, in any event, receive pay for a full working week. With the exemption of those bal... _js who arc observing religious holidays.
ARTICLE VII,V CENERAL
7.01
without the consent of Local 181,
7.02	All employees regardless of.their categories’ after 40 hours per week*, shall be paid one and one half time of regular hourly rate.
7.03	Employees who are regularly employed in a shop and who are employed as Jobbers, as hcrcihaftct defined, : shall be paid at'one and one half times their regular hourly rate for all work done by them, except when he substitutes for an employee .who is ill or on vacation.
ARTICLE VIII- SENIORITY
8.01	■ • An employee shall be on probation during his.
first twe'nty-onc (21) days-.of. .employment and without seniority rights during chat period. Upon completion of his probationcry period, his name shall be added to the seniority list and his bargaining un.it seniority shall be computed from the day he commenced to work for the Employer. A probationcry employee may bp terminated during his probationcry period in the sole discretion of the Employer.
-7-
employoo will lose his seniority and his cmploji shall be deemed co have been terminated for any of the following’’reasons :
(a)	if he voluntarily quits;
(b)	if he is discharged and the discharge is not reversed.through the grievance and arbitration procedure;
(c)	if he fails' to return to work in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement on layoff and recall ;_
(d)	-if he fails to return to work in compliance, with the terms of leave of absence grantca to him, or if he obtains a leave of absence for one .purpose and uses it for another;
(c) if he retires or is retired;
(E) if he is laid off for a period in excess of six (6) months;
(g)	' if he is absent due to illness o|r ,;accidcnt for
a period in excess of nine (9) monthsior
(h)	if he is absent from work without notifying his supervisor or a member of management for
two (2) consecutive working days.
8-03	When an employee is laid off because of lack of
work, he shall have the right to be recalled in accordance with his seniority f°r UP .-to six (6) consecutive months following' his layoff provided he has the ability to perform the .wo.rk and provided he reports to work within forty-eight (48) hours following the receipt by him by registered mail of a notice by the Employer to return to work.
If the employee fails to report for work within such forty-eight (48) hours or indicates that; he docs not intend co return to work, then the Employer may notify the next employee on the seniority list.
-8-
t^c event that it becomes necessary to layofi
employees;
(a)	probationary employees will be laid off first;
Cb] employees with seniority will be laid off
after all employees referred to in paragraph (a) by bakery wi'dc seniority, provided that the remaining employees can do the available work immediately., without training, and merely upon receiving simple instructions.
8.OS	In the event or a recall, employees will be
recalled in the reverse order that they were laid off.
ARTICLE’ IX ' WORK RULES
9.01	GENERAL
(a] Local 181 shall be enititled to'changc an employee
without notice to the Employer;i.e. to change a hand for a hand.
Cb] The Employer shall be responsible for ail loss, damage or destruction occasioned to employee's personal property insidc”.the Bakery as a result of fire..
(c) Every Union employee snarr oc entitled to one 2-pou d loaf of bread and one-half dozen rolls dai-ly -free, charge- N0; substitutes.
(CJ LUNCH BREAK - according to the Employment Standarts Act- to be taken by the fifth hour of work.
(c3
All employees shall receive two ten (10) minutes coffee
-9-
brcaks in a day without loss or reduction in wages.
(f)	No manager of an Employer, or in the case of an
Employer which is a Limited Company* no shareholder shall perform the Work of a baker/except in the shops where the Employer is a Baker by trade, or where it is.deemed to be necessary.
9.02	CAKE BAKERS - Each Cake Shop muse hu,u a First Hand.
9.'03	JOBBERS -	Ti.fi. *;nmr*nnrt	•<' ~ ~
(e)	Any regular employee may be replaced on at 1
.■■(■■hereinafter referred to as a "Jobber") chosen ■by the Itaien in its §§i§ discretion.
(b)	The Employer hereby agrees to accept Jobbers proper appointed by Local 181, in accordance with the preceding paragraph, so long as they arc capable
of doing the work to which they arc assigned.
(c)	Jobbers shall .receive the same wages as the regular employees whom they replace, rpovided the jobber is in the same classification.
•(d) In shops where work is being performed on all seven days of.the week, Local 181 shall have the right to replace any or all regular employees wieh,/Jobbers on the sixth and seventh day of the week..
(e) The Employer agrees to pay for. all part time
jobbers the equivalent of $3,80 per day for the purpose of Pension benefits.
-10-
10 01	ARTICLE X- PENSION AND PRINCE BENEFIT FUNDS DEFINITIONS
	(a;
	"Fund", in this Article, shall mean the'"Pension and Fringe Denefit Funds' " established and maintained pursuant to the Trust Agreement as amended.
10 02	Effective May 1, 199 3 the Employer shall contribute to the Fund, the sum of nineteen (519.00) per week for Bread Bakers, Cake Bakers and Bagel Bakers,: First Hand, Second Hand and Third Hand. In the event that an employee works less than a full work week, the Employer's contribution shall be based on 53.80 for each day worked.
10.03	Effective May 1, 199 3 the
(a)'	Employer shall contribute to the Fund, the sum of seventeen (517.00) per week for Baker's Helpers. In the .event that an employee works less than a full work week, the Employer's contribution shall.- be based on $3.40 for each day worked.
<bj	All new employees, hired after May 1, 1992, contributions on their behalf will oegin after one year of service with the Company , from the date of hiring
10 04	The Employer 'shall contribute to the Pension Fund on behalf of the employee for a period of six (6) months due to proven illness
-.11-
The Employcr shall be represented in t^lc administration of the Fund by the Trustees acting for and on behalf of the Employer in accordance with the Trust Agreement (which agreement of the Employer hereby appruv^j and ratifies) and shall be bound by the decisions of the Trustees made pursuant to and in accordance with the said Tru Agreement•
10.06	In accordance;with the Trust Agreement there
shall be an annual audit of the Fund by a qualified Chartered Accountant and the audit shall be made -available to the Employer for inspection.
ARTICLE XI- HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND
11.01	Effective May 1	1-99 3 the Employer agrees
Tn m .1 Ifnnvmnnfr r. I- C1/S HO nr»r* ....... 1- f .. T ...... 1 1Q1I3 ^r-" c 1' FlinH.
(
each employee working in a jbb classification covered by this Agreement for 52 wccks'-po.r year. The payment shall be prorated- for employees who regularly work less than '10 hours per week, with the employees contributing the difference.
But .only applies to employees who do not wish co work <10 hours per week.
11.02	Contributions on behalf of the employees
covered by this Agreement shall commence afterthe employee's probationary period.
-12-
'	Employer's obligations under this Art:
arc limited to making the payments described in Article 1
The Employer shall contribute to the Healt and Welfare-Fund on behalf of all employees, regardless o: their categories, for a period of- six <6-1 month's, for uus< from work due co proven illness.
ARTICLE XII- UNION HOLIDAYS
12.01	The following shall be recognized as Union
Holidays to be paie for on. the basis of -the pmployec.'s straight time hourly rate, multiplied by the number of hours the employee would • normally have worked on such day:
New Year 1s Day Dominion Day
Christmas Day Boxing Day
Good Friday
Thanksgiving Day Civic Holiday
Easter Sunday Labour Day
Voctoria Day
12.01	A	In the event the government will introduce a
new holiday, it,nil], be added up co Union holidays, total of 11'days, and the Employer will pay for that additional day
-.13-
12.02	If an employee works on any of the said
holidays, he shall be paid at time and one half in addition
to his holiday pay as herein provided for, for all worked'-in the 24 hour period from 6:00 P.M. the day
immed i n t r> 1 v nr i nr fn rhn hnl	-« A-nn
on the day of the holiday.
12.03	An employee will be paid for rhe Union
Holiday referred to above:, provided he works ,on the day immediately prior to the Onion Holiday and the day immediate! after-' the Union Holiday, unless he was absent from work on cither or both of the said days:, of portions thereof because of:
(a)	verified personal illness;
(b)	death in his immediate family:
for cichcr or both of the said days >r
;rarited permission by/the Employer to nt on either or both of the said shift:.
... _ event of;a Union Holiday, specified
above; falling within an.',employee 1 s vacation period, the Employer has the choice of either:
(a) granting an extra day's lcayc with pay if' the employee requests it: or ; (b) paying to employees classified as.Bread Bakers. Cake Bakers and Bagel Bakers, First'Hand,
Second Hand and Third Hand, and Baker's Helper, an extra day's pay calculated at 8 hours per day.
12.OS	Employees observing other holidays not
included .above in this Article XII shall be entitled co time off, without pay, provided chat:
-14-
(a) the total time .off for each holiday docs not exceed twenty (20) days in any one year; and
(b) notification to the Employer be given at least seven (7) days prior to the talcing of time off for such holiday.
jARTICLE XIII- TERMINATION NOTICE
13.01	In the event of termination of employment by the
Employer, termination notice shall be according to c.he Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE XIV- SEVERANCE PAY
14-01	In the event of a merger or closing, each employee
shall be entitled to severance pay in thc'amoiinc of one (-T) week's pay at his current rate for cvcry'ycar of service with the Employer or his predecessor up to a maximum:of twenty (20J week's pay. Local 181-'will certify when such employee.'has been permanently placed, and when that occurs his severance pay shall cease.
ARTICLE X-V- '.VACATIONS
15.01	An employee who has worked at least one full yea. in the baking industry, shall.be entitled to receive two
weeks vacation per year,' with pay equal to 41 of his gross
wages in the previous year.
15.02	An employee who has worked less than one (1) full year in the baking industry, shall be entitled to receive
-15-
vacation, with pay equal co 41 of his gross wages in the previou year, with vacation computed on a pro rata basis.
15.03	In the event that an employee has worked at least
one full year in the baking industry, but for not more chan one Employer during that year, the vacation pay of 44 of gross wages, shall bo paid by the Employers in proportion co the time worked by the employee for them during the year.
15.04	An employee who has:
(a)	5 years or more contin.i------- -.nrvi,-r wirh nnn shoo.
but: lcssL-Olian 10 years coneI'nnnnr. service with one shop, shall receive ** wni»lts vacation per year, with pay equal to 64 of the amount oil the employee's gross wages in the previous year;'
(k)	10 years or more continuous service in one shop, sh
receive 4 weeks vacation per vcajj, with pay equal
to 84 oJL-Lhc____am.P_iiflJL...o.f the employee ''s gross
wages in the previous year.
15.05	Each employee shall receive his vacation at a ti
to be arranged to the mutual .satisfaction of the employee and the Employer. In any event seniority should apply, provided sufficient notice of 30 days .was given to Che Employer.
“16-
AjmCLE XVI - GRIEVANCE A'ND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 1G.01 Should any difference arise between the Employer ai an."c*ployce as to the interpretation, application, administrate or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreemen an earnest effort shall bc’madc to settle such different without undue delay and in the following manner:
STEP 1 The employee involved shall, within two (2J days of the date upon which the incident giving- rise to 'the grievance first occurred-, discuss the grievance with his supervisor. The employee may request that: a steward be present.
STEP 2 if the grievance is not settled at Step 1 and the employee wishes to pursue the grievance, the written grievance must be submitted to the Employer•within four (4) days of the date upon which the incident giving rise to the grievance first occurred, on a. form to be provided for that purpose- The grievance form shall be signed; by the employee and a steward and shall indicate the nature of" the grievance, and the Article of the Agreement alleged to be violated and the adjustments sought. The Employer shall give its reply, in writing, to the grievance within three' (3) days following receipt of the grievance.
16.02	Should Local 101 desire to submit a policy grievance it must do so within five (5) days of the date upon which the incident giving rise to the grievance occurred and the Employer
-17-
shall give his reply to the grievance in writing (3) days following, receipt of the grievance.
within three.
10.03	Should the Employer wish to submit a grievance it
shall do so in writing and Local 101 shall give its reply, in waiting, within three (3) days following receipt of the
grievance.
16.04	Should any grievance fail to be satisfactorily settled under'‘the foregoing provisions of this AlUiclc it may be, referred to arbitration by either the.Employer or Local 101 as provided for in the following Article.
16.OS	Where a diffcrcn.ce arises between the Employer and Local 181 relating' to cne interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or where an allegation is made that this Agreement has been violated, cither of the parties may, after duty exhausting the.- grievance prodcdur4 "established in this Agreement, notify the other party in writing of its' desire to submit the difference or allegation to arbitration. Such notice must be given in writing -to the other party within ten (10) days arccr the written', decision is rendered at Step 2 of the Cricvance , Proccdurc and shall contain the name of the party's nominee to the Board of Arbitration. The recipient of the notice shall within scvjc'n (7) days inform the other party of the name of its nominee. • T.h.e two nominees shall select a third person to act as Chairman oc the Arbitration Board. If the recipient, of the notice fail.s to appoint a nominee or if the two nominees so appointed fail to agree upon a Chairman within fifteen (15) days, either party may apply to the Ministry of Labour for Ontario to appoint the nominee and/or Chairman as the m„„ hn Thf. Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the
-18-
raattcr and shall issue a decision which shall be final an* binding upon the parties a*d upon any employee affected by it.
Th<j decision ‘of a majority of the Board of Arbitration i
decision' of the^'Arh i !• r.i ^ i nn timfj	- . ............ -
no'majority the decision of the Gbairman shall gQvern
16.'06 The Arbitration Board shall not have any authority to alter or amciiu m any way the provisions of this Agreement; to substitute any new provisions ,i„ *icu thereof; to.give any decision inconsistent with, or contrary to, the terms and cqnottions of 'this Agreement; or in any way modify, add' to, or delete from any provision of this Agreement.
16.07 Each party shall pay the cost and expenses of its nominee. The cost and expenses of tbc Chairman shall be- borne equally by the parties. No person nay be nominated to the .Board of Arbitration, who has cither directly or indirectly attempted to ncqotiatc or settle the grievance in dispute. Either party may bo represented by counsel.
16.00	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XVII - MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
17.01	Except as expressly abridged by a specific provision of this Agreement, the Employer reserves and retains, solely aad exclusively, its inherent right to manage the business as such right cx*uwed.prior to the execution of this Agreement. It is the exclusive function and right of the Employer:
(a) generally to manage the business in which the Employer is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the kinds and locations of
-19-
plants, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing;' the schedules of production/ the kinds and locations of machines and tools and processes to be used, the engineering and designing of its products ana the control of materials to 'be used in
the products produced;
(b) to direct the work force; to hire, retire, oj.«ssi£y, ■assign, transfer and layoff employees; to determine and redetermine jo'b content; to maintain order, discipline ar)(j efficiency;

,	— »	wi uj.ji.ii"*"1' employees
for just, cause (it being understood that just cause for discharge without notice or pay includes an employee who. (i) smokes in the production area; or fii) removes unlawfully Employer gOOCjs or property)' provided, however, that the exercise: of ^csc rights shall-, be subject to the grievance procedure;
CdJ to make, alter and enforce from time to time reasonable rules and rcgulationa. governing its employees which are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
ftJMricijJS XVIll MO'STRIKE qr-LOCKOOT
T ,	there shall not be a strike 0f
10.01 Local 181 agrees that	c a
the employees during the life of'this Agreement.
18.02
employees
The Employer agrees that it will during the life of this Agreement.
not
lock, out its
-20-
ARTICLE XIX - MISCELUXUeOUS 2-9'01 Shiva or Bereavement
In case o£ the dearth of an •employee '-s Mother, Father-, Sister, Brother, Wife, Husband or Chil-i!., .the •employee shall he •entitled to three (3) days Shiva or Sereavement Leave with pay.
i3.02	'Sick Leave
Effective May 1, 19aP sick-.lcavc allowance-shall t paid for absence from work due co
sixth day and
tenth day of abs.cncc due to illness to a maximum of five (5) days in a calendar year.
13.03	Plant Visitation
It is agreed that autfiprized officials of the Union shall have the right to 'enter the Employer's shop at any time during working hours to discuss any matter covered by this Agreement provided they first contact jnaaagQmenlf -and proper identificatiori and credentials arc produced, if requested.' The 'officials shall not interfere with the operation of the Employer's business or with the employees while they areworking.
12.04	Labels and Display Cards
The Employer agrees that he will use and apply the label of focal 101 upon every wrapper and box of bread, cake and rolls produced by him. The employer further agrees to display union labels and display cards l.n all window .stores-.
-21-
19.05	Worker's Compensatjon
The Employer agrees to insure against accidents of his employee under the Worker's Compensation Act of Ontario. In addition to any benefits to which the employee may be entitled under this Act, he shall also be paid by the Employer, a full day's pay for the day on which any accident to him.occurs.
19.05	A
All employees, regardless of classifications, who become .injured while at work, the Employe n<*ri».rss to continue the usual Employer's contributions payments co the local union, for pension and health L welfare, for n period of pne year after the accident in accordance with Worker's Compensation Ac.i:„ provided the employee continues'to ma.inat.in ' membership with the local union
19.06	Clock
Every shop shall hayc a clock showing the correct time.
19.07	la the	event the	Employer	sells,	transfers	or assigns
his bakery, the	obligation'	of	the	Employer	for	unpaid wages,
vacation, holiday or Welfare and Pension payments; due or to become due shall be binding upon' the purchaser, transferee or assignee as well as upon the original Employer. The purchaser, transferee or assignee shall also be bound by the terms of this
Agreement.
19.00 The shop of every Employer shall be kept in a sanitary condition.
19.09	bulletin	floa'rd
The- Employer will provide space for a bulletin boarc for use by the Union.
ARTICLE XX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT 20,01 Thla^agrcement shall be effective on Way 1, 1993 , and shall remain in effect for a ""riod 0f' two years, ending on
-22-
Aprii 30. lQ.Qk^ and shall continue from year to year thereafter,unless either party gives notice in writing to the other not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date of th party's intention to terminate this Agreement or to negotiate revision:, thereto. Any Employer not being a member of the Toronto Hebrew Master Bakers Association shall be required to sign a separate agreement with Local' 101
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the. parties have hcrcun set their hands and seals.
SIGNED. SEALED AND DELIVERED in the presence of
DATED
oi “] (j y vitL.^C.j
.1993,
71
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO	THE TORONTO HEBREW MASTER
workers' international union	bakers association
LOCAL 1.81
BAGEL WORLD
HARBORD BAKERY
OPEN WINDOW BAKERY
STEELES BAKERY
SILVERSTEIN'S BAKERY
V *
VORK DOWNS BAKERY
ryvxaju*-------
HARBORD BAKERY*
m vV •? +	v W •• v v * v

OPEN WINDOW BAKERY

STEELES BAKERY
HAYM.TSME BAKERY
-IvIVA 1S B/j2'RY'r^^
LAURELEAl: BAKERY ‘ \ /O
Mfr*»*r*v*rvv'>*"-,r,"r*r — r
SJLVERSTEI.N'S BAKERY
iridc
YORK DOWNS BAKERY