___Jgg CdAol
nomsrV
D'cMPIOYES
Mo. of j ;—r
EMjnOVEES I

AGREEMENT
BETWEEN :
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468,
of the City of Burnaby,
CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED :
Cities of Vancouver, North Vancouver, New Westminster, & White Rock;
Towns of Port Coquitlam & Port Moody;
Municipalities of Burnaby, West Vancouver, Goquitlam, Richmond, Delta, Surrey; and
District of North Vancouver.
APRIL 1, 1985 to MARCH 31, 1987
o C £'c fc J
l o '!	<^| O o L{-	& l
INDEX
PAGE
ARTICLE I	Bargaining Agency
S	Union Security
■I	Check-off
IV	Management's Rights
V	Hiring Procedure
VI	Wages
VII	Notice
	Free Transportation
IX	Hours of Work
X	Overt i m e
XI	Scheduling of Shifts
SM	Rest Periods
JHHi	Lunch Periods
XIV	Public Holidays
XV	V acations
XVI	Seniority
XVII	Leave of Absence
XVIII	Regular Part-time Employees
XIX	Jury Duty
XX	Severance Pay
XXI	Sick Leave Benefits
XXII	Health and Welfare
XXIII	General Provisions
XXIV	Union Label
XXV	Union Representative
XXVI	Grievance Procedure
XXVII	Board of Arbitration
XXVIII	Pension Plan
XXIX	Dental Plan
XXX	Duration
1
2
2
2
3
5
7
7
8
8
9
10
10
10
11
13
14
15
17
17
18
19
20
21
21
21
22
23
25
26
Letters of Understanding
27
THIS AGREEMENT entered into the First day of April, 19 85,
BETWEEN :
AND :	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 46 8,
of the City of Burnaby, in the Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter called the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART.
In consideration of the maintenance of harmonious relations and settled conditions of employment, and recognizing the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertaining to working conditions, hours of work, and rates of pay, the parties to this Agreement do hereby enter into, ordain, establish and agree to the following terms:
ARTICLE I:	BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Agreement and working at the bakery of the Company, located
at __________________________________________________________________
Section 2 Personnel performing the functions of management and who have the right to hire and discharge shall be excluded from the bargaining unit. They shall not perform any of the work covered by the collective Agreement except in the case of emergency. Such persons, if eligible, shall receive retiring cards from the Union.
The Superintendent shall not give direct work orders to employees but shall do so through a foreman or forelady except where an on-shift foreman or forelady is temporarily unavailable. The Company will write its superintendents outlining the superintendents status, under the terms of the collective Agreement, Section 2 and 3 of Article I, with a copy to the Union.
Section 3 For the purposes of the Agreement, an emergency is when:
i)	a major machinery break-down, or
ii)	a power failure occurs, or
iii)	an employee fails to report for work on time, or
2
iv)	an employee is unable to complete his shift due to sickness or accident and a replacement is required,
and exists until the cause of the emergency is rectified. ARTICLE 11:	UNION SECURITY
All bakery employees, as set out hereinafter under Article VI, Section 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, shall become and remain members of the Union, in good standing, while employed by the Company.
ARTICLE III:	CHECK-OFF, ASSIGNMENT OF WAGES
All said employees shall receive from the Union and sign for, a copy of the Agreement, and at the same time shall authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages and pay over to the secretary of the Union, any dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's by-laws, owing by them to the said Union. Upon receipt of said written authorization, the Company agrees to make these deductions and pay same to the Union secretary on or before the third Saturday in each month.
Employees may authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages contributions to either the Bakovan Credit Union or employer-sponsored in-house credit union.
ARTICLE IV:	MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
Section 1 (a) The Union agrees that the management of the Company, including the right to plan, direct and control operations and the direction of the work is vested exclusively in the Company.
(b)	The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of management not specifically covered in this Agreement.
(c)	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2 The Company shall have full right to employ or discharge employees, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, but no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful Union activity or for serving on a Union committee, or for reporting the violation of any provision of t h i s Agreement, no employee shall be required to go through any lawfully established picket line.
Section 3 The Company has the right to operate its bakery for as many hours and on a six (6) or seven (7) day plant basis, as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels there will be a demand.
To make possible such operation of the Company's plant, the Union hereby undertakes to supply to the Company sufficient extra employees to work part-time at prevailing jobbers' rates.
3
3
The Company agrees to give the Union not less than three (3) days' notice when requiring three (3) or more extra part-time employees for this purpose. This three (3) days' notice does not apply to requests for regular jobbers and other employees which the Union will furnish as soon as possible.
ARTICLE V:	HIRING PROCEDURE
Section 1 (a) The Union will be given the first opportunity of supplying staff except janitors, as per Article V, Section 2, and regular full-time employees eligible for rehire under Articl XVI, Section 1.
The Company need not accept any worker named by the Union who is unable to perform his job competently. Any disagreement arising in respect to the competency of such employee shall be determined under procedure laid down herein for the adjustment of grievances.
(b)	In the event of the Union's being unable to supply a suitable person to fill a full-time vacancy, within seven (/) days after a request by the Company, the Company shall be free to fill the vacancy with anyone of its own choosing. The Union agrees to accept such employee into its membership providing the Company has given such seven (7) days notice requesting a regular full-time employee, and providing he is able to pass the eligibility requirements for membership in the Union.
In the event that he can not pass the eligibility requirements, or the Company has failed to give the seven (7) days notice, he shall be dismissed by the Company forthwith. When an applicant for membership is rejected, the Union will, if requested to do so by the Company, set out, in writing, the reason membership was rejected.
In the case of jobbers:
i) required within twenty-four (24) hours, the Union will advise the Company of its ability to supply as soon as possible.
ii)required after more than twenty-four (24) hours, the
Union will advise the Company twelve (12) hours before such person is scheduled to work, if it is unable to supply a suitable person.
(c)	The Company shall be free to fill any vacancy for jobbers with persons ot its own choosing in the event the Union is unable to provide suitable jobbers when required.
The Union agrees that jobbers supplied to the Company will be fully qualified for the work for which they are required.
The Union also agrees not to send as a jobber to the Company any past employee who has been previously employed and released for cause, unless agreed to by the Company.
4
4
(d)	All jobbers hired Monday, after ratification, shall be paid at the following rates:
-	first 15 working days ...... 85%	of	Bench	Hand	rate,
-	second 15 working days	.... 90%	of	Bench	Hand	rate,
-	after 30 working days ......100%	of	Bench	Hand	rate.
(e)	Jobbers hired Monday, after ratification, shall be paid for statutory holidays on the following basis, based on the previous 4 weeks' average:
-	14	hours	average................ 3*5 hours pay extra
-	21	hours	average................ 51s hours Fay extra,
-	28	hours	average................ 7 hours pay extra.
Section 2 In the event the Company is unable to find suitable janitors among existing long-service employees, the Union shall be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy. It is understood, all janitors shall become and remain members of the Union, in cccd standing, within thirty (30) days of hiring.
Section 3 The Union may replace any non-Union jobber or any non-Union regular part-time employee, whenever qualified Union replacements are available, with the following exceptions:
i) during a scheduled work week: or
ii) when one week' s notice must be given, under Article VII,
Section 1 (a) .
Section 4 Regular full-time Union employees, who are laid off iy the Company, shall be eligible for recall for a period of fifty-tvo (52) weeks, subject to the following:
(1)	If an employee on lay-off (whether eligible cr not fcr Severance Pay) refuses recall to a regular full-time position, they will have relinquished all recall rights.
(2)	If an employee who is laid off and is eligible for Severance Pay elects to take said Severance Pay, forfeits all recall rights and shall then be considered as a terminated employee.
(3)	An employee who is recalled to a regular full-time position within the recall period, shall be reinstated with all rights and benefits they enjoyed prior to lay-off.
(4)	If an employee who is eligible for Severance Pay has not been recalled by the expiration of the recall period, then they shall receive Severance Pay, in accordance with Article XX.
(5)	The foregoing benefits for regular fu 11 - time employees will terminate in the event the employees do not return to work within seven (7) days (except for proper and sufficient reason) cf recall after lay-off.
5
5
ARTICLE VI:	WAGES
/ection 1 (a) The following shall		be the minimum weekly	wage:
Classification		Effective Apr. 1/84	Effective Mar. 30/86
Doughman		$636.65	$653.37
Cake Hand Decorator		636.65	653.37
Ovenman		635.25	651.91
Bench Hand		631.05	647.54
Receiver/Shipper		634.40	651.03
Checker and Bread Machine Wrapper		631.05	647.54
Janitor		623.05	639.22
Working Foreperson -	Retail	667.80	685.76
Working Foreperson -	Wholesale	656.60	674.11
Cake Machine Wrapper		631.05	647.54.
No existing Foreperson shall suffer a reduction in wages by reason of implementation of this Contract.
Retroactivity is to be calculated on the basis of straight-time rates for all hours worked. Employees who have left the employ of the Company between the expiry date of the last Agreement and the date of ratification of this Agreement will be entitled to retroactive pay, if they apply to the employer, in writing, within one hundred and twenty ) 120) days after retroactive pay is paid by the employer to other employees. Each employer will notify their Union of overall retroactive payment.
(b) Extra compensation of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be allowed for all work, or any part thereof, performed between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m..
Section 2 (a) Apprentices — period of apprenticeship shall be three (3) years, with apprentices being mutually acceptable to both parties.
(b)	One (1)apprentice shall be allowed for up to ten (10) journeymen, and one (l)f<?r every ten (10) journeymen, thereafter. Where a shop has a separate cake and bread department, the same ratio will apply in each department.
(c)	All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop.
(d)	The Union agrees to work with the Company with a view to indenturing apprentices under the Apprenticeship and Trademen’s Qualification A ct (R.S. 1960, Chap. 13, and Amendment).
6
6
Sec xon 3 (a) A jobber is a worker employed on a daily basis under the wages and conditions listed below:
wage rates, per day, for the first three (3) days:
-- effective April 1, 1984 ....... $127.23
-- effective April 1, 1986 ....... 130.65.
After three (3) consecutive days, daily rate shall revert to one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly rate.
Section 4 The Company will not be required to pay an employee while absent from employment, due to sickness or otherwise, except as provided for in this Agreement.
Section 5 Wages of regular employees shall be paid weekly, those of jobbers on termination of employment or before the expiration of the-working day next succeeding-the termination of employment.
Weekly wages shall be paid in one cheque.
Section 6 An employee working in a higher rated classification shall receive the rate of the higher classification for the entire shift. However, this provision is not intended to prevent customary flexibility in scheduling relief for rest periods and lunch periods, up to one (l)hour per shift. In no case, shall a higher classified employee temporarily assigned to a lower classification receive any reduction in pay for the performance of work in the lower classification.
Section 7 All employees upon the completion of three (3) consecutive months of full-time service shall be placed on the payroll of the Company as a regular full-time employee and shall be covered for all benefits under this contract, as soon as possible, and in any event, not later than one (l)month and one (l)day after first qualifying. The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
If an employee becomes absent from work due to sickness, compensation or jury duty while normally working to qualify for full-time status, such employee will be credited with the time he had earned prior to absence.
When the employee returns to work from the absence, the time he has been credited with will count towards the above three (3) consecutive months.
An employee will not lose his seniority date because of sickness, accident or jury duty.
Section 8 Employees other than full-time who average twenty-eight (28) hours or four (4) days per week in any consecutive thirteen (13) week period shall be covered for the following benefits:
-	100% M.S.P.
-	proportionate benefits for weekly indemnity
-	proportionate benefits for group life insurance.
7
- 7-
If the employee receiving the benefits does not meet th hour requirements for a period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, the Employer may discontinue the benefits.
Benefits shall apply as soon as possible, but in any event, not later than one (l)month and one (l)day after an employee first qualifies.
The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
ARTICLE VII:	NOTICE
Section 1 '(a) Before laying off or discharging a regular full-time employee, the Company will give such employee one (l)week's notice or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof, except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
Jobbers who work four (4) consecutive full weeks shall be entitled to one (l)week's notice, or one (l)week's pay in lieu thereof, before being laid off or discharged, except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
In the event such notice is cancelled by the employee continuing to work for an additional five (5) days, then the employee is entitled to another notice.
The above clause shall not apply in the case of In-store Bakeries where the jobbers' hours are extended in the week to five (5) days work, due to unscheduled employee absences. However, the employee affected and the Union must be notified as soon as possible, or the above does not apply.
The Shop Steward of the Department shall be supplied with a copy of such notice, within forty-eight (48) hours.
Where the Employer is required to give notice because of the return of a sick or injured employee, the returning employee shall also give one (l)week's notice of his intention to return to work.
(b( Employees will give the Company one (1) week's notice when desiring to terminate their employment, except where otherwise mutually agreed.
ARTICLE VIII:	FREE TRANSPORTATION
Free transportation will be provided all female employees whose shift finishes after 11:30 p.m. , provided such shift ends before 6:00 a.m..
8
8
ARTICLE IX:	HOURS OF WORK
Section 1 (a) The regular work week shall consist of five (5) seven-hour days.
(b) All Saturday shifts shall be completed by 6:00 p.nu.
All work performed on Sunday shall be paid at straight-time rates plus a premium of $1.60 per hour (80<? for each full half-hour worked.
Section 2 In a week in which one or more holidays fall, the work week that week shall be reduced by seven (7) hours for each such holiday. All time worked in excess of the weekly hours limited by this sub-section, shall be classed as overtime and paid for at the overtime rate.
Section 3 A jobber's hours of work shall be seven (7) hours per shift or any part thereof.
Section 4 Jobbers working a full week in which one or more public holidays fall shall be paid for each such public holiday.
ARTICLE X:	OVERTIME
.Sxction 1 (a) Overtime shall be calculated on a daily basis and shall consist of the number of hours in excess of those scheduled for each employee.
(b) The overtime rate shall be time and one-half (1*2) and shall be paid weekly.
Section 2 (a) The Company agrees that in arranging shifts and in employing extra personnel, as jobbers, on a part-time basis, it will endeavour to eliminate as much overtime as possible. The Union agrees on request, to furnish enough extra part-time personnel to operate the Company's plant or in - store bakery for a sufficient number of hours to produce the required quantity of bakery products. In the event of the Union's being unable to supply sufficient jobbers, the Company shall be free to hire jobbers of its own choosing, Nevertheless, the parties agree that an emergency may be created by a power shortage or major breakdown, in the plant or in - store bakery, or by the failure of employees to report for work, due to sickness or otherwise. In such event, the regular employees agree to work such overtime as is necessary and is allowed under permit of the Provincial Department of Labour, until such time as the Union is able to supply the said extra personnel or the cause of the emergency has been rectified.
(b) Except as provided for in Article X, Section 2(a) foregoing, it is mutually agreed that in no event shall an employee be compelled to work overtime.
Section 3 Subject to Article X, Section 2(b) of this Agreement, and due to the need to satisfy retail customer service requirements in the in-store bakeries, the Union recognizes that overtime work may be required from time to time.
9
9
ARr CLE XI:	SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS
Section 1 (a) The Company shall determine the schedule of working hours for each employee and may change such schedule at its own discretion, according to the provisions of this Agreement. Wherever possible, the Company shall give consideration to senior employees. Each employee shall have a twelve and one-half (12^) hour break between the end of one regular shift and the beginning of the next.
In thecase of a day off, twenty-four (24) hours shall be added to the twelve and one-half (12*s) hour break, for all employees.
(b)	It is agreed that the first shift shall not start earlier than 6:00 a.m., nor later than 7:00 a.m., with the exception of doughmen. Other shifts to follow continuously subject to the following exceptions:
(i)	On two (2) days per week, when the Dividerman may be required to start work one (l)hour earlier. This 5:00 a.m. exception shall also apply to public holidays and the two days preceding and two days following public holidays.
(ii)	Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may start not later than 9:00 a.m. nor earlier than 6:00 a.m.. The Company may use the provisions of (i) above, in scheduling single shifts.
(iii)	Where a statutory holiday or holidays fall in conjunction with a weekend, in-store bakeries may call a 4:00 a.m. start, on the first day back.
The first day back may be a Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday.
In such a week where a 4:00 a.m. start is called, the in-store bakery is permitted only one (1)5:00 a.m. start.
(c)	It is not the intent of the Company to unnecessarily change shifts which have been established but the Company is free to do so, should the requirements of the operation make certain changes necessary.
Employees on posted jobs will not be taken off the posted jobs as long as the job remains available, except:
(i)	When there is another job posted and the employee wishes to exercise his or her seniority.
(ii)	When the job is eliminated.
(iii)	When there is a reduction in the work force.
(iv)	Employees may be moved out of seniority for a period not to exceed ten (10) working days, unless it is mutually agreed to extend this period. Should a competent replacement become available in the interim, the employee will immediately revert back to his former position.
(v)	When the employee does not perform competently.
10
10
Spp. 'on...2. It is agreed that the Company has the right to re-arrange the working hours of regular employees so that the work of part-time employees or jobbers may be spread amongst that of the regular employees, to the best advantage.
Section 3 The Company agrees to give forty-eight (48) hours notice in advance of any change in shift. The Shop Steward of the department shall be advised at the time or on the Shop Steward's next shift.
Section 4 It shall be the duty of employees to advise the Company, as far as possible in advance of the shift, in cases when due to illness or other cause they are unable to report for work.
Section 5 So far as is possible, consistent with the operation of the plant or in-store bakery in producing the required volume of bakery products, the Company agrees to work towards the reduction of night work.
ARTICLE XII:	REST PERIODS
All employees shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period approximately midway in each half shift at a time to be designated by the Management, in accordance with the requirements of the Company's operation.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to locate time clocks in such a manner to ensure full rest periods.
ARTICLE Kill:	LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be granted of one-half {h) hour duration commencing not earlier than the third hour, nor later than the fourth hour of each shift.
ARTICLE XIV:	PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
Section 1 The following public holidays shall be recognized by the Company, as outlined in Section 2 of this Article, and the regular full-time employees shall not suffer any reduction in pay thereof:
New Years Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Empire Day(May24) Remembrance Day Dominion Day	Christmas Day
B.C. Day	Boxing Day,
and all other holidays proclaimed by the Provincial or the Federal Governments as a public holiday, or in substitution for any such public holiday.
Section 2 (a) During the week in which a public holiday falls, the employee's day off in lieu of the public holiday may be changed to another day in that week.
11
(b)	All employees shall be granted New Years Day c:: on January 1st, when it falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Employees on production of hand-made bread shall not observe New Years Day on January 1st.
(c)	Any part-time employee who has worked an average of at least twenty-eight (28) hours per week in the thirteen (13) weeks immediately proceding the week in which a statutory holiday occurs shall be paid for the statutory holiday.
(d)	All shifts must1 be completed by 7:00 p.m., on December 24th and December 31st.
(e)	Regular full-time employees who work on public holidays shall be paid a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour.
(f)	Birthday Stat - deleted July 1, 1985.
ARTICLE XV; VACATIONS
Section 1 After one (l)full year of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
Section,,, 2 , Vacations must be taken by the employee entitled to same. Wages shall not be paid in lieu of vacation.
Section 3 Employees are to receive vacations between May 15th and September 15th. Preference for vacations will be according to seniority, however, the Company will determine how many within each job classification may be on vacation at any one time, subject to requirements of the operation.
Section 4 Employees are to receive summer vacations between 15th and September 15th, however, the 1st, 2nd, 5th and 6th weeks of Vacation or any part thereof may be taken at any time during the year (January 1st to December 31st) outside of the summer vacation period, if the employee so desires, subject to Section 3 of this Article.
Section 5 After three (3) full years of consecutive service with the company, each regular ful 1 - time employee shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
After eight (8) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay.	i
After thirteen (13) years of consecutive service wit:? the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
After eighteen (18) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive six (6) weeks
vacation with pay, and to seven (7) weeks vacation with pay after twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service with the Company.
12
12
Vacations shall be taken as follows:
(i)	Those entitled to three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation shall take such vacation either two' (2) weeks between May 15th ar.d September 15th and the extra weeks between January 1st and March 31st.
(ii)	Those entitled to five (5), six (6) or seven (7) weeks vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) or three (3) weeks at their option, between May 15th and September 15th — two (2) weeks between January 1st and March 31st and any additional week or weeks between September 15th and December 31st.
Employees who first qualify for extra vacations by March 31st, may take the vacation commencing not later than April 1 st of the same year.
Section—fi.	In the event of one public holiday falling during an
employee's annual vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitled to-the first day off with pay, he would normally return to work, in the event of two public holidays falling during his annual holidays with pay, he shall be entitled to the first two days off with pay, he would normally return to work; and for three public holidays to the first three (3) days off with pay.
Section 7 Vacation allowances on termination of employment:
-	four percent (4%) for those entitled to two (2) weeks,
-	additional two percent (2%) for each additional week’s vacation.
Section 8 The Company agrees that an employee's annual vacation with pay shall not be broTcen because of the intervention of any public holiday.
Section 9	(a) Winter holidays schedule must be first posted by
November 1, selection by November 15th, and completed by December 1. Summer holiday schedule ust be posted and completed by April 25th, and include any fifth (5), sixth (6) or seventh (7) weeks vacation sceduled between September 15th and December 31st.
(b) For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular full-time employees due to sickness, accident, compensation or temporary lay-off, shall be counted as time worked to a maximum of three (3) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks vacation and to a maximim of six (6) months for employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks vacation.
Section 10 Vacation pay shall be paid not later than one day before the last day of employment before vacations commence.
Section 11 The successful applicant on an in-store job posting carries hTs/her vacation entitlement with them but the scheduling and taking of such vacation leave entitlement shall be based cn the operational requirements at the new store location, for the first vacation period.
— 13
13
A_ :CLE XVI:	SENIORITY
Section 1 Promotions, lay-offs, re-hiring and preferences of transfers to shifts (in the event a vacancy occurs on any-shift) shall be based on length of service and ability, where ability between employees is reasonably equal, length of service will determine.
Section 2 For the purposes of this Article, a job vacancy occurs:
(i) when an employee transfers from one job to another;
(ii) when the Company requests a replacement for a regular
full-time employee whose employment has been terminated;
(iii)	when the Company creates a new job for which a regular full-time employee is required.
(iv)	a job vacancy in an in-store bakery does not occur where the Employer changes an employee's shift by one (l)hour or less, nor does a vacancy occur where the employee and the Union mutually agree to change shift hours.
Section 3 The original vacancy shall first be posted and when transfers result and create additional vacancies, it is understood there shall be no more than three (3) postings, including the original
Section 4 (a)The Company agrees to post vacancies for forty-eight (48) hours but may fill such vacancies on a temporary basis until applications have been processed and regular appointment is made. Regular appointments shall normally be made within one (l)week.
This time may be extended by mutual agreement. Applicants for a posted vacancy may only apply on forms which shall be made available by the Company posted in a conspicuous place. The posting shall state the job and the starting time of the shift. The successful applicant for a posted job shall be put on the job within seven (7) days, unless it is mutually agreed between the Company and the Union to extend the time.
(b) The second and third posting shall be posted and filled within one month of the filling of the original vacancy. In the event of more than one original posting and more than one successful applicant is from the same in-store bakery, the Company may delay the final appointments up to one month.
Section 5 Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to qualify shall revert back to their original job.
Section 6 It is agreed that senior employees absent on vacation or because of sickness or accident, shall have the opportunity to apply for a job posting provided application is received within thirty (30) days of posting and the Union accepts responsibility for notifying such employees. Any such employee accepted to fill the vacancy shall be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy provided he returns to work within three (3) months of posting or such longer period as may be agreed upon.
14
14
Section ?	Mon-Union jobbers in the employ of the Company or
those referred by the Union shall be eligible to apply for a jot, vacancy, However, he shall not be given the job unlesst
(i) Mo Union member in the employ of the Company
qualifies*, and
(ii) the Union is unable to supply, within seven
(7) days, a qualified person to fill the vacancy.
In the event such employee is given the job, he shall immediately become a member of the Union, However in no case may an employee who is not a member of the Union hold seniority over one who is a member of the Union.
Section Q	In tue event of a reduction of the work force,
or where 4 department ot the Company is temporarily closed or one or more jobs ore eliminated and senior employees may be subject to layoff, such senior employees shall be given an opportunity to qualify for the job of a junior employee. Hb or she shall have the right to choose the junior job for which he or she wishes to qualify. The period of qualification shall be determined by mutual agreement between the parties after the employee is assigned to the new position.
Section 9	Where a doctor has indicated that it is likely
an employee will be absent due to illness or accident, for at least four (4) weeks, senior qualified employees will be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy created by the illness, or accident, it being understood there will be only one (1) move lor each accident or illnoss,
Section 10	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Article, Janitors may only make application for a job vacancy in the production deportment after one or more years of service and, further, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Janitors may only be replaced by a regular full-time employee.
Janitors shall not be moved out of that department on a temporary basis but an employee in other classifications may
do janitorial work.
ARTICLE XVIIi LEAVE: OF ABSENCE
Section 1	The Company agrees to grant necessary time off
without pay and without discrimination, to not wore than two (2) employees, each of whom shall be from different departments of ■the Company'8 business, who shall be designated by the Union for a maximum of three (3) months on Union business, provided notification is given the Company in sufficient time to secure a satisfactory relief pereon acceptable to the Company for tho job involved.
15
15
.	An indefinite leave of absence withoui nav
8hall be (j^antad to any one employee as the full-time Fifiandial
Secretary-Treasurer conditional upon his ability to perform his normal job, provided that he re-applied within thirty (30) days of his no louder serving as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer.
Section 2	Recrular full-time employee8 with one (1) or
more years of service shall be Granted leave of absence, without
pay* for a.miniraum period of one (1) week up to a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks on the understanding that:
(a)	Only one (1) elicible employee up to ten (10) employee8 and .one (1) eligible employee for each additional ten (10) employees or any part thereof, shall be absent at one time,
In any event, no more than one (1) employee shall be absent from any department at any one time.
(b)	Twenty-one (21) dayi written notice is given to, the employer.
(c)	A qualified person is available as l replacement. The competency of the employee shall be mutually agreecf on.
(d)	Such leave of absence shall be taken between September 15th and Hay 15th* except where otherwise mutually aGreed
(e)	The employee shall not be permitted to work during
such leave.
(f)	It ia agreed should an employee fail to return to work at tha completion of the leave of absence, or is found to have worked while on leave, he or she shall be terminated in employment.
(g)	Leave of absence will be Granted 00 • seniority
baaLs,
(h)	This section will not nullify leave of absence Granted on compassionate Grounds,
Section 3	la the event of death in an employee's immediate
family (employee's parents, sisters or brothers, spouse or children, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, or any other relative living in the household of the employee) the employee shall be entitled to be absent from work with pay, a period of three working days, when such absenco is necessary to make arrancementa f0r, or to attend the funeral.
iWVXr.1T. YVTTT »_PFfUTT AP PinT.TTHE rMPT/WTES
Section 1	An employee who performs one hundred and fifty
(150) days of actual work in a twelve (12) month period shall be classified as a roGular part-tiioo employee.
16
16
An employee desirous of becoming a regular part-time employee shall indicate same by notifying the Company on a company form, to commence accruing his/her vacation pay.
Twelve (12) months later the Company will assess the number of days worked by such employee.
If the employee has accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in this twelve (12) month period, then the seniority anniversary date shall be the day he/she signed the form.
If the employee has not accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days in the initial twelve (12) month period, then one (1) month later his/her number of days will be assessed again, and each subsequent month thereafter until the employee Qualifies, It being understood that only the previous twelve Cl2) months will be used when assessing the one hundred and fifty (150) day qualifying period.
January 1, 1975* shall be the date set to deternine the first twelve (12) month period of qualification,
, An employee qualifying as of January 1, 1975, shall be covered by all conditions of Article XVIII,
An employee taking longer than twelve (12) months to qualify as a regular part-time employee shall receive his/her vacation allowance on his/her qualifying date, however, should this period exceed fifteen (15) months, then the employee may request part of his/her vacation pay without JeopardizinQ his/her part-time status.
An employee hired previous to January 1, 1975, shall not lose seniority rights already established with the Company.
Section 2	Such regular part-time employees on temporary
lay-off shall maintain M.S.P., coverage during such lay-off,
The employee may prepay the necessary full premium or have the Company make the payment which shall be reimbursed to the Company by that employee upon his or her return to work.
Section 3	Regular part-time employees after one (l)year
of service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation, with pay. Vacation pay will be prorated according to time worked.
After three (3) years of consecutive service, regular part-time employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay, and after eight (3) years of consecutive service, four (4) weeks vacation, with pay. After thirteen (13) Tears Consecutive service, rive (5) weeks vacation, with pay.
After eighteen (18) years consecutive service, six (6) weeks vacation, with pav, After twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service, seven (7) weeks vacation, with pay.
17
17
The basic two (2) weeks vacation and the third and/or fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth and/or seventh weeks vacation shall be taken at the times as set out in Article XV, Section 4.
After having qualified for three (3) or four (4)
or five (5) or six (G) or seven (7) weeks vacation as above and ouch employee fails to perform one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in any one (l)year, such employee shall not qualify for that year only. However, if such employee fails to qualify for two (2) successive years except for approved absence due to sickness, accident or compensation, then such employee oust requalify for vacation, as provided above,
Section 4	The foregoing benefits for a regular part-time
employee will terminate in the event the employee does not return work within seven (7) days of recall after a lay-off.
Section 5	For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled
work days lost by regular part-time employees, due to sickness or accident or compensation, shall count as time worked to a maximum of two (2) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks, and to a maximum of four (4) months for employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks.
ARTICLE XIXl JURY DUTY
Employees called upon to perform jury duty or witness duty, where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal ua^sa thereby, subject to the
following conditional
(a)	Employees' shall return to work within a reasonable period of time al'tor jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report for work if leas than two (2) hours of their normal shift routains to be worked.
(b)	Such employees shall furnish the Company with such statements of earnings as the Courts may supply.
ARTICLE XXi SEVERANCE PAY
In the event of amalgamation# closure of the plant or a department thereof, or reduction in work force due to automation or technological advances causing a regular fulltime employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees fo pay such an employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay according to the following schedule:
Full-time	Severance_j>a£
Consecutive service
up to 2 years ..«••••••••■• One fll week
over 2 years ............... One (1) week's pay for every y^ar
of full time service to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.	is
18
The foregoing shall be in addition to the regular weeks notice or weok’s pay in lieu thereof, to which such employees
may be entitled. This clause does not apply to a temporary lay-off.
ARTICLE XXI t SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
Section 1	Regular full-time employ***, alter three (3)
months conoecutive employment, shaTl be entitled to sick leave benefits at a rate of one-half (#) day’s pay por month of fulltime employment, up to a maximum of thirty-seven (37) days pay.
Sick leave benefits shall apply to the first day for the first three illnesses of each calendar year, after which such sick leave pay shall only apply to the second (2nd) and tail'd (3rd) regularly scheduled working days of illness.
The employee shell provide a doctor’s certificate verifying the illness if requested by the Company, however, certificates will only be requested if abuse is suspected.
The Company will reimburse the employee for charges incurred in certificate preparation to a maximum of ten dollars (#10.00) for the first certificate required for each illness.
Sick leave accumulation may be used to supplement weekly indemnity to normal daily earnings.
The Employer will ensure that an employee injured at work will have his/her full wages maintained for the first three (3) working days. If payment for the first three (3) days is also made by the Workers Compensation Board, the Employer will deduct the equivalent amount of such Workers Compensation Board payment.
Section 2	An employee, if found abusing this privilege, shall
be disciplined by the Employer. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee or terminate his employment.
Section 3	Employees who voluntarily terminate their employment
with the Employer, or who are permanently laid-off from their employment with the Employer, shall be paid any sick leave accumulation they may have to their credit.
Accumulated sick leave payout — In-store bakery employees who have a sick leave credit balance, in excess of twelve (12) days (eighty-four (84) hours) as of December 31st, 1983, and on each December 31st thereafter, shall receive a cash pay-out to a maximum of six (6) unused sick leave days (fourty-two (42) hours), provided, no in-store bakery employee's sick leave bank shall fall below twelve (12) days (eighty-four (84) hours), as a result of a cash pay-out. Eligible in-store bakery employees shall receive a cash pay-out prior to January 31st of each year.
19
19
Ar.I'ICLE XXII:	HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1 The Employer shall make its Welfare Plan available to eligible employees, on the following contributory basis:
-	nintey percent (90%) by the Employer,
-	ten percent (10%) by the employee.
The Employer shall provide a letter to the Union defining eligible employees for the purposes of this Article. The Welfare Plan will provide continued coverage to all bakers reg irdless of changes of employment from one Company to another which are under the same collective Agreement.
Section 2 Weekly indemnity benefits payable up to twenty-six
I26T weeks, shall be four hundred and seventy-three dollars ($473.00). Effective
April 1st, 1986 shall be increased to four hundred and eighty-six dollars ($486.00).
It is understood these weekly indemnity benefits shall be applied according to the regulations of the Employer's insurance plan.
Life insurance to be a minimum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
Effective October 1st, 1979 , establish a noncontributing prepaid drug, eye-glass and hearing aid Plan, previa:..-.? the following benefits to full-time employees:
(a)	Prepaid Drug Plan with no deductible.
(b)	Eye-glass, lenses and frames, to a maximum $100.00 per year person.
(c)	Hearing aids to a maximum of $350.00 per person once every four years.
(d)	It is understood f-11 employees' dependents shall be covered by the above Welfare Plan. Eligible dependents shall be wife or husband.
(e)	A covered employee's unmarried children under the age of 21, or under tha age of 25 while attending an educational inr titution, provided such person is still dependent on the employee.
Effective March 31st, 1980 , establish a Long Term Disability Plan.
Effective March 28th, 1982, increase Long Term Disability Plan from 50% to 60% for claims commencing on or after March 28th, 1982.
20
20
Effective July 1st, 1985 (for those qualified) the Employer shall also make available:
-	M.S.P. (including Extended Health Plan)
-	H.E.P. Plan (hearing aid, eyeglass and prescription),
to regular part-time employees who work an average of twenty-one (21) hours per week for a period of three (3) consecutive months. Such employees shall receive these benefits as described for full-time employees in this section of the Agreement. The employee must fail to meet the above hour requirement for a period of three (3) consecutive months from the time he or she first fails to meet it, before they are disqualified.
Effective June 1st, 1985, all full-time employees are covered for Major Medical benefits offered by the Employer under this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. All those engaged in handling of bakery products, until they have been wrapped, shall wear white, other employees to be supplied with suitable uniforms. The cost of supplying and laundering of all uniforms to be borne by the Company except jobbers who work less than two (2) weeks, provided that jobber requests his uniform by the end of his second week in which event the Company agrees to provide his uniform by Tuesday of the third week.
S exit on 2 The Company shall provide and maintain for the convenience of employees, toilets, washrooms and lockers. The lunch room shall be separate and apart from dressing rooms and toilets, and shall provide facilities for boiling water.
Section 3 Employees shall at all times leave benches and m achinery cleaned and (excepting in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiner's repairs) in condition for the immediate resumption of work. The Company shall keep all equipment in good safe working order.
Section 4 Employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant, in good order, and to refrain from misusing or defacing them and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or conveniences.
Section 5 Both parties to this Agreement endorse the City of Vancouver By-Law No. 2148, with p art i cu 1 ar ' respect to health certificates.
21
21
Section 6	The use of tobacco in any form in any part of the
bl .ry where bakery products are produced or handled* is prohibited and any breach of this rule on the part ot any employee shall be cause for instant dismissal.
Ooction 9	In the event of technological changes that have
o significant effect on production, the Company agrees to discuss tlie matter with tne Union six (G) weeks prior to institution ol' sane*
Section C	Due to the retail environment in the in-store
bakeries, the Union recognizes that Bckero may be required to servo on the counter during relief periods, and that when Union members are not available to dice bread, the counter employee uay slice and wrap bread to facilitate customer servico within tho bakery department.
AltTICLK XXIV:	UI1IOH LABEL
Tha Union labol will be furnished to the Company et coat as long as this Agreement is upheld, provided no other Union has a grievance with the Company. The Union agrees at ell times to advance the sals of Union products by label campaign or otherwise,
ARTICLE mt union REPnESENTATIVE
Section I	Tho Company and the Union undertake mutually to
footer the spirit of co-operation in the interpretation of this Agrcci.tont. The management of this Company will at all times, whenever reasonably possible, extend to the accredited representative of the Union, upon his request, evidence and fucilitics for confirming that the terms and conditiouo of this Agreement ore being, maintained, lie shall also be granted permioaion to inspect the pay cheque of ony employee, should he 60 desire.
Section 2	The Business Agent shall be permitted to enter
any and all departments of the snop during working hours, to attend to the business of the Union, lie shall, as a matter of courtesy state the purpose of his visit to the person in charge of the department, and shall be given every opportunity to personally examine cooiplainta of workora on the Job, but at no time will he interfere with plant operation.
AHTtntJS XYVTt fiWTKVAIinE PROfFJUTRF,
flection 1	In the event an employee feels he has been
improperly dismissed, such Grievance shall be tadien up under the Grievance Procedure of this Agremont.
Section 2	Any employee who alleges that the Company has
unreasonably increased the work load of his Job, thereby cauoin injury to the health of such employee or reasonable apprehenaio of such injury, may present the {natter as a Grievance under this Article.
22
toe
22
Pec* n ?	Any complaint, dlaatu'srjenfc or differonce of
opinion between the Company and the Union, or the employee covered by this Ai'rceraont which concerns the interpretation or application of the tercuo and provisions of this Agreement, shall be considered a Grievance, Any employee, the Union or the Company, nay present a grievance.
Section ^	The procedure for adjuataent of disputes and
grievances Shall be:
(a)	Should • ouch shall report the ma Afjent ol the Union.
grievance tier to th
ess
(b)	The Shop Steward or Business Afient of the Union shall take the matter up with the Superintendent.
(c)	Should the orievanoe not be settled between the Superintendent and Shop Steward or Business A|>;ent, the matter shall then be tohen up between the Business Ap,ent and the Hanover or labour representative of the Company.
96(1) of the
outual agreement of the parties, ons Act is hereby excluded.
Section
ARTICLE XXVII» HOARD OF ARBITRATION
Section l	if the Union and the Company labour representative
can not reach an adjustment, upon roquest of either purty, the grievance shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members.
If mutually agreed betweon the Company and tho Union, a sinGl* arbitrator shell preside.
The parties shall each select one (1) member, within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice by either party that a grievance is to be submitted to artibration, and the third member shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two members first selected The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board. If agreement can not be reached within seven (7) days in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the Labour Relations Board of the Province of British Columbia, which shall appoint a Chairman.
Section 2	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider
such material evidence as the parties may offer, and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issue involved. In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
23
23
Section 3	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with
the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitration issue under this Agrement. Where the Board of Arbitration finds that an employee was dismissed or suspended or other than proper cause, the Board of Arbitration may direct the Employer to reinstate the employee and pay to the employee, a am equal to his wages lost by reason of his discharge or suspension, or such lesser sum as in the opinion of the Board is fair and reasonable.
Section 4	The finding and decision of the Board of Arbitration
on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed a decision of the Board.
Section 5	It is the intention of the parties that this Article
shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting grievances so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operations as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances in accordance with the provisions of thisArticle.
Section 6	Each party shall pay its own arbitrator, but all
expenses incurred by the Chairman shall be borne equally by the partiestothearbitration.
ARTICLE XXVIII:	PENSION HAN
It is agreed that the Approved Standard Collective Bargaining Clause (Canada) which follows, will provide the following benefits :
-	$600.00 Plan A, B and C Benefits,
-	$600.00 Plan D, at the 1% level,
-	Effective April 1st, 1984, implement 2% Plan D level.
Effective April 1st, 1986, the parties agree to increase Pension Benefits one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month, for Plans A, B, C and D. Such Pension Benefit increase to be taken from wage improvements.
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE (CANADA)
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer, is as follows:
1.	(a) Commencing with First day of Apri 1, 19,85, and
for the duration of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the said Local Union and Employer, and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the
24
24
Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the-said Collective Bargaining Agreement, as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining- Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of	to the above-
named Pension Fund, but not more than	_ per week for
any one employee, for the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment, whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees, ana regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. It is further understood that each day or hour paid holidays, and other days or hours for which pay is received by the employee, in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
(b) The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, dated September 11, lfJ55i establishing the said Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of said Agreement, a copy of which is annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The Employer further agrees irrevocably to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the Fund, such Trustees as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement and agrees to .;e bound by all the action taken by the said Employer Trustees, pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
(c)	It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such as will qualify for approval for theappropriate Canadian Government Department, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
.	<d> It. is agreed that all contributions shall be made
at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require, and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Certified Public Accountant audit the payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
(e) If the Employer fails to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the date required by the Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps are available to it under the Dollective Bargaining Agreement,and applicable law, to secure compliance with this Article. The Employer shall be liable
or all costs incurred in collecting the payments due hereunder, together with attorney's fees and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustees.
25
25
2.	The parties agree and represent that there is no
other agreement between them regarding pension, other than this Article, presently in effect. The parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during rhe period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
3*	The expiration date of the present Collective
Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer, is March 31* 1987. Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will be promptly furnished to the Pension fund Office and, if not consistent with this Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination of participation of the Employer.
4.	This Article shall be binding upon the parties
hereto, their successors, administrators, executors and assigns. The Employer shall give prior notice , in writing, of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee or other successor in interest. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Trustees not later than four (4) days after the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligation under this Article.
AHTICLE XXIX:	DENTAL PLAN
The Employer agrees to ensure the following
dental benefits :
—* 90# co-insurance present plan,
-- 80# co-insurance for crowns, bridges and dentures,
— 50# co-insurance for orthodontics,
SI,750*00 maximum.
If a government plan is instituted at any time with the same or equivalent benefits, it is understood that if necessary, the Company will pay the difference between any such plan and the maximum of thirteen cents (1 Jtf) per hour.
26
26
ARTICLE XXX:	DURATION
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in force and effect from APRIL 1/ 1985 until MARCH 31/ 1987, and thereafter from year to year until a new Agreement, the terms of which shall be retroactive to April 1, of each year, has been consumated. The parties agree to specifically exclude the operation of Section 96(1) of the Labour Code of British Columbia, and do agree that there shall be no re-opening of this Agreement, until the proper notice is served prior to this expiration date of March 31, 1987. Should either party desire to make any changes in this Agreement, the party desiring the change shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement, in any year. In the event of a failure to reach an amicable settlement, mediation may be applied for under existing provincial legislation.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING to be renewed, as agreed.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF	WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
THE COMPANY	LOCAL 468

7ff
OTEU-15
27
27
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN :
AND :	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL NO. 46 8
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
The Company agrees that where it operates a retail store, all future in-store bakeries on the lower mainland and Victoria shall become and remain the jurisdiction of Local 468 of the Bakery, Confectionery & Tobacco Workers International Union, for the remainder of this Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Consecutive Days Off
The Parties agree that no employee shall be compelled to work more than six (6) consecutive days and will be scheduled a three (3) day weekend every second weekend. A three (3) day weekend shall be one of the following:
-	Thursday, Friday, Saturday
-	Friday, Saturday, Sunday
-	Saturday, Sunday, Monday
-	Sunday, Monday, Tuesday.
The Parties have reviewed this matter in general terms during negotiations and specifically reserve the right to amend the above to properly staff the In-store Bakery.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Long Term Disability
Any employee receiving Long Term Disability shall be
covered for:
-	M.S.P.
-	Group Life Insurance.
-	H.E.P..
28
28
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
Weekly Indemnity
It is understood between the Parties that Weekly Indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the Employer. If payment of valid claims is not made by the insurance company, within two (2) weeks from the time the Employer receives the completed application, the Employer shall then pay to the claiming employee an amount equal to his entitlement. Similarly when payments are stopped by the Carrier, while the employee's entitlement continues, the employee shall be able to claim the amount of his entitlement from the Employer.
Payments made by the Employer for claims later to be found to be invalid, or payments made by the Employer which are later paid by the Carrier, shall be returnable to the Employer.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF	WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
THE COMPANY	LOCAL 468

7ff
OTEU-15
Education Leave
Employees with 4 years of continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to an Educational Leave of .Absence for up to one year without gain' or loss of seniority as of the time the employee leaves.
The following terms and conditions shall apply to such leaves:
One employee pw store 'at any. one time shall be eligible for Educational Leave. In stores with more than 40 employees 2
people per store will be entitled to Educational Leave.
2* Written applic&tlort for the Leave shall be coordinated through the Human Resources Department. Notification of the person going; on leave shall be provided to the Store, 'Union and employee involved.
3.	Seniority shall be	the determining factor in scheduling the
leave.
4,	Such leave will, be	granted on a one time only basis per
employee.
5,	The employee must	be attending an accredited educational
institution, The Parties reserve the right to discuss and resolve the application of this in any particular case.
6,	While on leave the	employee shall not toke employment with
•any competitor in the food business, (Violation of this provision may result in termination.)
7,	It is understood a person on leave could be offered minimal part tine work with the Employer without seniority or rights to such work, for the duration of the leave.
8.	The period of time	off will not count towards time worked
for vacation entitlement.
9.	One month's 'notice of return to work must be given to the Employer unless a return date has been established prior to leaving.
10.	During the 'period	of such leave, the employee will be
allowed to self pay their ore leave benefit status for E.H.B., H.E.P., and Life Insurance in advance by quarterly installments.
The Parties desire to have this new provision complied with in spirit and intent, Any abuse, violations, or conflicts arising from it will be discussed between the Parties before any. action is token.
If your coverage ceases because your employment or your membership within the eligible classes ends, you may convert your Insurance to some form of individual life policy offered by Lincoln Life without having to pass a physical examination.
If you qualify for the Retiree Death Benefit, the amount of it will be deducted from. the .amount of life insurance you are otherwise entitled to convert.
You have 31 days to make application for conversion and to pay the required premium following termination of your insurance. However, If you are given written notice of your right to convert, you have no more than 31 days from the date of termination of insurance, or until 25 days after you are given notice, whichever is the later date.
If you should die within the 31 day period after your coverage ends, your amount of insurance will be paid to your beneficiary. I€ your life insurance is Payable under the group policy, payment will not be made under the converted policy; and premiums paid for the converted policy will be refunded.