C O L L E C T I V E A G R E E M E N T
BETWEEN:
CANADA BREAD ATLANTIC, LIMITED Botsford Street Moncton, N. B.
(hereinafter referred to as "the Company")
- and -
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 406 (hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
Article 1 - RECOGNITION:
1.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all
employees of the Company at its Moncton, New Brunswick Botsford Street plant, save and except supervisors and route supervisors, those above the rank of supervisor and route supervisor, sales employees, transport and truck drivers, office staff, casual and temporary employees, students hired for the school vacation period and regular part-time employees who normally work sixteen (16) hours or less per week.
(b)	Although students are excluded from the bargaining unit, each student hired shall, after completing thirty (30) days of service, be required to pay the regular monthly Union dues.
(c)	The Term "temporary employees", as used herein, shall mean those employees who are specifically hired for less than seventy-five (75) working days.
(d)	Regular part-time employees shall, after completing thirty (30) days of service, be required to pay the regular monthly Union dues although they are excluded from the bargaining unit.
1.02	The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth hours, wages and other working
conditions and benefits as agreed upon between the Company and the Union, and to provide a means whereby employees may seek redress for any grievances they may have.
Article 2 - RELATIONSHIP:
2.01	There will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of the employee's membership in, or connection with, the Union.
2.02	There will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by the Union, or by any of its members or representatives. There will be no solicitation for membership, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during an employee's working hours, except with the consent of the Company.
Article 3 - PAYMENT OF UNION DUES:
3.01	(a) Employees who have completed thirty (30) days of service with the Company, and those who subsequently complete thirty (30) days of service will be required, as a condition of employment, to authorize the deduction of the regular monthly Union dues and initiation fees from their pay. Such deductions will be made weekly and will be forwarded to the Union by the approximate middle of the month following that in which the deductions were made.
(b)	The Company will insert the amount of union dues deducted on each employee's T-
4 slip.
3.02	The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made by employees against the Company for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.
Article 4 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS:
4.01	There will be no lockout caused or directed by the Company, nor will the Union or any employee cause, direct or participate in any strike against the Company during the term of this Agreement.
4.02	In the event of a strike during the term of this Agreement, the Union and/or its employee representatives will instruct employees to resume work immediately.
Article 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
5.01	Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the
Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees shall be vested exclusively with the Company.
Article 6 - UNION COMMITTEE:
6.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or elect a Committee of five (5) employees. During negotiation for the renewal of this Agreement, the entire committee may be present. However, in matters of administration, the committee shall not exceed three (3) employees, and the number of Company representatives shall not exceed that of the Union. In matters of maximal importance the committee may bring up to five (5) members to meet with the Company.
6.02	The Union shall further have the right to appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of stewards, one of whom shall be the Chief Steward.
6.03	Employees will not be eligible to act on the Committee or as a steward until after they have completed the probationary period.
6.04	Members of the Union Committee, stewards and such other Union officers as may be appointed or elected from among employees of the Company, will not leave their regular duties for the purpose of conducting any business on behalf of the Union or employees without first receiving permission from the Plant Manager or designate. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. In consideration of such employees observing the terms of this section, they will be paid for time spent in meetings with the Company during regular working hours.
6.05	The Union will advise the Company of the names of its Committee members and stewards, and will immediately advise the Company of any changes in the personnel thereof.
Article 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
7.01	Step #1:
If an employee has a grievance concerning any matter within the terms of this Agreement, the employee and/or a steward will take the matter up orally with the employee's immediate supervisor. The supervisor will reply within one (1) working day.
7.02	Step #2:
(a)	If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the grievor, the grievance will be stated in writing and dated, and will be submitted to the Plant Manager within three (3) working days after the date of the reply at Step #1.
(b)	The Plant Manager or designate and such other persons as may be called in by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. At this meeting, a full-time officer of the Union may be present. The Production Superintendent or designate will give a written reply to the grievance within three (3) working days after the meeting with the Union Committee.
7.03	Any of the time allowances provided above may be extended by mutual agreement.
7.04	The Company may refuse to consider any grievance, the alleged circumstances	of
which arose more than thirty (30) days before it was presented at Step #1.
7.05	If a grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, it may, within thirty (30) days following the reply at Step #2, be referred to arbitration.
7.06	If the Union fails to observe the time limits as set out above, the grievance will	be
considered as dropped. If the Company fails to observe the time limits, the grievance will	be
automatically advanced to the next step or to arbitration, whichever is applicable.
Article 8 - ARBITRATION:
8.01	(a) When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time shall appoint a nominee. Within five (5) working days thereafter, the other party shall appoint a nominee. The two nominees shall attempt to select a Chair, and if they are unable to do so within a period of five (5) days, they will then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of New Brunswick to assist them in selecting a Chair.
(b)	Should either party fail to name its representative on the said Board within the prescribed time, the other party shall apply to the Minister of Labour who shall appoint the said member to act on behalf of that party.
8.02	No person may be appointed as a nominee who has been involved in an attempt to settle the grievance, or who is an employee of either the Union or the Company.
8.03	Each of the parties will bear the expenses of the nominee appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chair of the Arbitration Board.
8.04	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
8.05	Neither the arbitrators nor the Arbitration Board will be authorized to make any
decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor will they alter, modify or amend any part of its provisions. A majority decision will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union, but, if no majority decision is given, the decision of the Chair shall be final and binding.
8.06	In any proceedings before an arbitration board, either party shall have the right to call any necessary witnesses.
8.07	A Board of Arbitration shall be authorized to determine the arbitrability of any matter referred to arbitration.
8.08	The parties may, in any specific matter, mutually agree on a sole arbitrator.
Article 9 - COMPANY GRIEVANCES:
9.01	Nothing contained herein shall preclude the Company from submitting a grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union or any of its officers, committee- persons or stewards, or with respect to any violation of the terms of this Agreement. Discussion of such grievance shall commence at Step #2 and any such grievance will be filed within thirty (30) days of the alleged occurrence.
Article 10 - DISCHARGE CASES:
10.01	A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period that the employee has been unjustly discharged from employment, will be treated as a special grievance, commencing at Step #2 of the grievance procedure, provided the discharged person submits the grievance within four (4) working days after the discharge occurs.
10.02	Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the discharge, or by reinstating the discharged person with full compensation for time lost, and full seniority rights, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties, or an Arbitration Board.
10.03	An employee discharged without notice will be permitted to talk with a steward for a reasonable time before leaving the premises.
10.04	Should the Company decide to release a probationary employee, the Union will not question the discharge, and the discharge of such employee shall not constitute a grievance. The discharge of a probationary employee shall be at the sole discretion of the Company and the Company shall not be required to establish any just cause for such discharge.
Article 11 - SENIORITY:
11.01	New employees will be on probation and will not have any seniority standing with the Company until after they have completed sixty (60) days of work within a twelve (12) month period. Seniority will then date back the sixty (60) days they have worked for the Company.
11.02	For purpose of lay-off and recall following lay-off, ability to perform the work required shall be the governing factor. Where ability is relatively equal to meet all of the normal requirements of the work assigned, seniority will apply.
11.03	Employees will lose their seniority standing:
(a)	If they voluntarily leave the service of the Company;
(b)	If they are discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
(c)	If they are absent from work (verified personal illness and authorized leave of absence excepted) without a reason satisfactory to the
Company;
(d)	If they are laid off for a period of nine (9) consecutive months.
(a)	Employees being recalled to work following lay-off shall signify their intention to return within three (3) working days after the notice has been sent out and shall return within a further three (3) working days or forfeit their right to employment. Recall shall be made by registered letter to the last known address recorded with the Company by the employees.
The Company may obtain casual employees from other sources should insufficent persons be available for short term recalls.
(b)	Short-term recalls will normally be made by telephone.
Seniority lists showing the seniority dates and classifications of employees will be posted on the bulletin boards and will be revised each four (4) months. A copy of each revised seniority list will be given to the Chief Steward.
11.04
11.05
11.06	Employees who are laid off will be given the opportunity to perform any casual work for which they are qualified.
11.07	(a) A supervisor who has been promoted from the bargaining unit and who is returned by the Company to the said bargaining unit shall, if returned within one (1) year from the date of promotion, retain full accumulated seniority. If returned after one (1) year has elapsed, then seniority shall be limited to that accumulated at the time of promotion plus one (1) year.
(b)	These provisions shall also be applicable to a union member who accepts a full-time position with the BCTGM and/or Local 406.
(c)	These provisions shall also apply to an employee who campaigns and or is elected in a Provincial or Federal election.
11.08	Where two or more employees start to work for the Company on the same date, the employee who starts on the earliest shift shall be considered to have seniority over those starting on later shifts.
Article 12 - JOB POSTING:
12.01	A notice of a vacant job or new job, above the rank of General Help, for which an employee is required for a period in excess of thirty (30) working days, will be posted on the plant bulletin boards for three (3) working days. During this time, employees who have completed the probationary period will be permitted to make application for promotion or lateral transfer to another classification which is posted, by writing their names on the sheet which indicates the job that is vacant. All vacant jobs will be posted as soon as practicable after becoming vacant.
12.02	Irrespective of the terms of 12.01 above, an employee with five (5) years or more of service who wishes to transfer to a lower rated job which has been posted, will be permitted to do so, provided the employee meets the criteria set out in 12.03. Transfer to a lower rated job shall be limited to the first and second posting in a sequence. Not more than ten (10) transfers under the terms hereof will be permitted during the term of this Agreement. An employee transferred in accordance with this section shall be required to remain on the job to which transfer is made for a period of eight (8) consecutive months.
12.03	In considering applicants for a posted job, the Company will take into account the qualifications of those applying. Where the Company considers there are applicants with suitable qualifications, the senior employee among such applicants will be given the job. Where the Company and the Union each agree an employee has the required qualifications for a posted job, the employee will be given a trial period not exceeding ten (10) consecutive working days. When a change enacted by the Company results in a General Help function being eliminated, then the Company agrees that a
trial training period, where required, and not exceeding five (5) consecutive working days, shall be provided in reassignment to a different General Help position.
12.04	Not more than four (4) postings - the original and three (3) additional - will be made as the result of the job vacancy.
12.05	An employee in the General Help classifications, who receives a job through the posting procedure, shall not be permitted to apply again until six (6) calendar months have elapsed.
12.06	(a) Irrespective of the provisions set out in this Article, where an employee is absent from a job above the rank of General Help due to illness or accident and it is known such absence will exceed thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, the Company will post the job on a temporary basis to allow those who have completed the probationary period to apply. Assignment to such job shall be in accordance with section 12.03 of this Article, and the successful applicant shall remain on the job until the absent employee returns. One further posting shall be made twelve (12) months after the initial posting date if the absent employee has not returned by that time.
(b)	This clause excludes Maintenance Class 1 & Class 2 and Maintenance Electrician employees from applying for the above noted temporary postings.
(c)	Employees who accept a temporary posting will move to the vacation list for that classification in the next calendar year.
12.07	Employees who receive a temporary job through the posting procedure shall revert to their former classification when the temporary job is completed.
12.08	For the life of this agreement, when an employee is awarded a job, as outlined in Article 12.01 the employee shall not be subject to temporary seasonal layoff due to lack of seniority for a period of six (6) months.
Article 13 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
13.01	Recognized representatives of the Union, not employed by the Company, may be granted permission to visit the plant during working hours to interview members of the Union Committee. Permission must first be obtained from the Plant Manager, or designate, and will only be granted on the understanding that it will not interfere with production.
13.02	Plant bulletin boards will be available to the Union for posting notices. All notices shall be submitted to the Plant Manager or designate for approval before posting.
13.03	Supervisors will not perform work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	in cases of emergency;
(b)	when performing experimental or development work;
(c)	when checking production on various jobs or machines;
(d)	when regular employees are not available due to being late or absent from work.
NOTE: The above will not apply to Maintenance.
13.04	Employees who are injured at work and who are unable to continue work, will be paid for the full regular working hours in their shift on the day of the injury.
13.05	Employees who are summoned to serve on a jury will be paid their full regular wages for the normal weekly hours they are required to serve on jury duty, provided they turn over to the Company the payment received from the court for their jury service. The employees will be required to report for work on any day they are not required to serve on the jury. These provisions shall also apply to an employee who is under subpoena as a crown witness in a criminal trial.
13.06	(a) The Company will contribute up to $1,000.00 per year towards the education of its Moncton plant shop stewards in the area of labour-management relations and safety.
(b) Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted to two (2) employees at a time to attend Union business functions and conventions, provided the request for such leave is made at least ten (10) working days in advance of the date on which it is to commence. The total accumulation of such leave shall not exceed twenty (20) working days in any twelve (12) month period. However, upon request the Company may, at its discretion, extend the number of days set out above and the number of employees who are to receive such leave.
13.07	(a) Employees who have completed the probationary period shall, in the event of the death of their father, mother, or legal guardian, sister, brother, spouse, child, father-in-law or mother-inlaw, be allowed up to five (5) days' leave of absence with pay to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. Only that portion of the five (5) days that would otherwise have been time worked will be paid. In the event of the death of an employee's grandparent, brother-in-law or sister-in-law the employee will be allowed one (1) day with pay to attend the funeral. Only that portion of the day that
would otherwise have been time worked will be paid. In-laws in this article mean current, not former, in-laws.
(b) Pay for leave under this clause shall be at the regular applicable hourly rate multiplied by regular shift hours absent from work.
13.08	Employees shall be required to keep their current addresses on file with the Company, as well as telephone numbers, if any.
13.09	Technological Change:
(a)	Definition - Technological Change means the introduction of equipment different in nature, type or quantity from that previously utilized which will cause the reduction of one or more positions.
(b)	Notification - In the event Technological Change is planned, the Company will meet with the Union Executive and give reasonable written advance notice to inform them of the technological change and the position(s) affected.
(c)	Wage Rate - When functions of a position eliminated due to Technological Change are re-assigned to a new classification, the wage rate of such classification will be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union.
13.10	Pregnancy leave will be granted in accordance with Provincial legislation.
13.11	Female employees who finish work between midnight and 6:00 a.m. shall have transportation supplied by the Company to their respective residences within a five (5) mile radius of the existing plant. This will not apply where such employees have their own or other means of transportation. Where such employees are required to work overtime beyond 6:00 a.m. the taxi service shall continue to apply.
13.12	(a) A Safety Committee composed of two (2) representatives from each of the Company and the Union shall meet once each month to make recommendations on matters relating to safety within the Company premises.
(b) Any employee(s) sent by the Company to attend Health and Safety meetings or seminars shall suffer no loss of regular earnings for time spent in attendance at such meetings or seminars.
13.13	All letters of warning shall be written off after a two (2) year period unless any further disciplinary action is taken within the two (2) year period.
13.14	(a) Any maintenance employee sent by the Company to take any course shall suffer no
loss of regular earnings or equivalent (i.e. from all sources) for time spent in attendance while on such course. Payment by the Company shall be subject to one occasion only for each block. Where an overnight stay is required, the Company shall ensure that reasonable room, board and transportation costs shall be covered by the Company and/or other sources.
(b) ) Any non-maintenance employee sent by the Company to take any course shall suffer no loss of regular earnings or equivalent (i.e. from all sources) for time spent in attendance while on such course. Payment by the Company shall be subject to one occasion only for each course. Where an overnight stay is required, the Company shall ensure that reasonable room, board and transportation costs shall be covered by the Company and/or other sources.
Article 14 - SEVERANCE PAY:
14.01	In the event an employee has employment terminated as a direct result of the closing of
the plant or a department thereof, severance pay will be paid as follows:
(a)	Twenty five years or more of continuous service
(b)	Twenty to Twenty five years of continuous service
(c)	Fifteen to Twenty years of continuous service
(d)	Ten to Fifteen years of continuous service
(e)	Five to Ten years of continuous service
-	17 weeks
-	13 weeks
-	10 weeks
-	7 weeks
-	5 weeks
14.02	For the purpose of the application of severance pay, departments shall be:	(a)
Production; (b) Shipping, and (c) Maintenance.
14.03	No employee will qualify for severance pay if the employee is able to exercise seniority
rights within the plant or if the employee is offered employment elsewhere in the Company in the Moncton area, or if the closing results from fire, flood, strike or any other circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
14.04	An employee who accepts severance pay shall have no further claim to employment
with the Company.
14.05	A terminating employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms of this Article who
may also become entitled to severance pay in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance pay provided by legislation, whichever is greater, but not both.
Article 15 - SCHEDULES:
15.01	Attached hereto and constituting part of this Agreement are the following Schedules:
Schedule "A" - Hours of Work, Overtime, etc.;
Schedule "B" - Paid Holidays;
Schedule "C" - Vacations;
Schedule "D" - Job Classifications & Hourly Rates.
Article 16 - DURATION:
16.01	This Agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements shall be effective to and
including the 30th day of June, 2005 and, unless either party notifies the other of its intention to modify, amend or terminate the said Agreement, it shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter. Notice of modification, amendment or termination may only be given during a period of ninety (90) to sixty (60) days preceding the 30th. day of June, 2005, or any succeeding anniversary date.
SIGNED AT MONCTON, NEW BRUNSWICK, THIS	DAY OF	, 2003.
For The Company
For the Union
SCHEDULE"A"
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, ETC.
Hours of Work:
1.
(a)	The regular work week for full-time regular employees will consist of forty (40) hours weekly.
(b)	A full-time employee who commences work at the start of a pay period shall receive pay equivalent to the work week then in effect, provided such employee works all of each hour assigned by the Company, and further provided the employee performs whatever work the Company assigns. This clause will exclude all Geberal Help employees who are hied or obtain seniority after March 13, 2000. This obligation on the part of the Company shall not apply when an employee is prevented from working because of fire, flood, strike or any similar circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
(c)	The Company will not guarantee a forty (40) hour work week for any shift added after ratification of this agreement. (presently there is 1 bread shift and 1 roll shift). Any positions on the 1st bread shift or the 1st roll shift that is bumped to the 3rd , or any subsequent shifts, will qualify for the present (40) hour guaranteed work week.
(d)	If it becomes necessary to reduce the number of shifts in the plant the Company will consult with the Union. The Union recognizes the final decision rests with the Company in determining the number of shifts.
(e)	Employees called in to work will receive a minimum of (6) hours pay.
2.	The starting and quitting times for each shift and the time of lunch and rest periods will
be determined by the Company in accordance with its requirements. Except in cases of emergency, the starting times for an employee shall remain the same as scheduled on a weekly basis.
3.	The thirty (30) minute lunch period, without pay, shall be granted between the end of
the third hour after the starting time of shifts and before the start of the sixth hour.
4.	(a) A paid rest period of ten (10) minutes' duration will be allowed each employee in
each half shift worked. Where a work day exceeds eight (8) hours, an additional paid rest period of ten (10) minutes' duration will be allowed after the eighth hour of work.
Overtime:
1.	All time worked in excess of the daily scheduled hours or forty (40) hours weekly, but not both, will be paid at time and one-half.
2.	An employee required to work more than five (5) days in a week will be paid at time and one-half for the days worked in excess of five (5).
3.	(a) In weeks in which one (1) paid holiday occurs, time and one-half will be paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours weekly. In the week in which two (2) paid holidays occur time and one-half will be paid for time worked in excess of twenty-four (24) hours weekly.
(b) Where the Company grants time off in a holiday week, then the time granted off shall be deducted on a straight-time basis.
4.	Overtime will be divided as equitably as practicable among the employees regularly performing the work on which overtime is required.
5.	(a) Employees shall not be compelled to work overtime unless notified one (1) hour or more in advance of the end of their shift on the day the overtime is required, that overtime is required. This will not apply in cases of power failure, breakdown of machinery, where employees are absent from, or late for work, or any similar circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
(b) Overtime in excess of two (2) hours beyond the end of an employee's regular shift or in excess of a total of ten (10) hours in a regular work week shall be on a voluntary basis. The first eight (8) hours worked on a holiday will not be considered overtime for the application of this clause. In an effort to reduce the amount of overtime, the Company will attempt to employ either students or parttime help to assist on any shift where overtime is excessive.
6.	In the assignment of overtime work during summer months - i.e. June 1st. to Labour Day, regular fulltime employees will be given preference over students and casual and temporary help. Regular full-time employees who claim overtime work under this section in a classification other than the one on which they are regularly employed, will perform such work at the prevailing rate for the classification.
Shift Schedule
Upon ratification of this agreement the Union and the Company will establish a committee dedicated to reviewing the opportunities to design a shift schedule that provides two (2) consecutive days off. The committee will also look at opportunities if a 3rd shift is added to include a weekend day in one (1) of the two (2) consecutive days off for the first two (2) shifts.
Uniforms:
Each employee will be supplied with uniforms which will be laundered by the Company. Uniforms for employees will consist of trousers, shirt and cap and/or hairnet. Smocks will be supplied as required in the Shipping Department and other cold areas of the Plant as required during winter months.
Safety Boots:
The company will pay a Safety Footwear allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) once per year in December towards the purchase of safety footwear. All employees shall be required to wear such boots at all times when at work. Should an employee's employment be terminated for any reason within six (6) months after obtaining a new pair of boots the employee shall be required to reimburse the Company in the amount of fifty percent(50%) of the amount paid by the Company.
Miscellaneous:
Employees will be paid once each week for work performed during the previous week.
SCHEDULE"B"
PAID HOLIDAYS
1.	(a) The following days, or days designated by the Company in lieu thereof (generally
the day preceding) will be considered as Paid Holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday,
Victoria Day, Dominion Day,
New Brunswick Day,
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day
2.	Eligibility to receive payment for holiday or day designate requires the employee to work the last full shift preceding and the first full shift succeeding such day. Exceptions will be verified illness, permission by Plant Manager or designate or death in family as per Article 13.07
3.	Employees who are eligible or in receipt of WI, WCB, LTD, or EI will not be eligible to receive payment for holidays.
4.	Pay for holidays will be at the employee's regular rate, multiplied by eight (8).
5.	In weeks in which the above holidays occur, employees may be required by the Company to work five (5) days.
SCHEDULE"C"
VACATIONS
1.
Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	One
(b)	Five
(c)	Ten
(d)	Twenty
(1) year of continuous service - two (5) years of continuous service - three (10) years of continuous service - four (20) years of continuous service
(2)	weeks
(3)	weeks
(4)	weeks
- five (5) weeks
Employees who have or will attain thirty (30) years of continuous service and who are entitled to five (5) weeks' vacation will receive an added vacation payment of Four Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($475.00) effective January 1, 1998 and effective January 1, 1999, Four Hundred Eighty Dollars ($480.00).
2.	Pay for vacations referred to above will be at an employee's regular rate of pay
multiplied by the number of hours in the regular work week. Where less than two hundred and twenty-five (225) days are worked out of two hundred and sixty (260) days (the employee's anniversary year), the vacation pay will be based on two percent (2%) of the total of the previous year's earnings for each week of vacation entitlement.
Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, vacations and authorized leaves of absence shall be deemed time worked for application of this Clause.
3.	Employees who leave the service of the Company for any reason, will be paid vacation pay to which they are entitled.
4.	The vacation period will extend from the first full week of January and continue for fifty-two (52) weeks. Vacations will, where practical, be allocated by seniority, with senior employees being given the first choice of vacation dates in three (3) areas of the plant, such areas to be worked out by the parties hereto.
5.	If a holiday, as set out in Schedule "B", falls during an employee's vacation, the employee will be paid a day's pay to compensate for the holiday, or the employee will be granted a day off with pay as arranged with the employee's supervisor.
SCHEDULE "C" Page 2
6.	(a) Employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks' vacation shall, at the time they select their first two (2) weeks, be permitted to select their third week of vacation, and fourth week if so entitled, but only outside the normal summer period. Those employees entitled to a fifth week shall take the added vacation at a time arranged by each eligible employee and the employee's supervisor.
(b) The twelve (12) most senior General Help Heavy Employees shall have the option of marking their vacation on either the Production or Shipping list.
Irrespective of the terms hereof, employees eligible for three (3), four (4), or five (5) weeks' vacation who wish to have all their vacation between October 1st. and April 30th. will be allowed to take all of the weeks consecutively.
7.	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks' vacation shall have the right to discuss with the Plant Manager whether or not they will be permitted by the Company to take the said three (3) weeks together during the summer months.
8.	For vacation purposes, General Help Light employees shall be considered separate from other employees in the allocation of the number who will be allowed to be on vacation at a time.
SCHEDULE"D"
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND HOURLY RATES
1.	The Company will classify employees as follows:
Classification	Effective
June 30, 2002	June 30, 2003	June 30, 2004
Machine Operator	$16.55	$16.85	$17.15
(Including Mixer, Cl. 1,Mixer, Cl. 2 Ovenman - Bread, Ovenman - Rolls,
Rollmaker, Divider, Moulder Wrapper, Wrapper (night shift),
Utility, Cl. 1, Utility, Cl. 2, APH Stacker, Unstaker System Operator,
Pan Stacker, Unstacker Operator)
Shipper, Cl. 1	$16.55	$16.85	$17.15
Maintenance, Cl. 1	$17.26	$17.81	$18.36
Maintenance, Cl. 2	$16.98	$17.53	$18.08
Maintenance Electrician	$17.71	$18.26	$18.81
Cleaning & Greasing	$16.32	$16.62	$16.92
Sanitation Co-ordinator	$16.32	$16.62	$16.92
(Licensed Pest Control) General Help - Heavy (Cleaner)	$16.32	$16.62	$16.92
Stockman	$16.42	$16.72	$17.02
General Help - Light	$15.88	$16.18	$16.48
General Help- Heavy after 6 month	$16.06	$16.36	$16.66
Janitor - Light	$15.91	$16.21	$16.51
2.	All General Help employees hired or who obtain seniority after March 13, 2000 will be paid as follows:
Regular Hours Worked 0-1000 hours 1001-2000 hours 2001-3000 hours 3001-4000 hours 4001 plus hours
New Hire Rate
$9.25
$10.00
$10.75
$11.50
$12.25
The Company will agree to transition all employees under the new hire rate classification to the rates outlined under Section 1 of Schedule “D” after 6,000 regular hours worked.
3.	Employees shall only progress from Class 2 to Class 1 if there is an opening in Class 1 and provided they meet the qualifications established by the Company.
4.	Employees temporarily required to perform work in a lower rated classification for the convenience of the Company, and not as the result of lack of work, will continue to receive their existing rate of pay.
5.	Employees temporarily required to perform work in a higher classification will receive the higher rate for all hours worked on the job if they remain there two (2) hours or more.
6.	The shift premium which shall be paid for all hours worked between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall be
as follows:	Effective March 6, 1994 - forty-five cents (450) per hour.
7.	Each employee required by the Company to work on Sunday shall be paid a premium of forty-five cents (450) per hour for each regular shift hour worked up to 9:00 p.m., effective March 6, 1994.
8.	PLANT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Maintenance , Cl. 1:	The employee must have a good knowledge of machine
shop practice, a general electrical background and a sound knowledge of the function of all equipment, so as to be able to properly assist in maintaining a sound preventive maintenance program. The employee must satisfy management that the employee is capable and has the ability to perform minor and major maintenance of all equipment assigned to the Maintenance Department. The employee must understand the complete operation of all equipment so that, in case of emergency, the employee is capable of repairing and/or directing of others in the repair. The employee must have a valid Millwright Industrial Mechanics or Production Mechanics license.
Maintenance, Cl. 2: To be employed in this category an employee shall have a good knowledge of Machine Shop practice and the use of the various machine tools. An employee shall further have a sound knowledge of the function of the majority of operating equipment in order to be able to properly assist in maintaining a sound preventive maintenance program. The employee shall further satisfy the Company that the employee is capable of performing minor and major maintenance work on the majority of equipment and shall understand its operation so that the employee is capable of repairing such equipment to the standards required by the Company. An employee hired in this category will have six (6) years to gain the experience and knowledge necessary to meet the criteria to qualify as Maintenance, Cl. 1. If "apprentices" are employed the Company shall abide by applicable provincial apprenticeship regulations.
Maintenance Electrician
Employee must hold an electrical journeyman licence, Provincial and/or InterProvincial. The employee must also have a good knowledge of machine shop practices.
The employee must satisfy management that the employee is capable and has the ability to perform minor and major maintenance of all equipment, both electrical and mechanical, assigned to the maintenance department.
The employee must be able to assist and direct others in the employee's field. The employee will also be expected to undertake the electrical requirements needed in the installation of new equipment and/or any other electrical changes or additions needed.
8.	The Company will supply all tools for maintenance employees; such tools shall only be used in the repair and service of Company equipment. Tools in the possession of a maintenance employee which are either lost or stolen shall be replaced at the employee's expense.
9.	An employee holding an Industrial Power Engineering Certificate, whose services are utilized by the Company in accordance with the terms of the said Certificate, will be paid a premium of forty-five cents (450) per hour for each hour so worked.
Furthermore, a Maintenance Mechanic who holds an Industrial Mechanic's licence (Block Four) and whose services are being utilized by the Company in accordance with the said license, will be paid a premium of forty-five cents (450) per hour for each hour so worked.
It is recognized the premium to be paid under this clause shall not exceed forty-five cents (450) per hour.
10.	Should a posting be made during the life of this agreement for a Maintenance Electrician, then one employee shall be given the opportunity to apply for an Electrical Journeyman Licence (Provincial or Inter Provincial). Selection shall be made by the Company in accordance with all relevant provisions of this Collective Agreement.
Letter # 1
December 17, 2002
Mark Robar BCTGM 406
Dear Mr. Robar,
This letter, which is a letter of Intent, separate and apart from the Collective Agreement with your Union, confirms the following:
1.	The Company determines its schedules of delivery of product to customers. In arranging production schedules to meet its delivery requirements, the Company has presently scheduled eight (8) hour shifts in the work week
2.	Seniority shall continue to apply in the selection of shifts for all employees. However, an employee who acquires a desired shift through the exercise of seniority shall remain on it for a period of eight (8) months unless the time of the desired shift is changed more than one (1) hour either way. As used herein the term "seniority" shall mean an employee's seniority as shown on the seniority list.
The term hereof shall only apply by the exercise of Company seniority within the classification in which an employee is engaged.
3.	New Year's Day, Good Friday, and Remembrance Day will be celebrated on the days on which the actual holidays occur, except that this will not apply where Remembrance Day occurs or is celebrated on Monday.
4.	Employees who have completed six (6) months of service shall be entitled to up to four (4) days sick leave with pay for a calendar year. Pay for illness shall apply only to the first, second and third day of absence. If four days are not used in a calendar year, employees shall receive up to four days' pay on the basis of whatever days are owing to them, with pay for each day calculated on the basis oftheir hourly rate multiplied by eight (8). Sick leave for employees who are subject to seasonal lay-off shall be based on a ratio of one day for each three months worked. In no event shall sick pay be made while Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation is being paid.
The Company agrees to pay the full premiums for Weekly Indemnity and Health Care coverage for those employees determined by the insurance company to be eligible for coverage by the insurer.
The Company agrees to implement a Long Term Disability Plan, to be 100% funded by employees through payroll deduction.
5.	These items are agreed subject to the requirement that at all times there are sufficient numbers of qualified persons present at the Plant to perform the work to the satisfaction of the Company.
(a)	The present practice of six (6) classified and one (1) General Help Heavy and two (2) General Help Light shall continue year-round.
(b)	Two (2) Wrapper Operators on vacation at the same time year-round.
(c)	Two (2) Mixer Operators on vacation at the same time year-round.
(d)	Two (2) Bread Stackers/Unstacker Operators on vacation at the same time year-round.
6.	All employees who work in the roll packing area will, when necessary, be supplied with warmer clothing.
7.	Employees within the bargaining unit will be responsible for the loading of trucks which come to the plant premises to pick up scrap products. Whem emergency conditions exist the responsibility shall rest with whoever is available at the time.
8.	Amount of Life Insurance coverage shall be $24,000.
9.	When an accident occurs where an employee requires hospital treatment, the supervisor shall be responsible for seeing that the employee gets to the hospital.
Yours very truly,
Robyn Thompson Director, Human Resources
Letter # 2
December 17, 2002
Mark Robar BCTGM 406
Dear Mr. Robar,
RE: Eastern Bakeries Limited - (Moncton Plant)
The Company agrees that:
1.	It will have a representative(s) attend an annual "Benefits" meeting with various Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union representatives.
2.	The maximum amount for frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses, including contact lenses, and the repair of prescription glasses, shall be $110.
3.	(a) The Company Pension Plan has been amended to permit Unreduced Early Retirement as per the following
schedule:
Years of	Unreduced
Continuous	Pension
Service	Age
35	60
34	61
33	62
32	63
31	64
(b)	Effective January 1, 2003, the Benefit Rate for contributions after this date has been increased to 43%.
(c)	Effective January 1, 2004, the Benefit Rate for contributions after this date will increase to 45%.
(d)	Effective January 1, 2005, the Benefit Rate for contributions after this date will increase to 47%.
Once the decision is received on the BCT pension plan, currently under litigation in Quebec, the parties will meet to discuss the decision and how it may impact on the future direction of the pension plan.
Yours truly,
Robyn Thompson Director, Human Resources
Letter # 3
March 13, 2000
Mark Robar BCTGM 406
Dear Mr. Robar:
RE: Second Roll Shift for Summer
This letter, which is a letter of intent, separate and apart from the Collective Agreement with your Union, confirms the following:
For the purpose of meeting the busy summer roll commitments during the time between May 9 th. and September 18 th., as requirements dictate, the Company shall:
1.	Post all required classified jobs as required for a two (2) week period. Ability to perform the job shall be the governing factor. Where two or more applicants are relatively equal in their ability to perform the job, then the most senior employee will be given the job.
There will be no down bidding on any classified job posted for the second roll shift. There will be no bumping on those posted classified jobs.
There will be no further posting(s) as the result of the initial posting(s).
Upon termination of this shift, employees who were affected by the shift shall revert to their former work assignment.
2.	Should there be an operational staffing deficiency after the procedures set out in (1) herein have been followed, then the Company shall make such work assignments as are required without any posting(s).
3.	Notwithstanding (1) and (2) herein, the Company reserves the right to make such work assignment(s) as are required for non-classified jobs.
4.	In assigning work as set out in (2) and (3) herein, the Company shall not require
employees who are scheduled, to change their work assignment to work on the second roll shift against their wishes.
This letter expires on the expiry date of the Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
Robyn Thompson Director, Human Resources
Letter # 4
December 17, 2002
Mark Robar BCTGM 406
Dear Mr. Robar,
RE: Production Employees - Moncton, N.B.
This letter will confirm the following commitment was given by Company respresentatives of Eastern Bakeries Limited to representatives of the production bargaining unit:
"Any additional production employees added to the bargaining unit will be placed at the bottom of the existing seniority list for the bargaining unit."
Yours truly,
Robyn Thompson Director, Human Resources
Letter # 5
December 17, 2002
Mark Robar BCTGM 406
Dear Mr. Robar,
Re: Eastern Bakeries Limited - Moncton Plant
The Company agrees that:
1.	The Weekly Indemnity benefit has been amended as follows, effective January 1,
2003:
(a)	The benefit rate will increase to 70% of weekly earings to a maximum of $450.00 per week.
(b)	Weekly Indemnity benefits shall be payable for a maximum of Twenty-Six (26) weeks, as follows: 11 weeks paid by WI; 15 weeks paid by EI;
Yours truly,
Robyn Thompson Director, Human Resources
C O L L E C T I V E A G R E E M E N T
BETWEEN:
Canada Bread Atlantic, Limited Botsford Street Moncton, N. B.
- and -
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 406
Effective: December 17, 2002 Expiry:	June 30, 2005