COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MONTREAL BISCUIT PRODUCTION
May 1, 1995 - April 30, 1997
BETWEEN	Christie Brown & Company
(Division of Nabisco Ltd.)
3055 Viau Street Montreal, Quebec
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and
Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union, Local 350
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union") PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH
The parties hereto agree that this Agreement shall cover all working conditions, classifications of employment, wages and hours affecting all production employees with the exception of office and clerical employees, foremen and fore ladies, assistant foremen and assistant fore ladies, truck delivery men, employees belonging to the Machine Shop Department, employees of the "Steam Power Plant", Watchmen and persons automatically excluded under the Quebec Labor Relations Act.
WHEREAS the Company and the Union are desirous of continuing the mutually harmonious relations, it is agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1 UNION RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining agent for all the employees at the above described unit with the exceptions noted above.
1.02	During the life of this Agreement, the Union agrees to select sufficient stewards for proper representation of each department, and give an official list to the Company and subsequently notify the Company, in writing, of any changes hereto.
The parties will attempt to maintain the President on the day shift and also to maintain in the Packing Department a steward on each shift. These representatives will remain on these shifts, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list for the purpose of shift reference, providing the representatives so affected desire to do so and there is no interference with the proper and efficient operation of the Department.
This may become null and void if the representative bids off his job, resulting in a change of service or shift.
In the event of a Department Steward being absent, another department Steward in that Department, or the President or Vice President in that order, may replace the Steward, if available and if so desired.
It is understood that all Stewards as well as other members of the Union Committee and Union Officers will continue to perform their regular duties on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining permission from their Foreperson or Supervisor, and will give any reasonable explanation that may be requested with respect to their absence.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION SECURITY
2.01	All present employees and employees who may join the Company at a later date shall, within thirty (30) worked days, become and remain members in good standing of the Union as a condition of employment.
2.02	In consideration of the above, the Union agrees that all employees shall be admitted to membership of Local 350.
ARTICLE 3 - CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct weekly from the pay of the employee an amount equal to union dues, commencing with the employee's first full pay period, and an amount equal to the Union initiation fee after thirty (30) days of work.
3.02	The above deductions shall be made upon receipt of an authorized form, supplied by the Union and required to be signed by the employee and witnessed by a representative of Management. The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, the prevailing rate of Union dues and initiation fee.
3.03	If the total amount earned, in excess of all other authorized deductions, by the employee for the pay period in which the dues are to be deducted is less than the
weekly assessment shown on the authorization form, no deduction will be made for that week by the Company.
3.04	The amount deducted will be forwarded once each month to the Financial Secretary Treasurer of the local Union.
3.05	In the case of an employee being off work when dues should be deducted, said dues should be deducted weekly until paid up.
ARTICLE 4 PLANT VISITATION
4.01	A full time representative of the Union shall be granted admission to all properties covered by this Agreement during working hours to interview members of the Union, after first receiving permission from the Management and with the understanding that there will not be any interruption in production.
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	The Company shall not require its employees to perform any work which will enable any other concern, whose employees are on strike, to fill its orders or otherwise conduct its business.
5.02	There shall be no strikes, slow-downs or any other interference with production by the Union, or any of its members, and no lock-outs of its employees by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
5.03	During the life of this Agreement, it will not be considered a violation of this contract if a member of Local 350 refused to pass through a legally established picket line made up of employees of their bakery.
ARTICLE 6 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that grievances will be adjusted as quickly as possible.
6.02	The Union agrees to elect stewards of their own choosing who will assist in the handling of grievances in Step 1, as provided below.
6.03	The Grievance Committee, for handling of grievances in Step 2 as provided below will consist of the President, the Vice President of the local Union and a Steward, if necessary.
6.04	Whenever the Company give a written warning to a Steward, the President of the local Union shall be notified of such warning. When an employee is suspended, the Departmental Steward and/or the President will be notified as soon as possible and if so desired, the employee may see a Steward before leaving; however, if not available, then the President or Vice President.
6.05	STEP 1: Any employee who has a grievance will take up the matter with the Department Head. Should an employee so desire, he may be accompanied by his Union Steward. The grievance must be submitted as soon as possible, but no later than fifteen (15) days of its occurrence. The Department shall render his decision within three (3) working days after receiving the grievance.
6.06	STEP 2:	If the Department Head and/or his representative fails to adjust the
matter satisfactorily, the Union President or his representative shall notify the Plant Manager, in writing, within three (3) working days from receiving the department Head's decision in Step 1.
The Management representatives shall meet with the Grievance Committee and the Grievor and, if necessary, a full time paid representative of the Union. This meeting will take place within five (5) working days of the Union's answer to the Company's decision in Step 1 and a decision rendered within two (2) working days from the date of the Meeting.
6.07	In the event the grievance remains unresolved following Step 2, the matter may then be referred to arbitration.
6.08	A grievance pertaining to a suspension will be submitted directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
6.09	Any extension of time limits above must be agreed to, by both parties, in writing.
6.10	A grievance concerning more than an employee will be signed and submitted by the Union on their behalf and will be considered in conformity with the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.01	In the event that either party requests arbitration, they will notify the other party, in writing, within ten (10) days of the decision in Step 2, outlining the issue to be arbitrated.
If the party who requests arbitration does not submit its choice of arbitrator within six (6) months following the decision in step 2, the grievance shall be considered settled.
7.02	The Arbitrator shall be a person mutually acceptable by the two (2) parties. If the two (2) parties are unable to agree on the choice of an arbitrator, he shall be named by the Minister of Labor, for the province of Quebec.
7.03	The parties will jointly bear the fees and the expenses of the arbitrator.
7.04	If an employee has been discharged or suspended and a grievance is submitted to arbitration, the arbitrator, based on the evidence, will have the power to:
a)	Reject the grievance, or,
b)	Declare the suspension or discharge unjustified and reinstate the employee in employment with a compensation, if any, that is, in its opinion just and equitable.
The Arbitrator will not have the right to change, modify or to eliminate any of the clauses of this Agreement, or to substitute any new clause, or to render any decision inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. Moreover, the decision shall be rendered within the sixty (60) calendar days following the last meeting of arbitration.
7.05	The decision of the arbitrator is final and binding on the two (2) parties. ARTICLE 8 - DISCHARGE
8.01	An employee, having attained seniority, will be discharged for:
(1)	Use or possession of alcohol or drugs (excluding Physician's prescription) during working hours.
(2)	Dishonesty.
8.02	An employee, having attained seniority, may be discharged for violation of Company rules and/or other just causes.
8.03	If it is established that an employee has been unjustly discharged, he shall submit his case to the grievance procedure. If an employee has been unjustly discharged he shall be reinstated in employment according to an agreement between the two parties.
8.04	All cases of discharge must be considered and disposed of within three (3) working days from the date of discharge. The foreman shall inform the Departmental Steward and/or one of the Union Officers when an employee is to be discharged.
8.05	If so desired, a discharged employee may see a Steward before leaving. If there is any, reasonable time will be given to the Steward to meet with the employee.
8.06	A disciplinary measure in the employee's record will not be considered after a period of eighteen (18) months as long as no other disciplinary measure has been deposited in his record during that period.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY
9.01	New employees shall be considered on probation and shall not be entitled to seniority rights until they have been employed by the Company for a period of thirty (30) worked days. Upon completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be dated from the first date of employment. During an employee's probationary period, he or she shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off at the discretion of the Company.
9.02	Seniority shall be on the length of continuous service credit in the Bargaining Unit, and the Company will prepare a seniority list, a copy of which will be available to the Union.
9.03	When an employee is promoted outside the Bargaining Unit, said employee will not accumulate any seniority during this period. If the employee returns to the Bargaining Unit he will be credited with seniority for all purposes for all time accumulated before the promotion.
9.04	The choice of shift within a classification will be based on Company seniority and can be exercised by an employee weekly for lay-off and recall.
Machine operators may perform work of other classifications on the same shift.
9.05	Granting of Leave of Absence by the Company shall not in any way affect the employee's seniority, unless the employee fails to return to work upon expiration of an authorized Leave of Absence.
9.06	An employee shall lose seniority rights:
(1) If discharged and not reinstated under the grievance or arbitration procedure provided by this Agreement.
(2)	If the employee leaves the Company of his own free will.
(3)	When the employee has been laid-off continuously for a period of: Fifteen (15) months (less than five (5) years of service)
Twenty one (21) months (five (5) years or more of service)
(4)	(a) If within three (3) days after reception by registered mail of notice to
return to work following a lay-off, the employee fails to either:
( i) Return to work
(ii) Notify the Company of his or here intention to return to work, and does not return within eight (8) days after receipt of notice to return.
(b)	In any case where notification by registered letter has been returned undelivered, inquiry shall be made to the Union in an effort to locate employee. If an employee cannot be located by these two attempts, then the employee shall be considered as having given up any seniority rights, even though the months referred to in sub-paragraph three (3) have not elapsed.
(c)	Extenuating circumstances may be taken into consideration by the Company and extended time limits may be granted.
9.07	If the employees who lost their seniority rights by virtue of this article are rehired, they will be hired as new employees.
9.08	Employees hired between the period of May 15th to September 15th for the purpose of vacation relief shall not be entitled to the provisions of this article. Any employees at work beyond the final date will be credited with seniority form the first day of employment and will be able to use their seniority from September 16th. Any employee on lay-off shall be recalled prior to hiring any of the above.
ARTICLE 10 - JOB POSTING
10.01	All vacancies or job newly created within this bargaining unit shall be posted and eligible employees shall submit their requests for the job opening to their Foreman and to their Steward. Eligible employees shall make their requests in writing, within two (2) working days of posting of such notices.
When an employee is absent and the position is filled on a temporary transfer basis, and the employee fails to return, this position will be posted and the successful applicant will be assigned to the vacancy the first of the week after being advised of acceptance.
10.02	In the event an eligible employee is away from work due to illness, vacation, work accident, lay off or leave of absence at the time of posting of such notices, the Company communicates with the employee, and if the eligible employee accepts the job, he will become the incumbent of the job as long as the return to work has been scheduled within the next six (6) months (this condition shall not apply in the case of a work accident).
10.03	Except in the case of multiple job postings (more than one), job posting will show the effective date of transfer, providing production requirements do not change. A copy of the job applicants will be forwarded to the Union.
10.04	The accepted employee will be advised within four (4) working days of closing of notice and will be assigned to the job for training no later than as outlined above in 10.03.
10.05	a) The applicants with the seniority and physical fitness (and qualifications, in the
case of working supervisor - training) will be given a probationary period of up to a maximum of (4) weeks. At the end of this probationary period, the employee shall be paid the rate for the classification, and will be eligible to exercise his seniority shift preference as per article 9.04 but will not be eligible to an other job transfer within a six months period.
It is understood in some circumstances, the applicants must have ability on the basic requirements of the job, prior to being accepted.
b)	The employee who obtains a job for a first time will be granted four (4) weeks to decide whether he keeps the job or if he returns to his previous one and this, even if the probationary period is terminated. In other cases, this period will be equal to the probationary period. This period starts with the beginning of the probationary period as stated in section a).
10.06	If the candidate returns to his former position within the probationary period as per article 10.05, he shall upon commencement of work receive the classification rate and eligibility for shift preference as per article 9.04. If the candidate returns to his former position within the first half of the probationary period, he shall not be eligible to an other job transfer within a six months period. This six months period starts at the date the employee returns to his former position.
In these cases, the company may replace this candidate by another candidate from the original list of applicants. But if a six months period had elapsed since the job posting, the company shall proceed to a new job posting.
10.07	The Company will allow any employee promoted to one of the following classifications, a probationary period of up to a maximum of twelve weeks.
Working supervisor Technician - Crackers Technician - Line #1 Technician - Icing
The employee shall be paid the rate for the classification after four (4) weeks and be eligible to exercise their seniority for shift preference as per Article 9.04, after twelve (12) weeks.
At the end of the probation period, if the candidate accepts the job, he shall not be eligible to an other job transfer within a six months period.
b) The Company will allow any employee promoted to one the following classification, a probationary period of up to a maximum of eight (8) weeks.
Operator - Oven #3 Clerk
At the end of the probation period, if the candidate accepts the job, he shall not be eligible to an other job transfer within a six months period.
10.08	An employee requesting ad receiving a job in a lower hourly rated classification through the provision above, shall receive the classification rate on commencement of work in the classification. They shall be eligible to exercise their seniority for shift preference as per Article 9.04 after four (4) weeks.
10.09	When a classification is abolished or when there is a permanent reduction of the number of employees in a classification the employee affected will displace the employee with the least seniority in his or her former classification and the later who in turn must displace an employee with the least seniority on a classification for which he or she is qualified following a training period provided for the chosen classification.
They will be paid at the rate of the new classification and can exercise their seniority for shift preference at the time of the date of transfer.
10.10	Applicants in their six (6) month period outlined in articles10.05a, 10.06, 10.07a and 10.07b shall be considered prior to the Company hiring from outside.
10.11
Employees covered by article 9.08 shall not be entitled to the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 11 - LAY OFF
11.01	In the even it becomes necessary to lay off or recall employees for one week or more, the employees will be laid-off or recalled throughout the Bargaining Unit in order of seniority.
11.02	For a lay-off, the following steps will be observed:
a)	The employee having the less seniority in the classification concerned in the service where there is reduction of personnel.
b)	The employee thus affected may displace another employee having less seniority than him inside his own service in the designated job mentioned in article 11.08.
c)	Before being displaced from his or her service, the employee may use his seniority rights in all classifications of his own service if he or she is volunteer and qualified to perform the job immediately.
d)	The employee displaced from his or her service will be transferred inside the Bargaining Unit in an available job created by the application of article 11.01. He is eligible for shift preference after four (4) weeks in the same classification.
e)	Amongst the transferred employees, and those that are completing their eligibility the seniority shall prevail for shift preference.
11.03	The transferred employees will keep the regular rate of their classification during the time of the transfer and must return to their service and their classification as soon as an opening is available.
11.04	A shift transfer will not be considered as a lay-off.
11.05 a) Following a total or partial closing of a line caused by a change in production and if the lay-off is for a period of less than a week, the following procedure applies:	
Step 1	Volunteers among the employees assigned on the affected job of the concerned production line.
Step 2	Volunteers by seniority among the employees on the concerned production line.
Step 3	Volunteers by seniority among the employees assigned on the same shift in the same department.
Step 4 On the concerned shift, the employees having the most seniority in the affected classifications, can, inside the department displace the employee with less seniority in their classification and the latter one move the employees in the pre established jobs mentioned in Article 11.08
Step 5 Employees displaced in step 4 if they are at the same time qualified and volunteers, can perform the available job on the concerned shift.
Step 6 If there is no available work, employees displaced at step 4, if the are at the same time qualified and volunteers, will be able to displace employees having less seniority on the concerned shift.
11.06	The above procedure may be applied as follows:
The Company reserves the right when required, in a lay-off situation, to designate the number of employees to whom it will be allowed to go on voluntary lay-off and for a period not exceeding one (1) week. In that case, seniority prevails and this will be done by rotation and under the condition that, in the Company's opinion, employees at work are qualified to do the work available.
11.07	In all the above mentioned procedures, it is understood that the employee must be qualified and willing to do the work available. Once the employee accepts transfer, refusal to do the work will result in a discharge. If it is proven that an employee is not physically fit, it will not be considered as a refusal.
11.08	The pre-established jobs are:
Bakeshop:	a)	Bakeshop Helper
	b)	Assembler
Packing	a)	General and/or packer
Sanitation	a)	Cleaner and /or laundry room attendant
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
12.01	Requests for leaves of absences must be made to the Company in writing. Whenever good and sufficient reason exists, a leave of absence may be granted for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
12.02	Such leave of absence may be extended for an additional period of not more than thirty (30) days under the same conditions.
12.03	Any employee in other employment during a leave of absence or extension thereof shall be subject to immediate dismissal.
12.04	During the life of this agreement, an employee may have a leave of absence without pay for the purpose of pregnancy commencing with the completion of six (6) months of pregnancy and ending two (2) months after the birth of the child.
Upon receipt of a medical certificate, this leave of absence may be prolonged either before the sixth (6th) month of pregnancy , or two (2) months after the birth of the child.
12.05	Upon receipt of a written request form the Union, the Company may grant to the Union President a leave of absence for the period of the collective agreement for the purpose of employment with the Union.
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY TRANSFER
13.01	When an employee is transferred temporarily to a classification with a higher rate, the employee will receive the rate for all hours worked in that classification.
ARTICLE 14 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY
14.01	It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards for Occupational Health and Safety in order to eliminate insofar as possible, work accidents and industrial illnesses.
14.02	A minimum of five (5) employees member of the bargaining unit shall be part of the Health and Safety committee in the plant.
The Union will choose one (1) employee member of each of the following departments and each member will be subject to a rotation after one (1) year of service.
1	-	Baking
2	-	Packing
1	-	Environmental Health Services
1	-	Shipping & Warehouse
14.03	Health and safety committee members attending meetings and safety inspection tours outside their regular work schedule, will be paid accordingly.
14.04	It shall be the duty of the Committee, at regular intervals, to make or cause to be made, inspections of the Bakery and to report the existence of any condition which, in its opinion, shall be hazardous to employees.
14.05	The Committee shall meet at regular intervals and shall make recommendations related to the conditions which, in its opinion, require corrections. The Company agrees that it will use due diligence to avoid hazardous conditions and will make a reasonable effort to eliminate any condition which would result in work accidents and industrial illnesses.
14.06	The employee must conform to various health and safety laws and regulations.
14.07	An employee may refuse to perform an assignment due to an unsafe condition, however, any misuse of this provision can result in disciplinary action. Any employee laid off as a result of an employee's misuse of this provision shall be excluded from any daily guarantee as per article 21.02.
ARTICLE 15 - GROUP BENEFITS PLAN
15.01	The Company will maintain the group benefits plan in effect during the life of this agreement. If it becomes necessary to modify the plan it shall be negotiated with the Union.
15.02	If at any time there should be enacted Laws or Regulations whereby the benefits, or any part thereof, of the above Plan are duplicated, the employee shall be entitled to retain that portion of the benefits that are in excess of legislation providing that the cost to the Company of all Plans shall not exceed the cost prior to the effective date of legislation.
15.03	The terms and conditions of the Company's present Group Life Insurance Plan shall continue on a contributory basis as heretofore.
15.04	The Company will supply employees with booklets on the pension plan and group insurance plan.
ARTICLE 16 - BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Union shall have the privilege, after securing Management approval, to post on the Bulletin Board provided by the Company, notices, etc., which have been signed by a Union officer.
ARTICLE 17 - PAID HOLIDAYS
17.01	The following days shall be paid holidays:
New Year's Day Day after New Year Good Friday Dollard Day St.Jean Baptiste Day Dominion Day
In addition to the above eleven (11) paid holidays, one (1) additional day will be observed on a date chosen by the Company.
17.02	The maximum number that can be paid is twelve (12) paid holidays in a calendar year.
17.03	The Company agrees to pay all employees who are subject to this Agreement, who are paid on a hourly rate basis, one (1) full day's pay for each of the above listed holidays, subject to the following conditions:
a)	Employees must have completed thirty (30) worked days with the Company.
b)	Unless he has been granted leave of absence an employee must work a full shift on the work day preceeding and the work day following the paid
holiday, to be eligible for holiday pay. New employees hired after the paid holiday and those who left the Company's employ before the holiday, shall not be paid for the holiday.
17.04	All work performed on the day designated by the company as paid holiday for the emplyee, will be compensated at the rate of double times (2) the regular straight time hourly rate.
17.05	Where a paid holiday occurs in the period in which an employee is on his scheduled vacation, then the employee will receive pay for the day in addition to the scheduled vacation pay.
Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day Day after Christmas
17.06	Where an employee has to be sent home by Management on one of the days referred in article 17.03b or where there is a death in the employee's immediate family, such absence will not affect the granting of holiday pay.
17.07	When a paid holiday occurs and the employee is absent because of sickness and later qualified for payments under the Company Weekly Indemnity Plan, such absence shall not affect the payment of pay for the Paid Holiday. No employee shall be entitled to paid holiday pay and an indemnity for the same day.
17.08	On any day not listed above, and on which the Bakery is closed, no pay will be paid.
17.09	When a paid holiday occurs on a non scheduled working day, the company will designate an other day to be observed as paid holiday.
17.10	An employee who	is laid off (voluntary (11.07) or by designation) for a period
not exceeding one	(1) week, shall not lose pay for the holiday pay in that
week.To be entiltled to paid holiday providing the employee qualifies as above.
ARTICLE 18 - VACATIONS
18.01	The Company will	advise the Union, in writing, by January 1st, of its intended
plan for the year.	In the event of a partial or full shut down two (2) of these
weeks will be the last two (2) full weeks in July.
18.02	The year of reference to select vacations is the period of twelve (12) months starting with the anniversary date of employment of the employee of the previous year and ending the anniversary date of employment of the current year.
18.03	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for a period of one (1) year to five (5) years shall be granted two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
18.04	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for five (5) to ten (10) years shall be granted three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
18.05	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for ten (10) to eighteen (18) years shall be granted four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
18.06	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for eighteen (18) to twenty five (25) years, shall be granted five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
18.07	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for twenty five (25) years or more, shall be granted six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
18.08	Vacation schedules will be prepared on the basis of Company seniority and each department's schedule shall be by classification or some other methods suitable to both parties and will be approved by the Bakery Manager.
Employees will have the right to choose the dates of their vacation on a seniority basis (18.06) around October 1st or April 1st of each year. After November 1st or May 1st of each year, in either case, the employees that have not given their choice cannot chose vacation periods that other employees have chosen.
The vacation schedule for the period of May 1st to December 31st will be completed and posted for May 1st.
The vacation schedule for the period of January 1st to April 30th will be completed and posted for December 1st of the previous year.
However, the employees that have not made their choice before November 1st of each year for the period of January 1st to April 30th and who make a request after must wait a confirmation from the Company. This being done two weeks prior to desired departure.
18.09	Vacations must be taken during the calendar year in which the vacation is earned, and two (2) weeks of the employee's vacation will be on the basis of seniority. Employees entitled to a third (3rd), fourth (4th), fifth (5th or sixth (6th) week vacation, shall have their selection, two weeks at the time, on the basis of seniority following completion of the above. However, vacation schedules will be handled in such a manner as not to interfere with the normal and proper operation of the business.
18.10	Vacation pay for the first year of employment shall be computed on the basis of 4% of earnings for the first twelve (12) months of employment.
18.11	Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 12% whichever, is applicable, of the previous calendar year's earnings, or, pay for the vacation period shall be computed on the employee's straight time hourly rate for the normal schedule of hours for the department in which the employee is employed at the time of vacation, whichever is greater. In no event will the employee receive less than forty (40) hours pay for a week's vacation.
18.12	An employee leaving the service of the Company and having not taken earned vacation for that year shall receive 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12%, whichever is applicable from their anniversary date, in accordance with the law on minimum working conditions.
ARTICLE 19 - UNIFORMS
19.01	The Company will provide each employee covered by this Agreement with a uniform. The uniforms will be paid for and maintained by the Company. Clean uniforms will be supplied, when required, at the discretion of the Department Head. Uniforms will remain the property of the Company.
ARTICLE 20 - REST AND LUNCH PERIODS
20.01	All employees shall be granted fifty (50) minutes off, with pay, for an eight (8) hour shift. The fifty minutes shall be divided into two or three rest or lunch periods based on needs.
20.02	Any employee working two (2) hours or more overtime on any day, ten (10) hours or more daily, without having been advised of such overtime by the previous working day, shall be entitled to a meal ticket. A meal ticket will be provided to any employee working a minimum of twelve (12) consecutive hours.
20.03	Any employee working two (2) hours or more overtime on any day shall be allowed a paid lunch period not to exceed twenty (20) minutes. Employees working an eight (8) hour shift on a non scheduled day shall be granted the schedule as outlined in Article 20.01 above.
ARTICLE 21 - CALL BACK AND CALL IN PAY
21.01	Any employee who is called at home after completing his regular scheduled shift to report to work, before the start of his shift the next day, will be paid at the rate of time one half the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked before the start of his shift.
21.02a) Any employee who is called back to report to work for his regular scheduled shift, will receive eight (8) hours at his regular straight time hourly rate except when production is curtailed during the first four (4) hour period due to the just causes mentioned below and it will be allowed to lay-off the employee affected for the second four (4) hour period.
The just causes for lay-off will include: machinery breakdowns, power shortages, material shortages not attributable to the Company and Acts of God (Fire, Earthquake, Flood, etc.) or any other reason beyond the control of the Company.
b) When concerning an affected production line, the following will apply:
Step 1:	Volunteers among the employees obliged to make overtime hours in
the same service and the same classification.
Step 2:	Volunteers among the employees assigned on the positions concerned
of the affected line.
Step 3 Volunteers by seniority among the employees assigned on the affected line.
Step 4 Volunteers by seniority among the assigned employees on the same shift in the same department.
Step 5 If necessary, the employees of the concerned positions on the affected line will be laid off.
21.03	It is the responsibility of each employee to keep his fore person informed of his telephone number or where a message can be left for him.
ARTICLE 22 - JURY DUTY PAY
22.01	The Company agrees to pay a full day's pay at the straight time hourly rate for each day an employee is required to serve and does serve on any jury, or is subpoenaed as a witness in a case other than his own or his union, provided the employee is scheduled to work on the day or days actually served on the jury or witness (in a case other than his own or his union). The employee, however, will be required to turn in to the Company, the jury duty or witness fees, in order to receive the compensation above provided.
ARTICLE 23 - WAGE AND HOUR SCHEDULE
23.01	The Schedule of classifications and rates identified as "Schedule "A" shall be the rates and hours of work for the classification, except those employees who are presently on a weekly salary.
23.02	Where any new classifications are created or the job content is changed during the life of this Agreement, such classifications shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union and a Supplementary Agreement covering such classifications shall be executed.
ARTICLE 24 - OVERTIME
24.01	All overtime shall, as far as practical, be on a voluntary basis. However, should the number of volunteers be inadequate, the Department Fore person and Departmental Stewards shall select employees to work required overtime.
24.02	All overtime work shall be, as far as practical, within the Department and distributed among the employees of the same classification on a rotation basis, as equally as possible.
ARTICLE 25 - NIGHT WORK COMPENSATION
25.01	The Company agrees to pay all employees covered by this Agreement, (with the exception of mixer and mixer helper) a shift premium of fifty cents (50c) per hour for all hours worked if the majority of the hours worked are between 17h00 and 06h00.
In the case of mixer or helper mixer, the Company Agrees to pay the above mentioned premium for all hours worked between 17h00 and 06h00.
ARTICLE 26 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
26.01	In the event an employee is sent home by the Plant Nurse and/or Management because of work injury, the employee shall receive one full day's pay for that day. Subsequently, if the employee, due to the above injury, is required to be away from work for treatment or examinations related to that injury at an authorized hospital or clinic, the Company will reimburse him for the necessary time lost, in accordance with the health and safety law.
26.02a) In the event of the spouse's death or child's death, the employee will be allowed time off for a period of, but not exceeding five (5) regular work days to be taken between the date of death and the five (5) calendar days following the funeral to attend to same or to make the arrangements.
b)	In the event of a death in the immediate family (parents of employee, brother, sister, father-in-law or mother-in-law) he or she will be allowed time off for a period of, but not exceeding three (3) regular work days (to be taken between the date of death and the three (3) calendar days following the funeral) to assist to the funeral or to see to the arrangements. In the case of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandfather or grandmother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or a grandchild, one (1) regular work day to assist to the funeral. During such absence, the employee will be paid on the basis of the regular hourly rate in his classification for the regular time lost. The compensation for such absences will not include pay for overtime, vacations or shift premium lost. It shall include paid holiday. pay.
c)	In the even of a birth of a child or adoption, the employee will be allowed time off for a period of two (2) regular work days. During such absence, the employee will be paid on the basis of the regular hourly rate in his classification for the regular time he lost.
26.03	The Company will grant to the President reasonable time off, during the regular working hours for the purpose of discussion of employee's grievances. This will be handled so as not to interfere with the efficient operation of the Bakery.
26.04	The Company agrees to pay an employee, who reports to the Health Center (sick) and is found to be unable to continue work, a maximum of four (4) hours pay at the straight time hourly rate if sent home in the first (1st) half (1/2) of a complete shift, and a maximum of eight (8) hours pay, at the straight time hourly rate, if it occurs in the second (2nd) half (1/2) of a complete shift.
26.05	The Company will advise the Union, in writing, by January 1st, of its intended plan for the year. In the event of a partial or full shut down, two (2) of these weeks will be the last two (2) full weeks in July.
The Company agrees to post the proposed work schedules every Thursday.
ARTICLE 27 - SEVERANCE PAY
27.01	Any employee working full time, having six (6) months of employment or more and whose employment with the Company ends as a result of the closing of a service or part of a service, as described in annex "A" of the collective agreement, of a technological change or of the closing of the plant, will receive a severance pay providing the employee.
a) does not retire pursuant to the provisions of the Company Pension Plan.
b)	continues to work for the Company until and including the final date of employment as mentioned in the notice from the Company.
c)	is not offered employment elsewhere in the Company in the city in which the closing took place.
27.02	The employee shall receive severance pay as follow:
a)	Continuous service of six (6) months and less than two (2) years - one week's pay.
b)	Thereafter, one (1) additional week's pay for every year service.
27.03	A week's pay consists of forty (40) hours at the employee's applicable straight time hourly rate.
27.04	Employees will not qualify for payment of severance pay if the closing results from Acts of God such as fire, flood, power interruption.
27.05	Any employee who accepts severance pay shall forfeit all seniority rights. ARTICLE 28 - SAFETY SHOES
28.01	All employees must wear safety or non-skid shoes based on their classification.
28.02	The maximum annual allowance is sixty five dollars ($65.00). To receive the annual allowance, the employee must purchase the shoes in accordance with the procedure established by the Company.
28.03	If non-Skid shoes are not purchased in any given calendar year, the allowance may be carried over into the following year. The maximum allowance of two (2) years should be used in its entirety in the second year with allowance reverting to the amounts specified in 28.02 for the succeeding year.
ARTICLE 29 - MANAGEMENT
29.01	The Management of the plant and management of the working force, the maintenance of order, discipline and efficiency, including the right to direct, plan and control Plant operations, to schedule production and the quantity, and the right to select, hire, demote, transfer, suspend or discharge employees for just cause, or to release employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, or retire employees, the right to establish work or job assignments, and out-put of equipment and operators, and to decide the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the right to introduce new and improved methods and facilities, or to change existing methods and facilities, and to determine the products to be manufactured, are vested exclusively in the Company.
29.02	The Company agrees that the above functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, and that a regular employee, who feels he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, may lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent as provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 30 - TEXT
30.01	The Agreement will be prepared in both French and English, and an equal amount of copies will be signed.
30.02	For the purpose of the present collective Agreement, the masculine gender includes the feminine gender except if it is in opposition to the context.
ARTICLE 31 - NEGOTIATIONS COMMITTEE
31.01	The parties agree, for the purposes of negotiating the Collective Agreement, the Union Committee shall be composed of no more than seven (7) employees representing various departments of the bakery.
ARTICLE 32 - PERIOD OF AGREEMENT
32.01	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from May 1, 1995 up to and including April 30,1997.
32.02	Either party wishing to amend, modify, renew or terminate said Agreement, shall give notice in writing, of agreement, according to the terms of the Labor Code of the Province of Quebec.
32.03	During full negotiations, all clauses of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
32.04	IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this agreement in the City of Montreal this 27th day of June 1995.
CHRISTIE BROWN & CO. (Div.of Nabisco Ltd.)
3055 Viau Street Montreal, Quebec
BAKERY,CONFECTIONERY&TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 350
QFL-CLC-AFL-CIO
Date signed: June 27, 1995
APPENDIX "A"
1.	Eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per week shall constitute a week's work. If the employer decides to modify this work system, its implementation shall be negotiated.
2.	All time worked above eight (8) hours per calendar day or forty (40) hours per calendar week, whichever is greater, but not both, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1-1/2) the employee's regular straight time hourly rate.
3.	Any work performed on the employee's normal off days, in a calendar week, will be compensated for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the employee<s regular straight time hourly rate.
4.	An employee who works their two (2) normal "off" days in a seven (7) consecutive day period, shall receive time and one half (1-1/2) for hours worked on the first (1st) "off" day, and double (2) time for hours worked on the second (2nd) "off" day. (Excludes change of work week).
5.	The Company agrees that preparatory workers (mixers and mixer's helpers) shall receive one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per hour in addition to their straight time hourly rate for each hour worked at their straight time hourly rate on Sundays, and the days observed by the Company as a Paid Day as per Article 17.
It is understood that the additional rate will only be paid for hours worked at the straight time hourly rates between 12h01 a.m. and 11h59 p.m. on the days noted above.
6.	Starting rates: New employees will start at two dollars ($2.00) below the rate of the classification for which they are hired, and be advance one dollar ($1.00) per hour every six calendar months until they reach the maximum of their classification.
7.	Seasonal employees hired temporarily for the purpose of vacation relief, shall not have seniority rights for their terms of employment, they shall receive a rate of two dollars ($2.00) per hour less than employees with seniority.
8.	When a salaried employee is responsible of giving out training to somebody in another classification where training is required, he shall receive a premium of fifty ($0.50) cents for the hours where this service must be rendered.
ANNEX ”A” continued
DEPARTMENT	CLASSIFICATION	HOURLY RATE	
		May 1, 1995	May 1, 1996
Bakeshop	Working Supervisor	$ 16.48	$ 16.88
& Mixing	Working Supervisor - Assembler	16.48	16.88
	Operator Oven#3	16.52	16.92
	Baker	16.38	16.78
	Mixer	16.35	16.75
	Machine Captain	16.29	16.69
	Assembler	16.18	16.58
	Bakeshop Helper	16.10	16.50
	Clerk	16.10	16.50
Packing &	Working Supervisor	16.25	16.65
Icing	Working Supervisor - Line	16.13	16.53
	Working Supervisor Quality Control	16.13	16.53
	Working Supervisor Training	16.13	16.53
	Technician - Crackers	16.52	16.92
	Technician - Line #1	16.52	16.92
	Technician - Icing	16.52	16.92
	Palletizer - Utility	16.20	16.60
	Fling Operator	16.18	16.58
	Stock Assembler	16.20	16.60
	General Help	16.00	16.40
	Clerk	16.10	16.50
	Clerk (cashier)	16.15	16.55
	Machine Operator	16.05	16.45
	Packer	16.00	16.40
	Icing machine operator	16.25	16.65
	Icing mixer	16.23	16.63
Receiving	Receiving Clerk	16.19	16.59
Sanitation	Working Supervisor	16.25	16.65
	Tractor Operator (Cleaner)	16.07	16.47
	Steam Room Operator	16.07	16.47
	Cleaner	16.02	16.42
	Laundry Room Attendant	16.02	16.42
Shipping	Working Supervisor	16.25	16.65
	Clerk	16.18	16.58
	Lift Operator	16.13	16.53
SUPPLEMENT
MONTREAL BISCUIT PRODUCTION
BETWEEN:	CHRISTIE BROWN & CO.,
(Division of Nabisco Ltd.)
3055 Viau Street,
Montreal, Quebec
(thereafter referred to as the "Company")
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 350,
QFL-CLC-AFL-CIO
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
The parties agree that the following becomes and forms part of the Collective Agreement which expires April 30, 1997.
The Parties agree that the following practice will be considered as a clarification of ARTICLE 20 - REST AND LUNCH PERIODS and remain so, for the term of this Agreement.
The times allowed, for Rest and Lunch Periods for Female employees, presently in effect, will carry on during the life of this Agreement.
First relief will come no sooner than fifty (50) minutes from start of shift.
Lunches will be given between the following hours:
10:00 a.m.	-	12:30	p.m.
6:00 p.m.	-	8:30	p.m.
2:00 a.m.	-	5:00	a.m.
Second relief will commence no sooner than six (6) hours from	start of shift. Lunches
and relieves are: 1 -15; 2 - 25 ; 1 - 10 minutes period.
CHRISTIE BROWN & CO. (Div.of Nabisco Ltd.)
3055 Viau Street Montreal, Quebec
BAKERY,CONFECTIONERY&TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 350
QFL-CLC-AFL-CIO
Date signed: June 27, 1995
MEMORANDUM
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - MONTREAL BISCUIT PRODUCTION
BETWEEN	CHRISTIE BROWN & CO.,
(Division of Nabisco Ltd.)
3055 Viau Street
MONTREAL, Quebec
(thereafter referred to as the Company)
PARTY OF THE FTRST PART
AND	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 350
QFL-CLC-AFL-CIO
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
With the introduction of new production equipment, and the impact that this new technology will have on both the Company and its employees, the parties agree to the following:
1.	Employees who wish to apply on new jobs created by technological changes shall be given the opportunity to be trained on the new equipment provided they meet basic requirements for the jobs available. It may be necessary to pass certain aptitude tests in order to establish the eligibility of employees.
2.	In order to provide sufficient training to these employees and a complete breaking in of the equipment the Company in turn is expecting the employees chosen to refrain from bidding off these jobs for a period of one year, unless there are extenuating circumstances which would not allow the employee to perform the job.
3.	If certain jobs are eliminated, employees will be entitled to use their seniority as required by article 11. If employees are laid-off they will retain their seniority as provided by article 9.06 of the collective agreement and will retain priority over outside employees for that period.
CHRISTIE BROWN & CO. (Div.of Nabisco Ltd.)
3055 Viau Street Montreal, Quebec
BAKERY,CONFECTIONERY&TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 350
QFL-CLC-AFL-CIO
Date signed: June 27, 1995