MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
THIS MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between the
MONDELEZ CANADA INC., Lakeshore Bakery located at 2150 Lakeshore Blvd. West,
Toronto, Ontario M8V 1A3 (“Company”) and BAKERY, CONFECTIONARY & TOBACCO
WORKERS’ & GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 426 (“Union”).
Section 1 - Purpose
1.1	The Company and the Union are parties to a collective bargaining agreement effective April 4, 2009 through and including April 30, 2013 covering the Company’s Lakeshore Bakery bargaining unit employees.
1.2	The Company has decided to close the Lakeshore Bakery which is expected to occur on or about October 4, 2013 but this is not a fixed date and may be subject change depending on production requirements. The Company notified the Union of its decision on November 1, 2012. Employees will be indefinitely laid off progressively throughout 2013 in accordance with both their seniority rights under the collective agreement and the notice of termination provisions of the Employment Standards Act, 2000.
1.3	As a result, all of the Lakeshore Bakery positions will be eliminated. However, if there is a need to perform plant de-commissioning work after the plant has shutdown which can performed by members of the bargaining unit efficiently and economically as determined by Management, available positions shall be offered in order of seniority to employees who have the qualifications and present skill and ability to perform the available work without training as determined by management. Said employees shall be subject to layoff during periods when no work is scheduled. Upon completion of the work as determined by management, said employees shall be terminated and receive the applicable severance benefits for which they qualify.
1.4	The Parties held discussions on January 15 - 18, 2013 with respect to the effect of the discontinuance of operations at the Lakeshore Bakery on the affected employees represented by the Union.
1.5	The Parties herento have entered into this Memorandum of Agreement as full and final settlement of all the obligations and liabilities of the Company to the Union and to the affected employees represented by the Union with respect to the discontinuance of all operations at the Lakeshore Bakery.
Section 2 - General Conditions
2.1	The terms of the Memorandum of Agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit at the Lakeshore Bakery represented by the Union
on or after the date of the signing of the mOa including all temporarily laid off employees who continue to have recall rights under the collective agreement.
2.2	The current collective agreement that is effective for the period April 4, 2009 ("Current Collective Agreement") shall continue in full force and effect until April 30, 2013 at which date it will expire. Effective May 1, 2013 a new collective agreement ("New Collective Agreement") containing all the terms of the Current Collective Agreement except as
00524 (12)
amended by this Closure Agreement will come into force and be effective until April 30, 2014 although it is recognized by the parties that it is expected that the Lakeshore Bakery will have closed and ceased operations well in advance of April 30, 2014 with all members of the bargaining unit having been terminated and having received the benefits provided by this agreement.
2.3	The terms of this Memorandum of Agreement apply to the bargaining unit represented by the Union at the Lakeshore Bakery and do not apply to any other location and do not constitute a precedent that can be relied up on in respect of the closure of any other facility, now or in the future.
2.4	The Union agrees that there shall be no unfair labor practice charges, grievances or other legal claims or proceedings of any nature or kind filed or initiated with respect to the discontinuance of the Lakeshore Bakery operations or the associated termination of any employee(s) in the bargaining unit represented by the Union as a result thereof.
2.5	The Company will retain the employment records for those terminated employees in the bargaining unit, including disability and Workers Compensation records, for a period of not less than seven (7) years from the date of their last day worked. As provided by law, reasonable access to and/or copies of such employee records shall be provided to the Union with proper notice.
2.6	Employees shall be deemed "terminated" for the purposes of this agreement on the date that they are indefinitely laid off in accordance with the Employment Standards Act, 2000 provided that this does not prevent the Company from offering them "temporary work" as provided for in section 6 of Regulation 288/01 made under the Employment Standards Act.
Section 3 - Eligible Employees and Termination Benefits
3.1	The severance provisions set forth in Article 17 - Severance Pay in both the Current Collective Agreement and the New Collective Agreement are deleted and replaced by this severance pay provision. Eligible full-time employees will be provided with 2 weeks of severance pay for each completed year of service. Affected full-time terminated employees will receive forty (40) hours pay at their straight-time hourly rate for each week of severance pay as provided herein.
It is understood that the employment of an employee who receives severance pay hereunder is terminated for all purposes including without limitation the extinguishment of seniority or recall rights under any collective agreement.
Such severance pay shall be made in the form of a lump-sum payment, less applicable statutory deductions, except the employee may complete a direction as provided for under the Income Tax Act that will enable an amount, not greater than the maximum allowable under the Income Tax Act, to be paid directly into an RRSP or other retirement vehicle as allowed under the Income Tax and as chosen by the employee. The employee may further direct the Company to pay his or her severance pay in 2014.
3.2	Each employee who is eligible for a severance payment and who elects, at the time of mutually agreed termination, to retire and apply for a pension from the Trusted Retirement Plan B, shall not therefore be disqualified from eligibility for a severance pay hereunder.
It is agreed and understood that the severance pay provided hereunder constitutes a better benefit than the severance pay entitlement provided for the Employment Standards Act, 2000 and accordingly an employee who takes severance pay hereunder is not entitled to claim severance pay under the Employment Standards Act, 2000.
3.3	Effective the date of ratification, the pension benefit referred to in the Letter of Understanding #4 dated April 4, 2009 attached to the Current Collective Agreement for each eligible employee who retires on or after the date of ratification, will increase to $65.00.
3.4	Each eligible, affected and terminated full time employee will receive payment for any unused 2012 vacation.
3.5	Each eligible, affected and terminated full time employee will receive their vacation entitlement percentage on earnings in 2013.
3.6	Eligible separated full-time employees will continue to be covered by the Company-provided basic level supplementary health care (including vision), dental, basic life insurance and the employee assistance program for 6 calendar months following the month in which they are terminated. Eligibility for participation in the short-term disability, optional life insurance and accidental death & dismemberment programs cease as of the date of termination of employment except as otherwise expressly required by the Employment Standards Act, 2000.
3.7	An employee who fails to execute the Release form (attached as Exhibit I) releasing the Company from all claims arising out of their employment relationship with the Company and terminating that employment relationship will not be eligible for and will forego their right to any and all of the Termination Benefits set forth herein. In that event the employee may claim his or her entitlement to severance pay under the Ontario's Employment Standards Act, 2000 and any other benefit arising on termination under that statute.
3.8	An employee who is receiving Short-Term Disability (STD) benefits at the time of the discontinuance of the Lakeshore Bakery operations will continue to receive such benefits, provided the employee continues to qualify for such disability benefits. An employee who becomes disabled prior to the discontinuance of said operations may qualify for STD benefits provided he/she meets the qualifications and eligibility requirements for such benefits in place at the time of the execution of this Agreement. Severance pay under this provision will be paid to an otherwise eligible employee who is not actively at work at the time they otherwise would have been indefinitely laid off in accordance with their seniority rights under the collective agreement as a result of the closure of the Lakeshore Bakery due to a non-occupational disability upon their full release for normal duty or their STD benefits are exhausted or they are no longer eligible for STD benefits, whichever comes first.
3. 9 An employee, who is disabled at the time operations are discontinued and not actively at work due to an occupational disability, will be treated in the same manner as those employees actively at work even though they may or may not continue to have an active Workers Compensation Board (WCB) claim.
3. 10 The Employer shall furnish, at its sole and exclusive expense, outplacement counselling for employees adversely affected by the Closure through the services of a contracted firm. Such services shall be made available at the Lakeshore Bakery prior to and after an employees shift.
All parties to this Memorandum of Settlement have fulfilled their statutory and contractual obligations to discuss the discontinuance of the Lakeshore Bakery operations in Toronto, Ontario and the provisions of this agreement are a result of such discussions. This Memorandum of Settlement resolves all issues raised by the decision of the Company to discontinue its Lakeshore Bakery operations and the effects of such decision on the employees represented by the Union at the Lakeshore Bakery .
AGREED by Bakery, Confectionary & Tobacco Workers’ & Grain Millers International Union, local 426 this____day of______________________, 2013:
Print Name	Signature
Title
AGREED by Mondelez Canada, Inc., this_____day of
2013:
Print Name	Signature
Title
This agreement is subject to ratification by the membership.
EXHIBIT I
RELEASE AND AGREEMENT
I,	, in consideration of the terms and conditions set out in the attached letter
dated , do hereby release and forever discharge Mondelez Canada Inc. and all other associates related and subsidiary companies, their past and present employees, directors, officers and agents, including their successors and assigns ("the Releasees”) jointly and severally, from any and all actions, causes of action, covenants, contracts, claims and demands, complaints, including complaints under human rights legislation, grievances, damages, costs or loss of any nature or kind, past, present or future, arising out of or in any way relating to or connected with my employment with Mondelez Canada Inc. or the termination of that employment, except for any payments or other benefits to which I now or may in the future become entitled under the provisions of the applicable Mondelez Canada Inc. retirement plan.
I understand and agree that the consideration outlined herein is inclusive of and of greater right and benefit than any obligation which the Releasees or any of them may have, arising from or out of my employment with or the termination of my employment by Mondelez Canada Inc., including without limitation obligations pursuant to the provincial employment standards legislation. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, I hereby covenant and undertake that I will not file any claims or complaints under provincial employment standards legislation arising out of my employment with Mondelez Canada Inc. or the termination of that employment.
I acknowledge that I have not been subjected to any form of discrimination or harassment whatsoever and hereby represent and warrant that I have not commenced any complaint and undertake not to commence any complaint under provincial human rights legislation.
I further agree to save harmless and indemnify the Relasees from and against any and all claims, charges, taxes, penalties or demands made by Revenue Canada acquiring any of the releases to pay any amounts under the Income Tax Act (Canada) and other duly recognized federal, provincial and local taxing authorities in the respect of income tax payable to me in excess of the income tax previously withheld, and from and against any and all claims, charges, taxes or penalties and demands made on behalf of or related to the Employment insurance Commission or the Canada Pension Commission under the applicable statutes and regulations with respect to my employment with Mondelez Canada Inc. or the terms outlined in the attached letter.
I agree to be bound by the terms and conditions set out in the attached letter and agree to maintain the terms and conditions of the attached letter and this Reelase and Agreement in confidence and not disclose the details thereto except to my professional advisor(s) and my spouse and except as required by law. In accordance with normal ethical and professional standards, I will refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, with disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of the Company, its directors, officers, executives and employees or which could adversely affect the morale or other employees.
It is understood and agreed that this consideration is deemed to be no admission of liability on the part of Releasees.
I confirm that I have been afforded an opportunity to obtain independent legal advise with respect to the details of the settlement evidenced by the Release and Agreement. Having
satisfied myself that the settlement offer is fair, reasonable and acceptable to me, I hereby confirm that I am executing this Release and Agreement freely, voluntarily and without diress,
In WITNESS WHEREOF I have executed this Release and Agreement by signing my name in the presence of the witness whose signature is subscribed below.
DATED THIS_________________________DAY OF____________________________2013.
SIGNED IN THE PRESENCE OF
Witness Signature
Employee Signature
Print Name of Witness
Print Name of Employee