COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED ORILLIA, ONTARIO
AND
CANADIAN AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND
GENERAL WORKERS’ UNION CAW LOCAL 462
EFFECTIVE DATE: MAY 3, 2002 EXPIRY DATE: MAY 3, 2005
INDEX
ARTICLE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Schedule "A" A-l_ A-2_ A-3_ A-4_ A-5_ A-6_ A-7_
Schedule "B"
B-l
B-2
B-3
B-4
B-5
Recognition
Relationship
Check-Off of Union Dues
No Strikes or Lock-Outs
Reservation of Management Rights
Union and Stewards
Complaints and Grievances
Arbitration
Discharge Cases
Management Grievances
Seniority
Leave of Absence
Bulletin Boards
Supervisor
Safety
Miscellaneous Schedules Severance Pay Termination or Modification
Provisional Guarantee Work Week Job Vacancies Overtime Provisions Call-In Pay Holidays Uniforms
Hourly Rates
Rates of Pay when Transferred to another job Night Premium
Part-time Employees
Apprentice Program
Schedule "C" Vacations Schedule "D" Employee Benefits Letter of Understanding #1 Letter of Understanding #2 Letter of Understanding #3 Letter of Understanding #4 Letter of Understanding #5 Letter of Understanding #6 Letter of Understanding #7
5
5
5-6
6
6-	7
7-	8 9
9
9
10- 13
13	- 14
14
14
15 15
15	- 16
16
16- 17
18-	19
19-	20
20-	21 21-22 22
22-24
24
25-26
26
27
27
27-28
29-30
31-32
33
34
35
36
37
38-39
40-41
2
PAGE
6
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED ORILLIA ONTARIO
hereinafter called "the Company'' Of the First Part
AND
CANADIAN AUTOMOBILE1 AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL,
WORKERS' UNION CAW LOCAL 462
hereafter called "the Union'' Of the Second Part
3
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Company in Orillia, Ontario, save and except office staff, sales staff, supervisor and those above the rank of supervisor, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
There will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership in the Union, or connection with the Union, and membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
There will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced upon employeesofthe Company by the Union, or by any of its members or representatives. There will be no solicitationfor membership or other Union activity on the premises of the Company during an employee's working hours.
It is the intention of the parties with this agreement to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to set out the general working conditions and to provide a means for the prompt disposition of complaints or grievanceswhile promoting harmonious relations between the Company, the employees and the Union. Grievances under this article must be accompanied by an explanation and a reference to another article in the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
3.01	Employees shall, on being hired, be required to sign authorization to deduct the Union initiation fee and monthly dues from their pay. Union dues will begin to be deducted upon completion of thirty (30) days of work.
The Company will make such deductions from earnings on a weekly basis and remit them monthly to a designated official of the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS
4.01	The Company will not cause or direct any lock-out of its employees. The Union will not excuse or direct any strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with service or impair efficiency of operations. If such collective action should be taken, it will instruct the employees to return to work and perform their duties in the usual manner.
ARTICLE 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01
2.02
2.03
■4
5.01	Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company'soperations and the selection and direction of employees shall continueto be vested with the Company.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION AND STEWARDS
6.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a Committee of not more than four (4) employees. Union committeefor negotiations will not exceed five
(5).
6.02	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of employees (not less than four (4)) of the Company, to act as stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to representatives of the Company.
6.03	Employees shall not be eligible to act as stewards or members of the Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period.
6.04	The Union recognizes that stewards, members ofthe Union Committee and the other Union officers, have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permission of their immediate supervisor. When resuming their regular duties, they will report to their supervisor, with respect to their absence. The Company will pay the members of the negotiating committee at their straight time hourly rate for time spent during the employees regular scheduled work hours for the purposes of negotiating the renewal of the collective agreement up to but not including conciliation and mediation. In addition the company and union agree to split all room costs as a result of negotiations on a 50 - 50% cost sharing basis.
ARTICLE 7 - COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
7.01	If an employee has a complaint he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, the matter will be taken up with the employee'simmediate supervisor. The employee may do this with or without his steward or may request the steward to do it for him. The supervisor will give his reply within forty-eight (48) hours to the person who presented the complaint to him.
7.02	If the reply of the Supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the complaint may be stated in writing on grievance forms and submitted, within three (3) working days following the reply of the Supervisor, to the Plant Manager.
7.03	Within five (5) working days following receipt of a written grievance the Plant Manager and/or such other persons as maybe designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. The Plant Manager, or his designate, will give his reply in writing within five (5) working days after the meeting has been held. At this stage, a full-time officer ofthe Union may be present, if his presence is requested by either party.
5
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
7.08
ARTICLE 8 8.01
8.02
ARTICLE 9
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
If the reply of the Plant Manager is not satisfactory, the Union Committee may, within fifteen (15) working days following receipt of the said reply, refer the grievance to arbitration.
Any of the time allowances provided in this article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee.
The Company may refuse to consider any complaint or grievance where the circumstances surrounding such occurred more than five (5) working days before the complaint or grievance was brought to the attention of the Company.
Any disciplinary notice placed against an employee will be removed from his file after eighteen months from the date of issue, provided no further incidents of a similar or related nature has occurred during that period. (Note: This will exclude the present system on lateness.)
It is understood that the Union may file a Policy Grievance on the administration of the Collective Agreement where the incident giving rise to the grievance is not more than fifteen (15) working days. Policy Grievances will commence at stage two (2) of the grievance procedure.
ARBITRATION
Any arbitration proceedings under the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement shall be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act
Each party will share equally the expense and fees of the single arbitrator.
DISCHARGE
A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment shall be treated as a grievance, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager within three (3) days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the Company's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises unless the situation will endanger him/herself or another employee.
Any discipline, suspensions or dismissals will be confirmed in writing by the
•6.
Company and a copy given to the Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 10
10.01
ARTICLE 11
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04 (a)
MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCE
If the Company has a complaint against the Union or any of its representatives, it will make such complaint in writing, which will be considered as a grievance commencing at the Plant Manager's stage.
■ SENIORITY
Any new employees hired lull-time followingthe date of ratification will have their senioritybackdated once the sixty (60) days for an employee hired outside the plant, forty-five (45) days for employees promoted from Part-Time.
Seniority lists based upon the date on which regular and part-time employees commenced to work for the Company shall be established for each department and posted in April and October of each year. A copy will be given to the Chief Steward. Part-time who are offered full time/continuous employment will commence their probationary period cited in 11.01 above commencing from the date of offer offull time employment. At the completion oftheir probationary period, their seniority will reflect fifty (50%) percent of their part-time seniority up to a maximum of one year provided their senioritydoes not supersedethe junior most full-time employee at the time of hiring.
In cases ofpromotion, demotion or transfer of employees, the reliability, skill, ability and physical fitness of the employee to perform the work shall be governing factors, and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
Where it is necessary generally to reduce the working force of the employees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available. A training period of five (5) days will be provided which may be extended by mutual agreement.
(2) When it is necessary to reduce the work force or an employees position is eliminated, the employee may:
(1) i, bump any less senior employee in a job they are able to perform with up to 5 (five) days training. (Training may be extended by mutual agreement); or
ii.	if an employee is unsuccessful in qualifying to do thejob they
have bumped into, the said employee can bump any less senior employee in ajob they can perform without training; or
iii any individual who is bumped can bump any less senior
7-
employee in a job they can do without training.
11.05
11.06
11,07
(2)
Choose any open position subject to seniority
No part-time employees shall be scheduled or asked to work while full-time employees are on lay-off or on shorter hours so long as it does not prevent the company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available. It is understood by the Parties that in order to fill shift compliments,part-time employees may be working at the same time as full-time employees on short time.
Members of the Union Committee and Stewardswill be retained by the Company in the event of a lay-off affecting their department, so long as there is work available in their respective departments which they are qualified and willing to do, not with standing their position on the seniority list.
Temporary assignments of one (1) week or more, consisting of forty (40) hours, (excluding vacations) will be offered by seniority. In the case of seasonal work, a minimum of nine positions will be made availableto those senior employeeswho are qualified to immediately perform the work without training. Prior to recalling employees to fill the remaining positions, the Company will consider requests from senior employees to move to an opening on an off shift on the roll line. Such requests will not be unreasonablywithheld provided the Company can maintain the qualified workforce that is required. All remaining positions will be filled by recalled employees, in reverse order of seniority provided that they are qualified to perform the work that is available. Upon the completion of the Temporary assignment, the employee(s) will return to their regular bid job.
Employees who are laid off will be retained on the Company's seniority list for twelve (12) months if their Company service is less than five (5) years and eighteen months if their service is five (5) or more years, but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within two (2) days after being requested to do so, and report to work within ten (10) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to reemployment by the Company.
The Company agrees to extend the ten (10) days to fourteen (14) days, only for those employees who require notice to their interim employer. Proof of employment may be required. The Company will not unreasonably refuse an extension to those employees with mitigating circumstances.
In the event an employeewith more than five (5) years of service is subject to lay-off after exercising displacement rights under the provisions of this Article, and junior employees will be retained, such employee will be eligible for a retraining assignment. The Company will discuss with the Union and the employee an appropriate training assignment from among the junior employees to be retrained. Such assignment will be a ten (1 0) day training period, on mutual agreementwith the
8
Union. At the end of the assignment period, the Company will be the sole determiner as to whether the employee is sufficiently qualified to continue in that position subject to the grievance procedure.
Any of the above provisions will not allow an employee to be retrained or to bump into the MaintenanceDepartment, unless qualified, as determined by the Company, at the time of transfer under this provision.
11,08	An employee promoted to a supervisory position may be returned to the bargaining
unit by the Company with full accumulated seniority and may exercise the same rights as though he had remained in the bargaining unit, provided he returns to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months following his promotion. If returned after a period in excess of twelve (12) months, he shall be credited with his former bargaining unit seniority (time served), however, he shall not be able to exercise his seniority forj ob bidding or vacation selection for a period of one year from his return to the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.01	Authorized Leave Without Pay
The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee in writing for legitimate personal reasons, Any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence.
Requests for leave of absence shall be made in writing. A copy of letters granting a leave of absence, with conditions outlined, or refusing a request, will be sent to the Union office.
Leave of absence to attend Union conventions, courses and conferences will be granted without pay and without loss of seniority provided that notice of at least one (1) week is given to the Company and provided that not more than two (2) employees are absent for such purpose at any one time.
12.02	Bereavement:
Any employee will be granted up to five (5) days leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his father, mother, step-parents, sister, brother, spouse, father-in-law, mother-in-law or child to make arrangementsfor and attend the funeral. Only that portion of the five days which would otherwise have been working days will be paid. In the case of death of an employee'sbrother-in-law, sister-in-law,grandparent, or grandchild three (3) days off without loss of pay will be allowed to attend the funeral. It is understood that where necessary, provided the Company is given prior notice, the five (5) or three (3) days payment may include the day immediately followingthe day of the funeral where travel, distance or similar considerationsare
9.
involved.
12.03	Jury Duty and Crown Witness:
An employee who is called for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness to a criminal trial will be paid the difference between the regular rate of pay and the amount he is paid for jury duty, An employee subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown or subpoenaed as a witness to a criminal trial shall suffer no loss of regular earnings as a result of such action.
12.04	Injuries at Work:
Employees who are injured while performing the normal requirements of their job shall be paid a full day's pay for the day of said injury.
12.05	Parental Leave:
An employee will be granted a leave of absence because of pregnancy according to the provisions of the current Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Company will provide the Chief Steward with a mail lock box. The Company will also provide bulletin boards in convenient locationsthroughout the plants for the Union to post notices of its activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union and be submitted to the Plant Manager, or his authorized representative, for approval before posting.
ARTICLE 14 - SUPERVISORS
14.01	Supervisors and other persons outside the bargaining unit shall not normally perform work of the bargaining unit except:
(1)	to perform experimental or development work;
(2)	to instruct or train new employees;
(aj to replace an employee who is late or absent from his place of work;
(b) in case of emergency.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY
15.01	The Union and the Company will cooperate in developing and maintaining the high standards of safety with the objective of reducing and, where possible, eliminating the causes of industrial accidents.
15.02	To this end, a Safety Committee consisting of Union and Management representatives will meet at regular intervals of not less than once each Calendar quarter.
10
15.03	Recommendations of the Safety Committee will be made to the Plant Manager who
will study them and reply in writing prior to the next scheduled safety meeting.
ARTICLE 16 - MISCELLANEOUS
16.01	Whenever the male gender is used in this agreement, the terms shall apply in equal measure to all employees, whether male or female.
16.02	An employee who purchases safety shoes or boots for use on the job will be reimbursed by the Company a lump sum payment of One hundred dollars ($100.00) annually, payable in the first pay in May. Foot protection is mandatory for all employees. The Joint Health and Safety Committee will review claims for a second pair of footwear and determine if payment is appropriate.
Joint Safety Committee to review and recommend type of foot protection to be appropriate.
ARTICLE 17 - SCHEDULES
17.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following Schedules:
Schedule "A" - Hours of work, holidays, overtime and other Working Conditions
Schedule "B" - Job Classification and Wage Rates
Schedule "C" - Vacations
Schedule "D" - Employee Benefits
Schedule "E" - Part Time Employees
ARTICLE 18 - SEVERANCE PAY
18.01	In the event of the permanent closure of the plant, permanent full-time employees whose employment is terminated will be paid severance pay of twenty-five (25) hours at the employee's current rate of pay for each full completed year ofcontinuous servicewith the Company, commencing with the second (2nd) year. Employees with five (5) or more years of continuous service will receive one weeks pay per year of service.
No severancepay will be paid to employees who are offered a transfer to reasonable alternative employment under the Employment Standards Act that may be provided by the Company within the radius of eighty (80) kilometres.
In the event of government regulations being introduced to provide that an employer shall pay severance pay to employees, a terminating employee will be paid severance pay either in scale above, whichever is the greater amount.
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION
19.01
19.02
19.03
This agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements, shall continue in effect until the 3rd day of May, 2005, and unless either party gives notice in writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating this Agreement, then it shall continue in effect until the 3rd day of May, 2006, and so on from year to year thereafter.
Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement may be given only during a period of not more than ninety (90), nor less than thirty (30) days prior to May 3rd 2005, or any succeeding anniversary date.
The parties will meet for the purpose of conducting negotiations within twenty (20) days after the giving of such notice.
12'
Dated at Orillia, Ontario this 9th day of July 2002.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
George Jacobs
Guy Bradley
Janice Tepper
Bob Thompson
A1 Coones
Dominic Greco
Pino Tucci
Steve Kingsbury
Art Bialas
Chuck New
13
SCHEDULE "A" HOURS OF WORK. ETC. FOR PLANT EMPLOYEES
A-l PROVISIONAL GUARANTEE:
Each regular full time employee who has completed fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous employment with the Company will be given the opportunityto earn each week no less than the equivalent of forty (40) hours pay at his or her straight time rate. To qualify for this guarantee, the employee shall be required to report for work at his or her scheduled starting time each working day, and to perform whatever work the Company has available and assigns to him or her. This provision will not apply in the event that fire, flood, strike, mechanical breakdown or other circumstancesbeyond the control of the Company prevent the Company from continuing its operations.
In the event an additional shift is required for production (e.g. low run, multi products or varying amounts) and such production is insufficient to consistently provide a full week's work, it may be designated as the "additional shift". Such designation will indicate that employeesassignedtothat shift will enjoy all provisions and benefits of this agreementsave the provisional guarantee of forty (40) hours specified above, which will be scaled down to a thirty (30) hour guarantee. (Should a senior employee be assigned in order that qualified employees are available for such shift, such employee would retain his weekly guarantee subject to his seniority entitlement.)
Regular employees may elect to be assigned to this shift, however, such election must be understood to be conditional on the thirty (30) hour guarantee and the employee may not elect to be transferred from that shift until either the shift is discontinued and he exercises any displacement rights or, he qualifies under A-3 (job posting).
Nothing in this Schedule shall be interpreted in such a manner as to prevent the Company from laying off employees, provided that those employees who qualify for the provisional guarantee shall not be subject to lay-off of a duration of less than one week.
This article (Article A-1) does not pertain to scheduled shutdowns.
A-2	WORKWEEK:
The regular weekly hours shall be forty (40).
The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five (5) days of the week.
The daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the time of rest periods and lunch periods will be determined by the Company in accordance with production requirements. Any full time regular employee reporting for work at his or her scheduled starting time on any shift will be given the opportunityto earn no less than six (6) hours' pay for that shift.
(a)
(b)
(c)
14
Employees will be notified as far in advance as possible of any general change in shift startingtimes. In the event a shift startingtime is advanced on short notice and the employee was not notified of such change, he or she shall be given the opportunity to work the equivalent number of hours scheduled for that shift. When it is necessary to change a shift startingtime without twenty-four (24) hours advance notice the reasons for such changewill be given to the employees affected and to the appropriate Union Steward. Shift schedules will be posted each Tuesday by 5:00 p.m. for the first shift.
1(d)	The lunch period will be one-half(l/2) hour without pay each day. The lunch period will not
occur for an employee before he has worked three (3) hours and will occur before he has worked five (5).
(e)	Rest periods often (10) minutes duration will be provided as close to the middle of each half shift as possible of each regular work day. When a nine (9) hour production day is requested an additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be scheduled in sequence of operations commencing after eight (8) hours have been worked.
(f)	In the eventthe Company failsto schedule an employee's lunch or rest period in accordance with sub-sections(d) and (e), above, the Company will pay the employee concerned one-half (1/2) hour at his or her regular rate of pay. This obligation on the part of the Company will not apply if the sequence of lunch and/or rest periods is disrupted, due to the unscheduled absence of another employee assigned to the shift, or to the failure of another employee to return from his or her lunch or rest period in time.
(g)	Maintenance employees will not be covered by A-2d) and e). They will be scheduled for eight (8) hour shifts with two (2) paid twenty (20) minute rest periods to be taken on Company premises.
(h)	All training hours that can not be completed during the regularly scheduled work week will be provided to employees on a voluntary basis and will be paid at the regular straight time rate.
A-3	JOB VACANCIES:
Job vacancies including those in General help "A", shall be posted on plant bulletin boards for not less than four (4) working days after two (2) weeks of the vacancy. Employees may apply for vacant jobs to the appropriate department supervisor. Such applications will be considered and will be granted or refused on the basis stated in paragraph 3 of Article 11 of this Agreement within a reasonable time. If the most senior applicant is not given the posted vacancy he or she will be told the reason(s) within a period of three (3) working days following the selection. The Chief Steward will receive a copy of all posted job vacancies.
The successful applicant shall be given the job rate provided he or she adequately performs all the duties ofthe position. Should the applicant not meet the above he or she shall return to his or her previous position. The successful applicant shall be given a trial period of up to five (5) working days which may be extended by mutual agreement.
(a)
(b)
15
(c)	An employee who is transferred as a result of the job posting provision shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months. This does not apply to Company initiated transfers.
(d)	If, after up to a three week period, a position’s scheduled day off remains changed or a position’s shift start time has remained changed by greater than three (3) hours then the Company will post these positions. This clause does not apply to maintenance employees.
A-4	OVERTIME PROVISIONS:
1(a)	The Company may require employeesto perform overtime work in excess oftheir regularly
assigned hours, However, employees will not be required to work more than eleven (1 1) hours. Maintenance employees will be exempt from this limitation.
(b)	An employee shall not be forced to take time off for overtime worked.
(c)	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) will be paid for all time worked in excess of
eight (8) hours daily. Overtime shall be on the above daily basis or after forty (40) hours of work in a week, but not both. In a week in which a Paid Holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess ofthirty-two (32) hours. In a week in which a double holiday is observed, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess oftwenty-four (24) hours.
(d)	An employee will be paid overtime if required to work on his day off, provided he completes
his regular work week unless he/she has permission to be absent and for the convenience of the Company.
At the Company’s discretion overtime at the appropriate rate will be offered to employees in the following sequence:
work offered to the person on the job.
work offered to other qualified employees in the plant in order of seniority. work offered to other qualified employees not in the plant in order of seniority who have signed the overtime list.
The Company will endeavor to followthe terms of the Overtime clause, but in the event an employee is inadvertently missed being given the opportunity to work overtime as per #3 as outlined above, that employee will be given the opportunity to work the equivalent number of missed hours at a mutually agreed upon time. All such hours worked shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
It is understood by the Parties, that this clause does not supersedethe Overtime provisions as set out in the collective agreement.
Meal Allowance: Employees who work ten hours or more in a day will be paid a meal
1.
2.
3.
(e)
16.
A-5
A-6
allowance of six ($6.00) dollars. Employees who work more than eleven (1 1) hours in a day for which they were scheduled on a ten (10) hour shift, will be paid a meal allowance of six dollars ($6.00).
CALL-IN PAY:
If any employee is required to return to work after finishing his shift and leaving the Company premises, the employee shall be paid at least an amount equivalent to four (4) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate.
HOLIDAYS:
(a)	The following days will be recognized as holidays regardless of the day on which they fall.
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
(b)	Subject to the discretion and control of the Company, the above holidays will be celebrated either on the day they occur, or during the week of the holiday.
(c)	Employees will be paid for the above holidays or the days celebrated in lieu thereof, provided:
1.	They have completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company.
2.	They have worked the required shifts immediately preceding and following the holiday or the day celebrated in the lieu thereof.
Except:
(a)
Death in his or her immediate family.
Being granted written permission by the Supervisor to be absent on either or both of the said shifts.
(c)
Lay off on either or both of the said shifts only.
Where reasonable cause exists (as defined by the Employment Standards Act) for not more than five (5) days.
Pay for the holidays will be at an employee's regular hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours for those who regularly work a four (4) day ten, (10) hour per day work week.
17-
When an employee requests a day off in his regular work week, the employee shall hand his written request to the Production Manager or Shift Supervisor who shall respond in writing within five (5) days, Consideration shall be given on a first come first served basis. The Company will endeavor to accommodate all employee requests for days off whenever possible.
Employees required to work on the day publicly celebrated as the holiday for those days listed in (A-6 a) above, will be paid at the rate of time an one-half(l'/2) for such work. There shall be no pyramiding of hours paid at time and one-half (1 ’A) i.e. no interpretation of this Article in conjunction with A-4, overtime provisions, shall require the Company to pay the time and one-half (1V4) rate more than once for any hour or hours worked in a week.
"Floater" Holiday:
Each full time regular employee shall be entitled to a "floater" paid holiday each year, and such holiday to be scheduled by mutual agreement between individual employees and the Company. The supervisor will keep a record of this day for future reference.
As of December 3 1st of each year, the unused days in the first paragraph will either be taken in January, February or March, or be paid.
(i)	Banking Statutory Holidays
Employees will be permitted to designate a working day to be taken as time off with pay in lieu of the holiday pay to a maximum of three (3) holidays, to betaken during the periods September 15th to December 15th and January 15th to May 15th, provided he/she has requested the day in writing with two weeks' notice and the maximum number of employees off at one time as per Article C-4 is not exceeded.
(f>
(g)
(h)
A-7 UNIFORMS:
"Inside plant employees who are employed on a regular full time basis will be supplied at Company expense clean sets of uniforms for wear in the plant during their working hours.
18
SCHEDULE "B"
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
B-l (a) The Company will classify employees and will pay the appropriate hourly rates as set out below.
	At Ratification	Year Two	Year Three
	40 cents/hour	40 cents/hour	40 cents/hour
Dough Mixer	$16.88	$17.28	$17.68
Wrapping Machine Operator	$16.86	$17.26	$17.66
Oven Operator	$16.72	$17.12	$17.52
Molder Racker	$16.72	$17.12	$17.52
Relief	$16.68	$17.08	$17.48
Oven Loader	$16.38	$16.78	$17.18
Shipper	$16.68	$17.08	$17.48
Receiver	$16.68	$17.08	$17.48
Sanitation	$16.25	$16.65	$17.05
General Help	$16.15	$16.55	$16.95
Maintenance Electrician	$19.95	$20.35	$20.75
Maintenance Mechanic	$17.53	$17.93	$18.33
Building Maintenance	$16.58	$16.98	$17.38
The minimum and hiring rates for the above classificationswill be 80% of the full time rates shown above for the first twelve (12) months of employment in the classification they are working in. The rate will be increased to 90% of the above for the second twelve (12) months of employment and the full rate of classification they are working in, starting the third year of employment. Part-time employees with two or more years of service will be credited with the hours worked in determining where they start in the progression when offered full time work.
In the event new classifications are introduced or classificationsare combined,the Company will immediately notify the Union, and these positions will be posted.
(d)	Lead Hand: An employee designated as, and assuming the responsibility of, Lead Hand will be paid one dollar ($1.00) an hour over and above his or her regular earnings while so employed. The Lead Hand will not have responsibility for the issuing of discipline.
(e)	Eligible Maintenance employeeswill be reimbursed to a maximum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) annual lump sum payment, payable in the first pay in May, forreplacement or repair of personally owned tools broken or damaged in use when performing work for the Company. Sanitation tools will be supplied by the Company.
19
The Company agrees to post three (3) Vacation Reliefjobs for bid. It is understood by the parties that in the event there is no relief work available for a particular week, then the affected Vacation Relief employee will be able to apply his rights as per the collective agreement for the week(s) in question.
Maintenance Mechanic: In addition to the general increases proposed for the end rate increases, the Maintenance Mechanic classification will receive a further premium of$0.50 per hour for holding an approved or certified mechanic’s license related to the needs of the classification. Any newly hired licensed mechanic will be hired at the 90% rate, and will be placed at the full rate upon the completion of their probationary period.
B-2 RATES OFPAYWHENEMPLOYEES ARE TRANSFERRED FROM ONEJOBTO ANOTHER:
An employee who istemporarilytransferredto a higher ratedjob forthe convenience of the Company in order to meet production requirements shall be paid the higherj ob rate provided he works more than one (1) continuous hour on the higher ratedj ob, and further provided he is qualified to perform the job. The rate ofthe job will be paid for the hours worked in that job.
An employee who is temporarily transferred to a lower category shall retain his regular rate of pay.
An employeewho is transferred at own request or who accepts transfer rather than be laid off shall be paid the rate of the job to which transferred.
B-3 NIGHT PREMIUM:
A premium of seventy-five (75) cents per hour shall be paid to inside employees, i.e., in production and related classifications, for each hour worked between 9p.m. and 6a.m. This premium is notto be used in calculation of overtime rates.
B-4 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Part time employees will normally work no more than 24 hours per week, which may be exceeded during weeks surrounding holiday weeks and during the summer season or to fill in for full time employee who is absent due to vacation, accident, illness, leave of absence or when full time employee declines overtime. Part time employees shall not be used to the extent that they cause the layoff of a full time employee, prevent the hiring of a fill time employee, prevent to recall of a fill time employee on layoff or cause a reduction in regular hours for a fill time employee.
Part-time employees shall receive first consideration for full-time vacancies, in order of seniority.
B-5 APPRENTICE PROGRAM:
(a) Apprentice positions will be posted and the selection of the successful applicants will be at
■20
the discretion of the Company. Minimum Government guidelines will be applied.
Over the program period should it become apparent to the Company that the applicant apprentice is not progressing satisfactorily, the Company may return the individual to their former department.
(o)
The Company reserves the right to determine the number of apprentices in the program.
(d)
The progression rates of pay for an apprentice(s) is as follows:
Start Rate:	80%	of full rate (see B-l)
25% Completed	85%
50% Completed	90%
75% Completed	95%
Certified	100%
If a current full time employee is granted an apprenticeship position, the employee will start in the position at their current rate of pay and the progression rate will be applied to move the said employee’s rate of pay to the maintenance rate upon successful completion of the accredited apprenticeship program.
■21
SCHEDULE "C"
VACATIONS
C-l Vacations with pay will be granted to employees on the following basis:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
Under five (5) years - in accordance with th q Employment Standard Act. Five (5) years of continuous service - Three (3) weeks.
Ten (10) years of continuous service - F our (4) weeks.
Seventeen (17) years of continuous service - Five (5) weeks. Twenty-four (24) years of continuous service - Six (6) weeks.
C-2 Continuous service for the purpose of computing vacations with pay will be calculated up to 30th June of the year in which vacations are granted.
C-3 Payments for vacations shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of an employee earnings for each week of vacation the employee is entitled to receive. Vacation pay will be based on the previous year's T-4 earnings and will not include taxable benefits.
C-4 Employees will choose their vacation in order of seniority starting with the most senior employee who will choose all of his/her vacation in one selection with a maximum of two weeks during the months of June, July and August. For vacation purposes only the departments shall be broken down as Production, Sanitation, Maintenance and Shipping. A minimum of six (6) employees will be allowed off at one time from Production, and a minimum of one (1) employee will be allowed off at one time from each of the Sanitation, Maintenance and Shipping departments. The Company reserves the right to alter vacation dates at the time of selection if it becomes necessary to do so in order to maintain a qualified working force.
Vacation lists will be posted not later than January 15thof each year and will be declared closed by March 1 st. Employees who do not have their vacation selections completed by March 1st, will be approached individually, in order of seniority and will be given written notificationthat they have up to a maximum of three (3) working days to completetheir vacation selection. Those employ eeswho do not have their vacation selectedwithin these three working days, will be by-passed and placed on the bottom of the seniority list for vacation selection purposes for the current year. When all other employees have completed their vacation selection, then those employees on this list will be expected to select their vacation (open weeks) as outlined above, in order of seniority from within this group. Any changes thereafter shall be made only by mutual agreement.
C-5 An employeewho is entitled to two (2) weeks vacation will, whenever possible, receive the second week of vacation consecutive to the first week. An employeewho is entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks vacation will be granted the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth week at the discretion of the Company and not necessarily in conjunction with the first two (2) weeks, or with each other.
Vacations shall be week commencing instead of week ending.
C-6	Employees will not be allowed to waive their vacation claims and have them accumulated from year
■22.
to year.
C-7 Employees shall receive their vacation pay prior to going on vacation.
■23
SCHEDULE "D"
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Full time actively employed regular employees under age sixty-five (65) at the Company's Orillia Plant are covered for the following benefits from the first day of the Calendar month immediately following the completion of forty-five (45) days of work.
100% Company Paid
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
O.H.I.P
Group Life Insurance -
effective August 12th, 2002 -	$24,000.00
effective August 12th, 2003 -	$25,000.00
Accidental Death & Dismemberment- same as(b) above.
The Temporary Disability Benefit will be sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of normal earnings (i.e. rate times normal work schedule)to a maximum equal to the currentE.I, maximum benefits on the 1/1/4/39 basis (first day of accident, first day of
E.I. entitlementperiod and the further fifty (50) week period benefit. It is understood that any recovery under wage loss replacement submissionswould be forthcomingto the Company.
Extended Health Care, including Prescription Drugs (Generic Substitutes) at 100% after deductible of Ten (10) Dollars (singles), and designated Major Medical benefits at eighty percent (80%) and a maximum of $5,000/year/insured.
Dental Care Plan (pays one hundred percent (1 00%) of designated basic benefits and fifty percent (50%) of designated electives). The maximum will be One Thousand Four Hundred Dollars ($1,400.00) per claimant per year and will increase to One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) effective one month after the date of ratification, based on prior year’s O.D.A. guide.
Effective August 6, 1999, the Optical Plan will provided one (1) pair of prescribed glasses to a maximum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) to increase to One Hundred and Fifty Five Dollars ($155.00) one month after date of ratification every two (2) years for eligible employees.
Effective August 6, 1999, the Plan will provide for Custom-made Orthopedic shoes/inserts when prescribed by a duly qualified podiatrist or physician, and modificationto such shoes, up to $100.00 in any calendaryear.
Effective one month after the date of ratification Longer Term Disability (LTD) in the amount of $1300,00 (one thousand three hundred) dollars per month will be
24
increased to $1400.00 (one thousand four hundred) dollars per month. Long Term Disability payments are taxable. If in receipt of disability or retirement income from other sources (e.g. CPP Disability, WSIB, automobile insurance, another insurance policy, etc.), the monthly benefit will be reduced so that the total amount from all sources does not exceed eighty-five (85%) percent of an employee’s regular earnings. Effective one year and one month after the date of ratificationLong Term Disability (LTD) will be increasedto $1500.00 (onethousand five hundred) dollars per month.
Booklet when available, prescription drug guide one month after date of ratification.
Eligible dependents of the above employees are also covered for:
O.H.I.P.
Extended Health Care including Prescription Drugs Dental Care Plan Optical Plan
25
SCHEDULE “E’
PART TIME EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
2.01
The Companyrecognizesthe Union as the sole bargaining agent for all Part-time and students	bakery save and except supervisors, persons abovethe rank of
supervise ,	d clerical staff, and employees covered under the main body of
this Collective Agreement at the same location.
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION DUES Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION AND STEWARDS
6.01	Same as main body of this agreement.
6.02	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to elect or appoint one (1) Steward
and one of whom will be an alternate for the purpose of assisting other employees in the processing or presentation of grievances. The alternate steward will only be recognized when the regular steward is absent. The Steward must have completed his/her probationary period. The Union shall at all times keep the company notified in writing of the names of the employees who are acting in the capacity of Steward. An additional Steward will be appointed during the prime time when there is a third
Roll shift.
6.03
Same as main body of this agreement.
6.04
Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 7 - COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
26
Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 10 - MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCE
Same as main body of this agreement. ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	(a)	An employee hired as Part-time is an employee who is available to work part-time
throughout the year and has more than ninety (90) days worked.
(b) An employee hired as a Student is an employee who is hired to work normally during the vacation period(s) of the year.
11.02	Part-time and Student employees shall be on probation for the first sixty (60) days worked.
11.03	(a)	Separate seniority lists for Part-time and Student employees based upon the date the
employees commenced to work for the Company shall be established and a copy of each shall be sent to the Union office.
Seniority will be based upon continuous employment with the Company in excess of sixty (60) days of work.
Any new employees hired as Part-time following the date of ratification will have their seniority backdated once the sixty (60) days are completed.
It is understood that Students returning in subsequent years will continue to accumulate seniority for actual time worked from the commencement of their employment.
11.04	(a) It is understood that once a Student works in excess of ninety (90) days the employee will be reclassified provided they are available to work part-time throughout the year, and they shall be placed on the Part-time seniority list retaining their Student seniority provided such seniority does not supersede the junior most Part-time employee at the time of the reclassification.
In the event that a Part-time employee requests to be reclassified as a Student, they may be placed on the Student seniority list maintaining their full
27
accumulated Part-time seniority.
11.05	Lay-off and recall of employees will be done according to seniority providing the affected
employee has the necessary skill and ability to perform the work available.
11.06	When hiring full time employees, the Company will give first consideration to Part-time
employees in order of seniority.
11.07	When scheduling or calling in Part-time employees for work, the Company agrees to
recognize the length of continuous service provided the senior employee has the skill and ability to perform the work.
11.08	Student employees wishing to return for another season will be given first consideration. ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Does not apply.
ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BOARDS
Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 14 - SUPERVISORS Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY
Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - MISCELLANEOUS
16.01	Same as main body of this agreement.
16.02	Employees who work in excessof ninety (90) days in the previous calendaryear, will receive during the first pay ofMay, a lump sum of sixty ($60.00)dollars for the purchase of footwear.Those Students returning for the second year and thereafter shall be entitled to receive boot allowance.
16.03	UNIFORMS: Inside plant employeeswho are employed on a regular basis will be supplied at Company expense clean sets of uniforms for wear in the plant during their working hours.
ARTICLE 17 - SCHEDULES
Does not apply.
ARTICLE 18 - SEVERANCE PAY
28
As per Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION
Same as main body of this agreement.
ARTICLE 20 - HOURS OF WORK
Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee for any number of hours.
lunch period will be one-half hour without pay each day. The lunch period will not occur for an employeebefore he has worked three (3) hours and will occur before he has worked five (5) hours per full shift.
Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration will be provided as close to the middle of each half shift of each regular workday as possible. Where the shift is ten (10) hours, an additional ten (10) minute break will be given.
hours worked by employees in excess of forty (40), in a workweek shall be paid a premium rate of time and one half (1-1/2) the regular hourly rate.
20.04	The schedules of work are to be posted the Wednesday prior to the first day of the schedule.
Shift schedules will be posted each Tuesday by 5:00 p.m. for the first shift. The work schedule may be changed after posting by the Company if business circumstances change. Employees will be given as much notice as possible when changes to the schedule take place.
20.05	CALL IN PAY
An employee who is called back to work after having left the premises, will be paid not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours pay at the straight time rates.
ARTICLE 21-WAGES
21.01	Effective the Sunday after the date of ratification, active employees will receive an additional $0.30 per hour on their existing rate.
Effective May 3rd, 2003, active employeeswill receive an additional $0.25 per hour. Effective May 3rd 2004, active employeeswill receive an additional $0.25 per hour. The following will be the Part-time rates of pay for newly hired Part-timeemployees:
20.01	The
20.02	The
20.03	The
	After Ratification	May 3rd, 2003	May 3rd, 2004
1-12 months	$9.30	$9.55	$9.80
29
13 - 24 months	$9.80	$10.05	$10.30
			
Effective as of the ratification following will be the rates of pay for newly hired Student employees:
	After Ratification	May 3rd, 2003	May 3rd, 2004
First Season	$9.30	$9.55	$9.80
Second Season	$9.80	$10.05	$10.30
Third or more	$11.05	$11.30	$11.55
ARTICLE 22 - BEREA VEMENT LEA YE
22.01	An employee will be granted up to three (3) scheduled days leave of absence with pay in the
event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, spouse or child to make arrangements for and attend the funeral. An employee will be granted one (1) scheduled day leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his grandparents. In some circumstances, the Company may request proof.
ARTICLE 23 - VACATION PAY
23.01	Vacation pay will be added to the employees' regular weekly pay, and in accordance with
the Employment Standards Act.
30
ARTICLE 24- PAID HOLIDAYS
24.01 Part-time employees who work on a Paid Holiday will be entitled to any premium as provided for in the Employment Standards Act. For this purpose, the Civic Holiday will be recognized as a Paid Holiday.
DULY SIGNED BY THE PARTIES HERETO AT ORILLIA, ONTARIO THIS-DAY OF
NOVEMBER, 2002.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
George Jacobs
Joey Richardson
Guy Bradley
Matt Miller
A1 Coones
Bob Thompson
Chuck New
31
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF IJNDER ST ANDTNG # 1
May, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court,
Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re:	Orillia Plant Work Week
It is the goal of the Company to allow for two (2) consecutive days off whenever possible. The Company will meet with the Union monthly to discuss changes in the scheduling of employees.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Human Resources Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
32
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
May, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court,
Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re:	Transport Drivers
In the event the Company were to re-introduce the classification of Transport Driver, the Company would meet with the Union with a view to reach agreement on wages, benefits, and working conditions covering this classification.^ the event the Parties can not reach agreement, the matter will be presented to an arbitrator to make the final decision.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
33
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
November 22nd, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court, Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re:	Alternate Benefit Coverage for Employees
It is understood that during the term of this Collective Agreement, the Company may discuss alternatives to the current Benefit Package with a view to providing other forms of coverages for full-time employees. If acceptable to the Union Committee, the package could be presented to the employees for their consideration as a group.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Ontario
34
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
May, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court,
Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re:	Winter Heating and Ventilation Problems
The Company agreesto provide extra winter clothing where required, as per recommendationsfrom the Joint Health and Safety Committee. Further the Company gives the Union the following undertaking: that the Company will investigatewhere the winter heating/ventilation problem exists (in the shipping/receiving and the bagging areas) and will commit to resolving this problem.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
35
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
May, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court, Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re:	Payroll Problems
The Company will give an undertaking that if an employee has an error in their pay, out of no fault of the employee, the Company will endeavor to correct the problem as soon as possible. Wherever possible the correction will be on a separate cheque.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
36
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
May, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court,
Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
This letter replaces the October 13th, 1993 letter signed by you and Bill Thorp.
Re:	Employees working ten OO) hour shifts
The following outlines the agreement reached during negotiations concerning employees who work a ten (10) hour shift in production.
Suspensions-Discipline will be for “x” number of shifts.
Bereavement-“Five (5) day” would read “four (4) days in the case of an employee on a four (4) day work schedule.
Article A-2 Work Week
(2)	Four (4) days in the case of an employee scheduled on a four (4) day, ten (10) hour shift.
(3)	To read “no less than seventy-five (75%) percent of his scheduled hours.
4)	The lunch period will occur for an employee between the 4th and 6th hour of the shift.
6)	Continues to apply.
Article A-4c) Overtime
After ten (10) hours daily, or forty (40) hours in a week in the case of an employee on a four
(4)	day week.
Afterthe last sentence- “thirty (30) hours ortwenty (20) hours respectively, in the caseofan employee on a four (4) day week.”
Article A-4e) Meal Allowance
When an employee works more than ten and a half (10 'A) hours in the case of an employee on a four (4) day week.
Article A-5 Call-In Pay
Five (5) hours pay in the case of an employee on a four (4) day week.
37
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Ontario
38
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
May, 2002
Chuck New
Union Representative
CAW Local 462
205 Placer Court,
Toronto, Ontario
M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
At the recently concluded negotiations at the Orillia Plant, the following were mutually agreed.
1.	As in the past, should the funeral of a close relative or friend of an employee held on a work day, the employee could be granted a leave of absence for the day, without pay, upon reasonable requests.
2.	The present practice of offering extra trips that occur on an unscheduled basis to the most senior driver available and willing, will continue provided that no employee is on layoff.
3.	A discipline procedure concerning lateness has been derived, copy attached, and will be posted.
Peak Season Assignments
4.	Employees who accept temporary assignments during peak season production, will returnto their former positions at expiry of the temporary assignments.
Lead Hand
5.	When a person is temporarily appointed to the position of Lead Hand for a period in excess of three months, his job will be posted as a temporary vacancy.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
39
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#9
November 22, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court,
Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
RE: Lump Sum Payment - Pav Period Following;Date of Ratification
A lump sum payment of five hundred ($500.00) less statutory deductions will be paid to all active full-time employees the pay period following the date of ratification.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
40 -
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 10
November 22, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court, Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re: Part Time Transport Drivers
In the event the Company were to re-introduce the classification of part-time Transport Driver, the Company would meet with the Union with a view to reach agreement on wages, benefits and working conditions coveringthis classification. In the event the Parties cannot reach agreement, the matter will be presented to an arbitrator to make the final decision.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
41
WESTON BAKERIES ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#! 1
November 22, 2002
Chuck New Union Representative CAW Local 462 205 Placer Court, Toronto, Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Chuck,
Re: Part Time Representation at Next Set of Negotiations
The Company agreesthat, notwithstanding Article 6.01, an active part time employ ee with seniority may be appointed or otherwise selected by the Union to attend negotiations for the negotiations to occur at the expiry of this agreement.
Yours truly,
Bob Thompson Labour Relations Manager Weston Bakeries Limited
42