BPBBB MAI 9. 1981
BETWEEN
and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE, BAKERY AND CCNFECTICKBRI WORKERS* UNION, LOCAL 461, hereinafter called "theUnion"
ARTICLE 1 «v HBSOCMITIOS
1.01	The Company reoognitea the Union aa the ads collective bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Company In Orillia, Ontario, save and except office staff, ealea staff, foreman and thoea above the rank of foreman, and parsons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
2.01	There will be no discrimination, interferenoe, restraint or coeroion exercised or practised by the Caqpany or toy any of ite representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership In the Union,
or connection with the Union, and membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
2.02	There will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exaroleed or practised upon employees of the Company toy the Union, or by any of ite members or representatives. There will be no solicitation for membership or other union activity on the premises of the Company 'tiring an employee*a working hours.
AKPTOLB r- OHBOK-OFF OP UNICN DUEg
3.01	Xhplcyees shall, on ccopleticn of the probationary period of forty-five (45) days of work, be required to sign authorization to deduct the Union initiation fee and monthly dues trm fchair pay. The Company toll make suoh deductions from earnings accumulated to an employee* e orodit on the third payroll period of each month and remit than monthly to a designated official of the Union. Seasonal employees, or thoea hired for term or task are excluded from these provisions. However, if a seasonal employee continues to be employed after September 15 to fill a regular job vacancy, and provided he or she has by that date ocnpletad forty-kve (45) days of work for the Conpany, the deduction of the Unio foe and monthly dues shall be made from the employee** third weekly oav in that month.
OKELLlA-KiANT
4.01
5.01
ARTICLE 6
6,01
6.02
6.Q3
6.04
tssms
7.01
7.02
Pago 2..
The Company will not oauae or direct any look-out of its employees. The Union will not excuse or direct any strike or other collective action whioh will stop or interfere with service or impair efficiency of operations. If such coileotive action should be taken, it will instruct the employees to return to work and perform their duties in ths usual manner.
- MSEtlVATIQW OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the ] operations i the selection and direction of employees i continue t o be vented 1 the o
r-TOUgMSPS m. mm
The Union shall have the right, t o appoint or otherwise select a Committee or not more than four (4) employee a.
The Union shall have the right t o appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of employees <£ the Company to act ae stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to representatives of the Company.
Employees shall not be eligible to act as stewards or members c£ ths Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period.
The Union recognizes that stewards, members of the Union Committee and the other Union officers, have regular duties t o perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining ths permission of their foreman er immediate supervisor. When resuming their regular duties, they will report to their foreman or supervisor, and will give any reasonable explanation which my ba requested with respect t o their absence. In accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company and discussing grievances during working hours.
COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
If an employee has a complaint he wishes t o bring t o the attention of the Company, the matter will be taken up with the employee*a immediate supervisor. The employee may do this with or without his steward or may request the steward to do it for him. The supervisor vvill give his reply within twenty-four (24)hours to the person who presented the complaint t o him,
If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to ths employee concerned, the complaint may be stated in writing on grievance fame and submitted, within three (3) working days following the reply of the supervisor, to the Plant Manager.
ORXLLIA-IUNT
*'~ '£age 3..
7-09 Within five (5) working days following receipt of a written grievance, the Plant Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee t o discuss the grievance. The Plant Manager will give his reply in writing within five (5/ working days after the meeting has been held, At this stage, a full-time officer of the Union may be present;, if his presence is requested by either party*
7.04	If the reply of the Plant Manager is not satisfactory, the Union Committee may, within ten (10) working days following reoeipt of the said reply, refer the grievance t o arbitration.
7.05	Ary of the time allowances provided in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Conmittee.
7.06	I lie Company may refuse to consider any complaint or grievance where the circumstances surrounding suoh occurred more than five (5) working days before the complaint o' grievance was brought to the attention of the Company.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	Any arbitration proceedings under the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement shall be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
8.02	Each party shall bear the expense of its omi nominee and equally bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
9.01	A claim, by an employee who has completed the probationary period that he has been unjustly discharged frau his employment shall be treated
as a grievance, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with
the Plant Managa* within three (3) days after the employed oeaees to work for the Company.
9.02	Suoh special grievance may be settled by confirming the Company's action in dismissing the enployee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation far time lost, or by any other arrangement which is Just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.03	\Mhi an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
ARTICLE 10 - MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
10.01	If the Company has a complaint against the Union or any of its
representatives, it will make suoh complaint i n writing, which will be considered as a grievance commencing at the Plant Manager's stage.
0R3LLIA-HART
m* ftrfllHPBBI
Page 4..
11.01
11,02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
An employee will be considered on probation and will nut be placed on , a seniority list until after he has completed forty-five (45) days of work for the Company.
Seniority lists baaed upon the date on which regular employees commenced t o work for the Company shall be established for each department end posted in April and October of each year.
Seasonal employees who remain employed after September 15 t o fill regular job vacanoies shall have their seniority dated back to their original date cf' employment in that season.
In cases of promotion or demotion of employees, the reliability, skill, ability and physical fitness of the employee t o perform the work shall be the governing factors, and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
Where it is necessary generally to reduce the working force of the employees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
Members of the Union Committee and stewards will be retained by the Company in the event c£ a lay-off affecting their department, so long as there is work available in their respective departments which they are qualified and willing to do, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list.
Employees who are laid off will be retained on the Company*s seniority list for a period of nine (9) months, but unless they signify their willingness t o return t o work within three (3) days after being requested to do so, and report to work within ten (10) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE CF ABSENCE
12.01	Authorized Leave Without Pay;
The Company nw grant leave of absence t o any employee in writing for legitimate personal reasons. Any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered t o be laid off, and his seniority shall continue t o accumulate during his absence.
Requests far leave of absence shall be made in writing. A copy of letters granting a leave of absence, with conditions outlined, or refusing a request, will be sent to the Union office.
12.02	Bereavement t
Any employee will be granted up to three (3) days leave of absence with pay in the event-of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, wife (husband), father-in-law, mother-in-law car child t o make arrangements for and attend the funeral. Only that portion of the three days which would otherwise have been working days will be paid. In the case of death of an employee*s brother-in-law, sister-in-law or grandparent, one (1) day off without loss of pay will be allowed t o attend the funeral.
0R3LLIA-PLANT
Eage 5.
12.03	Jury Duty:
An en^loyee who is called for jury duty will be paid the difference between his regular rate of pay and the mart he is paid for jury duty.
At employee subpoenaed as a witness for the Company shall suffer no lase of regular earnings as a result of such action.
12.04	Injuries At Work:
Employees who are injured while performing the normal requirements of their job shall be paid a Pull day's pay for the day of said injury.
ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BOARDS
13-01 The Company will provide bulletin boards in convenient locations
throughout the plants for the Union t o post notices of its activity.
All auch notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union and be submitted to the Plant Manager, or hie authorised representative, for approval before posting.
ARTICLE 14 - FOREMEN
14-01
Foremen and other persons outside the bargaining unit shall not normally perform woik of the bargaining unit except:
14-02
d)
t o perform experimental or development works t o instruct or train now employees;
t o replace an employee who is late or absent from his place of work;
in oases of emergency.
The above provisions do not apply to the work of the maintenance department.
15-01 The Union and the Company will cooperate in developing and
maintaining high standards of safety with the objective of reducing and, where possible, eliminating the causes of industrial accidents.
15.02	To this end, a Safety Committee consisting of Union and Management representatives will meet at regular intervals of not leas than ones each calendar quarter.
15-03 Recommendations of the Safety Committee will be made to the Plant Manager who will study them and reply in writing prior 10 the next scheduled safety meeting,
ARTICLE 16 - MISCELLANEOUS
16.01	Wherever the male gender is used in this Agreement, the terms Bhall apply in equal measure to all employees, whether male or female.
16.02	Pn employee who purchases safety shoes or boots for use on the job will be reimbursed by the Company in the amount of Twenty-four dollars ($24.00) per par upon presentation of the receipt for such purposes,
ORILLIA-FLANT
Page 6..
-ICLE 17 - SCHEDULES
17*01 Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following Schedules;
Schedule A - Hours of Work, Holidays, Overtime and other Working Conditions.
Schedule B - Job Classificationa and Wage Rates Schedule C - Vacations Schedule D - Welfare Benefits
3 IS - TERMINATION OR NIDTFICATION
18.01	This Agreenent, which supersedes all previous Agreements, shall continue in effect until ’tw cth »f ^T|	, and unless
either party gives notice in writing to the othefr party that amendments are required, or that the party Intends terminating this Agreement, then it shall continue in effect until the 9th day of May, 1982, and so cn from year to year thereafter.
18.02 Notice that amendments are required, or that either party Intends t o terminate the Agreenent, nay be given only during a period of not more than ninety (90), nor lees than thirty (3W days prior t o lyfey 9th, 1981, ox any succeeding anniversary date.
18.03	The parties will meet for the purpose of conducting negotiations within twenty (20) days after the giving of such notice.
SIGNED AT ORILLIA, ONTARIO THIS	DAY OF 1979
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
■
ORULIA-FLANT
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURS OF WORK, ETC.
FOR PRODUCTION AMD CERTAIN I WORKERS A-3. PROVISIONAL GUARANTEE
Each regular full time employee who has completed fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous employment with the Ocrrpsry will be given the opportunity t o earn each week no less than the equivalent of forty (40) hours pay at his a* her straight time rate. To qualify for this guarantee, the employee shall be required to report for work at his or her scheduled starting time each working day, and to perform whatever work the Company has available and assigns to him or her. This provision Will not apply in the event that fire, flood, strike, mechanical breakdown or other circumstances beyond the control of the Catpany prevent the Company from continuing Its operations.
Nothing in this Schedule shall be Interpreted in such a manner as to prevent the Company from laying off employees, provided that those employees who qualify for the provisional guarantee shall not be subject t o lay-offs of a duration of less than one week.
A-2	WORK WEEK
a) The regular weekly hours shall be forty (40)
b) The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five (5) days of the week.
c)	The daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the time of rest periods and lunch periods will be detennined by the Company in accordance with production requirements. Any full time regular employee reporting for work at his or her scheduled starting time an any shift will be given the opportunity t o earn no less than si* (6) hours pay for that shift.
Employees will be notified as far in advanoe as possible of any general change in shift starting times, In the event a shift starting time is advanced on short notice and the employee was not notified of such change he or she shall be given the opportunity t o work the equivalent number of hours scheduled for that shift, When It is neoeseary to change a shift starting time without 24 hours advance notice the reasons for such ohange will be given t o the employees affected and to the appropriate union steward. ■
Id.) The lunch period will be one-half (J) hour without pay each day. The lunch period will not occur for an employee before he has worked three (3) hour8 and will occur before he has worked five (5) hours.
e) Reet periods of ten (10) minutes duration w i I I be provided in the morning and afternoon of each regular work day. Whai a ten (10) hour production day is requested an additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be scheduled in sequence of operations commencing after eight (8) hours have been worked,
Page 2.
SCHEDULE ”A"
A2	WQRKWEEK_(cont»d)
f) In the event the Gmyxiny fails to schedule an employee* a lunch or rest period in accordance with sub-sections (d) end (ej, above, the Company will pay the employee concerned one-half (J) hour at hie or her regular rate of pay. This obligation on the part of the Company will not apply if the sequence of lunch and/or rest periods is disrupted, due to the unsoheduled absence of another employee assigned to the shift, or to the failure of another employee t o return from his or her lunch or rest period on time.
A-3	JOB VACANCIES
a)	Job Vacancies including those in General Help ’’A”, shall be posted on plant bulletin boards for not lees than three (3) working days. Baployees m^ apply for vacant jobs to the appropriate department Supervisor.
Such applications will be considered and Will be granted or refused cn the basis stated in paragraph 3 of Article 11 of this Agreement. If the most senior applicant is not given the posted vacancy he or she will be told, the rSaaon(s) within a period of three (3) working days following the selection.
b)	The successful applicant shall be given the job rate provided he or she adequately performs all the duties of the position. Should the applicant not meet the above he or she shall return to hie or her previous position. The successful applicant shall be given a trial period of two (2) working days.
A-4 OVERTIME PROVISIONS
a)	The Company may require employees to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly assigned hours. However, not more than three (3) overtime hours shall be worked in exoess of regular shift hours except wrt emergencies. Not more than three (3) overtime hours in excess of regular shift hours shall be worked prior to a holiday.
b)	An employee shall not be forced to take time off for overtime worked.
c)	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily. Overtime shall be on the above daily basis or after forty (40) hours of work In a week, but not
both, In a week in which a Paid Holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be
paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours.In a week in
which a double holiday is observed, weekly overtime shall be paid for
time worked in excess of twenty-four (24.) hours,
d)	Ai employee Will be paid overtime if reouired to work on his day cff, provided this causes him to work six (6) days in that work week.
e)	The overtime provisions in this Article will not apply to the classification of Transport Driver.
ORILLIA-FLANT
Page 3. SCHEDULE <>A«

A-5
A-6
OVERTIME PROVISIONS (oont’d)
f)	MeaL Allowance: Employees who work ten (10) hours or more in a day will be paid, a meal allowance of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50). This provision applies to Transport Drivers as well as to "inside” employees.
CALL-IN PAY
If an employee is required t o return t o \wrk after finishing his shift and leaving the Company premises, the employee shall be paid at least an amount equivalent to three (3) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate.

a)	The following days w i 11 be recognized as holidays regardless of the day an which they fall:
New fear’s Day Goad Friday Victoria Dy
Dominion Day
Boxing Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
b)	Subject to the discretion and control of the Company, the above
holidays will be celebrated either on the day they occur, or the day prior t o the holiday,
c)	Employees will be paid for the above holidays or the days celebrated in lieu thereof, provided:
1.	They have completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company
2.	They have worked the required shifts immediately preoeding and following the holiday or the day celebrated in lieu there of.
Except:
a)	Death in hie or her immediate family
b)	Being granted written permission by the Supervisor to be absent on either or both of the said ehifta.
c)	Lay off on either or both of the said shifts only.
d)	Pay for the holidays will be at an employee’s regular hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight (8) hours.
e)	In the event of a paid statutory holiday to which he would otherwise be entitled falls within an employee’s vacation period, he w i I I be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof at a time arranged by his
supervisor.
ORULIA-PLANT
Page 4.
SCHEDULE "A"
A«6 HOLIDAYS (coat’d)
f)	Employees required to worit on the day publicly celebrated a8 the holiday for those days listed in A-6 (a) above, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for such work. There shall be no pyramiding of hours paid at time and one-half, i.e. no interpretation of this Article in conjunction with Overtime Provisions, shall require the Company to pay the time and one-half rate more than once for any hour or hovira worked in a week.
g)	“Floater1* Holiday:	Each full time regular employee shall be entitled
t o a **floater'* paid holiday each year, and auch holiday t o be scheduled by mutual agreement between individual employees and the Company.
Flag Day or Heritage Day, if proclaimed, may be substituted for the
floater" holiday.
h)	Where an employee works on a paid holiday he or she will get time
and one half for such work. The holiday pay will be retained and he cor she will be given a day off with said pay at a time arranged by his or her supervisor.
As of December 31 of each year, the unused days in the 1st paragraph will either be taken in January, February or March or be paid.
A-7 UNIFORM3
a)	“Inside** plant employees who are employed on a regular full time basis w i 11 be supplied at Company expense clean sets of uniforms for
wear in the plant during their working hours,
b)	The present practice regarding the supplying and cost sharing of uniforms for Transport Drivers will be continued. However, each regular lull time Transport Driver will be paid an allowance of One Dollar ($1.00) per week toward the cost of cleaning of his uniform, this amount to be accumulated and paid cn or about December 15th of each year,
c)	Effective May 10, I960 the cost sharing for transport drivers will be:
65# Company 355? Employee
k-d SCHEDULE BIDDING
In the event the Transport Drivers collectively wish to do eo, they shall be permitted in January of eaoh year to eubmit bids for the regular daily transport tripe, and Transport Drivers with the greatest seniority shall have the first opportunity to make a selection at that time.
ORILLIA-ELANT
SCHEDULE »B»
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AHD WAGE RATES
B-l
a) The Ccmpery will classify employees and will pay the appropriate hourly rates as set out below.
FIRST MONDAY	EFFECTIVE
FOLLOWING ACCEPTANCE	MAY 11/60
Dough Mixer W Dough Mixer ’’B”
Utility - Relief Divider and Moulder Pan Greaser Oven Operator Wrap. Machine Oper.oA"
Wrap Machine Oper.’^1'
Shipper and Packer
Gen. Help ’W (Heavy Duties)
Gen. Help s,B,r(Roll Bagging,eta. )
Maintenance
Transport Drivers
$6.88
6.74
6.64
6.68
6.4$
6.72 6.86
6.73 6.73, 6.25 6,01 6.98 7.35
$7.53
7.39
7.29
7.33
7.13
7.37 7.51
7.38 7-386.90 6.66 7.63 8.00
b) A Transport Driver required to work.in excess of forty-one (41) hours in any week will be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for such overtime hours worked.
c)	The minimum and hiring rates for the above classifications will be fifty cents (50$) below the maximum rate shown. A new employee will receive an adjustment of twenty-five cents (25$) per hour after each forty-five (45) days of work until his maximum job rate is reached.
d)	In the event new classifications are introduced, the Company will
immediately notify the Union.
e)	Lead Hand: Ai employee designated as, and assuming the responsibility of, Lead Hand will be paid twenty-five cents (25$) an hour over and above his or her regular earnings while so employed.
f)	A maintenance mechanic capable of performing all repairs shall receive an extra Len cents (10$) an hour effective January 1, 1980.
B-2 SFASONAT, EMPLOYEES
a)	Employees engaged temporarily for the sunnier season shall be paid in 1979 - $4.25 per hour and
in 1980 - $4.40 per hour
b)	Provided the seasonal employee remains on the job until Labour Day or until, the date if earlier that the work force of seasonal employees is
reduced by the Company, he shall be given at his termination a special
seasonal bonus payment calculated at fifteen oents (15$) for each hour worked from his first day of employment in. that season.
ORILLIA-ELANT
Page 2
SCHEDULE »B>*
B-3 RATES OF PAY MM EMPLOYEES ARE TRANSFERRED FROM ONE JOB TO ANOTHER
a)	An employee who ia temporarily transferred t o a higher rated job for the convenience of the Company in order t o meet production requirements shall be paid the higher job rate provided he works a minimum of
four (4) continuous hours on the higher rated job, and further provided he is qualified to perform the job.
b)	An employee who is transferred at his own request or who accepts transfer rather than be laid off, shall be paid the minimum of the rate range of the job to which transferred, However, should the transfer remain effective for three (3) months, the employee will then be qualified t o progress through the rate range of the job.
B-4	NIGHT PREMIUM
A premium of twenty-five cents (25^) per hour Bhall be paid to inside employees, i.e., in production and related classifications for eaoh hour worked between 9 P.M. and 6 AM This premium is not to be used in calculating overtime rates.
B-5	WEEKEND WORK
During periods whoi weekend daytime produotion may be required, inside employees, i.e,, in produotion and related classifications, shall be paid at time and one half for all regular hours worked between Saturday noon and Sunday midnight,
ORUUA-FLANT
SCHEDULE »0»
VACATIONS
Vacations with pay will be granted to employees on the following basis*
a)	Under five (5) years - in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
b)	Five (5) years of continuous service «.	Three (3) weeks
c)	Fourteen (14) years of continuous service -	Four (4) weeks
d)	Twenty-two (22) years of continuous service	-	Five (5) weeks
C-2 Continuous service for the purpose of computing vacations with pay will be calculated up to 30th June of the year in which vacations are granted.
C-3 Payments for vacations shall be at the rate of two percent (2$) of an employee’s earnings for each week c£ vacation the employee is entitled to receive. Earnings will be calculated for the twelve (12) month6 period immediately preceding June 30th of the year in which vacations are granted and will not include taxable benefits.
C-4 Under normal conditions, vacations will be granted on the basis of
seniority - i.e., those with the greatest seniority shall have the ohoioe of vacation dates. However, the Company reserves the right to alter vacation dates if it becomes necessary to do so in order to maintain a qualified working farce, Vacation lists will be posted not later than March 1st of each year and will be declared closed by Manh 31st.
Any changes thereafter shall be only by mutual agreement.
C-5 An employee who is entitled to two (2) weka vacation will, wherever possible, receive the second week of vacation consecutive to the first week, Ai employee who is entitled to three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation will be granted the third and fourth week at the discretion of the Company and not necessarily in conjunction with the first two (2) weeks, or with each other.
C-6 Employees will not be allowed t o waive their vaoation claims and have them accumulate from year to par.
C-7 Employees shall receive their vacation pay prior to going on vaoation.
ORILLIA-PLANT
SCHEDULE »D» WELFARE BENEFITS
Full-time actively employed regular employees under age 65 at the Company*s Orillia plant are covered for the following benefits from. the first day of the calendar month Immediately following the completion of forty-five (1*5) days of work:
1)	O.H.l.P.
2)	Group Life Insurance ($5,000)
3)	Accidental Death & Dismenu (Max $5,000)
4)	Temporary Disability $125.00 per week (Weekly Sickness Indemnity) (1-4-26)
$150 per week effective June 1, 1980
5)	Extended Health Care, including Prescription Drugs at 100$ after deductible of $10 (single), and designated Major Medical, benefits at 80$
6)	Dental Care Plan (pays 100$ of designated basic benefits and 50$ of designated electives on the 1978 O.D.A. Schedule
Eligible dependants of the above employees are also covered for:
_	O.H.l.P.
-	Extended Health Care	including Prescription Drugs
_	Dental Care Plan
Eligibility conditions and terms of payments of benefits are in accordance with the Master Policy issued by the Insurer.
100$ Company Paid 100$ Company Paid 100$ Company Paid 100$ Company Paid
100$ Company Paid 100$ Company Paid
BETWEEN:
EXPIRES MAY 9, 1985
COLLECTIVE 'AGREEMENT
3
;02i_O5j^5
GENERAL BAKERIES LIMIED WONDER BREAD DIVISION) Orillia, OntaRoT
hereinafter called "the Company"
and
Orthe'H'rst
PaH
RETAIL, WHOLESALE, BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 461, hereinafter called "the Union"
ortft'e'Wofta
Paht
’ARTICLE’T- RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Company in Orillia, Ontario, save and except office staff, sales staff, foremen and those above • the rank of foreman, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
ARTICLE'2"- RELATIONSHIPS
2.01	There will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership in the Union, or connection with the Union, and membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
2.02	There will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by the Union, or by any of its members or representatives. There will be no solicitation for membership or other union activity on the premises of the Company during an employee's working hours.
ARTICLE' y - CHECK-OFF OF'ONION' DUES
3.01	Employees shall, on completion of thirty (30) days of work, be
required to sign authorization to deduct the Union initiation fee and monthly dues from their pay. The Company will make such
ORILLIA-PLANT
flQV 6 1984
3) OS'3^o/
R13-10-83
Page 2
deductions from earnings accumulated to an employee's credit on the third payroll period of each month and remit them monthly to a designated official of the Union. Seasonal employees, or those hired for term or task, are excluded Hem these provisions.
However, should a seasonal employee be offered continuous employment similar authorization is required in the thirty (30) day period of offer of continuous employment.
ARTICLE' y NO1 STRIKES 0R-L0CK-0UTS
4.01	The Company will not cause or direct any lock-out of its employees. The Union will not excuse or direct any strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with service or Impair efficiency of operations. If such collective action should be taken, it will instruct the employees to return to work and perform their duties in the usual manner.
'ARTICLE' %' - RESERVATION OF' MANAGEMENT''RIGHTS
5.01	Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the. Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees shall continue to be vested with the Company.
"ARTICLE'r-'ONION' COMMITTEESWSTEWARDS
6.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a Committee of not more than four (4) employees.
6.02	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of employees of the Company to act as stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to representatives of the Company.
6.03 Employees shall not be eligible to act as stewards or members of the Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period.
6.04	The Union recognizes that stewards, members of the Union Committee and the other Union officers, have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permission of their foreman or immediate supervisor. Wien resuming their regular duties, they will report to their foreman or supervisor, and will give any reasonable explanation which ma/ be requested with respect to their absence. In accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company and discussing grievances during working hours.
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 3
ARTICLE' 7 '- COMPLAINTS 'AND' GRIEVANCES
7.01	If an employee has a complaint he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, the matter will be taken up with the employee's immediate supervisor. The employee rca/ do this with or without his steward or rcaj request the steward to do It for him. The supervisor will give his reply within twenty-four (24) hours to the person who presented the canplaint to him.
7.02	If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the complaint rca/ be stated in writing on grievance forms and submitted, within three (3) working days following the reply of the supervisor, to the Plant Manager.
7.03	Within five (5) working days following receipt of a written
grievance, the Plant Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. The Plant Manager will give his reply in writing within five (5) working days after the meeting has been held. At this stage, a full-time officer of the Union may be	''
present, if his presence is requested by either party.
7.04	If the reply of the Plant Manager is not satisfactory, the Union Committee rray, within ten (10) working days following receipt of the said reply, refer the grievance to arbitration.
7.05	Any of the time allowances provided 1n this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee,
7.06	The Company rcey refuse to consider any complaint or grievance where the circumstances surrounding such occurred more than five (5) working days before the complaint or grievance was brought to the attention of the Company.
ARTICLE' 8' - ARBITRATION
8.01	Any arbitration proceedings under the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement shall be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
8.02	Each party shall bear the expense of its own nominee and equally bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE'Tf- DISCHARGE"CASES
9.01	A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period that he has been unjustly discharged ton his employment shall be treated as a grievance, if a written statement of such grievance is
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 4
lodged with the Plant Manager within three (3) days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
9.02	Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the Company's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.03	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall 'have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
wmctE io - hanaoment ‘grievances
10.01	If the Company has a complaint against the Union or any of its
representatives, it will make such complaint in writing, which will be considered as a grievance commencing at the Plant Manager's stage.
ftRTICtr tr - SENIORITY
11.01	An employee will be considered on probation .and will not be placed on a seniority list until after he has completed forty-five (45) days of work for the Company.
11.02	Seniority lists based upon the date on which regular employees commenced to work for the Company shall be established for each department and posted in April and October of each year.
Seasonal employees who are offered full t1me/continuous employment will commence their probationary period cited in 11.01 above commencing from the date of offer of full time employment:. At the completion of their probationary period, they shall have their seniority dated back to the date of offer of full employment.
11.03	In cases of promotion or demotion of employees, the reliability, skill, ability and physical fitness of the employee to perform the work shall be the governing factors, and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
11.04	Where it is necessary generally to reduce the working force of the employees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the woric which 1s available.
11.05 Members of the Union Committee and Stewards will be retained by the Company in the event of a lay-off affecting their department, so
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 5
long as there is work available in their respective departments which they are qualified and willing to do, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list.
11.06	Employees who are laid off will be retained on the Company's seniority list for a period of twelve (12) months, but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within two (2) days after being requested to do so, and report to work within ten (10) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company.
11.07	In the event an employee with more than ten (10) years of service is subject to lay-off after exercising displacement rights under the provisions of this Article, and junior employees will be retained, such employee will be eligible for a retraining assignment. The Company will discuss with the Union and the employee an appropriate training assignment from among the junior employees to be retained. Such asignment will be a ten (10) day training period, on mutual agreement with the Union. At the end of the assignment period, the Company will be the sole determiner as to whether the employee is sufficiently qualified to continue 1n that position.
Any of the above provisions will not allow an employee to be retrained into the Maintenance Department.
ARTICLE'12 -f HEAVE" OF ABSENCE
.	12.01 Alitftbh'ifratT Le&fr'e^'Wi tfi6ut"'Pay'i
The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee in writing for legitimate personal reasons. Ay person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence.
Requests for leave of absence shall be made in writing. A copy of letters granting a leave of absence, with conditions outlined, or refusing a request, will be sent to the Union office.
Leave of absence to attend Union conventions, courses and conferences will be granted without pay and without loss of seniority provided that notice of at least one (1)week i s given to the Company and provided that not more than two (2) employees are absent for such purposes at any one time.
12.02	BieTfe'avemeii.t
Ay employee will be granted up to five (5) days leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his father, mother, sister,
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 6
brother, wife (husband), father-in-law, mother-in-law or child to make arrangements for and attend the funeral. Only that portion of the five days which would otherwise have been working days wfll be paid. In the case of death of an employee's brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild two (2) days off without loss of pay will be allowed to attend the funeral. At the discretion of the Company, the five (5) or two (2) days payment may include the day immediately following the day of the funeral where travel, distance or similar considerations are involved,
12.03 JUry' Duty
fin employee who is called for jury duty will be paid the difference between the regular rate of pay and the amount he is paid for jury duty. An employee subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown shall suffer no loss of regular earnings as a result of such action,
12.04	IfijliHeS' frlTWrE1:'
Employees who are 'injured while performing the normal requirements of their job shall be paid a full day's pay for the day of said injury.
12.05	Wfe§h8ftfcytfe3<ig
A female employee will be granted a leave of absence because of pregnancy according to the provisions of the current Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE'"13"-' BULLETIN' BOARDS
13.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards in convenient locations throughout the plants for the Union to post notices of its activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union and be submitted to the Plant Manager, or his authorized representative, for approval before posting.
ARTlCtrTC'-' FOREMEN
14.01	Foremen and other persons outside the bargaining unit shall not normally perform work of the bargaining unit except:
a)	to perform experimental or development work;
b)	to instruct or train new employees;
c)	to replace an employee who is late or absent from his place of work;
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 7
d)	in cases of emergency. ARTICLE''IS1' - SAFETY
15.01	Tine Union and the Company will cooperate in developing and maintaining the high standards of safety with the objective of reducing and, where possible, eliminating the causes of Industrial accidents.
15.02	To this end, a Safety Committee consisting of Union and Management representatives Will meet at regular intervals of not less than once each calendar quarter.
15.03	Recommendations of the Safety Committee will be made to the Plant' Manager who will study them and reply in writing prior to the next scheduled safety meeting.
ARTICL£"16'-JMISCELLANEOUS
16.01	Wherever the male 'gender is used in this, Agreement, the terms shall apply in equal measure to all employees, whether male or female.
16.02	Ai employee who purchases safety shoes or boots for use on the job will be reimbursed by the Company in the Amount of Sixty-Five ($65.00) Dollars per year upon presentation of the receipt for such, purposes. Foot protection has to become mandatary for all employees completing a probationary period.
Joint Safety Committee to review and recommend type of foot protection to be appropriate.
ARTICLE-17'"-' SCHEOOLES
17.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following Schedules :
Schedule
Hours of Work, Holidays, Overtime and other Working Conditions
Schedule "B" - Job Classifications and Wbge Rages Schedule "C" - Vacations Schedule "D" - Employee Benefits 'ARTICLE''18' •-SEVERANCE" PAY
18.01	In the event of the permanent closure of the plant, permanent full time employees whose employment i s terminated will be paid
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 8
severance pay of twenty-five (25) hours at the employee's current rate of pay for each full completed year of continuous service with the Company, commencing with the third (3rd) year.
No severance pay w i 11 be paid to employees who are offered a transfer to other employment that may be provided by the Company within the radius of fifty (50) miles.
In the event of government regulations being introduced to provide that an employer shall pay severance pay to employees, a terminating employee will be paid severance pay either in accordance with government regulations, or in accordance with the
scale above, whichever is the greater amount, fiRTlCt£r 19' '-' TERMINATION'OR'MODIFICATION
19.01	This Agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements, shall continue in effect until the 9th day of May. 1985. and unless either party gives, notice in writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating this Agreement, then it shall continue In effect until the 9th day of Mav. 1986., and so on fcm year to year thereafter.
19.02	Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement, may be given only during a period of . not more than ninety (90), nor less than thirty (30) days prior to May 9th, 1985, or any succeeding anniversary date.
19.03	The parties will meet for the purpose of conducting negotiations within twenty (20) days after the giving of such notice.
SIGNED AT ORILLIA, ONTARIO, THIS ......DAY OF .................... 1983
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 9
SCHEDULE* »A» HOURS" t)F"WDRK,' ETC?
POR'PRODtJCTIOR ‘ ’AND'CERTA1N‘ OTHER' WORKERS
A-l PROVIS ORAL' GUARANTEE
Each regular full time employee who has completed fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous employment with the Company will be given the opportunity'to earn each week no less than the equivalent of forty (40) hours pay at his or her straight time rate. To qualify for this guarantee, the employee shall be required to report for work at his or her scheduled starting time each working day, and to perform whatever work the Company has available and assigns to him or her. This provision will not apply in the event that fire, flood, strike, mechanical breakdown or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company prevent the Company from continuing its operations.
In the event an additional shift is required for production (e.g. low run, multi products or varying amounts) and such production is insuffient to consistently provide a full week's work, it may be designated as the "additional shift." Such designation will indicate that employees assigned to that shift will enjoy all provisions and benefits of this agreement save the provisional guarantee of 40 hours specified above, which will be scaled down to a 30 hour guarantee. (Should a senior employee be assigned in order that qualified employees are available for such shift, such employee' would retain his weekly guarantee subject to his seniority entitlement.
Regular employees may elect to be assigned to this shift, however, such election must be understood to be conditional on the 30 hour quarantee and the employee may not elect to be transferred from that shift until either the shift is discontinued and he exercises any displacement rights or, he qualifies under A-3 (job posting).
Nothing in this Schedule shall be interpreted in such a manner as to prevent the Company from laying off employees, provided that those employees who qualify for the provisional guarantee shall not be subject to lay-offs of a duration of less than one week.
A-2 WORK'-WEEK
a) The regular weekly hours shall be forty (40).
b) The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five (5) days of the week. The Company shall continue its present practice regarding operating on a basis of four (4) day transport runs where practically possible.
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 10
c)	The daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the time of rest periods and lunch periods will be determined by the Company in accordance with production requirements. Any full time regular employee reporting for work at his or her scheduled starting time on any shift will be given the opportunity to earn no less than six (6) hours pay for that shift.
Employees will be notified as far in advance as possible of any general change in shift starting times. In the event a shift starting time is advanced on short notice and the employee was not notified of sudh change, he or she shall be given the opportunity to work the equivalent number of hours scheduled for that shift. Wien it is necessary to change a shift starting time without 24 hours advance notice the reasons for such change will be given to the employees affected and to the appropriate union steward.
Shift schedules will be posted each Thursday for the following week.
d)	The lunch period will be one-half (1/2) hour without pay each day. Tlie lunch period will not occur for an employee before he has worked three (3) hours and will occur before he has worked five (5) hours.
e)	Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration will be provided in the morning and afternoon of each regular work day. When a ten (10) hour production day is requested an additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be scheduled in sequence of operations commencing after eight (8) hours have been worked.
f)	In the event the Company fails to schedule an employee's lunch or rest period in accordance with sub-sections (d) and (e), above, the Company will pay the employee concerned one-half (1/2) hour at his or her regular rate of pay. This obligation on the part of the Company will not apply if the sequence of lunch and/or rest periods 1s disrupted, due to the unscheduled absence of another employee assigned to the shift, or to the failure of another employee to return from his or her lunch or rest period in time.
A-3 30B"VACANCIES
a)	Job Vacancies including those in General Help "A", shall be posted on plant bulletin boards for not less than four (4) working days. Employees may apply for vacant jobs to the appropriate department supervisor. Such applications will be considered and will be granted or refused on the basis stated in paragraph 3 of Article 11 of this Agreement. If the most senior applicant is not given the posted vacancy he or she will be told the reason(s) within a period of three (3) working days following the selection. The Chief Steward will receive a copy of all posted job vacancies,
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 11
m The successful applicant shall be given the job rate provided he or she 1 adequately performs all the duties of the position. Should the applicant not meet the afcove he or she shall return to his or her • previous position. The successful applicant shall be given a trial period of two (2) working days.
A-4 OVERTIME' PROVISIONS
a\ The Company may require employees to perform overtime work i n excess of their regularly assigned hours. However, employees will not be required to work more than three (3) overtime hours in excess of their regular shift. Maintenance employees will be exempt from this limitation.
b)	An employee shall not be forced to take time off for overtime worked.
c)	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily. Overtime shall be on the above daily basis or after forty (40) hours of work I n a week, but not both. In a week in which a Paid Holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours. In a week
• in which a double hol.iday is observed, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of twenty-four (24) hours.
d)	At employee will be paid overtime if required to work on his day off, provided he completes his regular work week.
e)	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will apply to the classification of Transport Drivers for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a week. -In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours, and in a week in which a double holiday is observed for time worked in excess of twenty-four (24) hours.
f)	«8&T'HTT8ft8fie^ Employees who work ten (10) hours or more in a dav will De paid a meal allowance of Three Dollars and Seventy-Five Cents ($3.75) commencing August 22, 1983 and Four Dollars ($4.00) effective May 7, 1984, This provision applies to Transport Drivers as well as to "inside" employees.
A-5 CJUX-TN' PAY
If an employee is required to return to work after finishing his shift and 'leaving the Company premises, the employee shall be paid at least an amount equivalent to four (4) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate.
A-6 tiOOOAYS
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 12
a)	The following days will be recognized as holidays regardless of the day on which they fall :
r»
N3N Year's Da/	Labour Daj
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Dominion Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday
b)	Subject to the discretion and control of the Company, the above *
' holidays will be celebrated either on the day they occur, or the day prior to the holiday.
c)	Employees will be paid for the above holidays or the days celebrated in' lieu thereof, provided:
1. They have completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company.
2. They have worked the required shifts immediately preceding and following the holiday or the day celebrated in the lieu thereof. Except:
a)	Death in his or her immediate family
b)	Being granted written permission by the Supervisor to be absent on either or both of the said shifts.
c) Lay off on either or both of the said shifts only.
d) V\here a verified personal illness for not more than five (5) days affects either or both of the qualifying days.
d)	Pay for the holidays will be at an employee's regular hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight (8) hours.
e)	In the event of a paid statutory holiday to which he would otherwise be entitled falls within an employee's vacation period, he will be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof at a time arranged by his supervisor.
f)	Employees required to work on the day publicly celebrated as the
holiday for those days listed in A-6 a) above, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for such work. There shall be no pyramiding of hours paid at time and one-half, i.e. no interpretation of this Article i n conjunction with A-4, Overtime Provisions, shall require the Company to pay the time and one-half rate more than once for any hour or hours worked i n a week.	,
ORILIIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 13
ql '"FTdat&r*"' HoTtasy^ Each full time regular employee shall be entitled to a "floater" paid holiday each year, and such noliday to be scheduled by mutual agreement between'individual employees and the Company.
h)' Where an employee works on a paid holiday he or she will get time and one half for such work. The holiday pay will be retained and he or she will be given a day off with said pay at a time arranged by his or her supervisor.
As of December 31 of each year, the unused days in the 1st paragraph will either be taken in January, February or March or be paid.
A-7 tINIFORHS
a)	"Inside" plant employees who are employed on a regular full time basis will be supplied at Company expense clean sets of uniforms for wear in the plant during their working hours.
b)	The present practice regarding the supplying and cost sharing of ' uniforms for Transport Drivers will be continued. However, each
regular full time Transport Driver will be paid an allowance of One Dollar and Seventy-Five Cents ($1.75) per week toward the cost of cleaning of his uniform, this amount to be accumulated and paid on or about December 15th of each year.
c)	The cost sharing for transport drivers Will be:
75% Company 25% Employee A-8 SCREDtlir'BTDDTNG
In the event the Tranport Drivers collectively wish to do so, they shall be permitted in January of each year to submit bids for the regular daily transport trips, and Transport Drivers with the greatest seniority shall have the first opportunity to make a selection at that time.
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 14
SCHEDULE'^
'JOB' CLASSIFICATIONS'AND'"WAGE''RATES
B-l a) The Company will classify employees and w i 11 pay the appropriate hourly rates as set out below.
August 22, 1983
May 7, 1984
Dough Mixer "A"
Dough Mixer "B"
Wrapping Machine Operator
Oven Operator
Divider & Moulder
Relief
Pan Greaser
Shipper
Receiver
Sanitation
General Help "A"
General Help "B" Maintenance Transport Driver
$ 10.03 9.89 10.01 9.87
9.83
9.83 9.53
9.83
9.83 9.40 9.30 9.06
10.23
10.50
$ 10.83 10.69 10.81 10.67
10.63
10.63 10.33
10.63
10.63 10.20 10.10
9.86
11.03
11.30
Retroactivity - Employees active after ratification of the agreement will .
receive the appropriate adjustment for their work assignment for each hour
worked or paid since M^ 9, 1983.
b)	A Transport Driver required to work in excess of forty (40) hours 1n
' any week will be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for such overtime hours worked.
c)	The minimum and hiring rates for the above classifications will be fifty (50) cents below the maximum rate shown; A new employee will receive an adjustment of twenty-five (25) cents per hour after each thirty (30) days of work until his maximum job rate is reached.
d)	In the event new classifications are Introduced, the Company wilt Immediately notify the Union.
e)	te'ad’Hafift: An employee designated as, and assuming the responsibility "oT Lead Hand will be paid twenty-five (25) cents an hour over and above his or her regular earnings while so employed.
f)	Eligible maintenance employees will be reimbursed to a maximum of Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00) per calendar year for replacement or repairs of personally owned tools broken or damaged in use when
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 15
performing work for the Company. This will be increased to $125.00 commencing calendar year 1983.
B-2 SEASONAL'■tMM.OYEES
a)	Employees engaged temporarily for the summer season shall be paid in 1983 - $5.85 per hour and in 1984 - $6.35 per hour.
b) Provided the seasonal employee remains on the job until Labour Day or until the date if earlier than the work force of seasonal employe'es is reduced by the Company, he shall be given at his termination a special seasonal bonus payment calculated at fifteen (15) cents for each hour worked fan his first day of employment in that season.
B-3 RATES' IF PAY WHEN’ EMPLOYEES’ ARE' TRANSFERRED'- FROM* ONE TO* ANOTHER
a) An employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher rated job for the convenience of the Company i n order to meet production requirements shall be paid the higher job rate provided he works more than one (1) continuous hour on the' higher rated job, and. further provided he 1s qualified to perform the job.
b)	An employee who i s temporarily transferred to a lower category shall retain his regular rate of pay.
c)	An employee who is transferred at cwn request or who accepts transfer rather than be laid off shall be paid the rate of the job to which transferred.
B-4 fltfcflT'WffllroN
Effective August 22, 1983 a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour, and effective l\% 7, 1984, a premium of sixty (60) cents per hour shall be paid to inside employees, l.e., in production and related classifications, for each hour worked between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. This premium is not to be used in calculating overtime rates.
B-5 WEERENO' WORK
During periods when weekend daytime production may be required, inside employees, i.e. in production and related classifications, shall be paid at time and one half for all regular hours worked between Saturday noon and Sunday midnight .
CRILUA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 16
SCHEDULE "C* VACATIONS
C-l Vacations with pay will be granted to employees on the following basis:
a)	Under five (5)	years - in accordance	with the Employment Standards Act.
b)	Five (5) years	of	continuous	service	-	Three (3) weeks
c)	Ten (10) years	of	continuous	service	-	Four (4) weeks
d)	Eighteen years	of	continuous	service	-	Five (5) weeks
Effective 1984 Seventeen (17) years of continuous service - Five (5) weeks
e)	Twenty-eight (28) years of continuous service - Six (6) weeks
Effective 1984 Twenty-Five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks
Any employee qualifying for additional vacation entitlement in 1983 will not use the additional entitlement to upset any already existing or agreed to vacation schedules.
C-2 Continuous service for the purpose of computing vacations With pay will be calculated up to 30th June of the year in which vacations are granted.
C-3 Payments for vacations‘ shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of an
employee’s earnings for each week of vacation the employee is entitled to receive. Earnings will be calculated for the twelve (12) months period immediately preceding June 30th of the year in which vacations are granted and will not include taxable benefits.
C-4 Under normal conditions, vacations Will be granted on the basis of
seniority- i.e. those with the greatest seniority shall have the choice of vacation dates. However, the Company reserves the right to alter vacation dates if it becomes necessary to do so in order to maintain a qualified working force. Vacation lists will be posted not later than March 1st of each year and will be declared closed by March 31st. Ay changes thereafter shall be only by mutual agreement.
C-5 An employee who is entitled to two (2) weeks vacation will, wherever possible, receive the second week of vacation consecutive to the first week. An employee who is entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks vacation will be granted the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth week
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 17
at the discretion of the Company and not necessarily in conjunction with the first two (2) weeks, or with each other.
C-6 Employees wil not be allowed to waive their vacation claims and have them accumulated from year to year.
C-7 Employees shall receive their vacation pay prior to going on vacation.
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 18
SCHEDULE' "Of*
EMPLOYEE' BENEFITS
Full time actively employed regular employees under age 65 at the Company's Orillia plant are covered for the following benefits fan the first day of the calendar month immediately following the completion of forty-five (45) days of work:
100% Company Paid	.
a)	O.H.I.P.
b)	Group Life Insurance - $13,500 effective September 1, 1983 $15,000 effective June 1, 1984
c)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment - $13,500 effective September 1, 1983 $15,000 effective June 1, 1984
d)	Effective September 1, 1983, the Temporary Disability Benefit will be increased to 66 2/3% .of normal earnings (i.e. rate times normal work schedule) to a maximum equal to the current U.I.C. maximum benefits on the 1/1/4/39 basis followed by the fifteen week U.l.C. entitlement period and the further Fifty (50) week period benefit. It is understood that any recovery under wage loss replacement submissions would be forthcoming to the Company.
e)	Extended Health Care, including Prescription Drugs at 100% after deductible of $10 (single), and designated Major Medical benefits at 80%.
f)	Effective September 1, 1984 Dental Care Plan (pays 100% of desi gnated
basic benefits and 50% of designated electives wi........... '
be at the current
O.D.A. Schedule, Effective calendar year 1984. The maximum will be increased to $1,000..
g) Effective July 1, 1981, the Company will Implement an Optical Plan to provide one (1) pair of prescribed glasses to a maximum of $100.00 every two years for eligible employees.
Eligible dependants of the above employees are also covered for:
-	O.H.I.P.
-	Extended Health Care including Prescription Drugs
-	Dental Care Plan
QRILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
Page 19
Otpical Plan
ORILLIA-PLANT
R13-10-83
August 30, 1983
R13-10-83
Mr, Don Hall Business Agent
Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers’ Union Local 461 15 Gervais Drive Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Mr. Hall :
At the recently concluded negotiations at the Orillia Plant, the following were mutually agreed.
1.	As i n the past, should the funeral of a close relative or friend of an employee be held on a work day, the employee could be granted a leave of absence for the day, without pay, upon reasonable request.
2.	The present practice of offering extra trips that occur on an unscheduled basis to the most senior driver available and willing, will continue.
3.	In order that auxiliary replacement drivers are available to accommodate exigencies as they arise, qualified drivers will be retained in non production areas (e.g. shipping). As is the present practice, a qualified driver will be retained in the shipper complement i n the transport driver classification. Wien, as outlined i n A-l, an “additional shift" is designated, the adjusted complement in the shipping department will included two such qualified drivers at the rate of the job in that area.
4.	A discipline procedure concerning lateness has been derived, copy attached, and will be posted.
5.	As discussed, the Plant Manager or his designate may provide additional uniform issues, at his discretion, owing to considerations such as heavy and prolonged humidity or production schedule, extraordinary cleanup or maintenance assignments, etc.
6.	Persons hired for term or task (e.g. summer peak season) will be advised of their status and sign such recognition. Near the end of the
R13-10-83
season (e.g. a week or two prior to labour Day weekend), the Plant Manager will discuss with the Chief Steward what is known of the remaining manpower requirement, how long and which seasonal help will be retained, and what postings or displacements will be required. The seniority status of offers of full time employment to seasonal help i s outlined 1n 11.02.
7.	Employees who accept temporary assignments during peak season production, will return to their fanner positions at expiry of the temporary assignments.
8.	In order to avoid recurring discrepancies In rates assigned to employees undertaking similar work assignments, the Company will closely adhere to the provisional requirements of assigning appropriate classification and rates to employees. Section B-3 (a) has been amended to provide for an improved temporary transfer rate to accomodate such change'.
There was a mutual understanding on the assignments vhlch would properly fall under the General Help "A" and General Help "B“ categories.
Yours truly,
0. W. Lychy
Director of Labour Relations