V/ElTON bakeries limited
EFFECTIVE S SEPTEMBER 1787
BETWEEN!
t-'
EXPIRES 9 MAY 199
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Orillia, Ontario hereinafter called "the Company"
Of tho First Part
and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE, BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 461, hereinafter cal lad "tho Union"
Of the Second Part
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Company In Orillia, Ontario, save and except office staff, sales staff, foremen and those above the rank of foreman, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four <24) hours per week.
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
2.01	There will be no discrimination, interfarence, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representativee with respect to any employee because of his membership in tho Union, or connoetion with ths Union, and membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
2.02	There will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by the Union, or by any of ite members or representatives. Thoro will bo no
solicitation for membership or other union activity on tho premises of the Company during an employee's working hours*
ARTICLE 5 - CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
3.01	Employass shall, on eamplstion of thirty <30) days of work, be required to sign authorization to
QRILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 2
deduct the Union initiation fee end monthly dues from their pay. The Company will mako such deductions from earnings accumulated to an employee's credit on the third payroll period of each month and remit them monthly to a designated official of the Union. Seasonal employees, or those hired for term or task, art excluded from these provisions. However, should a seasonal employee be offered continuous employment similar authorization is required in the thirty (30) day period of offer of continuous employment.
ARTICLE 4 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-PUTS
4.01	The Company will not cause or direct any lock-out of its employees. The Union will not excuse or direct any strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with service or impair efficiency of operations. If such collective action should be taken, it will instruct the employees to return to work and perform their duties i n the usual manner.
ARTICLE 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	Except where abridged by the terms of thio Agreement, the management of the Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees shall continuo to be vested with the Company.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS
A.01 The Union shall have the right to appoint or
otherwise select a Committee of not more than four
(4)	employees.
6.02	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of employees of the Company to act as stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to representati vies of the Company.
6.03	Employeas shall not be eligible to act as stewards
Ior members of the Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period.
6.04	The Union recognizes that stewards, members of the Union Committee and the other Union officers, havsr regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permiscion of their foreman or immediate supervisor. \Ahen resuming their regular duties, they will report: to their
ORILL1A-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED	Page 3
foreman or supervisor, and will give any reasonable explanation which may be requested with respect to their absence. In accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company and discussing grievances during working hours.
ARTICLE 7 - COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
7.01	If an employee ha6 a complaint he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, the matter will be taken up with the employee's immediate supervisor. The employee do this with or without his steward or may request tho steward to do it for him. The supervisor will give his reply within twenty-four (24) hours to the person who presented the complaint to him.
7.02	If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the complaint rr&/ be stated in writing on grievance forms and submitted, within three (3) working days following the reply of the supervisor, to the Department Head.
7.03	If the reply of the Department Head is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance shall be submitted, within three (3) working days following tho reply of the Department Head, to the Production Manager.
7.04	Within five (5) working days following receipt of a written grievance the Production Manager and/or such other parsons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. The Production Manager, or h i s designate!, will give his reply in writing within five (5) working days after the meeting has been held. At this stage, a full-time officer of the Union may bo present, if his presence is requested by either party.
7.05	If the reply of the Production Manager is not satisfactory, the Union Committee may, within ten (10) working days following receipt of the said reply, refer tho grievance to arbitration.
7.06	Any of the time allowances provided in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee.
7.07	The Company may refuse to consider any complaint or grievance where the circumstances surrounding such occurred mora than five <5) working days before the complaint or grievance was brought to the attention of the Company.
ORIL LIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 4
7.OS Any disciplinary notice placed against an employee will be removed from his file after two years from the date of issue, provided no further incidents of a similar or related nature has occurred during that period. (Notes This will exclude the, present system on lateness.)
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	Any arbitration proceedings under the terms and conditione of this Collective Agreement shall be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
8.02	Each party shall bear the expense of its own nominee and equally bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE CASES
9.01	A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment shall be treated as e grievance, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with tho Production Manager within three <3) days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
9.02	Such special grievance be settled by confirming tho Company's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time loot, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable i n the opinion of the conferring p a rti es.
9.03	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his steward for e reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
9.04	Any suspensions or dismissals will bo confirmed in
writing by the Company and a copy given to the Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 10 - MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
10.01	If the Company has e complaint against the Union or any of its representatives, it will make such complaint in writing, which will be con ride red as a grievance commencing at the Production Manager's
stage.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	An employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed on a seniority list until after
ORILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED	Page 5
he has completed forty-five <45> days of work for the Company.
11.02	Seniority lists based upon the date on which regular employees commenced to work for the company shall be established for each department and posted in April and October of each year.
A copy will be given to the Chief Steward.
Seasonal employees \i\to are offered full time/continuous employment w i 11 commence their probationary period cited in 11.01 above commencing ■from the date of offer of full time employment. At the completion of their probationary period, they shall have their seniority dated back to the date of offer of full employment.
11.03	In cases of promotion or demotion of employees, the reliability, skill, ability and physical fitness of the employee to perform the work shall be the governing factors, and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
11.04	Where it is necessary generally to reduce the working force of the employees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
11.05	Members of the Union Committee and Stewards will be retained by the Company i n the event of a lay-off affecting their department, so long as there is work available in their respective departments which they are qualified and willing to do, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list.
Temporary work assignments will be filled by recalling laid off employees. Such temporary recalls will be made by contacting the most senior employee available who is qualified to perform the work without training.
11.06	Employee8 who are laid off will be retained on the Company's seniority list for a period of twelve (12) months, but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within two <2> days after being requested to do so, and report to work within ten (10) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company.
ORILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Pago 6
11.07 In the event an employee with more than ten (10) years of service is subject to lay-off after exercising displacement rights under the provisions of this Article, and junior amployeas will be retrained, such employee will be eligible for a retraining assignment. The Company will discuss with the Union and the employee an appropriate training assignment from among the junior employees to be retrained. Such assignment will bo a ten (10) day training period, on mutual agreement with the Union. At the end of the assignment period, the Company will be the sole determiner as to whether the employee i s sifficiently qualified to continue in that position.
Any of the above provisions will not allow an employee to be retrained into the Maintenance or Transport Department and the two departments may not bump into other departments.
11.09 An employee promoted to a supervisory position may be returned to the bargaining unit by the Company with full accumulated seniority and may exercise the same rights as though he had remained in the bargaining unit, provided he returns to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months -following hi5 promotion. If returned after a period in excess of twelve (12) months, he shall be credited with his former bargaining unit seniority date, however, he shall not be able to exercise his seniority for job bidding or vacation selection for
a period of one year from his return to the
bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.01	Authorized Leave Without Pays
The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee in writing for legitimate personal reasons. Any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence.
Requests for leave of absence shall be made in
writing. A copy of letters granting a leave of absence, with conditions outlined, or refusing a request, will be sent to the Union office.
Leave of absence to attend Union conventions,
courses and conferences w i I I be granted without pay and without loss of seniority provided that notice of at least one (1> week is given to the Company
ORILLIA—PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED	Page 7
and provided that not more than two (2) employees are absent for such purposes at any one time.
12.02	Bereavement
Any employee will be granted up to five (5) days leave of absence with pay in the event of tho death of his father, mother, sister, brother, wife (husband), father-in-law, mother-in-law or child to make arrangements for and attend the funeral. Only that portion of the five days which would otherwise have been working drys will bo paid. In tho ea*e of death of an employee'* brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild three <3> days off without loss of pay will be allowed to attend the, funeral. At the discreiton of the Company, the five <5) or three <3) days payment may include the day immediately following the day of the funeral where travel, distance or similar considerationo arm involved.
12.03	Jury Duty
An employee who i s called for jury duty will be paid the difference between the regular rate of pay and the amount he is paid for jury duty. An employee subpoenaed as a witness for tho Crown shall suffer no loss of regular earnings as a result of such action.
12.04	Injuries at Work
Employees who are injured while performing the normal requirements of their job shall be paid a full dry's pay for the day of raid injury.
12.03	Pregnancy Leave
A female employee will be granted a leave of absence because of pregnancy according to the provisions of tho current Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Company will provide bulletin beards in
convenient lcoations throughout the plants for the Union to post notice6 of its activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union and be submitted to the Production Manager, or his authorized representative, for approval before posting.
ORILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 8
ARTICLE 14 - FOREMEN
14.01	Foremen and other persons outside the bargaining unit shall not normally perform work of the bargaining unit excepts
a)	to perform experimental or development work|
b> tu instruct or train new employees;
c) to replace an employee who is late or absent from his place of work;
d> in cases of emergency.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY
15.01	The Union and the Company will cooperate in developing and maintaining the high standards of safety with the objective of reducing and, where possible, eliminating the causes of industrial
acci dents.
15.02	To this end, a Safety Committee consisting of Union and Management representatives will meet at regular intervals of not less than once each calendar quarter.
15.03	Recommendations of the Safety Committoe will be made to the Production Manager who will study them and reply in writing prior to the next scheduled safety meeting.
ARTICLE 16 - MISCELLANEOUS
16.01	Wherever the mala gender is used in this Agreement, the terms shall apply in equal measure to all employees, whether male or female.
16.02	An employee who purchases safety shoes or boots for
Joint Safety Committee to review and recommend type of foot protection tu be appropriate.
ARTICLE 17 - SCHEDULES
17.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following Schedules:
ORILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 9
Schedule "A" Schedule "B"
Hour6 of V\fc>rk, Holidays, Overtime and other Working Conditione
Job Classifications and V\&ge Rages
Schedule "C"
Vacations
Schedule "D"	- Employee Benefits
Schedule “E"	- Transport Drivers
ARTICLE 18 - SEVERANCE PAY
18.01	In the event of the permanent closure of the plant, permanent full-time employees whoso employment i s terminated will be paid severance pay of twenty-five (25) hours at the employee's current rats of pay for each full completed year of continuous service with the Company, commencing with the second (2nd) year.
No severance pay will be paid to employee%who are offered a transfer to other employment that may be provided by the Company within the radius of fifty (SOI miles.
in the event of government regulations being introduced to provide that an employer shall pay severance pay to employees, a terminating employee will be paid severance pay either i n accordance with government regulations, or in accordance with the scale above, whichever is the greater amount.
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION
19.01	This agreement, which supersedes all previous
Agreements, shall continue in effect until the 9th _ day of May, 1990, and unless either party gives notice in writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating this agreement, then it shall continue in effect until the 9th dry of May, 1991, and so on from year to year thereafter.
19.02	Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement may be given only during a period of not more than ninety <90), nor less than thirty (30) days prior to May 9, 1990, or any succeeding anniversary date.
19.03	The parties will meet for the purpose of conducting negotiations within twenty (20) days after the giving of such notice.
OR I LLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 10
SIGNED AT ORILLIA, ONTARIO,
THIS /.-fT DAY OF
1987
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
ORILLIA—PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE “ft"
HOURS OF WORK. ETC. FOR PRODUCTION WORKERS
A—1 PROVISIONAL GUARANTEE
Each regular full time employee who has completed fifty-two <52) weeks of continuous employment with the Company will be given the opportunity to earn each week no less than the equivalent of forty (40> hours pay at his or her straight time rate. To qualify for this guarantee, the employee shall be required to report for work at his or her scheduled starting time each working day, and to perform whatever work the Company has available and assigns to him or her. This provision will not apply in the event that fire, flood, strike, mechanical breakdown or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company prevent the Company from continuing its operations.
In the event an additional shift is required for production (e.g. low run, multi products or varying amounts) and such production is insufficient to consistantly provide a full week's work, it may be designated as the "additonal shift". Such designation will indicate that employees assigned to that shift will enjoy all provisions and benefits of this agreement save the provisional guarantee of forty (40) hours specified above, which will be scaled down to a thirty (30) hour guarantee. (Should a senior employee be assigned in order that quail fed employees are available for such shift, such employee wuld retain his weekly guarantee subject to his seniority entitlement.)
Regular employees may elect to be assigned to this shift, however, such election must bo understood to be conditional on the thirty (30) hour guarantee and the employee may not elect to be transferred from that shift until either the shift is discontinued and he exercises any displacement rights or, he qualifies under A-3 (job posting).
Nothing in this Schedule shall be interpreted in such a manner as to prevent the Company from laying off employees, provided that thoro employees who qualify for the provisional guarantee shall not bo subject to lay-offs of a duration of less than one week.
OR/LL/A-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED A-2 WORK WEEK
Page 12
a)	The regular weekly hours shall be forty (40).
b)	The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five
(5)	days of the week.
e> The daily hours, starting and quitting times, and tho time of rest periods and lunch periods will be determined by the Company in accordance with production requirements. Any full time regular employee reporting for work at his or her scheduled starting time on any shift will be given the opportunity to earn no less than six (6) hours' pay for that shift.
Employees will be notified as far i n advance as possible of any general change in shift starting timer. In the event a shift starting time is advanced on short notice and the employee was not notified of such change, he or she shall be given the opportunity to work the equivalent number of hours scheduled for that shift. \Ahen it is necessary to change! a shift starting time without twenty-four (24) hours advance notice the reasons for such change will be given to the employees affected and to the appropriate Union Steward.
Shift schedules will be posted each Thursday for the following week.
d)	The lunch period will be one-half <l/2) hour without pay each day. The lunch period will not occur for an employee before he has worked three (3) hours and will occur before ha has worked five (5) hours.
e)	Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration will be provided in the morning and afternoon of each regular work day. \Ahen a ten (10) hour production day i o requested an additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be scheduled in sequence of operations commencing after eight (8) hour6 have been worked.
In the event the Company fails to schedule an employee's lunch or rest period in accordance with sub-sections (d) and (e) , above, the Company will pay the employee concerned one-half (1/2) hour at his or her regular rate of pay. This obligation on the part of the Company will not apply if the sequence of lunch and/or rest periods i s disrupted, due to the unscheduled absence of another employee assigned to the shift, or to the failure of another employe# to return from his or her lunch or rest period in time.
f)
OR IL LIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED	Page 13
A-3 JOB VACANCIES
I a)	Job vacancies including those in General help "A",
shall be posted on plant bulletin boards for not less than Four <4) working days. Employees may apply for vacant jobs to the appropriate department supervisor. Such applications will be considered and will be granted or refused on the basis stated in paragraph 3 of Article 11 of this agreement. If the most senior applicant is not given the posted vacancy he or she will be told the reasonts) within a period of three (3) working days following the selection.
The Chief Steward will receive a copy of all posted job vacancies.
b) The successful applicant shall be given tho job rate provided he or she adequately performs all the duties of the position. Should the applicant not meet the above he or she shall return to his or her previous position. The successful applicant shall be given a trial period of up to five (5) working days.
c) An employee who is transferred as a result of the job posting provision shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of one year.
This doss not apply to Company initiated transfers.
A—4 OVERTIME PROVISIONS
a) The Company may require employees to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly assigned hours. However, employees will not be required to work more than three (3) overtime hours in excess of their regular shift. Maintenance employees will be exempt from this limitaiton.
b) An employee shall not be forced to take time off for overtime worked.
c) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half <1 1/21
will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily. Overtime shall be on the above daily basis or after forty (40) hours of work in a week, but not both. In a week in which a Paid Holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be paid far time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours. In a week in which a double holiday Is observed, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of twenty-four (241 hours.
d) An employee will be paid overtime if required tu work on his day off, provided he completes his regular work week.
ORILL!A-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 14
e> Maal Allowance:	Employees who work ten <10) hours or
more in a day will bo paid a meal allowance of Four Dollars and Fifty Cents (44.50>.
A-5	CALL-IN PAY
If an employee is required to return to work after finishing his shift and leaving the Company premises, the employee shall be paid at least an amount equivalent to four <4) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate.
b)	Subject to the discretion and control of the Company, the above holidays will be celebrated either on the day they occur, or the day prior to the holiday.
c)	Employees will be paid for the above holidays or the days celebrated in lieu thereof, provided!
1.	They have completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company.
2.	They have worked the required shifts immediately preceding and following the holiday or the day celebrated in the lieu thereof. Except:
a)	Death in his or her immediate family
b)	Being granted written permission by tho Supervisor to be absent on either or both of the said shifts
c)	Ley o-ff an either or both of tho said shifts only
d> Where a verified personal illness +or not more than five <5> days affects either or both of the qualifying days.
d> Pay for the holidays will be at an employee'% regular hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight (fi) hours.
A—6	HOLIDAYS
New Year's Day
Labour Day
ing Day Day
Boxing Day
food Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
OR ILL I A—PL ANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED	Page 15
e) In the event of a paid statutory holiday to which he would otherwise be entitled falls within an employee's vacation period, he will be given a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a time mutually agreed upon between the employee and his supervisor. The supervisor will keep * record of this day for future reference.
•#) Employees required to work on the day publicly
celebrated 54 the hflilBAV tar those days listed i n ft—6 a) dPuvm-wrll be mid ai t'lie rate of time ancT one-halt (1	1/21 for such work. There shall be no
pyramiding TiuUr’S palJ al Lime and one-half <1 1/2) i.e. no interpretation of this Article, in conjunction with A-4, Dvertime Provisiona, shall require the Company to pay the time and one-half (1 1/2) rate more than once for any hour or hours worked in a week.
g) "Floater" Holiday Each full time regular employee shall be entitled to a "floater" paid holiday each year, and such holiday to be scheduled by mutual agreement between individual employees and the Company. The supervisor will keep a record of this day for futuro reference.
h> Where an employee works on a paid holiday he or she will get time and one half <1	1/21 for such work.
The holiday pay will be retained and he or she will be given a day off with said pay at a time mutually agreed to with the employee. The supervisor will keep a record of this day for future reference.
As of December 31 of each year, the unused days in the 1st paragraph will either be taken i n January, February, or March or be paid.
A-7 UNIFORMS
a)	"Inside" plant employees who are employed on a
regular full time basis will be supplied at Company expense clean sets of uniforms for wear in tho plant during their working hours.
OR ILLI A-PLftNT
B-l a) The Company will classify employees and will pay the appropriate hourly rates as set out below.
May 8 1988
May 6 1989
Dough Mixer "A"'
Dough Mixer "B"	11.94
Wrapping Machine Operator 12.06 Oven Operator	11.92
Divider it Moulder	11.88
Reliof	11.88
Pan Greaser	11.5s
Sh ip per	11.88
Receiver	11.88
^'Sani tati an	11.45
General Help "A"	11.35
General Help "B"	11.11
+Maintenance Electrician 12.38 Maintenance	12.28
12.48 12.34 12.46 12.32 12.28 12.28 11.98 12.28 12.28 11.85 11.75 11.51 12. 78 12.68
b)	The minimum and hiring rates for the above classifications will be fifty (50) cents below the maximum rate shown. A new employee will receive an adjustment of twenty-five (25) cents per hour after each thirty <30) days of work until his maximum job rate is reached.
c)	In the event new classificaitons are.introduced, the Company will immediately notify the Union.
d> Lead Hand; An employee designated as, and assuming
the responsibility of, Lead Hand will be paid twenty-five (25) cents an hour over and above his or her regular earnings while so employed,
e) Eligible maintenance employees will be reimbursed to a maximum of One Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($125.00) per calendar year for replacement or repairs of personally owned tools broken or damaged in use when performing work for the Company. This
ORILL IA-F’LANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 17
amount will increase to $135.00 per calendar year effective May 8, 1988 and $150.00 per calendar year effective May 6, 1989.
B-3
Employees hired between May 1st and September 15th for seasonal work will be considered seasonal employees.
Their	rate of pay shall be determined by thp
Qompany and they will have no access to or coverage from, the dollective Agreement.
RATES_QF PAY WHEN EMPLOYEES ARE TRANSFERRED FROM ONE JOB TO ANOTHER	~	'	"	-	- -	-
a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher rated job for the convenience of the Company in order to meet production requirements shall be paid the higher jab rats provided he works more then one (1) continuous hour on the higher rated job, and further provided he is qualified to perform the jab.
b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a lower category shall retain hi5 regular rate of pay.
An employee who is transferred at own request or who accepts transfer rather than be laid off shall be paid the rate of tho job tu which transferred.
c)
6-4
NIGHT PREMIUM
A premium of sixty (60} cents per hour shall be paid to inside employees;, i.e. , in production and related classifications, for each hour worked between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. This premium is not to he used in calculation overtime rates.

PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Employees who normally work less than 40 hours a vreek shall be considered part-time.	They shall receive an
hourly rate of pay of $8.75 an hour. Effective May 8, 1988 this shall increase to $9.00 per hour and effective May 6, 1989 shall increase to $9.25 per hour.
While part-time employees are not covered under the Collective Agreement they shall:
(1)	receive 1 1/2 their hourly rate for hours worked in excess of, 40 i n e week.
(2)	receive first consideration for full- t i m e vacancies.
(3)	receive a payment of twenty-five cents an hour in lieu of benefits for each hour worked.
ORILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 18
SCHEDULE 11C"
VACATIONS
C-l Vacations with pay will be granted to employees on the follawing bassies
a) Under five <S> years - in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
b> Five (5) years of continuous service - Three (3> weeks
c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - Four (4) weeks
d)	Seventeen <17> years of continuous service - Five (S) weeks
e)	Twenty-four (24) years of continuous service - Six
(6)	weeks
Any employee qualifying for additonal vacation entitlement in 1985 will not use the additonal entitlement to upset any already existng or agreed to vacation schedules.
C-2 Continuous service for the purpose of computing vacations with pay will be calculated up to 30th June of the year i n which vacations are granted.
C-3 Payments for vacations shall be at the rate of two percent <2'/.> of an employee's earnings for each week of vacation the employee is entitled to receive. Vacation pay will be based on the previous year's T-4 earnings and will not include taxable benefits.
C-4 Under normal conditions, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority - i.e. those with the greatest seniority shall have the choice of vacation dates.
However, the Company reserves the right to alter vacation dates if it becomes necessary to do so in order to maintain a qualified working farce. Vacation lists will be posted not later than March 1st of each year and will be declared closed by March 31st. Any changes thereafter shall be only by mutual agreement.
C-5 An employee who is entitled to two (2) weeks vacation will, wherever possible, receive the second week of vacation consecutive to the first week. An employee who is entitled to three (3), four (4), five <5) or six (6) weeks vacation will be granted the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth week: at the discretion of the Company and not necessarily in conjunction with the first two (2) weeks, or with each other.
OR ILLI A-F'LANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 19
C—4j	Employees will not bo allowed to waive their vacation
claims and have them accumulated from year to year.
C—7	Employees shall receive their vacation pay prior to going
on vacation.
OR ILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 20
SCHEDULE 11DM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Full time actively employed regular employees under age sixty—five (65) at the Company's Ori11 ia Plant are covered fur the -following benefits from the first day of the calendar month, immediately following the completion of forty-five (45) days of work:
100"/. Company Paid
a) O.H.I.P.
ta) Broup Life Insurance - *15,000.00
c)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment - *15,000.00
d)	The Temporary Disability benefit will be sixty-six and two thirds percent <66 2/3%) of normal earnings (i.e. rate times normal work schedule) to a maximum equal to the current U.I.C. maximum benefits on the 1/1/4/39 basis followed by the fifteen (15) week U.I.C. entitlement period and the further fifty (50) week period benefit. It is understood that any recovery under wage loss replacement submissions would be forthcoming to the Company.
e)	Extended Health Care, including Prescription Drugs at 100% after deductible of Ten (10) Dollars (single), and designated Major Medical benefits at eighty percent <SO%>.
f)	Dental Care Plan (pays one hundred percent (100%) of designated basic benefits and fifty percent (50%) of designated electives) will be at the current O.D.A. Schedule. The maximum will be One Thousand Dollars <*1,000.00).
g)	The Optical Plan will provide one (1) pair of prescribed glasses to a maximum of One Hundred Dollar6 (*100.00) every two (2) years for eligible employees.
Eligible dependants of the above employees are also covered for:
O.H.I.P.
Extended Health Care including Prescription Drugs Dental Care Plan Optical Plan
□RILLIA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 21
SCHEDULE "E"
TRANSPORT EMPLOYEES
E-l The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five (5) days of the week. The Company shall continue its present practice regarding operating on a basis of four (4) day transport runs whore practically possible.
E-2 Overtime at the rate of time and one- half <1 1/2) will
apply to the classification of Transport Drivers far all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a week. In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall b© paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours, and in a week in which a double holiday is observed fctr time worked in excess of twenty-four (24) hours.
E-3 Meal Allowance; Employees who work ten (10) hours or more in a day wall be paid a meal allowance of Four Dollars and Fifty Cent5 (*4,50) .
E-4	UNIFORMS
a)	The present practice regarding the supplying and cost chacing of uniforms for Transport Drawers will be continued. However, each regular full time Transport Driver will be paid an allowance of One Dollar and Seventy-Five Cents <*1.75) par week toward the cost of cleaning of his uniform, this amount to be accumulated and paid on or about December 15th of each year.
b)	The cost sharing for Transport Drivers will be:
Seventy-five Percent: (75'/.) Company Twenty-five Percent (25V.) Employee E-5 SCHEDULE BIDDING
If the majority of the Transport Drivers on bid runs
(includes driver working in shipping paid transport rate) indicate to the Company in writing that they wish to do so, they shall be permitted in January of each year to submit bids for the regular daily transport trips, and Transport: Drivers with the greatest seniority shall have the first opportunity to make a selection at that time. Transport Drivers will also bo, permitted to bid on runs when scheduled run5 are discontinued ar when scheduled runs are added or when major changes are made to scheduled runs.
OKILL IA-PLANT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
E-di The Company will pay the Transport Drivers the hourly rates:
Effective September 7,	1987	#12,55
Effective May El, 1988	#12.95
Effective May 6, 1989	#13.35
Page 22 following
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE Ml
TOR< 
August 2i, 1987
Mr. Dan Hel1 Business Agent
Retsil, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers' Union Local 461 IS Gervais Drive Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Dom
This letter, which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement, shall be your assurance thati
Within two weeks of the ratification date of this Agreement, Fred Osborne and Bill Fell will meet with employee representatives to discuss and impliment ways to reduce the levels of overtime.
Your6 truly,
Fred Osborne General Manager
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST, CLAIR AVENUE EAST. SUITE 30!
TORONTO. ONTARIO M4T 2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2303
August 28, 1987
Mr. Don Hall Business Agent
Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and
Confectionery Workers' Union Local 461
15 Gervais Drive
Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Don:
This letter of understanding which is separate and apart form the Collective Agreement, will confirm the understanding reached at negotiations.
In some circumstances transport drivers may have to wait for their loads. When this happens, they will be required to assist in loading their trucks.
V\6 would not require the driver to perform other work on the dock while waiting far their load. In the event of a delay
beyond the control of the Company as outlined i n A-l of the Collective Agreement, drivers will be advised of possible delays in scheduled starting times on a daily baric.
Yours truly
Bill Fell
Distribution Manager
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE 301 TORONTO,ONTARIO M4T2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2203
August: 28, 1967
Don Hall Business Agent
Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers' Union Local 461 15 Servais Drive Dan Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Mr. Hall:
At the recently concluded negotiations at the Orillia Plant, the fallowing were mutually agreed.
1.	As in the past, should the funeral of a close relative! or friend of an employee be held on a work day, the employee could be granted a leave of absence for the day, without pay, upon reasonable request.
2.	The present practice of offering extra trips that occur
on an unscheduled basis to the most senior driver available and willing, will continue.
3.	In order that auxiliary replacement drivers are available to accommodate emergencies,as they arise, qualified drivers will be retained in non production areas (e.g. shipping). As is the present practice, a qualified driver will be retained in the shipper complement in the transport driver classification.
When, as outlined in A-1, an "additional shift” is designated, tho adjusted complement in the shipping department will include two such qualified drivers at the rate of the job in that area.
4.	A discipline procedure concerning lateness has been derived, copy attached, and will be posted.
Uni forms
5. As discussed, the Production Manager or his designate may provide additonal uniform issuer, at his discretion, owing to considerations such as heavy and prolonged humidity or production schedule, extraordinary cleanup or maintenance assignments, etc.
WESTON BAKERIES OFFICIAL SUPPLIER CALGARY'98
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
- 2
Seasonal Employees
6.	Persons hired for term or task <e.g. summer peak season) will be advised of their status and sign such recognition. Near the end of the season (e.g. a week or two prior to Labour Day weekend), the Production Manager will discuss with the Chief Steward what is known of the remaining manpower requirement, how long and which seasonal help will be retained, and what postings or displacements will be required. Tho seniority status of offers of full time employment to seasonal help is outlined in 11.02.
Peak Season Assionments
7.	Employees who accept temporary assignments during peak season production, will return to their former positions at expiry of the temporary assignments.
Job Assignments
8.	In order to avoid recurring discrepancies in rates assigned to employees undertaking similar work assignments, the Company will closely adhere to the provisonal requirements of assigning appropriate classification and rates to employees. Section B—3 (a) has been amended to provide for an improved temporary transfer rate to accomodate such change.
There was a mutual understanding on the assignments which wuild properly fall under the General Help "A" and General Help "B" categories.
Yours truly,
7red Osborne General Manager
FBO/vm
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
127 JAMES STREET, ORILLIA, ONTARIO UV U«
Telephone: (705) U6-MM
October 26, 1987
Mr. D. Hall
Business Agent
Retailr Wholesale* Bakery - Confectionery Worker's Union, Local 461	.
Suite No 309p 15 Gervais Drive,
Don Mill, Ontario M3C 1YB
Dear Mr. Hall:
Re:	Orillia Plant Collective Agreement
Effective Sept 8, 1987 - Expires May 9, 1990
This will acknowledge several errors in this signed ggreement*
Article A-6, clause "E" which deals with a statutory holiday falling in an employees vacation period should read "he will be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof,.,." instead of "he will be given a dry off without pay in lieu thereof____"
The hourly rate of Maintenance Electrician effective May 6* 1989 should read 13.18 instead of 12.18.
FBO/aw
Pile
c,c:	D. Chen
W. Fell .
B. Breeze